The President of the Welfare Council is Raymond M. Hilliard, Executive Director of the Welfare Council and Chairman of the Mayor's Advisory Committee for the Aged. Here now is Mr. Hilliard. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. May I ask that any of our visitors from abroad who may be in the audience or who may be on their way in or circulating in the gathering, will they please come forward and take their places on this rostrum. It is really a rare occasion when we in the United States have an opportunity to hear at first hand some of the work and the problems of those living in other countries, but others who are bound to us by our mutual concern and aims. I am very much honored to welcome our distinguished guests and our distinguished audience. Many of you who are here today have had to put aside important business of your own for this more important business of meeting our neighbors from abroad, hearing their plans for their older citizens. We in New York are awakening to the needs of our older people, but we have a lot to learn. Two weeks ago, when I was in St. Louis attending the Second International Gerontological Congress, I had an opportunity to hear and to talk with many of the leading authorities from all over the world on the work of the agent. I can summarize my own impressions by saying that in the field of medical care for older people and the physical sciences, excellent work is going on everywhere, including the United States. But when we come to the social sciences, to social planning and such voluntary and governmental programs for older people as housing, recreation, employment, maintenance of income and research, we in the United States lag far behind some of the countries abroad. True, the physical sciences have received greater financial support here in their endeavors than have the social sciences. Our task then is one of sound social planning, planning more adequately financed and supported, to the end that the needs and the requirements of our older people may be recognized and may be met. It's not only an opportunity, but a real inspiration that we are able to have this occasion to meet with and to learn from our distinguished guests. Four organizations are sponsoring this meeting. The Mayor's Advisory Committee for the Aged, of which I am chairman, and the National Social Welfare Assembly, through its National Committee on the Aging. The New York State Joint Legislative Committee on the Aging, and the Welfare Council of New York City. I would like to have from each of those sponsoring agencies a brief word, first from the National Committee on the Aging of the National Social Welfare Assembly, by the Executive Director of the Assembly, Mr. Robert Bondi. Mr. Chairman, friends and neighbors. I am very happy this afternoon, on behalf of this National Committee on the Aging, to greet our friends and neighbors who are here from other countries, and those of you who are present from our own country. For some years, in this country, there have been many organizations developing because of the growing and wide interest in better service to older people. You know they say in the United States that when two or three people are gathered together, an organization results. Well, that seems to have been happening in this particular field. And because there were so many, it soon came to be the opinion of those who were in leadership that they wanted some central place to work together and discuss their common experiences. And so this National Committee on the Aging of the National Social Welfare Assembly has been organized. And it's representative of these broad social and governmental and voluntary interests in this important field. And it's on behalf of that very considerable group of people interested in all the things you're doing in the other nations of the world in this important field of service, that I'm very happy to extend our warm greeting and extend our very best wishes for the important services that you're rendering. Thank you, Mr. Bondi. And now on behalf of the New York State Joint Legislative Committee on Problems of Aging, more popularly known as the Desmond Committee, we have the secretary of that committee, Assemblyman Bernard Austin. Assemblyman Austin. Mr. Chairman, Honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I have a dual task to perform this afternoon. Not alone do I greet you on behalf of the committee known as the Desmond Committee, but it is also my privilege to convey to you the greetings of the governor of the state of New York, who sent the following message and entrusted to me the transmittal thereof to this gathering. The message reads as follows. It is a pleasure to welcome to the state of New York our friends from distant shores. I hope you will stay long enough to become familiar with the work being done in our state on behalf of the agent. The people can be proud that New York State was the first in the country to create a special committee for this purpose. On behalf of the people of New York, I congratulate and thank the members of the committee on what they have accomplished to date. Under the chairmanship of Senator Thomas G. Desmond, it has stimulated many pioneering activities. The Labor Department of the State of New York was the first in the country to establish a special experimental office for the purpose of counseling and placing older job seekers. It was also the first to devise special guides to help counselors in our public employment service in their efforts to aid older applicants for jobs. New York's Mental Health Commission was the first state agency, possibly the only governmental unit in the entire country, to assemble a body of psychiatrists, sociologists, and psychologists, public health experts, and others to carry on basic research. The first project assigned to this team is the study of senile psychosis. New York State has also created a chronic disease institute for the purpose of research on ailments which afflict so many of the elderly. New York was, likewise, the first to stimulate local community programs for the aging and the first to grant state aid for adult education for oldsters. New York State Department of Health, by means of its cardiac cancer and tumor centers, has taken many measures to cope with the degenerative diseases which afflict many of the ages. New York State Department of Health Department of Health Department of Health Department of Health Department of Humanities가 want to help organize physicians living and family members with doctors and teachers, psychologists, and about their contenitalические configurations, and health contar companies throughout the unit of health care aussi. New York State Department of Health Department of Health Department of Health, PhD and nay ITRA are currently pursuing a 이제eully Х eagementicapalty Ohio government, whole court in New York State UMaine Minister Tag Стéu over its mail so I will açık the hour for its national station to speak at ____чески the joint legislative committee on problems of the aging RIGHT problems of the aging, deserves the thanks and appreciation of all the people. My cordial greetings to those present at the reception. May the peoples of the world go forward to meet the needs of their elders. Signed, Thomas E. Dewey. I greet you on behalf of the governor and on behalf of the Desmond Committee. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Assemblyman Austin. That was a Republican governor's message delivered by a Democratic Assemblyman from Brooklyn. Now, on behalf of the Welfare Council of the, of New York City, my boss, Mr. Coverley Fisher. Mr. Chairman, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I'm delighted to greet you today on behalf of the Welfare Council of New York City. I am particularly happy to say a word of appreciation to our honored guests, the distinguished experts from abroad, for the opportunity that we have had during their visit here to exchange ideas and information in connection with our common effort to provide a happier and more useful life for our older generation. It seems to me that if we are ever going to attain optimum progress in the field of social welfare, or as a matter of fact in any other fields, it's going to be necessary for us to temper our national viewpoints and to help us to help us with the broader world outlook, so that we may all benefit from each other's empirical knowledge. I think this meeting today is a striking example of how this can be accomplished by agencies from free countries. I only hope that in the not too distant future, the same thing may be accomplished on a worldwide basis with representatives from all countries, so that we may then look forward to real peace and security for all mankind. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Fisher. And now, ladies and gentlemen, from one who has long been a supporter of all proper programs for social welfare, particularly here in our own city of New York, here to give you the official greetings of the city of New York and all of its people, our acting mayor, the Honorable Joseph Sharkey. Mayor Sharkey. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me as the acting mayor of the city of New York, and on behalf of the more than 560,000 persons in this city, aged 65 and over, our senior citizens, to be present at this meeting. Thank you very much. I want to thank both our distinguished foreign guests and all of the distinguished men and women assembled here, who, like myself, are deeply concerned with the problem of the aged for coming here this afternoon. I feel very deeply for the fact that we have to use the word problem when we talk of our older people. This is an indictment and a challenge to all of us. Here is an ever-increasing portion of our population who have contributed by their work through the many years they have lived and who now richly deserve to have their remaining years spent in pleasant, useful, and true happiness. Instead, we find that the word problem constantly arises, and we discuss the question when we discuss the question of the aged. I am not going to make a speech here, but I do want to say that I personally and every one of us in the official city family look to all of you assembled here, and particularly to the mayor's advisory committee for the aged, to bring to us the knowledge and experience, and the best practices developed anywhere in the world, and to work out practical solutions here for us. We cannot be satisfied unless, at the earliest practicable moment, New York shall take leadership in doing what society should do for its older citizens. Thank you for your attendance here. Thank you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, to the more important part of our program, our honored guests from abroad, the first of all, from Australia, from Adelaide and South Australia, Dr. O. Westcott Fruin, Dr. Fruin. From Great Britain, the vice president of the executive committee of the International Association of Gerontology and a member of the Gerontological Research Unit of Oxford, England, Dr. V. Korinchevsky. Dr. Korinchevsky. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Secretary of the National Old People's Welfare Committee, London, England, Ms. Dorothea Ramsey. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Tunbridge of the Department of Medicine General Infirmary leads England. I don't know whether Dr. Tunbridge is on the platform. If he is not, I understand from the motioning in the back of the hall that he is still working on his exhibit. I would urge all of you to take a moment while you are here to view Dr. Tunbridge's exhibit which will be set up in the room to your right to my left. Mrs. Phyllis Young of the Women's Voluntary Services of London, England. Mrs. Young. Lord Amelry, M.D., fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, physician from the University College Hospital, England. That's our Lord Amelry. From Canada, City of Montreal, Dr. Cara. Dr. Cara. From the Danish Ministry of Labor, Copenhagen, Denmark, Dr. Tiggy Harloff. Dr. Harloff. From the Institute of Physiology, Helsinki, Finland, Dr. Eva Jalavisto. From the Chief of the National Institute of Population Studies, Paris, France, Dr. Jean Daric, Dr. Daric. And Director of the Department of Geriatrics, University of Nancy, France, Dr. R. Herbeval. Dr. Herbeval. Dr. Herbeval. I don't know whether Dr. Jay Grunn from Amsterdam, Holland, has arrived. Is Dr. Grunn with us? He may join us a little later. An eminent physician, geriatrician from Ireland, Dr. John Fleetwood from Dublin, Ireland. Dr. Fleetwood. An eminent physician, specialist in nutrition from Rome, Italy, Dr. Paolo Alessandrini. Dr. Alessandrini. From the Department of Pathology, the Caroline Institute, Stockholm, Sweden, Professor Volker Henschen. Professor Henschen. Is there anyone from abroad on the platform that I missed? Now, I did pass over a few of our local distinguished guests. The Director of the Research Committee of the Mayor's Advisory Committee for the Aged, Dr. Lewis I. Dublin. The Chairman of the Committee on Arrangements for this Affair on behalf of the Mayor's Advisory Committee for the Aged, Mr. Herbert Tenzer. Acting as Chairman of the Committee's Subcommittee on Housing, Mr. George Birrow of the New York City Housing Authority. Mr. Birrow. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we have succeeded in imposing on several of our guests to the extent that they have agreed to say a few words to us. But we are actually looking forward to a fuller discussion with them in which all of you may participate when the formal part of this meeting is over and when we gather in another room to which you will be escorted across, again, to your right and my left, during the reception portion of the meeting. First, I should like to call on Dr. Tiggy Harloff from Denmark. Dr. Harloff. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank you for having asked me to say a few words about the care for the aged in Denmark. Since I have had the privilege to join the Congress about aging in St. Louis, I feel rather experienced in selecting what I need to say. We have in Denmark a population of slightly more than 4 million people. About 10% of the population, or 550,000, has reached the age where they are eligible for old age pensions. This age is 65, but for a single woman, it is only 60. About half of these old people, or 255,000, actually draw an old age pension. The pension is adjusted to the pensioner's income from other sources. By getting this pension, the pensioners will be enabled to have a modest but decent living. And I believe it would be fair to regard our old age pension system, which started in 1891 as our most important tribute to the benefit of the aged. The aged, of course, is also covered by our general social legislation. Thus, in case of accident or illness, old people are entitled to the proper medical care. All this is part of our general social security scheme. But I should like to point out that we also have some interesting experiences about housing for old age pensioners. First of all, we have our old age pensioners' apartments. Different municipalities have built blocks with such apartments, and the building, as well as the running of such apartments, are subsidized by the state. Since the 1930s, approximately 10,500 apartments have been built by the municipalities, giving room in all for 13,500, or more than 5% of our old age pensioners. A similar number of old age pensioners are living in our, I dare say, very nice old age pensioners' homes. The aim of these homes is to give care to old age pensioners who are so informed that they cannot live alone as old age pensioners usually do. The homes are exclusively reserved for old age pensioners. The building and running of such homes are up to the different municipalities, but in both respects, the municipalities will be subsidized by the state. Thank you very much, Dr. Harloff. To recent arrivals to our gathering, I'll ask them to stand in order that they may be identified. Dr. Albrecht from Newcastle, England. Dr. Albrecht. And from the same place, Newcastle, England, Dr. Brinberg. As with all of you who are present, we're delighted, doctors, that you are able to be with us. Now, I should like to ask Miss Dorothea Ramsey of the National Old People's Welfare Committee of Great Britain to say a few words. Miss Ramsey. Mr. Chairman and friends, I feel sure that I should call you friends, because I have been in the States now for nearly three months. We have a new outlook for our older people in the United Kingdom. We are planning it, and to a certain extent, we are executing it and putting it into real practice. This is a tripartite arrangement, as we see it, where central government, local government, and our voluntary societies have all a part to play. We have, from a financial angle, our national insurance, to which all contribute, so that our women at age 60 and our men at age 65 receive a retirement pension. And in addition, we have assistance grants to help those who have not been able to qualify for the retirement pension, or those for whom this is insufficient. Our national health service provides free hospital service and free medical service outside the hospital. Our local government is providing housing. On the public housing projects, we are now getting small units specially designed for older people. Nothing like enough as yet, but we have made a beginning. We have something akin to the United States Housekeeping Service in our Home Help Service, which is operated by local government, and we have a visiting nurse service. These services are all designed to help older people live an independent life as long as they can. Those who can't are provided for by voluntary societies and also by local government, with small, friendly homes. We are doing our best to get rid of the workhouse of Dickens Day, which of course has improved a great deal since those days, but we feel it should disappear altogether. Our voluntary societies have done a good deal of work in pioneering in this field and are working now side by side with local government to provide this shelter for those old people who need it. Our emphasis is, however, shifting, I think, towards keeping older people in their own homes and right in the life of the community as long as possible. And to this end, the voluntary societies, the third partner in this scheme, are providing social clubs to which older folk can belong so that, quite apart from the social contact, there is there a focal point where difficulties, great and small, can be brought, and we are working hard, all of us, to try and see that our isolated older people are brought back into the life of the community. Much friendly visiting is going on all over the United Kingdom by a very large number of our voluntary societies to bring knowledge of what the community can do to the individual older person. This includes not only the lonely who live by themselves, but those lonely people who are living in hospitals and in homes. We are giving a good deal of thought to how older people can be kept in employment. My committee, the National Old People's Welfare Committee, is perhaps the counterpart of the National Committee on Aging in this country. And we are trying to spread information and experience throughout the British Isles, through the medium of 600 local groups which are associated with us. These local groups are stimulating work for older people all over the country. We are trying, as I think it was the mayor of this great city said, we are trying to do away with the problem of growing older, because we feel that if we do what we should about our older citizens, there will be no problem. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Miss Ramsey. And now, for a few words from one of our distinguished physicians from abroad, Dr. Paolo Alessandrini from Rome, Italy. Dr. Alessandrini. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy that I had the opportunity to come to this country first. I have the chance in St. Louis to meet with many leaders in the field of geriatrics and gerontology, and to see how universal is the interest and the work in this field. Next, I had the chance to see some of the world which is going on in the United States, and to see some of your great hospitals and research centers. It is difficult for me to express my admiration. I do invite your facilities here. I assure you, however, that we too are also working along the same lines, and if medical research is important, the way it should be, then I am sure great success will reward our work. Lastly, I can see from this meeting here that in New York, as in St. Louis, and as in Rome, and as all in other countries, there is genuine interest and an assurance that we will make great progress in the near future. I feel strongly that this working together for the welfare of people everywhere is the true hope for peace and deafness for the world. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Alessandrini. Now, recently arrived, the Commissioner of Welfare of the City of New York, the Honorable Henry L. McCarthy, and on this short notice, I'd like to ask him to say a word. Commissioner McCarthy. Mr. Chairman, friends, I think I represent not only the Department of Welfare, but some 59,000 people who are in the care of the Department of Welfare and who are over 65 years of age, and they have, of course, a very great interest in all matters pertaining to gerontology and geriatrics and making life more comfortable and pleasant for those of us who are getting older. We have 4,000 people a month becoming 65 every month in this city of ours. We have 58,800 people receiving public assistance. We have 560,000 people over 65 in the city. We have a tremendous problem, and New York's interest in this problem is growing, and its attention to the problem is growing, and we have, through the Mayor's Advisory Committee for the Agents and through all the other groups that are represented and that are acting as hosts here today, and through the Department of Welfare, we are, I think, making considerable progress. You will hear from other speakers this afternoon some of the specific things that we are trying to do over and beyond, just providing maintenance, food, shelter, clothing, and the necessaries of life. We are recognizing that it takes more than bread alone to provide happiness for the people who come within our care, and since all of us are getting older and all of us will be the recipients of the kinds of activities that we are initiating now, I think we can all be happy that this kind of occasion is being held today, and I especially want to welcome, on behalf of the staff of the Department of Welfare, the foreign visitors, many of whom I met in St. Louis at the Gerontological Conference. I think that this audience is as big as any group that gathered for any single meeting in St. Louis, so I'm very proud of New York, too, for that reason. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner McCarthy. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we would be very pleased to hear from Dr. Eva Yalovisto from Helsinki, Finland, Dr. Yalovisto. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very great pleasure and honor for me to be allowed to say a few words. I am extremely thankful for the overwhelming hospitality I have been met with in this country. I am especially thankful for all I have seen and what I hope I've learned and absorbed. And it is my sincere hope to be able to give something over to my people to the benefit of the old in Finland. A rough estimate made in our country says that some 60% of the old people in Finland lack the minimum necessary for a fairly well living. If in any country research on problems of aging is of are necessary that is true for Finland. We have had many problems to cope with and we have until now not had enough possibilities to care for our old. now I think the interest and the goodwill has awakened. There is a state committee making both research and trying to make plans for the aged. There are many welfare societies but they have just started their job. there is we have old age pension but only two year classes so far have been able to benefit of this old age pension. All those who are born before the age of before 1884 lack this opportunity. I hope that what I've seen and what I hope to be able to absorb still here will benefit us and that it will make me able to serve my old people which is so necessary. Thank you. Thank you very much Dr. Yelovisto. Now from probably the farthest distance from Adelaide in South Australia Dr. O. Westcott Fruin. Dr. Fruin. Ladies and gentlemen when I met Mr. Hilliard in St. Louis two weeks ago and he asked me to come along to this reception it sounded all very nice and friendly like and I accepted very promptly later I found that there was a fly in the ointment when he made it clear that he wanted me to stand up here and say a few words to this distinguished gathering I then felt like the skeleton who was confined to his closet and said to himself I could get out of this if I had any guts I have not got out of it so I leave it to you to draw your own conclusions I have been asked specifically to tell you something about voluntary and tax supported services in Australia I must confess that I know much less about these than do those in your social security administration in Washington this administration have at their fingertips precise and detailed information having made it their business to collect the same and I would refer those interested in the complete story to that department well in brief the organized care of the aged in Australia is in the hands of the federal government and assistance is given in three ways firstly by old age pensions a pension of approximately the purchasing power of eight dollars per week is paid to pensioners of 65 and over this is subject to a means test and the pensioner is allowed to earn another four dollars after which his pension is reduced according to the amount that he or she earns a pensioner is issued with a card which he must produce to the the money mentioned into purchasing power of American dollars rather than the actual exchange rate of dollars fees then secondly there is a comprehensive medical and pharmaceutical service each pensioner is issued with a card which he must produce to the attending doctor who will render routine services free of charge and will after filling in a number of forms receive some compensation from the government this compensation amounts to about one half of the regular general practitioner fee which is very little return considering the form filling that is required in addition to the professional service to participate in this service the doctor has to register with the government and be placed on a panel I myself have not joined this panel for one reason I found it necessary to limit my practice in some way to prevent it from becoming too and for another because some years ago I had an experience of a pensioner medical service in which the pensioner was allowed free choice of doctor at any time and I did not find it satisfactory I firmly believe that if someone is getting something for nothing he has to make some sacrifice and in a case like this display some loyalty to the physician of his choice the attending doctor then prescribes for the patient on a special form in duplicate and all life-saving and regular drugs are listed in a special pharmacopier and dispensed free of charge charge the third benefit is a hospital payment of two dollars per day spent in hospital this of course does not cover full hospital charges but in this respect the various state governments step in and provide full hospital services free of charge merely collecting the federal contribution to finance these and other social services a tax is levied on the income of everyone receiving more than a net amount of about $800 per year this tax is approximately 8 cents for every dollar of tax of full income and due to the sanguine anticipation of the politicians that a national free medical service would be put into operation this tax was levied for several years prior to any real social benefits being dispensed and it is generally believed that the money so collected has merely been absorbed into general revenue so on the whole the impression of the taxpayer is that he has been milked on false pretenses from the hotel Astor in New York City your city station has brought you the little forum on work for the aged here and abroad including a reception to the foreign gerontologists the chairman for this program has been Raymond M. Hilliard executive director of the welfare council and chairman of the mayor's advisory committee for the aged this is the municipal broadcasting system him his a name