I don't know whether you noticed a smile on the mayor's face as he came up here. He looked as if he were back home once again. But Ireland has come over to you, Mr. Mayor, so that you may properly welcome him here in this great council room, some hundred and odd years old, where great dignitaries from all over the world have been welcomed by the mayors of New York. And here you have two teams, one from the north and one from the south of Ireland, and it's all one island. For the benefit of those on the air, Mr. Mayor, these are the finalists in the football team, just like our American and National League, where they have finally won their spurs and their right to come to America and be your guest in the city of New York. It's a great privilege for me, Mr. Mayor, to present to you now for a word of welcome from you, Mr. O'Rourke, the president of the Gaelic Athletic Association of Ireland. Thank you. Mr. Grover Whalen, Mr. Dan O'Rourke, Mr. O'Keefe, and friends, which includes all members of the Board of Estimate and the City Council. Mr. Whalen, you can report officially that the mayor of the city is extremely happy on this occasion, delighted to preside at a function where we are giving a hearty welcome to two teams who represent the National Game of Ireland, one of the National Games. We are extremely happy to have them come anytime, but this visit here is unique. It hasn't happened in my 37 years in this city, and I don't think the history books will show that it ever happened before, where the final championship game representing 50 years of strain and stress and planning to bring these games to a point of perfection that they now enjoy in Ireland, where they attract for their championship games the largest crowds of sport-loving people known comparatively in the whole world. When you figure the small population of two and a half or three million or three and a half million, and you can get 80,000 people to travel hundreds of miles at great inconvenience to attend those games, it gives an indication of what they mean to the people. Now, of course, if it were ever suggested in these parts that after Brooklyn wins the National League, if it were ever suggested by some foolhardy person that we take the World Series out of Brooklyn, ladies and gentlemen, I would not be responsible for the peace of this community for at least 24 hours. And for that reason, if we measure the occasion on that basis, it is a beautiful thing to find the Gaelic Athletic Association taking to New York its championship game, possibly the one outstanding sporting event that the people of Ireland look forward to to participate in themselves as spectators. Now, I think we should be proud, not only pleased, but proud to welcome this generous offering of the best they have in Ireland in sports to the public in New York. And really, Dan and Pat O'Keefe, I hope you will take back with you from me as Mayor of the City my thanks to the Gaelic Athletic Association and to the people of Ireland who permitted this game to take place in our city. And with that, also, I give you now, in addition to a welcome, give you an assurance that this unique event is not without deep appreciation in our city. We welcome you for many reasons, many that could be understood and we didn't have to say what they are. But something that the people of our city might know, and it's important, is that these games are games that are played thoroughly, completely by amateurs. no one gets paid. These games attract great gates, have attracted great gates. But it's an important thing, ladies and gentlemen, to know with what wisdom the Gaelic Athletic Association has used the monies that they take in. The principal use at the present time is to develop playing fields in the small towns throughout the country, playing fields and running tracks and handball courts in order that the children as they grow up will have a place in which to play. And I wish, Dan, I could get our national games to play over here so that we could have playing fields for every child in our city that needs a field to play in. If we had them, we'd have less trouble among the children. We'd have less need for probation officers and courts and less need for prisons for the children. And for that reason in particular, I, who am close to the needs of children here in our own city, offer you my welcome, deeply appreciating the high purposes for which you give your time and your talents. I now turn to the players. Gentlemen, you've come a long way in your preliminary contests. You're on neutral ground in New York. We want the best team to win. We welcome both of you with equal heartiness and while we applaud the winner, and we, of course, naturally will, the one who hasn't won still has made a great contribution to his people. and that losing team is just as welcome to us as the winning team no matter who it is. Good luck to you. Thanks again, Dan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, on the way down, the president of the Gaelic Athletic Association of Ireland admired your police force and said that he noted a great many Irishmen among them. And he asked me the name of the police commissioner and I told him, Commissioner O'Wallander. Mr. Daniel Rock, who will speak for the team. And yes, I will. The cameraman demand a few innings before Mr. O'Rourke speaks. And now here he is, the president of the Gaelic Athletic Association. Mr. O'Rourke. This, to me, is a very momentous occasion. I would say one of the greatest occasions in my life. I come here as president of the Gaelic Athletic Association with two of the greatest teams that our country has produced. And I may say in all modesty that our country has produced some very great Gaelic teams. We decided last Easter to come to New York because we felt and we now realize that we came to play, we would come to play the game amongst friends. We believe that there are really more Irish people in and around New York than we have in the whole island of Ireland. Well, it was a big adventure. And I think it is an adventure worthy of a great amateur organization. I doubt very much if any other amateur organization in the world would be able to tackle a problem of such magnitude, especially in those very difficult times. But at the back of our minds all the time was the idea that we would have the powerful help of the mayor of New York. This is not the first occasion on which he has helped Irish teams and Irish people. The name of Mayor O'Dwyer, I may say, is synonymous with hospitality. He has been not only to the teams, but he has been to the Irish people a very generous countryman. And we are very proud of him. I may say that when he was elected Mayor of New York, a wave of pride swept through the people of Ireland. He may not fully realize that, but it is quite true that the people of Ireland in every corner were proud of Bill O'Dwyer, as they call him popularly. Since we came here, we have met nothing but civility and hospitality. In fact, we have met even more than the kindness of the Irish countryside. We expected a hospitable reception, but our reception has been far greater than our expectations. We have got great help from the New York Geary Acadetic Association and from various other bodies in the city. And I, on behalf of the Geary Acadetic Association, thank those members who have helped us so industriously and so sincerely. Now, a time may arrive, we hope, when New York teams or American teams will come to play our teams in Dublin. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We see nothing impossible in this. We think that there is an opening for a great field game in America. And we think that there is no football game at all in your states as great as our Gaelic game. In fact, we are quite sure of that. And we ask you, especially the youth, to come to our match on Sunday and see for yourselves. And if you don't agree with me, well, I'll be surprised. In Ireland, at the moment, our games have reached, I might say, the pinnacle of popularity. Our hurling game, which undoubtedly is the world's greatest field game, no doubt whatever about it, attracts anything from 70,000 to 80,000 in our finals. This year, in our semifinals, we had over 65,000 at each of the football games. And had we spaced, we haven't, had we spaced, I believe we would reach about 100,000 mark in our Gaelic football finals. Now, this has meant years of work, years of organization. And I think that our organization deserves a little credit for what they have been doing. I was particularly struck with the, what I may call the intimate information that the mayor has of our organization, that we have been catering for the youth, especially the school boys and the boys of the colleges. That has been our aim, and that is what has made our organization so successful as it is. Now, I don't think there is anything left to say. I want to repeat that we are deeply grateful, and I, on behalf of our organization, express that gratitude. Deeply grateful in the first instance to the mayor of the city and to all the others, all the other Gails and people who have assisted us. And we hope and trust that your mayor will in the near future come to visit us in Ireland, and I think I can promise him on behalf of the Gaelic Athletic Association and on behalf of the whole people, Ariel Kedmila Falca. Thank you.