Good morning. From the eternal light at 23rd Street and 5th Avenue in Madison Square Park, your city station brings you the exercises commemorating the 34th anniversary of the signing of the Armistice of World War I. These ceremonies are held annually under the auspices of the Mayor's Committee and the New York County Division of the American Legion. Among our speakers today are the Honorable Vincent R. Impelet-Terry, Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Robert F. Wagner, Jr., President of the Borough of Manhattan, and many others. And now let's switch to the rostrum for the Honorable Robert F. Wagner, Borough President of Manhattan. ...fellow veterans, ladies and gentlemen, we again meet here at this sacred place to pay our respects to those who have made the sacrifice and have departed from us. We meet once again in the hope that we will have peace. But as we meet here, we know that throughout the world we have many troubled areas, and the hope for peace still seems far distant. But we take our courage from those who have gone before us. We take our courage from the traditions of our great country and of democracy. And we are a country which looks to the future and looks to peace and prosperity here. And I know that as we meet again, we will rededicate ourselves to the principles upon which our great veterans organization is founded and the principles upon which our government is founded. And we will now have the invocation from the Reverend William R. Wind, the chaplain of the American Legion of New York County. Let us pray. Let us pray. Let us pray for our honored dead. Let us pray for the living, especially those in our armed services, and more particularly those in Korea. Let us pray for our wonderful country, for all nations of the world that we may live in peace. Finally, let us pray for social justice in all the world. O Lord, as we bless thy holy name for those thy servants departed this life in thy faith and love, so we beseech thee to give to us who remain grace to follow their good example and to carry on the work which they began. Grant, O Lord, we pray thee that the offering of their lives may not have been made in vain, that we and all thy people may hear the call to nobler living, which sounds in our ears from the graves of those who have died, that we might live, that we might dedicate our lives anew to the work of bringing in thy kingdom upon earth. Amen. We will now have the national anthem, our Star-Spangled Banner, rendered by Miss Dolores Micheline, who is the daughter of a legionnaire and a member of the USO camp shows. And she's sung for the G.I.'s everywhere, and we're very proud that she can be here to lead us in the Star-Spangled Banner. Miss Micheline. Three, seven, Three, Four, Four, Four, Four, Three, Four, Four, Four, Here and Seven, Three, One, Two, One, One, One, One, One, One, One, One, Two, The rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night. The rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, the bombs bursting in air, the bombs bursting in air, the bombs bursting in air.... The rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, the bombs bursting in air, the bombs bursting in air. The rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, the bombs bursting in air, the bombs bursting in air. Those of us who are members of the American Legion in New York County are indeed proud that we have another distinguished citizen to lead us as our county commander, and it's my privilege now to introduce our county commander, Robert J. DeSantis of New York County. Reverend Clergy, the Honorable Mayor Impeletary, General Crittenberger, the Honorable Robert F. Wagoner, Jr., distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and fellow veterans. Today we are commemorating the armistice that under the First World War, and we are giving thanks for the victories that under the European and Pacific phases of World War II. We remember how the men and women, yes, the women because the women fought and worked beside the men, laid down their civilian pursuits in schools, officers, homes, and factories, to form a mighty civilian army which hurled back professional soldiers. Our strength down the battlefield, on the supply lines which fed the battlefront, lay in justice of our cause because the forces of evil. We believe that our determination made us better warriors because we fought with our minds and our hearts as well as our bodies. Once again, we became the nation which had twice in a generation turned the tide of battle from disaster on so many fronts for our valiant and greatly weakened allies into a glorious victory. We had performed once again the miracle of transition from a non-military and peace-loving nation to a complete war economy of incredibly great military strength to excite the admiration and respect of the entire world, friend as well as enemy. On this November the 11th, 1952, we honor the memory of the death of both world wars and the Korean conflict and our hearts go out to our fighting men in Korea for their valiant battle to protect and safeguard the American way of life. We offer our heartfelt prayers for their speedy and safe return to their loved ones. When the American Legion was born 34 years ago, it was the fervent hope of our founders that by and with the united strength of all veterans, men and women who know war best and hate it the most would go forth among the people preaching and exhibiting the tolls and sacrifices of war, hoping and praying that the world would profit from their experiences, learn the bitter lesson of war, and thus thrive for everlasting peace. Unfortunately, all that the American Legion preached and worked for, that of developing a well-prepared and strong America to ensure that peace will be maintained, fell on deep ears. And 24 years later, a more horrible and devastating conflict broke out that was felt by every man, woman, and child throughout the entire world. For 34 years, we have observed Armistice Day in a spirit of gratitude for the return of peace after a monstrous war. But gratitude is no safeguard for peace. For 34 years, we have failed to emphasize and to adhere to the simple and obvious things that would ensure a lasting peace. we seem to be guilty of that same fault again today. You know the answer as well as I. Hardly had a gun cease firing, hardly had a heroic dead been decently in turn as a reminder of war's grim holocaust, then we are warned that yet the Third World War is, if not imminent, at least inevitable. The causes of events since World War II gunsteal presents a clear-cut argument that today the best protection of American peace lies only in American strength, meaning American fighting, economic, and spiritual strength. However, our warning went unheeded and the American people convinced themselves that because new conflicts will be contrary to world affairs and human happiness, they would never occur again. So they went blittery about their pursuit of personal affairs. They permitted their defense's establishment to be largely dismantled and what was left become obsolete. They failed to include training for national security in the education of American youth. They allowed to deteriorate the most powerful Navy in the world and let the merchant marine vanish from the high seas. They cut the Army, the Navy, the Air Force budgets until the armed forces were reduced to military police battalions. Thus, they gave encouragement to another dictator to wreck the peace of the world by banking on American weakness, American unpreparedness to defend freedom. the one powerful voice raised for two decades on behalf of the fighting strength was that of the American Legion, whose veterans had learned a folly of weakness the hard way on the field of battle. And in that strength lies insurance, not only for the American security, but the last best hope of building up effective international machinery for the prevention of recurring wars. Thank God some of the laborers of the American Legion in the field of national security have borne fruit. It will be the aim of the American Legion to see that never again our first line of defense be scrapped. Today in America, there are traitors in our midst, traitors who seek to destroy the American way of life and place in slavery and servitude every loyal citizen of these United States. these traitors living beneath the protection of the American flag are endearing to spread and hateful insidious document of communism and seek to undermine and destroy our beloved country. To that group of traitors and communists spreading their vicious propaganda, the American Legion gives warning that it will never cease its vigilance in protecting the Constitution of the United States of America and it will continue to use every peaceful means in its power to destroy and stamp out on Americanism activity. American is the stronghold of liberty with the help of God and the vigilance of patriotic America. American will remain the stronghold until the end of time. We will now bow our heads for two minutes of silence in memory of our departed veterans. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, be seated. I'd like to now thank our county commander Robert DeSantis for his fine address here this morning and we will now hear a selection from the great New York Fire Department band of which we're so proud. THE THURSDAY For more than Después gladius we will now mighty above the rest of our any other and we will talk to you at the very top and above theera of our great new The End The End A great veteran A very distinguished mayor of the city of New York The Honorable Vincent Impeletarian Reverend clergy Burl President Wagner General Quittenberger And my comrades This 34th anniversary Of the signing of the Armistice Following World War I Is the solemn occasion For all of us To rededicate ourselves To the ideals And principles For which so much Has been sacrificed By so many To preserve our priceless National heritage In honoring the memory Of our American war dead We join in prayer To the almighty That he may soon Return to us Our fighting men From Korea Where we are joined Through the United Nations In the world's First great Collective effort To beat back Communist Aggression And secure Peace For all Many of us here Well remember The first Armistice How full Our hearts were With hope That we had Concluded the war To end All wars Then came Our disillusionment With the end Of World War II We again believed That we had Beat down forever The hatred And greed Of evil dictators But new Lustful forces Intervened Today We fight In Korea To prevent A third world war And to stop Godlessness And communism From engulfing The world The prayerful hope Of all freedom Loving peoples Is that peace May come In our time Though the way Seems faltering At times And we seem To lose patience Our hopes Have not Been dim That such peace Can come Only through The United Nations Which has Its headquarters Here in our Great city The towering Buildings That reach Skyward Just north Of us Are symbolic Of our hopes And prayers That mutual Trust and Understanding Will come Soon To men Of goodwill The world Over Just One week Ago Today America Went to The polls To choose Its national Leaders For the grim Years ahead A week Ago We were Partisans Expressing Our choice In the ballot Box Through our Precious Right Of franchise At this Ceremony Today There is No partisanship We are Americans All joined In tribute To the brave Who sacrificed Their youth Their talents And their lives For the preservation Of our priceless Freedoms That have made us The greatest nation On earth Ann O'Hare McCormick In Sunday's New York Times Magazine Revealed In brilliant Strokes The problems That confront Us as a People And a Nation In the days Following our National Election I should like To quote Briefly From them Because They are So very Appropriate On this Amistice Day of 1952 And I Quote It was Never More Clear Indeed That in The light Of the Morning After Election That our Immediate Task Is to Heal The scars Left By a Political Battle That looks Like child's Play Beside The deadly Conflict That divides The world This is The essential Step Toward Reviving The sense Of community In the Free world Only If America Is united Within Itself Can it Use Its full Force And influence To hold Together The coalition Of disparate Peoples In Europe And Asia That have The will To stand Up Against Aggression Without Our strength Behind them They are In danger Of falling Apart And without Their unity Behind us We are In danger Of being Left Naked And alone To face The enemy It is In dedicating Ourselves To such A higher Idea Unity At home And leadership For the Community Of nations Abroad For a Free world That we Can best Honor America's Brave souls On this Faithful Armistice Day In such Resolve With an Abiding Faith In God We will Do our Part In forging Our nation's Wheel Through Realization Of the Ideals For which They Laid down Their lives Thank you very much Mr. Mayor For that Splendid Message We will Now have Another Selection By the New York Fire Department Band Michigan Jiatility малень Howard How To Stay Here què ć Vil gl Jersey Maxim hé The End The End The End Thank you very, very much. We will now have a scripture reading by distinguished Rabbi, Rabbi A. Elihu Michelson. Almighty God, we ask such peace and such faith for the children of our generation as will enable all of them to say with the Hebrew psalmist of old, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me to lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside the still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil. For thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff, they comfort me. Thou preparest a tale before me in the presence of mine enemies. Thou anointest my head with oil. My cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Amen. Thank you very much, Rabbi Michelson. One of the great glee clubs in New York is our own New York Police Department glee club, who will give us a few selections. Are you going to announce the selections, Sergeant? Don't give up the ship. Don't give up the ship. That's a good one for today. Thank you. Thank you. Don't give up the ship. Oh, two, let's go. The job just begun. We'll smash the foe till victory is won. Off men to stations, the foes on the run. Ship may stand together. Don't give up the ship. Don't give up the ship. It's a long, long trip. If you have to take a lick and carry on and quit your kicking, Don't give up the ship Thank you, Sergeant, gentlemen. Very good. Our next speaker is a distinguished soldier. And I know we're very proud to have him here this morning to listen to him and to hear his tribute to our departed brothers. He is the commanding general of the First Army here, one of the great heroes of the last great war. My privilege to introduce to you Lieutenant General Willis D. Krittenberger. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, reverend clergy, veterans, and fellow Americans, your speakers have eloquently eulogized the inspiring significance of this occasion. And as I stand before you today in the uniform of our country, it may be assumed that I'm expected to talk of our national security. On this occasion, hallowed as it is by our poignant memories of great victories, nothing less would be appropriate. Those veterans of World War I who fought the unforgettable campaigns of San Miel, Ypres, and Mazargonne, those veterans of World War II who have trod the beaches of Normandy, the frozen Ardennes, the banks of the Rhine, Sicily, the Pacific island of Iwo Jima, and the jungles of Wadalpanao, and now those only returned recently from Korea have just observed the traditional two minutes of silence in memory of the patriots who gave their lives in those battles. This silence has likewise been observed in all foreign lands where our American armed forces are now stationed except for that mountainous peninsula in northeastern Asia. On the momentous battlefield of Korea, there is no silence. I would like to remind all Americans that those men who are at this very moment sacrificing their lives in Korea as well as our honored dead of wars past so that an aggressor invasion could be localized and kept far away from our own cities and those of the entire western world, those men should be remembered not only on November 11th, but on each of the year's 365 days. Although we have inspiring ceremonies to commemorate this occasion, our soldiers in Korea can hardly have time to be concerned about parades and military ceremonies. ruffles and flourishes are lost upon the harassed front-line doughboy who is even now crawling up the jagged, bloody slopes of Korea's mountains with a human sea of fanatically attacking foes facing him in hand-to-hand combat during every step of the way up those peaks. Our fighting men have not the time nor the mind for such ceremonial amenities. When the fury of battle has temporarily diminished, an arm-battle soldier has a chance to observe his surroundings, he may well ask himself the question, do people at home really know what is happening over here? Now, as a soldier who has served under the colors for nearly half a century, I realize only too well that you, with sons, brothers, and husbands, are well aware of the Korean dangers and vicissitudes. But to other Americans whose loved ones may not currently be involved directly in this faraway conflict, and as of October, which has cost us 19,000 Americans killed in action, 80,000 wounded, and 12,000 still missing, I deem it fitting on this occasion to urge you to take a moment from your everyday danger-free routines, your hours of pleasant living, not only to think of that weary, never comfortable, and almost always heroic combat soldier, but to pray for him as well. As the mayor has so aptly said, it is true that the fulfillment of the hope of that first armistice day 34 years ago, a justifiable hope for peace and security, has not been realized in the succeeding interim of time. that inspiring hope for international peace and enduring security so prevalent on that first armistice day has turned out so far to be a mirage. Twice since, peace has been snatched from the millions who seek it so fervently. disillusionment has inevitably followed in the wake of another world war and now the fighting in Korea. But we Americans do not despair. Although the victory that has blessed our arms on the battlefield has not brought us relief from the tensions of international strife, today we review the solemn obligation to our heroic dead never to cease our relentless struggle for that peace, that understanding, that decency which finally will prevail. And today the eyes of the free world are focused hopefully on the United States. Let us not fail them. They like to see our leadership strong, vital, and decisive. And we can make it just this when we give it the national support that it requires in this emergency. our moral strength, our physical courage, our material resources, and the wisdom of our leadership have never failed to overcome the obstacles with which we have been faced. Therefore, our national reflections on this occasion, brighter than they were in 1950 and 51, are almost certain to lead our thoughts to a contemplation of happier, more peaceful times. How best to obtain the security and peace for which mankind everywhere is praying unquestionably constitutes the most important problem of the day. And what an inspiring era in the world's history it would be if people everywhere could be blessed with the assuring peace and understanding which they crave. to reach this goal, international peace must be mutually desired by all nations. However, two years ago, the free world was alerted to the threat that we are facing. And it has been perfectly obvious since then that the threat to this desire for peace was real. And as a result, it is our firm conviction that this certainly is no time for the United States to drop its guard. With reference to the future, the apathy of some segments of public opinion resulting from the frequent ebb and flow of war fears is a source of concern to those who feel that a position of military strength in the United States is the most effective deterrent to another major conflict. The defense policy of the United States then cannot be based entirely upon our armed forces in being, but instead upon our military potential, our civilian reserves backed by our incomparable industry. Now, with reference to this strength, although many of us do not believe that World War III is inevitable and I am one, nevertheless, all of us have learned by experience that it is not enough just to hope for peace. Instead, like freedom, peace is a cherished objective for which we must constantly plan and for which we must even fight when necessary. In preparing for peace, in planning for it, the United States must be strong. It is only from a position of strength that we are able to face an uncertain future with confidence. The voice of the weak is not always heard. It would then be optimistic indeed if we were to hope to gain this posture of strength by any vacillation toward our national security. The American way visualizes this posture as one not only of military, industrial, and financial strength, but also one of spiritual greatness and moral courage. The maintenance of this position of national strength and its devotion to the ennobling ideals of mankind would seem to be the challenge of the day to those of us gathered here on this historic occasion. Once again, we are confronted with the realization that national security is not a commodity that can be snapped up hurriedly at a bargain counter in an emergency. As a matter of fact, it might be well at this time to remind ourselves that all of this emphasis on the military is not wholly designed to make us strong enough to win any possible World War III, but before that, it is contemplated to so strengthen our national position as to prevent another international conflict. In short, what we are striving for is peace. This morning, when our reverence is mingled with high hopes, we pause in our daily tasks to pay tribute to those fighting men who sleep so silently, both known and unknown, beseeching that this world of ours be blessed with divine guidance. In solemnly commemorating our honored living and dead, let our faith in them continue unshakable, supported by our firm resolve that they will be provided with the best technological tools procurable, they will not will fail us. Thank you. Thank you, General Crettenberger, for that splendid message. We'll now have another selection by the New York Fire Department band. The End The End The End Representing the judiciary is a distinguished judge, federal judge of the United States Customs Court, our lovable comrade, the Honorable Paul P. Rayo. The Deputy Commander of the Continental Air Command of the United States, our own comrade, the Brigadier General Robert E. Condon. Get up, Bob. Some more tough friends. All right. Then, comrade, beloved of us all, my former associate in the New York Police Department, the former colonel of the old Fighting 69, Brigadier General Martin H. Meany. Thank you. Among the veterans, we have the department commander of that band of veterans who are slowly fading out, the representative, the commanding officer of the United Spanish War Veterans of the Department of New York, Axel J. Swenson. A department commander of perhaps the oldest military organization in the United States, the military order of the Purple Heart, Commander Harry Levy. The various official representatives of the American Legion. There's Paul Ruthizer, the district commander of the first district. Danny Dunn, the past district commander. Danny has faded away. I'll take the remainder in rapid order. Judge, could I just interrupt a minute to ask the wreath places to please report to the wreaths back there? Thank you. To accentuate that, wreath places report to the supervisor of the wreaths in the rear. The county commander of the Jewish War Veterans, Milton Rosenberg. The county commander of the Catholic War Veterans, John J. Backus. The National Vice President of the American Legion Founders, William H. McIntyre. The National Senior Vice Commander of the Jewish War Veterans, Abraham Barnett. The National Senior Vice Commander of the Military Order of the Purple Heart, John T. Mullins. The very personable and handsome major camp to General Kittenberger, Captain Johnny Halliday. The lady who so charmingly acts as the New York County Chairman of the American Legion Auxiliary, Mary Robbins. The welfare chairman of the New York County Welfare Committee of the American Legion, Helen Fulman. Both ladies have been chilled by the frost. The president of the British War Veterans of America, Edmund P. Donovan. I have to get a nourishment to represent Great Britain. That concludes the rest of the distinguished guests. Thank you, Judge, very much. We'll now have a very appropriate selection by our Police Department glee club, This Is My Country. Before you do that, I've been guilty of an inexcusable neglect. We have here the representative of the governor of the state of New York, the Brigadier General Ralph F. Schoen. Thank you. What difference What difference if I hail from north or south or from the east or west My heart is filled with love for all of ease I only know I swear with pride and deep within my breast I thrill to see Oh glory paint the breeze Oh glory paint the breeze This is my country Land of my world This is my country Grandest on earth I pledge thee my allegiance America the world Oh this is my country to help and home Thank you very much Sergeant There are two others that the judge wants to introduce Just bear with us a minute Two of the overlooked The past commander of the first district of the American Legion New York County Our distinguished commander Dr. Herbert Paul Worth And that dynamic young man who's the department committee man of the Jewish War veterans Murray Diamond어를 we now come to the highlight of these very fine ceremonies with the salutations and memoriam and the placing of the wreaths. And as the various organizations step forward, I will read the names of the organizations and those who will place the wreaths. First is the American Gold Star Mothers Department of New York, Mrs. Josephine Holmes, the department president. The next is the American Gold Star Mothers Manhattan Chapter, Mrs. Evelyn Wagner, past president. Ladies and gentlemen, for those of you who might have just joined us in the last few minutes, your city station is bringing you a description of the Armistice Ceremonies from the Eternal Light at 23rd Street and 5th Avenue in Madison Square. This gathering here has been underway since 1045 this morning, the annual ceremonies under the auspices of the American Legion. However, this year, this ceremony actually is in two parts because after the ceremonies are completed here at the Eternal Light, a second section of the parade which came down 5th Avenue earlier, will continue on down 5th Avenue and stop at Union Square where the Veterans of Foreign Wars will hold a ceremony there at the VFW Memorial. At the moment, our master of ceremonies for this occasion, the Honorable Robert F. Wagner, Jr., borough president of Manhattan, is reading off a list of organizations represented here today. And as each name is read off, a representative of that organization places a wreath on this monument here, the Eternal Light at 5th Avenue and 23rd Street in Manhattan. Now back to borough president Wagner. Next, the American Red Cross, Miss Marie Howard. Next, the Grand Army of the Republic. Oh, we have the grandson of Captain Isaac, Julius Isaacs, who will lay the wreath for the Grand Army of the Republic. Next, the United Spanish War Veterans Department of New York, Mr. A.J. Swenson, commander. Next, the United Spanish War Veterans, New York County, commander Alexander D. Levin. Next, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, commander Donald Ferguson of New York County. Thank you. Thank you. Disabled American Veterans, John J. Tusharoni, chief of staff. Jewish War Veterans, commander Milton M. Rosenberg. Catholic War Veterans, commander John E. Backus. Military Order of the Purple Heart, commander John T. Mullins. Father Duffy, chapter, Rainbow Division Veterans, Robert E. Morrison, president. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The Army and Navy Union, USA, New York County, Bishop Herbert F. Wilke. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. General Robert W. Caldwell. The British War Veterans, Sergeant John Williamson. The Free French War Veterans, Post No. 1 New York. The Madam President will lay the read. Federation of French War Veterans, Pierre-Pietre Trio. The Canadian Legion of New York, Commander Edward Murray. The Belgian War Veterans, Vice Commander Cesar Giesel. The Old Guard, City of New York, Lieutenant Colonel J. Wallace Reed, Commandant. The American Legion Auxiliary, New York County. This is Mary Robbins, Chairman. This is Mary Robbins, Chairman. The Society of Forty and Eight, Watten, No. 7 New York, Chef de Gare, George Meisinger. My singer. The Jane A. Delano Post, No. 344, American Legion, Commander Mary R. Mangano. The John Wanamaker Post, No. 413, American Legion, Commander Edward P. Hurley. The American Legion, New York County, Past Commander, County Commander Edward X. Payton. State of New York, Brigadier General Ralph F. Sherby. The City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletari. The City of New York, the U.S. The City of New York, the U.S. The City of New York, the A. Delano Post, No. 393, American Legion of Q. The City of New York, the U.S. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. a a The End The End The End The End