Force does not make right, but we must realize that in this imperfect world of ours, power as well as reason does affect international decisions. The great states are given special responsibility under the United Nations Charter because they have the military strength to maintain peace if they have the will to maintain peace. And their strength in relation to one another is such that no one of them can safely break the peace if the others will stand united in defense of the Charter. First, we have joined with our allies in the United Nations to put an end to war. We have covenanted not to use force except in defense of law. The United States will keep that covenant. As a great power and as a permanent member of the Security Council, we have a responsibility, veto or no veto, to see that other states do not use force except in defense of law. The United States must discharge that responsibility. And we must realize that unless the great powers are not only prepared to observe the law, but are prepared to act in defense of the law, the United Nations organization can never prevent war. In a world in which people do differ as to what is right and wrong, we must strive to work out definite standards of conduct which all can accept. We must develop and build through the years a common law of nations. History informs us that individuals abandoned private wars and gave up their arms only as they were protected by the common law of their tribe and of their nation. So I believe that in the long run, international peace depends upon our ability to develop a common law of nations which all nations can accept and which no nation can violate with impunity. In the past, international laws concerned itself too much with the rules of war and too little with the rules of peace. I am more interested in ways and means to prevent war than I am in ways and means to conduct war. Unless we are able to develop a common law of nations which provides definite and agreed standards of conduct, such as those which govern decisions within the competence of the International Court of Justice, such as those which we hope may be agreed upon for the control of atomic energy, international problems between sovereign states must be worked out by agreement between sovereign states. The United States has taken the lead in proposing the control and the elimination from national armaments of atomic weapons and other weapons of mass destruction under agreed rules of law. These rules of law must carry clear and adequate safeguards to protect complying states from the hazards of violations and evasions. They must be sufficiently definite and explicit to prevent a state that violates the law from obstructing the prompt enforcement of the law. If a nation by solemn treaty agrees to a plan for the control of atomic weapons and agrees that a violation of that treaty shall be punished, it is difficult for me to understand why that nation cannot agree to waive the right to exercise the veto power should it ever be charged with violating its treaty obligation. Thank you. In 1921, while a member of the House of Representatives, I advocated that the President call a conference for the limitation of naval armaments. Later, the President did call such a conference. What happened thereafter influences my thinking today. While America scrapped battleships, Japan scrapped blueprints. America will never again make that mistake. We have urged the general limitation of armaments. But we are not going to disarm while others remain armed. And we should make certain that all governments live up to their agreements to disarm. We have urged priority for the control of atomic weapons because they are the most destructive of all weapons. Because we have been at work on the proposal for more than six months. And because it presents concretely the issue of international inspection and control. We are convinced that if there can be agreement on that subject, there can be agreement on the control of other major weapons and a general reduction of arms. If we are unable to reach agreement on that subject, it will be useless to discuss the other subjects. But international law, in a friendly, peaceful world, must rest upon something more than mere rules, something more than force, and something more than fear. It must be made to rest upon the growth of a common fellowship, common interest, and common ideas among the peoples of this earth. It was our fostering of a common fellowship that gave vitality to the good neighbor policy in the Americas. It was a common fellowship which made the act of Chapultepec possible. So, we are eager to proceed with the negotiation of a mutual assistance treaty in accordance with the act of Chapultepec at the projected Rio conference. But we do not wish to proceed without Argentina. And neither our ambassador nor any official of the State Department is of the opinion that Argentina has yet complied with the commitments which she, as well as the other American republics at Chapultepec, agreed to carry out. In fact, it is our earnest hope that before long there will be such reasonable and substantial compliance by Argentina with its obligations that the American republics, after consultation, will convene the Rio conference. Now, a common fellowship does not mean that nations must, in all respects, think alike or live alike. Inevitably, we will differ. But nations like individuals must respect and tolerate one another's differences. Peace in this interdependent world must be something more than a truth between nations. To have peace, nations must learn to live and work together for their common good. We live in one world. The health of the body politic, like the health of the human body, depends upon the health of all its members. We cannot wholeheartedly abandon the policy of political isolation unless we abandon the policy of economic isolation. We are not likely to be successful in our efforts to cooperate to prevent war unless we are willing to cooperate to maintain freedom and well-being in a world at peace. We must learn to cooperate so that the people of each country may exchange the products of their country easily and fairly with the people of other countries. Although our general long-run purpose is to help raise the living standard, the immediate problem during the last two years, in some areas, has been to maintain life itself. Economic distress, starvation, and disease breed political unrest, tyranny, and aggression. And if we are sincere in our efforts to maintain peace, we must do our part to assist in the elimination of conditions which breed aggression and breed war. If we want people to value freedom and respect law, we must at least give them a fair chance to feed, clothe, and shelter themselves and their children. The war has devastated many countries and has disrupted their economies. UNRWA has helped these countries through their most critical period. Its authority is now terminated. But some countries, through no fault of their own, will require further relief to get upon their feet. And this we cannot deny there. Outright relief by us is necessary in some countries. But the countries in need and the extent of the need can be determined by the United States just as well as it could be determined by a committee composed of representatives of other governments. A permanent place on the relief rolls is not the desire of those self-respecting nations which have fought for their freedom. But much of their productive capacity has been destroyed. They have no working capital in the form of foreign exchange to stock the flow of needed raw materials. They need loans to secure raw materials, capital equipment, and the tools necessary to rebuild and resume their ability to produce. The work of the international bank, the monetary fund, and the export and import bank must continue to have our wholehearted support. Despite the ravages and destruction of the war, the advances of science make it possible for us and other nations to preserve and increase our living standards if we work together with other nations to produce what we and other nations want and need. We must learn that prosperity-like freedom must be shared, not on the basis of handouts, but on the basis of fair and honest exchange of the products of the labor of free men and free women. We believe there should be no unnecessary barriers to the free exchange of ideas and of information among nations. But it is unrealistic to expect to have trade in ideas if we are unwilling to have trade in goods. We must break down the artificial barriers to trade and commerce among nations. We must pursue our reciprocal trade policies, which are designed to expand American trade and world trade, because the world cannot buy from us if we are not willing to buy from the world. We must pursue vigorously the charter for the establishment of an international trade organization. Thank you.
