Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Queen's College Forum with another discussion on a topic of interest to all of us. Tonight the topic will be American Literature Abroad. Around the table with us are three members of the Queen's College faculty, Professor George B. Parks, Chairman of the Department of English, and Professor Paolo Milano and Professor Jacques Leclerc of the Department of Romance Languages. Professor Parks, will you begin the discussion? Thank you, Dr. Shuler. Our question began more than a hundred years ago with the Englishman Sidney Smith, who wrote the famous article containing the words, Who reads an American book? Who looks at American picture or sculpture and so on? It continued with our good friend, our good French friend, Tocqueville, who wrote in 1840, Properly speaking, there is no American literature. These Europeans were answered very soon by Emerson's American Scholar in 1837, by Whitman's Leaves of Grass in 1855, and so forth. But except for a few eccentrics, the writers of American literature were not known abroad for a long, long time. I wonder if Henry James' ideas of the relation between American and European literature wouldn't have a bearing on this question at this particular point. I think so, Milano. Would you go on? As you well remember, at the beginning of his career, Henry James, if I'm not mistaken, in the 1870s, said that he envied the European writers because the European writer was not obliged to take into account American culture, whereas an American writer had to. How about Mrs. Wharton, Edith Wharton, Milano? Oh, of course. She was very much concerned with European literature herself, as was Henry James. But the point I wanted to make is that Henry James at that time foresaw another age, as he said, in 50 years or so, when European writer would find imperative to get acquainted with American culture. I wonder, Parks, if you don't think that the age Henry James prophesies isn't our age. That would be a point for us to decide now, I think. Are we now in the period when American literature really does influence European? Leclerc, you're an American with a completely French name. You've lived a long time in France. How much, by the way? Well, as a matter of fact, if you want to know, it's roughly, I computed it, because I knew you would give me that question. 9,000 days, 300 months, 25 years period, paragraph. And during that time, when you were a student and a later sojourner in France, did you ever notice any French interest in American writing? Well, yes. When we had the baccalaureate pre-1914, on the program was Washington Irving's sketchbook. Of all things. And so all the young boys of 16, 17, 17, 18, read The Headless Horseman, I think it's called, isn't it? Oh, Irving. Again. Yes. Well, that was some beginning, insofar as American literature is concerned. Poe, of course, was read. He'd been translated by Mallarmé and by Baudelaire. And that's just about all there was prior to 1914. And not Whitman? Well, yes, Whitman, of course, but Whitman only among specialists and among literateurs and among graduate students and among people who are on the higher level. Also, of course, in 1912, Margaret Mayo's Baby Mine was put on with a terrific success at the Gymnase Theatre, and I saw it myself in 19... 1912, I think. And that was literature, too. Well, that's your... You can make of it what you like. If it's... Is it sketchbook or is it Margaret Mayo? Well, from Irving to Margaret Mayo is not a very long range. I thought, of course, that Whitman was the great American representative in Europe. Not among the young ones. And he wasn't known? No. Except, as you say, among scholars and persons whose business it was to understand American literature. Right. Whitman was translated, was he not, by... Oh, yes, certainly. Baselgette. By Baselgette, one of the great French scholars of the last generation. Indeed, yes. I should say that Whitman was certainly the most popular great American writer in Italy. Via France, I dare say. I don't think so. I don't think so. The first translation by a certain Gambarale, a very bad translation, was tremendously successful, and my impression is that he was not a re-translator. It's very easy to check on that, you know. The gallicism in Italian are easy to detect. And the other two writers who were also popular were Poe, of course, via France and Baudelaire, and Mark Twain, who's Tom Sawyer, competed almost with Pinocchio in popularity with children and adults. What about Cooper? I don't think Cooper was translated much, but he's being translated recently again, and I wonder why. I don't think I could... We all wonder why. Yes, I don't think I could re-read The Last of the Mohicans, could you, Paul? With great difficulty, I think, and only because it's part of my business. I've never read it. But... Pre-1914, he was read by adults and kids in France, in very much the same way as Karl May, who was read in Germany. He was Hitler's favourite author. He wrote Indian stories, American Indian stories? Yes, sir. And Hitler loved those. Oh, of course. And Mussolini, I suppose, loved them, too. No, Mussolini doesn't seem to have been an adventurous reader. Was he a reader of any kind? Oh, he was. He affected, of course. He would have Plato on his desk to show off as visitors, occasional visitors. Did he read Dante? He couldn't have read your portable, of course. Did he read Dante? No, certainly not. He has been in his grave, dishonored grave, for a long time. Well, I should have thought that Leclerc, that Mark Twain would have been read in France, if only as an eccentric American. But I suppose he's too eccentric to be understood, or would he be? I think not. I think for some unexplainable reason he was neglected. I can't quite explain that to you, frankly. Well, I suppose there's something curious about Mark Twain, which would sometimes find him enjoyed by, as I suppose he is in England, as a typically American, you know. And perhaps not in France, but again, Italy. It skips over so that you can never tell about these things. I take it, I remember that in France, before the last, or about the time of the last war, there was a lecture in Paris, in one of the institutes, on American literature. Sure. And now, I think there is a chair at the Sorbonne. Yes, sir. And more than that, elsewhere and other places? Yes, there are increasing interests in American literature, and most of the people who teach English also teach American. But without any special... Endowment. Endowment, or special acquaintance with a subject, or something. This is true. Oh, I think that's a little hard, after all. Some acquaintance. Yes, you mentioned the chair in Paris, after all, the man that held the chair, reviewed in the same page the works of Edith Wharton and Eleanor Glynn, and gave them the same merit. Well, he should know, I suppose, from that distance. That was Professor Sass, do I take it? I would not mention names, Professor Parks. Has he ever been in America? Yes. How the professors of American literature in France have been in America? Yes. Well, it matters. Yes, sir. Many of them, practically all of them. Most of them came over, those who hold chairs, came over in War I, and they came over in military capacity, not educational. And therefore, they learned their America the hard way. Well, yes. In Italy, is there a chair of American literature, I suppose? No, no, there isn't a chair. Generally, the professor of English literature teaches American literature, too. But one chair is in the making, as far as I know, at the University of Rome. And I may give you a piece of evidence of what the situation of Italian libraries is by saying that a friend of mine, a young professor of American literature, is lecturing at this particular moment on the work of Herman Melville, and he doesn't own half of the works of the author. He's an excellent expert of. Where is this, Milano? In Rome, in Rome. That means that the university would have no copies of Melville either? Yes. I mean, not of all of his works. What about the OWI and the State Department? Haven't they made it their business to give the Italians who were interested in Melville at least a complete set of the published works of Melville? No. I think that what happened is this. They very intelligently gave priority to works of scientific interest. As you know, there is a tremendous hunger for up-to-date information in such fields as medicine, agriculture, mechanics, and so on. And they did this job first, and the humanities were somehow neglected. Well, I can quite understand that. I suppose, however, now we shan't ever catch up with, say, Melville. We'll perhaps never find it as well. When I last was in Italy in the summer, I was told that the funds are still scant, and they can't do very much about it. But I suppose the situation would improve very rapidly. Milano, what is there in the Italian imagination that would make them interested in Melville? Oh, what is in the French imagination that would make them interested in Melville? That's not fair. I'm asking you. Oh, I'm asking you. I think that one of the best essays on Melville is the Jean Giorno essay. Wouldn't you agree with me? Well, no, not quite. I know that Melville enjoyed a certain vogue in the 20s in France, but I do not think that Jean Giorno's is the best commentary upon him. No, I don't think it's a scholarly commentary, it's an imaginative commentary, but I think it's interesting to see what stimuli. I was asking you a question, not you me. Well, I suppose I might say there is this transcendental quality in Melville. Is not congenial to the Italian literary temperament, or is it? Oh, I think that what they find in Melville is a kind of universal imagination, a fantasy, of transcendental quality. The first important translation of Moby Dick was made in the 1930s. Is it so? Yes, 1930s, by a young man who was jobless because he was not exactly in agreement with the fascist regime, and spent three years of his life, although it was not particularly well to do, in translating wonderfully Melville. And then, via France again, the fame of Melville increased practically every year. We have a wonderful translation, really a classic translation, of Billy Budd, the Fortopman, by the outstanding, probably the best contemporary Italian poet, Mr. Eugenio Montale. Has Dreiser been translated in Italian? Yes, widely. Not too well, but I don't think... It doesn't matter, does it? It doesn't. This brings us back to our topic, I think, as I see our story. Before the last war, the interest in both France and America, both France and Italy, in American literature was rather incidental. And the American writers, with the possible exception of Poe, and the possible exception, I would still maintain a Whitman, since there were imitations of Whitman in France. With those possible exceptions, American literature did not count. So that, Henry James's remark, that someday American literature would have a preponderate influence in Europe, wouldn't yet apply. Now we're learning, Mr. Milano, you just told us, that since the last war, people like Melville have been translated into Italian. And I wonder what else you would say about other American writers as a result of the between wars interest in Italy and in American writers. I would say that the novelty I found when I went back to Italy last summer was that not only the interest in American literature had tremendously increased, but the influence of American writers, not only of such writers as Hemingway, for instance, but even writers like William Faulkner, Dospassus, and so on. I think that the problem applies particularly to Italy, because what Italian contemporary writers find in American fiction is a model of a colloquial language. And this is their particular problem in Italian. As you know, Italian dialects are generally spoken by the majority of the population, so that writers, great and small, have always the problem of creating language colloquial but not dialectal. They look up to such American contemporary writers as Hemingway and Steinbeck and Dospassus to borrow from them a colloquial style. Does it carry over in Italian? Oh, it does to a certain extent. It is certainly a stimulus. For the writer insofar as the language is concerned or for the reader insofar as plot and interest is concerned? For both, I think. The reader finds a certain relief from the lofty quality of Italian literature into a fiction that it is certainly not of the same quality. And they like also the dynamic, the violent quality of such writers as Faulkner and Steinbeck. And that would appeal to the Italian imagination too, along with the transcendental. Well, they're all violent except our friend Milano, who is one of the most kindly people I've ever seen, as I look across the microphone at him. I've known a few gentle Italians in my time, who are not necessarily violent, even according to American standards. Well, do I understand that this is a phenomenon, this American influence on Italian writers, noted by the literary critics alone, or have the universities and scholars taken cognizance and the other ones that have changed? I don't know if I've mentioned the lecture by Professor Prats. Did I mention that? No. This would be... I was under the impression I had hinted at it. Last summer, as you know, at Salzburg, Austria, a seminar was held for European students of American literature or culture. It was held under the auspices of Harvard University. Why was it in Salzburg, Milan? Oh, I imagine that Austria was the perfect location for that. It seems rather roundabout, doesn't it, for lectures about American authors, for Italian... No, for European students. I mean, they had students from all over Europe, but chiefly Western Europe, of course. Yes. And lecturers were mostly American professors, with a few exceptions. One of them was Professor Mario Prats of the University of Rome, a professor of English literature. He lectured on Hemingway's influence on contemporary American literature. That's right. I say that's a waste of time. No, but if the influence is there, we don't care whether Hemingway is good or the Italian literature is good. Yes, but the influence has been proved by our friend Milan, who was simply by the fact that a university professor lectures about him, not on the influence of the writers. When a professor finds it out, then perhaps it's on the way to himself. Very good, Parks. Now, what about France and the same connection? You'll hear that Hemingway and those Passos and so on have revolutionized French fiction. They certainly haven't. And whoever told you that, and whoever... Sartre himself said so. Well, Sartre, that's Sartre. That's his opinion. I have mine. In the 20s, of course, with all the expatriates who were living in Paris, there was a great interest in American literature. It translated itself into the influence, not influence so much as the translation into French of authors like Hemingway and Dreiser. When Dreiser's American Tragedy became a bestseller, the American Tragedy was translated in French and became a bestseller. Then, a little later, in the early 30s, Faulkner and Caldwell and that sort of thing. And Steinbeck? And Steinbeck, of course. Now, of course, what the French had not realized is that in the 20s, they had their own authors who did exactly the same thing. I don't mean that Hemingway or Steinbeck or Caldwell had learned anything from these French writers, but there were those French writers who already were doing the same thing in French. People like Macaulain, Paul Morin in a certain way, and certainly Carcot. Now, I think that influence has subsided and the present generation of French writers are following Camus along their own French patterns so that at this moment in France, the American fictional influence is not of any importance. So that a mere matter of French politeness, when they say we, of course, estimate and follow your American writers, doesn't really mean very much. It's just politeness. They really are following their own tradition. No, it meant a good deal to them. And it had the value of being exotic at a time between the late 20s and the late 30s, which was a troublous time. And it did have an influence. But I do think we in America are apt to exaggerate what we can bring in fiction to a French writer. And the same thing, I suppose, applies to poetry, too. So now, T.S. Eliot, Mr. Eliot, to have an influence in France, that would be new, so I take it. Especially to you, Leclerc. I believe he has no influence in French poetry whatsoever. He got all he ever wrote in his earlier period from French literature. From particularly La Fogue, Rimbaud, Berlin. Sorry? I don't think he owes something to Valéry, too, and to St. John's Purse, the French poet. I'm afraid so. I'm afraid so, and I do not approve. If I may go back to what you said, or denied, about American influence on French contemporary literature, is it true, or is it not, that there are French writers who have recently written novels with an American background, and they are people who never put their foot? On American soil. I would prefer that to some of those who have put their foot on American soil, and put their foot on American soil for a very short time, like Mr. Sark. But he hasn't yet written an awful lot about it. Well, he's written a play about it, hasn't he? He's taken upon himself to write a Negro play, which is a great success. Apparently it's very good. I should like to see it. I shall soon. Well, apparently it's the primitive in American that fascinates them. I think so, yes. The primitive and the simple. An American tries to be sophisticated like Mr. Eliot. He just borrows from the French. Oh, that's exactly my formula. The parts of the American voice. Everything I say, the unfamiliar, is always beautiful, remote, mysterious, and challenging. May I say that when I try to help my Italian friends to understand American culture, if I was ever able to do so... I'm sure you were brilliant. Well, we're very pulling my leg. We assume it. We assume it. Continue. Continue. Continue. Now, I found that the problem was to show to them what was the connection between the foundation of American culture in the 19th century and contemporary writers, to show them that there was some kind of connection, there was some kind of continuity. After all, there is such a thing as a tradition in American literature. So that some kind of review of their ideas on 19th century American literature and of their ideas on the primitivism of contemporary American fiction seem to be in order. Well, I feel, I mean, I know that what the Europeans in the 20th century like about American 20th century literature is exactly that break with 19th century American literature traditions. But they were making the same break themselves independently, is your point, I take it. There's one interesting sidelight here that I find almost pathetic. We are much aware of people like Longfellow and Lowell who interpreted Italian literature to us in the 19th century. And, of course, Henry James and Edith Wharton were friends of France. Do Italy and France ever know about Longfellow or Lowell or Wharton or James? Wharton, yes. James, no. Mrs. Wharton, only because she lived in France, I suppose, and did war work for France during the last war. It's not on that basis. Six or seven of her novels have been translated. They found in her kindred spirit, and they liked it. Well, I'm glad to hear that. But I suppose that many of these interpreters are really not known in the countries which they interpreted. Now, one often wonders even if the Brownings are known today in Florence, which they did so much to make known to English speakers. Yes, I think they are. They probably figure in Baedicombe, your head. Yes, yes. The stars after they are in Cazagüdi. I would like to ask a question, our friendly clear. Do you think Proust owes anything to Henry James as far as style is concerned? Yes, he does. And Henry James's little feeble vogue in the 20s is due entirely to the fact that everybody was interested in Puss. And what about his own, his present fame? Who, James now in France? James is now, no, no, I mean now in this country. Oh, well, I think things go in cycles, and occasionally you get interested in... I'm awfully sorry that that vogue which is given to James today in this country doesn't go to people like Howells and to Edith Wharton. Well, it may. They may come in on the same time. But you didn't understand... I'm sorry, you didn't answer my question. Do you think that Proust's style has something of James? Yes, they're both completely indirect. They're both like kittens playing with a ball of wool. Involuted, I believe. That's right. Thank you, Pops. That's the word. Well, I'm not sure that we're getting anywhere except to suggest there's a good deal more complexity in these relationships than any ordinary person, especially any journalist, ever discovers. And I think, obviously, the cultivation of these relations is a special duty of scholars. Leclerc, I know that you've been more interested in translating French works into English for American readers than vice versa. But do you see any desirable work to be done now? Yes. Interpreting American literature in France? I do indeed. I think not only in France in French, but in the Provençal and Occitan tongue. After all, in the south of France, there are a great many people who speak another tongue. They don't have many readers as they write that tongue. But there are poets in that region who closely parallel American poets of the same sort. In other words, you will find in a place like Toulouse a French Carl Sandberg. You might find in the neighborhood of Marseille a French Robert Frost. You might find in Bordeaux a French Edwin Arlington Robinson. And we ought to know about them in this country. They ought to know about them in France, and they don't. Oh. So what I'm trying to do is just to collect a lot of friends who have decided they will help me in this thing, and to translate American poetry into that language, each American poet being paralleled by his Occitan mate, if I may say so, and to be published in France, and I expect to have that done in a year. I say, well, that means perhaps the first translation of any American literature under Provençal. Is that right? I believe so. Probably. Who are some of the Americans who would go into this translation? You mentioned Sandberg. Well, practically everybody since 1914. Everybody indeed. Well, I mean a hundred poets. A hundred poets? Yes. Into, by the French, by the Provençal. Done by a hundred colleagues of mine, and I may catch you in among that hundred. Very good. Very good idea. Yeah. That certainly is an enterprise that deserves all our support. On the Italian side, Milano, you yourself are a sort of cultural emissary of the United States of Italy. I think I can say here, without sparing your blushes, that your history of American literature for Italian readers is probably a very important work. And is it published yet? Oh, it isn't exactly what you suggested. Well, what? It's something infinitely more modest. What I try to do is to write a certain series of essays, of book-length essays, on the great figures of American literature in the 19th century. And I started from the end. I wrote a volume on the work of Henry James. You sound like Henry James. Do I? Start from the end and then get to the beginning. In pollution. Yes. But I consider myself as Walt Whitman, too. And I'm surely clear you will like the subtitle of my Walt Whitman essay, which is Eris and Demas. Very nice. Oh, good. Walt Whitman. Yes. And my Henry James book has a subtitle, The Voluntary Exile. Voluntary, yes. The Voluntary Exile. Exile. And this particular book has just come out, or is about to come out. I think it has. In Italy. Although I haven't, yes, in Italy. And it's intended for it. Would you send me a copy? I might. Inscribed? Inscribed, yes. To the Occitan Leclerc. Or Leclerc, the Occitan. I hope... So, Provencal, Occitan seems like a very good word. Well, because Occitan takes in the four or five languages. We know Provencal, and Occitan sounds like something out of the Orient, which may well be. I hope, Milano, in the Whitman, you will have remembered Whitman's admonishment. Do I contradict myself? Very well. I contradict myself. I contain... What do you contain? I contain multitudes. Eros and Deimos, love and the people, I take it as that. Yes, but Max Beerbohm parodied that, and in his parody he said, I contain lice. I don't think that's funny. No, I don't think so. You don't think so? No, I don't. Incomparable Max. Yes. Well, I take it then, there is activity, there is life, and as long as there are professors in this country who can interpret one country to another. They're waning. There will be. They're waning, but they're also waxing, and I hope that is the lesson of our little talk this evening, after which we now say to our readers that we hope that American literature and its foreign versions will not be strange to them, will be a subject, in fact, for further study by further scholars in the future. Thank you, gentlemen, for a stimulating discussion. You have been listening to a discussion of the Queens College Forum on the topic American Literature Abroad. You heard Professor George B. Parks, Professor Paolo Milano, and Professor Jacques Leclerc of Queens College. A stenographic transcript of this program is available to our listeners free of charge. Write to Queens College, Flushing, New York, or to this station for your free copy. The Queens College Forum is a regular feature of your municipal broadcasting system, usually on Thursday evenings at nine. The next forum will be presented Thursday evening, March 18th, at nine o'clock, with a discussion on the topic Saving Lives Through Atomic Research. Until then, this is Herbert Shuler of Queens College bidding you good evening. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
