Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable discusses what does an American think about his fellow men. Taking part in today's program are Malcolm Sharp and William R. Ming, Jr., both of the law school, and Louis Wirth, sociologist, all of the University of Chicago. And now to open today's Roundtable, we present Mr. Wirth. Warlike and peace-loving, free men and slaves, these are the words that are used to divide the peoples of the world. We Americans and our friends, of course, are good. Our enemies are evil. Yes, Wirth, we're all very much alike. The Russians think we are the villains, and they are the heroes. Ming? In his statement Friday, Mr. Stalin attempted to distinguish the American leaders from the American people, and the State Department, in its reply yesterday, separates the Russian people from their rulers. Is there any validity in that, words? But Ming, this is inconsistent with the notion of national character, that people somehow or other are fundamentally different from one another. Maybe this means Mr. Stalin will join us in celebrating Brotherhood Week this week. I doubt it, but do you think there's any possibility? Followers are like followers, and leaders are like leaders. Maybe he'll join our leaders. Now that we are celebrating Brotherhood Week, I think it is appropriate for us to realize, to what extent our own problems here at home are very much alike to the problems that we face in the world, because we assume people to be different, and we assume that perhaps they cannot get along with one another. We have groupings here that act a little like nations. Labor and capital, so-called racial groups, regional groups. Ming? The North and the South, the Middle West and the Far West, the Far West and some of its people in the Far West, like the Orientals. But we do get along, we do share common institutions, and we do have peace and harmony to a considerable extent. Isn't that right, Worth? Yes, I think America is the great proving ground of the idea that people of different races and origins and cultures and occupations and ways of life can live together in the same limited world in considerable peace and with considerable mutual profit to one another. Doesn't mean, Worth, that we have no differences. North is still somewhat different from the South, in important respects. California is different from Florida. Florida is different from New York. New York is different from Wisconsin. Quite so, and that of course means to me that people don't have necessarily to be alike in order to get along one another. In fact, if we were alike, it would be a very dull and uninteresting world. The differences, there are similarities. Well now, what do we Americans think are our similarities and our differences, despite which and because of which we're able to get along? Well, as you know, Ming, every people ascribe certain characteristics to itself and certain other characteristics to strangers on the outside. For instance, we Americans think that we cherish the idea of equality and that one man is as good as the next fellow. But we have racial and religious discrimination and segregation nonetheless. Most important form of equality, Ming, is the equal chance to get ahead of each other, isn't it? Isn't that the kind of equality that we always go back? Yes, keeping up with the Joneses and outdoing the other fellow. That's what we call liberty. In fact, one of our basic beliefs is in competition, isn't it? Yes, and at the same time, we have monopoly. We are supposed to be very kindly people, but at other times, we are very belligerent and carry a chip on our shoulder. We contrasted ourselves with other people. We bring out sharply the characteristics we're supposed to be. Believers in equality, and Britain was the snob. He was the aristocrat. We believe in liberty, but certainly not in equality, as we did. But that won't square with the Labour government in Britain these days, will it, sure? Now they've gone in for equality, perhaps at the expense of liberty. Well, perhaps the British at the present moment emphasize personal liberty, freedom of speech, and expression a little more than we do, because we're a little more scared about what's happening in the world than they are. The Russian myths, on the other hand, emphasize equality, the expense of liberty, much more than our myths do. We try to keep a balance between these apparently inconsistent folk virtues. We're supposed to be very good sports, and we don't hit anybody when he is down. We are believers in fair play. But is that always a universal fact among Americans, me? Well, I would doubt it very much. I think that certainly though we claim to make a virtue of being good losers, we put a tremendous premium on success. In fact, it's been said that we probably worship it to a considerable degree. Comes out in connection with competition. Competition has costs. Some people are beaten in the game. And yet now we're trying to protect everybody against all the changes the competitive forces produce. We have this notion of protected security running all through the European culture. One of the characteristics that Europeans pick out among us, allegedly, is that we are materialistic, that we have no appreciation of the higher values of life. We think just the opposite. Fortune this month has a very telling set of pictures of our people going to art galleries, going to music. We have accumulated the art of the world and have made great sacrifices to do it, have we not? And we put a great deal of emphasis upon education and learning. More people going to college and schools of higher learning in this country per capita than anybody else. And we certainly pride ourselves on being a Christian and religious people. That's certainly not consistent with just crass materialism. That certainly suggests that we at least believe that the values of spiritualism are of considerable importance. Private philanthropy is more highly developed in the United States than anywhere else in the world. And observer after observer from abroad has recognized that. And we are pouring out our treasure to help anybody in the world who is in trouble unless of course we have a serious quarrel with it. Contrary to Stalin we think we are the great peace-loving nation in the world. So we did take the continent from the Indians to California from the Mexicans later and have joined wars with considerable alacrity in our own generation. But we really do love peace don't we Sharp? So much so that we say again and again we'll fight to keep it. just like other European peoples. Our themes after all are like the European themes we play special variations on them but this is all a part of European culture going back to the Greeks and the Christian teaching. We've got our ideas and our ideals from pretty much the same source. But doesn't this suggest Sharp that in our people as in every people perhaps you find a variety of traits a lot of internal contradictions and that it is very difficult to characterize any people as being just one thing or another and as all of them within the group being alike and strikingly different from the outside. It also suggests doesn't it work that you have to distinguish between what we Americans believe and what we Americans do. Yes, we demonstrate what we are to the rest of the world more by what we do than by what we say. There's one contrast that we ought not to neglect. We are in many ways like the Europeans in the culture we have. A great contrast in the world I suppose today is between us and the non-European people from the Stone Age primitive groups in Australia to the Far East to India to the Islamic country. What's the contrast there? Well, the contrast I think is essentially one of living in a different set of institutions under a different set of conditions. We have stereotypes about these people and they have stereotypes about us. Why does we mean that we carry around pictures in our minds of what people are like, what their characteristics are, what we may expect of them, how they are likely to act in given situations. What makes them angry and what they will do when they get angry. What pleases them and how they will respond to kindness and generosity. And these stereotypes are fixed opinions. They are hard to change. And even facts do not make a serious impression on them. We tend to divide the world into heroes and villains, whether or not it is justified. Where do we get these ideas from, these stereotypes that you're talking about? Well, in part, mean, every people is more or less isolated. It sees those things around it better than it sees the things that are far away from it. And we have grown up only in our own institutions and can hardly have an appreciation of others. And as a famous American student of society put it, William Graham Sumner, we are all suffering from what he calls ethnocentrism. That is the disposition to think of ourselves as the center of everything and to judge everything in the light of our own virtues and to ascribe all of the vices to others. We look at ourselves. We look inside ourselves and try to figure out what we're like. We attribute some of our qualities to our neighbors, some other qualities to people who are distant and we don't like. By and large, we attribute the qualities we don't like, some of them that we can hardly bear to think of. Distant. In short, we take the superiority of our own way of life for granted, as does every other people. And as a great American philosopher, William James, once put it, we develop a certain blindness to the virtues and qualities and experiences of other people. which makes it difficult for us to understand them and even more difficult to communicate them. But that's a dangerous business, isn't it? If when you count noses, as you must nowadays, I think, you discover that we people who share Western European cultures and notions are really in a minority in the world. There are a great many more people in the world who don't share these cultural heritages than there are who do share them. Isn't that right, Worth? It certainly is right and it's one of the great problems of our time, that two-thirds of the people belong to the so-called backward peoples. They belong to the colored races and they have a different conception of what we are like from the conception that we have ourselves. They think of us as rich and as mechanically highly advanced and as being great producers, but they don't necessarily have much respect for any of our other virtues. On the other hand, our worst difficulties are not now with the Eastern peoples, I suppose, although they're pretty serious. The center of our difficulty is supposed to be with the Russians and here there's this thing at work that Freud pointed out that is so dangerous. We get some private life to attribute to people all kinds of vices, vices which may be peculiar to us also. The race has fought for centuries and yet every people has thought to be other people with warming. But there is a race on in the world, sharp, as you well know, between us and the Russians for the alliance and the leadership of these peoples to lead them out of their state of backwardness. And the Russians are telling them we're colonial and imperial exploiters. We're trying to persuade them that we're their friends and that we're willing to share our advantages with them. And we certainly ought to be telling them if we're not, though I think we are, that the program of Russian imperialism, no matter how it's masked, whether behind Marxism and equality or whatever, is essentially an imperialistic program of domination and control. But of course, drawing those differences and making those arguments doesn't really help us along very much because it's just more of the charging the other fellow with the same vices that he charges us with. Isn't that right? Precisely. It is not only charging the other person with the same vices that he charges us with, but as a result, all of the name-calling is really self-defeating. We've got off onto the differences now. We've been preoccupied with the differences. But it seems to me, worth, you're a psychologist and sociologist, and correct me if I'm wrong, it seems to me there's a immense amount of similarities between people all over the world. All the impulses connected with nutrition and sex, for example, and we're very curious. We have all the impulses connected with this curious brain, which even extinguishes us from the other animals. Yes, it certainly is true, Sharp, that we all belong to the same human race. And by virtue of that fact, we have certain physiological and perhaps even psychological traits in common. But it seems to me, for example, that we're perhaps the scrappiest of all the species. We have to go down to the ants to get organized warfare. We're much more scrappy than most of our cousins, the monkeys and the apes. Baboons, perhaps equally scrappy, but hardly any other one of our close relatives is. Well, these qualities that you ascribe to human beings, for every one of them that you mention on one side, I can mention one on the other side. Surely they're capable of romantic love and affection, day-to-day affection in the family. But if we look at the human race as a whole, we can say that always and everywhere, men seek honor and dread ridicule. They defer to public opinion, even the dictators must. They cherish their goods and their children, and they admire courage and generosity and success. This is what makes us believe that there is a universal human nature which is basic to all men, and that we must distinguish between that basic human nature and the particular conventions and institutions and values that a given society develops in the course of its history. But you're not saying, are you worth, that human beings all over the world under the same stimuli and at the same time will act the same way, aren't you? No, because the same thing isn't the same stimulus to them. If you get one kind of habit, then obviously you are inhibited thereby to respond to another habit. For instance, we all know that a Chinese child brought up in an American family will learn to speak our language, English, without an accent. and an English child brought up in a Chinese family will learn Chinese without an accent. But that doesn't mean that we can easily, after once having acquired our language, adapt ourselves to another language. And the same thing is true with institutions. Doesn't mean there's no difference between Chinese and English. We run away with the similarities any more than with the difference. Well then, in order to find out, the answer to my question is to what a given group of people will do in a given situation under given circumstances, you'd say that we have to look at their institutions and their history, wouldn't you? Yes, and the situation in which they find themselves, the kind of country they live in, the kind of resources that it has. And we start out with somehow or other characterizing people as having certain qualities, as we did a while ago when we talked about the Americans. Let me just give you a catalog of what has been thought by Americans about other countries. A study showed, for instance, that the Germans were regarded, this was before the war, as scientifically minded, industrious, and stolid. The Italians as artistic, impulsive, and passionate. The Negroes as superstitious and lazy. The Irish as pugnacious and quick-tempered and witty. The English as sportsmanlike, intelligent, and conventional. The Jews as shrewd and mercenary and industrious. The Americans as industrious, intelligent, and materialistic. The Japanese, intelligent, industrious, and progressive. And the Turks as cruel and religious and treacherous. These ideas, you might as well change around from one people to another. They apply to some people in every group, but they don't apply to any people exclusively. these are cultural qualities, cultural variations on the basic themes of human nature. Same thing is true of our history if you look at it. After all, Jefferson and Adams, Andrew Jackson, Wilson, Roosevelt, introduced ideas, stand for ideas, stand for changes in our ways of doing things, which have had a great influence on our lives. Yes, but these institutions, Sharpe, grew in a way, not only out of a heritage that was brought over from Europe, but they grew out of an American situation. The open frontier, for instance, that you could get free land. That was a great incentive to rising out of your original position to a higher position. Well, the Indians had the open frontier too, didn't they, Worth? They didn't rise very high. That's what they did. They had no alternative ideas to challenge them. until the white man came. Well, you had great Indian cultures after all. Mayan culture, the calendar, the invention of rubber, use of rubber. And we have some of our basic cultural items like corn and tobacco and potatoes from them. And certainly it can't be said that they didn't have a culture which was adapted to their circumstances of life. But certainly something happened when we framed our Constitution, when we had universal manhood suffrage, which came later, the emancipation, we developed the terrific forces of competition that were at work after the Civil War and opening up the continent. Our current concern for free speech, peculiar to us. It's not only our heritage, our history, and our institutions, it's also the values and the norms that we have. For instance, I'm sure you would emphasize the fact that law makes a certain difference, as does religion and moral standards. All of these things show people what is expected of them and the manner in which they're expected to act. But everybody has law and religion, at least all the societies that I know anything about have both legal institutions and religious institutions. So that we come back again to the similarity of the human beings, don't we? Yes, and also the differences of what they emphasize in their laws. The French Revolution emphasized liberty, equality, and fraternity. Another revolution might emphasize perhaps security. Our religion, the Sermon on the Mount, emphasizes altruism, giving to him that asks. Our economic system emphasizes aggressiveness, getting ahead, competition, doing well. Well, it not simply indicates that there is always a circular reaction between people and institutions. Our human nature is expressed in institutions, and our institutions in turn shape our character as a people, our habits and our sentiments, what we believe to be good and bad and worthwhile and shameful. Well then, are you saying really that the character of our institutions really would express national character? As well as basic human character. Well, whatever there may be to national character is certainly channelized into and molded by our institutions. and that includes the way in which we indoctrinate people through our schools, what we preach to them in our sermons, what we tell them in our laws, what models we hold up for them to emulate in success and achievement. They must be kind and tough, they must be followers and leaders, they must get ahead, they must be generous. All these contradictory tendencies appear in most cultures, don't they, well? Precisely. and of course we can get a better knowledge of what other people are like by sharing their literature and their art. Through that, we can see the life that other peoples lead and try to sympathize with it and judge ourselves in the light of what we see. And of course, that works both ways, doesn't it? Other people ought to do the same thing so far as we're concerned. And we ought to stimulate them to do it and encourage them to do it, shouldn't we? That's right, and that means that we ought not, first of all, to build up any iron curtains of any kind. And it also means we ought not to start with the initial idea that they aren't capable of achieving what we have achieved. There's one interesting recent reference to our peculiar character, Fortune Magazine, said that we were peculiar and that we had a permanent revolution. That's the characteristic of American life, that we are always in revolution. What do you think of that, man? Well, certainly we are, but that's simply saying that we're a group who, being faced with new problems on almost a daily basis, are prepared to try to adjust our institutions and our ideas to deal with the new problems that confront us. But I don't think that really distinguishes us from any other group in the world. They, too, are obliged to do the same thing. Yes, Ming, I would agree with that, but there is another side to that picture. Every society, like our own, for instance, picks out certain values which it emphasizes. And it gets leaders that tend to emphasize these ideas. For instance, if we had not, in our early history, emphasized the idea of individual liberty as we had, we probably wouldn't be talking as much about it as we are today and trying to elaborate it into specific rights and opportunities for the individual. And it makes some difference how you respond to change. If we are to have 20 years of militarist preparation ahead, militarism or near-militarism, we are going to have to work hard to preserve some of our traditions, aren't we? What can happen to us as things change here? Is there any limit to what can happen to our way of doing things? I think almost anything, Sharp, that it can happen elsewhere can happen here, in the sense that if the crises become severe enough and the conditions become appropriate, we may do what other peoples do. Of course, in part, that depends upon the strength of our traditions, doesn't it, Worth? If our tradition of individual liberty and equality, of which all of us are so proud, and justifiably so, is as strong among us as it should, the protection of those traditions is a very great one indeed. Is it not, Sharp? One of our great traditions, it seems to me, also is one that we've neglected a little, our tradition of humor, not taking ourselves too seriously, not being too logical. One of the great difficulties with the European peoples lately seems to me to have been they've been too logical. For instance, we say, what is the constitution between friends? We are not just entirely rational, we also have some decent respect for the needs and opinions of other people. But at the same time, we boast about the fact that our doctrine of constitutionalism protects us from excesses by the government or by whoever may be in control of the government at any particular time. Such as is embodied in the slogan that we believe in a government of law as over against a government of men? Is that what you mean? Well, that's part of it. That's part of the tradition and part of the institution. But your statements a little while ago about leadership and their contributions to our institutions brings us back to the suggestion of the State Department, Mr. Stalin, with respect to the differences between the leaders and the people. Is there any validity in that notion that the leaders make the people make the institutions? Greatly exaggerated. We all get the kind of leaders we deserve, both in this country and Russia you can't rule by force indefinitely. Yes, you can't rule by force indefinitely, Sharp, but you can rule by force for a while. And sometimes the leaders of a country are not representative. After all, supposing you contrast our system with the English system. The English have a shift in leadership whenever there is a government voted out in Parliament. We have to wait until a new election comes around. Canon, Mr. X, our Russian expert from the State Department, has observed lately that one of the marked characteristics of leaders is that they're a little bit more aggressive than the rest of the community. They have fought their way up. The community as a whole, however, is pretty aggressive too, don't you think? We like the fighter. Yes. Not the philosopher we choose. So we embody in him the qualities that we project from ourselves. As the saying goes, I am your leader, therefore I must follow you. Of course, the kind of institution that we have and your reference to the differences between the English parliamentary system and our own systems of selection of representatives of government suggests it will in fact determine how fast we can get rid of bad leaders and get good ones so that Sharpe's point about people getting the kind of leadership they deserve really depends upon their own systems for selecting leaders. Well, it may go a little more slowly in some systems, but the Russians used to love the Tsar, the little father, after all his strength rested on a sound base popular support. I suspect the same thing is true about Stalin. We have Scarpy leaders. We admire Mr. Truman because he is a fighter, because he comes up against the odds in his campaign, because he was an officer in the First War. He doesn't take any nonsense from anybody. Well, we agree then, essentially, that human beings the world over fundamentally have the same basic traits. But in these traits, there are a lot of contradictions. Love and hate, aggression and frustration and defense, seeking success and sometimes being crushed by failure, all of these contradictions in human beings, these ambivalences, we recognize, both in ourselves as individuals in our country and in the world. We realize, however, that much alike as human beings are the world over, their institutions are everywhere different and that it is in turn these institutions that shape their behavior. There is a perpetual revolution going on and particularly in that part of the world that has hitherto been backward. We must, therefore, break down our provincialism among ourselves and break it down among others. Realize that human institutions can be improved and create the conditions and emphasize those values that will perfect our institutions to make possible a peaceful and wholesome world. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on What Does an American Think About His Fellow Men were Malcolm Sharp and William R. Ming, Jr., both of the law school, and Louis Wirth, sociologist, all of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and supplementary materials on Americans, their views of themselves and of others. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program on What Does an American Think About His Fellow Men? I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, Senator Robert A. Taft and Richard Weil, president of R.H. Macy and Company, will discuss taxes and inflation. Be sure to hear this important discussion. May we invite you to join the new Roundtable Home Study courses in Human Rights, World Politics, and Economics in the Modern World. These courses are open to all, and two of them are college credit courses. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, for the brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register. Each month, three 24-volume sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica are awarded to students in the three home study courses most successfully completing the courses in that month. Today's program originated from the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. Stay tuned for the American Forum of the Air on NBC. Thank you. Stay tuned for the American Forum of the Air on NBC. .