WNYC as part of its programming in the public interest presents now Justice David W. Peck, presiding justice of the appellate division, first department, who will speak on the consolidation of the courts. Justice Peck. Good evening. As a judge, I am reluctant to engage in public discussions, but as the head of the courts in New York and Bronx County, I feel that the public is entitled to a periodic report on conditions in the courts and to know what is right and what is wrong with the courts. What is right is that the judges of this city are doing a fine job performing their judicial duties competently and conscientiously, many of them straining to keep up with an undue caseload upon them. What is wrong is that we have a court structure which prevents other judges from fully utilizing their time and talent and carrying the share of the load which should be apportioned to them. The resulting condition is one of unbalance, so that some courts do not have work up to their capacity, while other courts have work beyond their capacity. And in the Supreme Court, where the case load is heaviest, it takes so long to get a case to trial that the very delay is an effective denial of justice. Every day in this city, healthy heads of families leave their homes and through some mischance of traffic or work, end up in a hospital with serious fractures, concussions, or other incapacitating injuries. Doctors and hospital bills mount while a man lies helpless. The family is deprived of earnings for weeks or months. Frequently, the injuries permanently affect earning capacity or result in death, altogether removing the breadwinner from the family. There is no true compensation for such tragedy, but the least a just society can do is to afford a ready remedy for the financial loss suffered. But in this great city, the horrible fact is that serious personal injury or death pain cannot be brought to trial for over two years. Claimants must wait and suffer, deprived of earnings, saddled with expense, perhaps maimed or crippled for life, and denied for practical purposes, recourse to the courts of law. Faced with such a faith, they must either beg or borrow for their daily bread or make sacrificial settlement of their just claims. Faced with such a heavy price, such a heavy price need not be paid for living in this metropolis. Delays in the trial of lawsuits and in the administration of justice are as unnecessary as they are wrong. The city and state can give to the people of this community and every community a court system which assures them prompt administration of justice. We could readily have it in this city, not by adding judges or adding expense or adding courts, to the courts, but by the simple means of reorganizing the courts so that the available judicial manpower can be fully utilized. Our trouble is that we have too many courts separated into narrow compartments by arbitrary jurisdictional lines or boundaries, with no means of moving either judges or cases across the barriers. We have 274 judges in this city, and they are enough, if fully employed, to take care of all the judicial business in this city and do it with dispatch. But instead of being available for assignment on the basis of where they are needed, they are hitched to posts and only permitted to serve in limited fields, although not needed there, but dreadfully needed somewhere else. In the Supreme Court, for example, there are too few judges for the number of cases. That is the court which handles the most important cases. But because it is also possible to bring any kind of an action in the Supreme Court, no matter how trifling, and lawyers have abused the privilege, the Supreme Court is bogged down with a volume of cases beyond the capacity of the limited number of judges in that court. Each year, the Supreme Court, each year, the delay in reaching cases for trial increases. Until at present, it takes 28 months in New York County. With the court structure as it is, however, nothing can be done to relieve the conditions, because judges from other courts cannot be brought in to try the cases, nor can the cases be transferred to other courts for trial. The city court, which is a relatively small intermediate court of 22 judges, operates under a jurisdictional limitation of $3,000. As no more than $3,000 can be recovered in a case in that court, and as no lawyer is going to take a chance on bringing a case in that court, which even approaches the jurisdictional limit, it is generally true that a case in that court is going to take a chance to bring a case in that court. which even approaches the jurisdictional limit. It is generally true that a case worth more than $1,000 or $1,500 is not brought in the city court. The municipal court is the biggest court. There are 68 judges, and the jurisdictional limit is $1,000. That court was designed to handle the great bulk of litigation in the city. It is failing to serve its purpose. It is failing to serve its purpose. Not through any fault of the fine judges in that court, but because the monetary limitation on the jurisdiction of the court is so low, and the tendency to bring cases in higher courts is such, that the municipal court no longer has the volume of business which it is equipped to handle. It has been relegated to the trial of the court. It has been relegated to the trial of landlord and tenant cases, and relatively small claims. And the excellent judges of that court are not being utilized to anywhere near their capacity. Yet they are confined to their posts, rendered unavailable to handle the great volume of cases which they could handle, but which remain bogged down in some other court. They are entitled to the rightful court. They are entitled to the rightful court. They are entitled to the most efficient, economic, and serviceable administration of justice which competent men can provide. We have judges who measure up in every way to their responsibility, and who are ready, able, and willing to render the service which is desired of them. What remains to be done is to reorganize an outmoded court structure along modern lines, and develop the framework in which the judges can render a fully adequate service. You've just heard Justice David W. Peck, presiding justice of the appellate division, first department, in an address entitled, The Consolidation of the Courts. This program has been presented in line with WNYC's programming for public service. We invite you to stay tuned now for the Washington Heights Y Symphony Orchestra concert, which follows in just a few moments. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. .
