Good evening. We're speaking to you from the starlight roof of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel here in New York City. The occasion is the testimonial dinner being given in honor of John B. King, Assistant Superintendent of Schools in New York City. We take you now to the speaker's table where the voice, first voice you hear will be that of this evening's Toastmaster, the Honorable Maximilian Moss. We take you now to the speaker's table. This is America meeting in one of New York's most exclusive hotels, the Waldorf Astoria, as a testimonial dinner in honor of John B. King, a Negro. For an American audience alone, it would not have been necessary or proper to emphasize the latter, for we recognize a sense of comradeship with all people of every race, creed, color, and national origin. To us, all people are one under God and under our laws and constitution. My emphasis was occasioned by the extraordinary notice in some countries of an act of improper behavior by a few of our citizens at Cicero, Illinois. Let it be known, however, throughout the world, that when that temporary failure of some of our people occurred, we in America had the moral strength and courage not to hide the facts or to belie them, but ourselves to be the first to publicize them widely. There then resounded in volume what was to be expected, namely, America's voice, openly and without fear, condemning the few who besmirched our good name and requiring that immediate steps be taken to avoid a recurrence. To us, freedom and liberty are not negative factors for lip service only, but positive attributes to live and practice in our daily lives. This we are doing tonight by honoring John B. King, who has risen from teacher to assistant superintendent of the New York City public schools, the largest school system in the world. Headline seekers and disruptive forces find little comfort for their subversive teachings in our American way of life. Their fallacious arguments lose their potency when we appraise and promote men on the sole basis of their individual worth. What a fine thing it is that those of us who are charged with the responsibility for teaching the younger generation can demonstrate to the world that this glorious land of ours, the refuge for all those seeking liberty and dignity, is still the land of opportunity. It is this continued application to our humanitarian ideals that has made America great and will keep it great. The next distinguished speaker is America's most eloquent answer to her unlimited opportunities. Once an immigrant boy from Italy, now the mayor of the greatest city in the world. The mayor of the greatest city in the world. That simple sentence in its implications is more than 10,000 words. Mayor Pelletary rules over a city made of people of all the countries of the world, of all religions, of all colors, who live, work, and play side by side, free, and untrammeled, together blending into a great masterpiece, the metropolis of New York. A human laboratory proving that men of all nations can live together in peace and harmony, and so can nations. We are all privileged to hear our next speaker, his honor, the mayor of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Implementarian. Thank you. President Moss, Reverend clergy, Dr. King, Mrs. King, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. King, it is a happy privilege for me to be present at this testimonial dinner to Superintendent John B. King. This tribute to him is twofold. First, to John King, the new Assistant Superintendent of Schools, and secondly, to the symbol of a democratic ideal of equality represented by him. In the old Maxwell Training School for Teachers, our guest of honor gave every indication that he possessed fine qualities of leadership. Later, as a teacher, assistant to principal, principal, and a trainer of teachers, John King became known and respected in educational circles. The recommendation made by Superintendent of Schools, Dr. Janssen, several months ago in reporting on Mr. King, admirably, in my judgment, sums up the measure of the man we honor tonight. And I should like to quote, Dr. Janssen said, Dr. King, Mr. King, Mr. King, Mr. King, Mr. King has been instrumental in organizing the Bushwick School Community League. He works exceptionally well with the members of the clergy, with the parents, teachers, and children of his school, with civic leaders, and with representatives of all the social agencies in the Bedford, Bushwick, Stuyvesant areas. As an educational leader, Mr. King is highly professional, is a strong executive, is a splendid speaker, is dignified, and well-mannered. He has been a source of tremendous help in the program of training new teachers. In all professional activities, he has displayed a thorough knowledge and keen insight into the modern educational practices now in use in our schools. Without any hesitation or mental reservation whatsoever, I can say that Mr. King is one of the outstanding educational leaders in our school system." End of quote. It is in recognition of these fine personality traits and accomplishments that we honor John King tonight. One of the nicest things that has happened to me since I was sworn in myself as mayor a little over a year ago, was when I was asked to swear Dr. King in as associate superintendent of schools. It was my great pleasure to do that for Dr. King. Dr. King. However, there is another phase of this dinner which far transcends these personal characteristics. Recognition of John King truly typifies the heart, the mind and the soul of the people of the city of New York. Long before the state commission against discrimination was instituted, the city of New York recognized no color line in its civil service or in its board of education. color or creed of an applicant was no bar to an appointment to city service, nor for promotion to higher office. the law and the country of New York has been committed to the state commission. It has become impossible to answer inquiries from various sources for statistics on the number of Negroes, for example, in the city's employee. Our records don't show that. However, that is not the basis for appointment. However, without going to his personal file, we do know that John King happens to be the first Negro in our public school system to be elevated or promoted to the rank of assistant superintendent of schools. And to the best of our knowledge, he is the first Negro in the United States to become an assistant superintendent assigned to supervise both white and colored personnel. These are anxious days. There is constant stress and pressure. We at times become confused by the meanings of words and terms. The topic of moral and spiritual values, for instance, seems to be a frequent subject for discussion, particularly in educational circles. And differences of opinion arise on the meaning of spiritual. May I inject for a moment my personal opinion in this matter? To me, spiritual connotes divine providence. Providence and spiritual values, as outlined in Judean Christian teachings, stresses that an omnipotent God, in a wonderful manner, created man and ennobled human nature. The term man in these sacred teachings is not limited in meaning by an adjective denoting color or racial origin. There lies one spiritual value to which I am certain. All of us here this evening subscribe most heartedly and most devotedly. And may we hope and pray that in our own lifetimes there will be the complete eradication of racial discrimination in our own beloved land. It will be men like Dr. King. Honest, sincere, high-minded men and women who will help us realize this goal. I am happy indeed to extend to Superintendent King and his family my personal congratulations, the congratulations of all the people of the city that I represent tonight, and my very best wishes for his success. His appointment is both significant and meritorious. The Superintendent of Schools is the nominating power in the New York City public school system. In selecting John B. King for the Assistant Superintendency, Dr. Janssen demonstrated again his unfailing devotion to the ideals of the founders of our country, the most fundamental of which is the principle of equality. I have the privilege of presenting Dr. William Janssen. Dr. Janssen. Mr. Morris, Mr. Mayor, honored guests, friends of John King. It is my very great pleasure to extend greetings and congratulations to Mr. King and his family, and the name of all our teachers in our vast school system. I wish him many years of happiness in service to children. John started out to be a doctor. You've already heard about that. But as he put it, after several years of teaching, I fell so in love with the work that I just never gave surgery another thought. The thought that hit me when I heard of this switch in vocations was that John King is still the doctor, but instead of curing, he prevents. Instead of cutting with a scalpel, he makes incisions with words. Instead of medicating the sick body, he feeds the human spirit. His work has been done brilliantly, both in the schools and outside the schools. Many of you know him because of his work in the Bushwick Schools Committee League, and our mayor has mentioned that organization to you. But tonight I should like to address myself to the importance and significance of this occasion. The elevation of John King to the important post he holds in the schools of the city of New York should be of great significance to all. This is a town rich in many ways, but in no way richer than its people who bring to it a wide variety of racial, religious, and cultural heritages. Only in the city of New York has it thus far been possible for a Negro to reach so high a position in a public school system devoted to the education of all children. New York City may have its faults, but it ranks among the foremost cities of the country which have faced the problems of discrimination and done something about them. There are some communities in which discrimination does not appear to be present for the simple reason that minority groups are not there to be discriminated against. I shall never forget an incident in such a community where I had been discussing some of our problems. One man leaned over and said to me how fortunate it was that his community did not have these problems. But a wise clergyman counted by saying, perhaps I'm afraid that although we don't have the problems, we do have all the prejudices. You know it's regrettable, but only too true, that there are many places where a statute, a law on the books, must be changed or suspended in order to permit a Negro to hold a public office such as the one so well merited by John King. As someone has put it, there are places where the law must be changed in order that we may be brothers. If it were not so tragic, it would be merely ridiculous. Thank you. For if ever I saw a head-on collision between God's law and man's law, between love thy neighbor and persecute thy neighbor, it's in the statutes that rob men of their heritage because of race or creed. Why do prejudices remain so long? I suppose beliefs and attitudes change slowly. And perhaps prejudices are related to a false sense of security. People fear the loss of something when they extend their rights to minority groups. Yet they should realize that they are in greater ultimate danger of losing their rights by their refusal to grant equal rights to all. Not with pride, since there is no reason for pride, but with a sense of relief, I view the great city of New York with its progressive spirit. We know that there is room for progress and improvement wherever men are found. But when, in the world's greatest city, the spirit of justice is found to mingle with the spirit of brotherhood, it seems to be an augury that our city will remain the world's greatest for a long time to come. If there were time, I should like to talk about an incident which a number of us attended about two weeks ago where a young man who had started as a clothing designer was elevated to the position of president of a junior college. Only in New York City could that happen. To conclude, let me answer the question, what does magnitude of soul mean when applied to John King? It means that his affection has reached through and beyond ordinary limits to warm and inspire people who may perhaps never know him. It means that he has done fine deeds that others will imitate. I find myself repeating some words spoken by him that are not only a testimony to a man, but a far better statement of all that I have been trying to say tonight. Here is what John said. Perhaps universal peace and understanding are not elusive after all. Maybe it only seems so. Maybe we have been looking with our heads and in faraway places. Let us look with our hearts and in our own community, here and now. I am not able to think of a higher compliment to him. Thank you. We have many letters of congratulations. There is one in this moment that I must read. It is from Dr. Ralph J. Bunch, Director of Department of Trusteeship. After indicating his regret to not being here because he is in Europe, he says, However, I would like to take this opportunity to extend to Dr. King my sincere congratulations on his new responsibility as assistant superintendent of schools of New York City. Dr. King's outstanding abilities should serve this city's educational system in good stead at this crucial period of our history when the education of our children, not only in the art of the three R's, but also in the application of the democratic principles of our Constitution, assumes a very deep significance. I extend to Dr. King my hearty good wishes. I should like to present the next speaker. Since 1946, I have worked side by side with the next speaker on the Board of Education. His ability, earnestness of purpose, devotion, and high conception of duty as a board member have won for him the respect and admiration of his fellow members. Mr. King's, Director of Mayor and Pelleteri's Committee on Unity, Mr. Timon served as co-chairman of this dinner. To him and Mrs. Alexander jointly belong the credit for the good which has come out of it. I am indeed privileged to turn this dinner over to Mr. Timon, who will preside over the concluding radio phase of this program. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. George A. Timon. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Max. Dr. King, Mr. Chairman, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I count on the high honor to participate in this occasion. I do so not merely for reasons of purely personal friendship for John King, for his charming wife, Betty, and his lovely children, Joan and Lynn, but because beyond that I am privileged to share in an event that is both, whether John King liked it or no, is symbolic and historical. You know, important and necessary, as is the coercive power of legislation in prohibiting discrimination among our fellow Americans, I submit that that coercive power has its limitations. Legislative and judicial processes alone are not enough if we are to teach our children not just how to make a living, but also how to live together. Another and I think more important process is the one that reaches the heart and the mind and the conscience. It's the process of education. It's been truly said that he who governs leads the blind, but he that teaches gives him eyes. If history is the philosophy of teaching by example, we are witnessing an historical event, and we are participating in education by example, rather than by precept. We invite our fellow Americans in other sections of the country, not in an arrogant or superior attitude, but in friendly and sincere fashion, to examine how we profit by not segregating schoolchildren. beyond that we invite them to see how in practice, race and color and religion are not valid considerations in the selection of teachers, and in the selection of our important educational leaders. and we wish them to take note, in the words of this beautiful scroll, the Dr. King's superlative scholarship, professional skill, attributes of leadership, and keen understanding of human relations, have brought to him the unique distinction of being the first Negro to achieve so high a rank in public education. Still paraphrasing the words of the scroll, John, and on behalf of this distinguished gathering, I tender it to you with their heartfelt felicitations and affectionate regards, and expressing the hope of the people of this city, especially of our children, they'll continue to be enriched by many more years of your unselfish and enlightened service. Reverend clergy, President Justice Morse, honored guests, my friends, and my friends' friends. I have always been intrigued by the eloquence of silence, and I've often thought of silence as another language, the language of the inexpressible, by which one full heart communicates its fullness to another. At such a time, the spoken word conveys only the poverty of our tongue and leaves our profoundest thoughts unsaid. The full heart of the lover speaks his love in sighs. The full heart of the reverent speaks its reverence in silent prayer. And so, tonight, my full heart speaks its deep gratitude in a silent prayer that you may know how grateful I am for all that each of you has done to make this glorious evening possible. This occasion is a testimonial to many things, and I have been honored only in that you have seen fit to use my name as a sort of rallying point. It is, nevertheless, a great privilege to have been chosen as a symbol for so many precious ideals of our American way of life, represented by those assembled here tonight. Where but in America would we find such a gathering? every race, every religion, every creed, every economic level, every social stratum, every work of life. And with a response by Dr. King, we regretfully conclude the broadcast portion of this testimonial dinner at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in honor of Dr. John B. King, Assistant Superintendent of Schools of New York City. The Toastmaster was the Honorable Maximilian Moss, President of the New York City Board of Education. Speakers included the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.