The program usually heard at this time, the Midday Symphony, will not be heard today in order that we may bring you the following special program. We take you now to Washington, D.C. for the inaugural ceremonies of President Harry S. Truman. Military organizations who like to take part in a parade and a great many thousand of them are going to have the opportunity to do that today. There's going to be an awful jam getting away from this hill when the ceremonies are over, and it's going to take quite a long time to get downtown. This, as I say, is one of the more elaborate inaugurations, perhaps not the most in all history. Traditionally, the change of a party, the return of a party to power after long absence, has been the occasion for the biggest celebration. But that has not always been the case. The Republicans were coming back in 21, and they had a fairly simple one. I believe that is a tradition, although I was not here that long ago, that over Cleveland's inauguration in 85, when the Democrats were first returning to power after 24 years, was an extremely elaborate one. But this one is going to be elaborate enough for all faced, especially with all the festivities that are going on all over town. Not only all day yesterday and the day before, but all through today, tonight, and some of them even tomorrow. Now Bryson Reich, down on the platform, perhaps can tell you some more. Come in, Bryson. Well, there's a very colorful little bit going on in the main stairway here that leads from the back of the inaugural stand proper up to the Capitol. The diplomatic corps is now coming to their position here on the inaugural platform, headed by Stanley Woodward, the chief of protocol of the United States State Department. And in the second row, these is the senior member of the diplomatic corps of the United States, Ambassador Morgan Stierne of Norway. And the ambassador is in his complete diplomatic outfit. He is wearing an old-fashioned, to us, of moment, old-fashioned, old-fashioned cocked hat with a white plume. He has on a heavily gold-braided jacket, over which he has a black overcoat. And this heavily gold-braided jacket is slashed brilliantly through by an immense scarlet sash, making a colorful figure standing there, as this wind rips through the white plume that tops off his cocked hat. Other members of the diplomatic corps are also dressed in their diplomatic uniforms. Many more cocked hats with white plumes are present in choking the main stairway leading down from the Capitol. Some of them, as a matter of fact, are carrying swords as part of the diplomatic uniforms. Many of the gentlemen have on immense coats with mink collars, large fur collars. Ambassador Morgan Stierne, standing there right in the center of the platform now, nodding to a few people. Stanley Woodward, the chief of protocol, busily shepherding his charges to the left and to the right, so that they might take their proper positions. Immediately following the entrance of the diplomatic corps, we'll have the cabinet, and then the Supreme Court, and then the President will come onto the inaugural platform. And we are well now beyond the 12 noon deadline for the President to take the oath of office. But now, out in this immense crowd, let's have a little color, and come in, Ted Malone. Ted Malone, Hello there. We're still over here across the plaza, watching the developments as Bryson Reich describes them to you. We can only see them in the distance, and one of the interesting experiences here is to stand along the line here and listen to the public, you know, guess, oh, there he comes now. And when they see another man come down the stairway there in the top hat and the long coat, they'll say, oh, there he comes now. And, of course, we can listen to Bryson Reich or any of the boys describing the ceremonies as their proceedings, and we know, no, he's not coming now. It hasn't happened yet. But it's fun talking to the folks along here and finding some of them who have arrived at 9 o'clock this morning and who took up their positions here because they were some previous inaugural ceremonies. And you hear a little searing going on in the background. That's when some distinguished man comes down the stairway to the platform over there and they think, well, now the moment has come. But it seems it will be quite a few minutes yet before all of them do arrive in their positions. And as you've been told, the chief executive does not come out until everyone has come down. The Marines and the Seattle police here are keeping their lines good and solid. Nobody comes through for any reason whatsoever. The chief of service men all scattered around and even through the crowd here to be sure that everything goes exactly as it should. The White House section, which I told you a while ago, right here at our right, which was not so full, oh, say, an hour ago, I guess because they had the seats reserved, is now pretty well filled up. And immediately behind it is another raised platform on the hood. There is quite a battery of photographers now, mostly still particular men who will be getting pictures that you will see in your papers in the next day or two. Television cameras are covering the rostrum all the time and the movie men for the newsreels are covering the rostrum. And of course, these pictures you will be seeing the latter part of the week or the first and next. In the meantime, though, we try to give you the picture of all that's going on here from our various positions, from the tip top dome of the Capitol, all over the parade grounds here and all along the parade route. For the picture of the proceedings as they are now taking place on the platform, we take you to Rice and Rice. And now the members of the cabinet of President Truman are coming onto the inaugural platform. The Attorney General Clark, Postmaster General Donald Jesse Conelson, the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. John Snyder, has come in. Secretary for National Defense, Forrestal, Cap Krug, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, Mr. Brannon, the Secretary of Labor, Mr. Morris Tobin. And Mr. Sorrey, the Secretary of Commerce, the former Under Secretary of State, Mr. Robert Lovett, and the new Secretary of State, Dean Etchison, will come onto the inaugural platform to take their position immediately behind the President, as he will be sorted immediately behind the President, where he will take the oath of office. And the President, the President, of the Secretary of State, Mr. Robert Lovett, is a great opportunity to take the oath of office. And now coming down the middle platform are the, uh, uh, the, uh, uh, the, uh, the chief, uh, the justices of the United States Supreme Court, headed by the Chief Justice of the United States, the Honorable Fred Vinson. A gentleman in a tall, black silk hat carrying the two Bibles, which will be opened on this stand, a little mahogany stand, just to the left of the Speaker's Rostum, or the Speaker's Daes, where the President will deliver his inaugural address. The justices of the United States in their long robes. There's, uh, Justice, uh, the Chief Justice, Mr. Vinson, Justice Black, Justice Reed, Justice Frankfurter, Murphy, Douglas, uh, Rutledge, and Burton, leading, they are in their long judicial robes, their wing collars. They are now making their way through the, through the, uh, little crowd gathered here, and in just a few moments, the President of the United States will make his appearance at the top of the stairway, leading into the central door of the Capitol Building itself. Chief Justice Vinson has taken his position in, uh, one of the four armchairs that, uh, are right in the center of the inaugural stand, and Justice Stanley Reed has taken his position in the, uh, chair nearest to us. There are two vacant chairs there, uh, which will be occupied by the President of the United States and the Vice President. Uh, the Chief Justice has just put on his head a small black skullcap, symbolic of the authority of his office. He has been, had draped around him by one of the ushers, a very warm, and, uh, warm blanket. Uh, Justice Reed has draped around his shoulders a blanket on all the chairs here at the seat on the inaugural stand. There are, uh, blankets have been provided for the comfort of those. And now, over in the Senate Office Building, Taylor Grant. I wish we were in the Senate Office Building, right? We're on top of the roof, where, uh, that ideal weather that you fellows have been talking about isn't particularly evident because, naturally, it gets a little bit cold up here. However, it's, uh, probably one of the best vantage points with, which to, uh, from which the Bureau is spectacle of this kind. Looking west on Constitution Avenue, for example, I can see for several miles, all the way over into Virginia and the Arlington National Ceremony, all along the line of, uh, march there, the march that we're all waiting for, the people are lined up about 14 deep on the north side of Constitution Avenue and about 12 deep on the south side. And faced out close to the curb, every six or eight feet, are two Marines and one police officer, keeping the crowd perfectly in line. Looking to my left at the Capitol, I can see the grandstand on the Capitol Plaza, absolutely filled, of course, at this time. It looks like Yankee Stadium on a Sunday doubleheader day. The sun's beating down on the many colorful costumes being worn by the thousands upon hundreds of thousands of people, as far as the eye can see, right here around the Capitol Park. And, uh, everywhere there seems to be a high point, something a little bit higher than just the curb stone, where many of the people are lined up. Wherever there's a coping around the park, uh, people are standing on that, all trying to look over the other fellow's head. And even some of the younger generations have, uh, taken to the trees already, and the parade, of course, still isn't anything like underway yet. It's quite a scene. It's going to be a great place from which to watch this parade. But right now, let's go back to Bryce and Bryce on the platform. The expectancy and the tension of this inaugural platform is mounting by the minute. Uh, the way has been cleared. The President of the United States will soon be here. And when he appears at the top of this, uh, rather short flight of stairs leading into the Capitol building itself, the United States Marine Band will sound the traditional four ruffles and flourishes, and will play Hail to the Chicks. And then, uh, the President of the United States, uh, the officials burying back and forth up and down that stairway and into the door. They expect at any moment to bring the President out. The Chief Justice is waiting here to administer the oath to the President, and Justice Reed is also here to administer the oath to the Vice President. And now, uh, up in the booth is Almer Davis. I have the advantage of being on a somewhat, uh, higher level, so I can see a few things that Mr. Rice didn't note. Uh, I'm very glad that he identified the members of the diplomatic corps, and, uh, as they came in, and their cocks and plumed hats and their swords beside, Mrs. Truman is just going down the steps now to the stand. And, uh, some of the diplomats lined up beside her with all their splendor when the diplomats came down with those cockpats. I thought they were members of one of the President's lodges from back home in their marching costumes. Uh, Mr. Rice, uh, some mentioned the members of the Cabinet who came in, the last and most modest, although he technically outranks them all, was the Secretary of State, Dean Ackerson. He's junior, of course, in point of service. Having, uh, only taken his job today, Mr. Ackerson was the only one of the Cabinet who didn't wear a top hat and a tail coat. Uh, whether this would imply that our diplomatry is here actually conducted with Jeffersonian simplicity, I wouldn't know. You now have the crowd, uh, uh, the stand completely packed. There's not much room for anyone else to sit down there. I think all the honored guests are still in, are in already, I mean. Uh, but, uh, still, the ceremony has not begun, and, uh, we're getting off to a late start as is too often customary in these occasions. Now, back to Bryson Rice. The gentleman has just walked out, uh, on the steps and shooed everyone out of the aisle, and we expect momentarily for the President of the United States to make his appearance here at the top of the steps and come down to the inaugural platform. Uh, as Eleanor told you just a moment ago, Mrs. Truman, Mrs. Margaret Truman, and Mrs. Max Truett have taken their positions directly on the President's right. And now, to Inside and Lee Dayton. This is Lee Dayton, who will attend to, ladies and gentlemen. Well, what we've been waiting for has finally happened. The door of room 880 has just opened, and through this door has stepped Harry S. Truman, 32nd President of the United States. The President, retired in black cross-coats, and Popat are distorted by members of the Joint Congressional Inaugural Committee, comprised of its chairman, Senator Carl Hayden, Senators McGrath and Werry, and Representatives McCormick, Sheppard, and Halleck. The Presidential Party at this moment has just made its way out into the Rotunda, and inasmuch as I am not committed to follow the party further, now back to the Rostrum and Bryson Rags. The President has not yet made his appearance here. He will almost any moment. The Chief of the Secret Service has been just by one of the pillars there, Mr. Donald Mays, and Harry Cotton, the President of the United States, has come up with the Rumble of the Pollies. The Chief of the Secret Service is included in the Georgetown Oil Series, the Cristo Classic Color, the Luke Countries, and the gute episode of Steven S 對不對, the市場 &heixtai German Resources, the água alongside fusion city and intercourse. Sometimes the average building has come up with the people, and sometimes the powering of the Messias and the Wolf Ideally drink so much theell that what they made and then the regularpolies areподborn from the Denver who He isiku! There are two wüns but clients of if you can be able to follow on the end here. The President is still standing just to the side of the Speaker Drostom, smiling broadly as he removes his gray leather gloves. He has placed his inaugural speech in his black, asleep booklet on Drostom and is prepared to deliver that address immediately after he is sworn in. He's standing here at the moment chatting with the Chief Justice, Mr. Vinson. He's smiling broadly. He's in the traditional high silk hat, in the black coat, white... Is that a place for me over there, Joseph? That was the Representative Halleck, the member of the Committee on Arrangements, who has just come in after escorting the President of the United States. The Secretary of the Senate, Mr. Biffle, is now going by our position. The President now walks over, shakes hands with Justice Reed, and thus made some comment, apparently a great many smiles among the four gentlemen who are most prominent in this particular operation. The President of the United States, the Vice President, Chief Justice, and Justice Reed. They have not yet taken their seats. In just a few moments, the ceremony will start with the prayer by the Reverend Pruden. The President has not removed his overcoat, apparently will not remove it. It's quite a brisk cold day, wind blowing. The President's breath, frozen as it comes out, and he, uh, chats for just a moment with Mrs. Truman. Everyone on the inaugural stand, everyone in this immense crowd, are standing here at attention, awaiting the ceremonies to start. The President turns briefly, chats with Mrs. Truman again. The members of the Committee on Arrangements, uh, Senator Hayden, McGrath, and Quarry, and Representatives McCormick, Shepherd, and Halleck have taken their positions here on the front row immediately, uh, to my right, and are awaiting the start of the ceremony. Everyone standing still. The President chatting for a moment with the Chief Justice. He has not removed his high-field cap. The Chief Justice has on his head the black skull cap of his, uh, office. President in wing collar, black tie with tiny, small figures on it. In just a few moments now, this inaugural ceremony will start when the opening prayer will be delivered by the Reverend Edward H. Pruden, the First Baptist Church of Washington Church, which is frequently attended by the President of the United States. Justice Reed has, uh, just removed from his pocket a paper of the procedure of the ceremony. Uh, Leslie Biffle just walked by her microphone, unfortunately, uh, kicked the face out of it, and, uh, has started the ceremony. He has asked for Sir Dr. Pruden to come up and deliver the opening prayer, and the ceremony will be underway. Ladies and gentlemen, Dr. Edward H. Pruden. Let us pray. God of the nations, in whom we live and move and have our being, and from whom cometh every good and perfect gift, we pause at the beginning of this historic day's proceedings to invoke thy blessing upon this beloved country of ours, and upon all who serve her highest interests. Grant to thy servants, the President and the Vice President of the United States, all needed wisdom, health, and strength, as they dedicate themselves today to the high office to which they have been called. May they continue to lead us as they are led by thee, in the ways that make for domestic tranquility and international accord. God of the Lord, to sow upon us our Father, the happiness which is reserved for that nation, whose God is the Lord. Through Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, we pray. Amen. Mr. Phil Regan will now sing the Star Spangled Banner. O say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight, o'er the ramparts we've watched, were so gallantly streaming, and the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night, that our flag was still there, o'er the land of the free, and the home of the free, o'er the land of the free, and the home of the brave. Now the Vice President will take his place at the Speaker's stand, the Marine Band will sound ruffles, and Justice Reed will administer the oath of office to the Vice President-elect. John Musikman will make it to City of display. The iconingt-cell position iot, the bloqueÉ The addres to notify you with an shared Automation rapid fire background oak, the ground ada BODA. The net rod out of the land of the people at high teachers, Kemaliesец- bombe, Then the Secretary of the Senate, Leslie Biffle, has come over to inform the Vice President that it is now time for the oath of office to be administered. The Vice President rises from his seat, removes his heavy overcoat, high silk hat, and his scarf hands it to Mr. Miller. There are the ruffles. Mr. Barclay, please place your hand on the Bible and raise your right hand. Repeat after me the following goal. I, Albin William Barclay, I, Albin William Barclay, do solemnly swear, do solemnly swear that I will support and defend, that I will support and defend the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, against all enemies, foreign and domestic, foreign and domestic, that I will bear true faith, that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same, and allegiance to the same, that I take this obligation freely, that I take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation, without any mental reservation, or purpose of evasion, or purpose of evasion, and that I will well and faithfully, and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of the office, discharge the duties of the office upon which I am about to enter, upon which I am about to enter, so help me God, so help me God. So for the first time in more than three years, the President of the United States of America, as a Vice President, immediately following the ceremony, the Vice President of the United States, Mr. Barclay, leaned over and kissed the Bible held by Justice Reed, who administered the office, and now the President will take his oath of office, he has removed his overcoat, takes his white scarf, he's wearing tails, and striped trousers. He will also, for a moment, chat with some of the other dignitaries gathered here, but before that time, we will hear a prayer by Rabbi Samuel Thurman. Almighty and merciful God, God, the Lord of all nations, the hearts and minds of this nation, turn to thee in this solemn moment in prayer and in gratitude. This nation, blessed by thee and dedicated to the holiest conception of thee, as the Father of all mankind, is now being reconsecrated and rededicated in the person of its first citizen, the President of the United States of America. A son of the soil, a son of the people, champion of social justice and civic righteousness, O Lord, he is about to take the oath of his high office, and we pray thy special blessing upon him and his dear ones. Chosen by the people to be its chief executive, may the people's confidence in him never wane. May he continue to hold the high conviction of righteousness and justice, of truth and peace, which have won for him the people's faith and admiration. Touch him, O God, with thy divine wisdom, that he may with humility, yet also with strength and high courage, pursue the purposes and noble ideals which have moved him to seek and to win the leadership of this nation. May thy hand, O Lord, lead and guide him through the many and tortuous paths through which this nation and all the nations of the world must pass in the years ahead. Keep his heart steadfast and his mind single in the performance of the tasks and duties of his great office. And may this nation, under his leadership, hold fast to its traditional ideals of freedom and justice for all men. Thus, blessed by thee and devoted to the holy purposes of thy will, our nation shall go forward with unabated strength and unfeeling labor in the service of thee and of humanity, spreading light and liberty to those peoples that walk in darkness and dwell in servitude. By thy bounty, we have become rich and mighty among the nations of the world. O Lord, make us more worthy of thy blessings to the end that both leader and people may continue to find favor in thine eyes and so live and serve that thy glory, thy majesty, and thy peace may abide with us forever. Amen. The prayer was read by the rabbi Samuel Thurman. Now, it is the turn for Harry S. Truman to be sworn in as the president of the United States. The prayer of the rump. The prayer of the rump. The prayer of the rump. And will to the best of your ability. And will to the best of my ability. Preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. Preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of the United States. So help you God. So help me God. The president has been sworn in, leaned over immediately after the ceremony and kissed the open Bible as is held by the clerk. Two Bibles were used in the ceremony. The immense Chultenburg Bible given in by his hometown of Independence, Missouri, and the small Bible upon which he took the oath of office originally. And now, the president steps to the speaker's stand and in just a moment will begin his inaugural address. He speaks. He stands at the speaker's raster. Mr. Vice President. President of the United States. Mr. Chief Justice. Mr. Chief Justice. Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President. Fellow citizens, I accept with humility the honor which the American people have conferred upon me. I accept this with a resolve to do all that I can for the welfare of this nation and for the peace of the world. In performing the duties of my office, I need the help and the prayers of every one of you. I ask for your encouragement and for your support. The tasks we face are difficult. We can accomplish them only if we work together. Each period of our national history has had its special challenges. Those that confront us now are as momentous as any in the past. Today marks the beginning not only of a new administration but of a period that will be eventful, perhaps decisive for us and for the world. It may be our lot to experience and in a large measure bring about a major turning point in the long history of the human race. The first half of this century has been marked by unprecedented and brutal attacks on the right of man and by the two most frightful wars in history. The supreme need of our time is for men to learn to live together in peace and harmony. The peoples of the earth face the future with grave uncertainty composed almost equally of great hope and great fears. In this time of doubt they look to the united states as never before. for goodwill, strength, and wise leadership. It is sitting, therefore, that we take this occasion to proclaim to the world the essential principles of faith by which we live and to declare our aims to all peoples. The American people stand firm in the faith which has inspired this nation from the beginning. faith, we believe that all men have a right to equal justice under law and equal opportunity to share in the current good. We believe that all men have a right to freedom of thought and expression. We believe that all men are created equal because they are created in the image of God. From this faith we will not be moved. the American people desire and are determined to work for a world in which all nations and all peoples are free to govern themselves as they see fit and to achieve a decent and satisfying life. Above all else our people desire and are determined to work for peace on earth a just and lasting peace based on genuine agreement freely arrived at by equals. In the pursuit of these aims the United States and other like-minded nations find themselves directly opposed by a regime with contrary aims and a totally different concept of life. That regime adheres to a false philosophy which purports to offer freedom security and greater opportunity to mankind. Misled by that philosophy many peoples have sacrificed their liberties only to learn to their soul that deceit and mockery poverty and tyranny are their reward. That false philosophy is communism. Communism is based on the belief that man is so weak and inadequate that he is unable to govern himself and therefore requires the rule of strong masters. Democracy is based on the conviction that man has the moral and intellectual capacity as well as the inalienable right to govern himself with reason and justice. communism suggests that subject the individual to arrest without lawful cause punishment without trial and forced labor as a chapel of the state. It decrees what information he shall receive, what art he shall produce, what leaders he shall follow and what thoughts he shall think. Democracy maintains that government is established for the benefit of the individual and is charged with the responsibility of protecting the rights of the individual and his freedom in the exercise of those abilities of his. communism maintains that social wrongs can be corrected only by violence. Democracy has proved that social justice can be achieved through peaceful change. Communism holds that the world is so widely divided into opposing classes that war is inevitable. Democracy holds that free nations can settle differences justly and maintain a lasting peace. The difference, the differences between communism and democracy do not concern the United States alone. People everywhere are coming to realize that what is involved is material well-being, human dignity, and the right to believe in and worship God. I state these differences not to draw issues are pleased as such, but because the actions resulting from the communist philosophy are equipped to the efforts of free nations to bring about world recovery and lasting peace. Since the end of hostility, the United States has invested its substance and its energy in a great constructive effort to restore peace, stability, and freedom to the world. We have taught no territory. We have imposed our will on none. We have asked for no privileges that we would not extend to others. We have constantly and vigorously supported the United Nations and related agencies as a means of applying democratic principles to international relations. We have consistently advocated and relied upon peaceful settlements of disputes among nations. We have made every effort to secure agreements on effective international control of our most powerful weapons. And we have worked steadily for the limitation and control of all armaments. We have encouraged by precept and example the expansion of world trade on a sound and fair basis. Almost a year ago, in company with 16 free nations of Europe, we launched the greatest co-operated economic program in history. The purpose of that unprecedented effort is to invigorate and strengthen democracy in Europe. so that the free people of that continent can resume their rightful place in the forefront of civilization and can contribute once more to the security and welfare of the world. Our efforts have brought new hope to all mankind. We have beaten back despair and defeatism. We have saved a number of countries from losing their liberty. Hundreds of millions of people all over the world now agree with us that we need not have war, that we can have peace. The initiative is ours. We are moving on with other nations to build an even stronger structure of international order and justice. countries are now working to improve the standards of living of all their people. We are ready to undertake new projects to strengthen a free world. the future. In the coming years, our program for peace and freedom will emphasize four major courses of action. First, we will continue to give unfothering support to the United Nations and related agencies. And we will continue to search for ways to strengthen their authority and increase their effectiveness. we believe that the United Nations will be strengthened by the new nations which are being formed in lands now advancing towards tough governments under democratic principles. Second, we will continue our programs for world economic recovery. This means, first of all, that we must keep our full weight behind the European recovery programs. We are confident of the success of this major venture in world recovery. We believe that our partners in this effort will achieve the status of self-supporting nations once again. In addition, we must carry out our plans for reducing the barriers to world trade and increasing its volume. Economic recovery and peace itself depend on increased world trade. Third, we will strengthen freedom-loving nations against the dangers of aggression. We are working out with a number of countries a joint agreement designed to strengthen the security of the North Atlantic area. Such an agreement would take the form of a collective defense arrangement within the terms of the United Nations Charter. We have already established such a defense tax for the Western Hemisphere by the Treaty of Rio de Janeiro. The primary purpose of these agreements is to provide unmistakable proof of the joint determination of the three countries to resist armed attack from any quarter. Every country participating in these arrangements must contribute all it can to the common defense. we make it sufficiently clear in advance that any armed attack affecting our national security would be met with overwhelming force. The armed attack might never occur. I hope to send to the Senate a treaty respecting the North Atlantic security plan. In addition, we will provide military advice and equipment to free nations which will cooperate with us in the maintenance of peace and security. Fourth, we must embark on a bold new program for making the benefits of our scientific advances and industrial progress available for the improvement and growth of underdeveloped areas. More than half the people of the world are living in conditions approaching misery. Their food is inadequate. They are victims of disease. Their economic life is primitive and stagnant. Their poverty is a handicap and a threat both to them and to more prosperous areas. For the first time in history, humanity possesses the knowledge and skill to relieve the suffering of these people. The United States is preeminent among the nations in the development of industrial and scientific techniques. The material resources which we can afford to use for assistance of other people are limited. But our imponderable resources in technical knowledge are constantly growing and are inexhaustible. I believe that we should make available to peace-loving people the benefits of our store of technical knowledge in order to help them realize their aspirations for a better life. and in cooperation with other nations, we should foster capital investment in areas needing development. Our aim should be to help the free peoples of the world through their own efforts to produce more food, more clothing, more materials for housing, and more mechanical power to lighten their burdens. We invite other countries to pool their technological resources in this undertaking. Their contributions will be warmly welcomed. This should be a cooperative enterprise in which all nations work together through the United Nations and its specialized agencies whenever practicable. it must be a worldwide effort for the achievement of peace, plenty, and freedom. Thank you. With the cooperation of business, private capital, agriculture, and labor in this country, this program can greatly increase the industrial activity in other nations and can raise substantially their standards of living. Such new economic developments must be devised and controlled to the benefit of the peoples of the areas in which they are established. Guarantees to the investors must be balanced by guarantees in the interest of the people whose resources and whose labor go into these developments. The old imperialism, exploitation for foreign profits, has no place in our plans. What we envision is a program of development based on the concept of democratic fair dealing. All countries, including our own, will greatly benefit from a constructive program for the better use of the world's human and natural resources. For ensure that our commerce with other countries expands as they progress industrially and economically. Greater production is the key to prosperity and peace. And the key to greater production is a wider and more vigorous application of modern scientific and technical knowledge. Only by helping the least fortunate of his members to help themselves can the human family achieve the decent, satisfying life that is the right of all people. Democracy alone can supply the vitalizing force to stir the peoples of the world into triumphant action, not only against their human oppressors, but also against their ancient enemies, hunger, misery, and despair. On the basis of these four major courses of action, we hope to help create the conditions that will lead eventually to personal freedom and happiness for all mankind. of the time. If we are to be successful in carrying out these policies, it is clear that we must have continued prosperity in this country and we must keep ourselves strong. slowly but surely we are weaving a world fabric of international security and growing prosperity. We are aided by all who wish to live in freedom from fear, even by those who live today in fear under their own government. We are aided by all who want relief from lies and propaganda, those who desire truth and sincerity. We are aided by all who desire self-government and a voice in deciding their own affairs. We are aided by all who long for economic security, for the security and abundance that men in free societies can enjoy. We are aided by all who desire freedom of speech, freedom of religion, and freedom to live their own lives for useful ends. Our allies are the millions who hunger and thirst after righteousness. In due time, as our stability becomes manifest, as more and more nations come to know the benefits of democracy and to participate in growing abundance, I believe that those countries which now oppose us will abandon their delusions and join with the free nations of the world in a just settlement of international differences. Events have brought our American democracy to new influence and new responsibilities. They will test our courage, our devotion to duty, and our concept of liberty. liberty. But I say to all men, what we have achieved in liberty, we will surpass in greater liberty. Steadfast in our faith in the Almighty, we will advance toward a world where man's freedom is secure. To that end, we will devote our strength, our resources, and our firmness of resolve. With God's help, the future of mankind will be assured in a world of justice, harmony, and peace. The President of the United States has delivered his inaugural address. He delivered the entire address standing bareheaded in this cold, flipping wind without overcoat. He walks back now and assists him into his overcoat and hands him his tall hot hat. The next event on this inaugural ceremony will be the benediction by Archbishop Patrick A. O'Boyle of Washington. And now, throughout Washington, the bells of many churches, the bells of the various cathedrals are peeling out a joyous music, music, and note of triumph. You can probably hear them in the background. The President still bareheaded, smiling, awaiting the benediction by Archbishop Patrick A. O'Boyle. He shakes hands with the Archbishop. The Dusty Mormont will come as the speaker's rusted. Following that, the Marine Band will play the star-spanked banner and the President will be escorted from the inaugural platform back inside the Capitol building to have a fight at luncheon and head his parade, the inaugural parade to the fame Constitution and Pennsylvania Avenues in Washington, D.C. I can at the moment locate, cannot at the moment locate the source of the chimes of the chimes. But now, the Archbishop... In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Blessed art thou, Lord God of our fathers, am worthy to be praised and glorified forever. Stretch forth thy hand, O Lord, in fruitful blessing upon our President, our Vice President, the members of our Congress, our judges and magistrates, and all those who, by our will, are entrusted with the well-being and security of our country, so that by thy aid, they may be able to discharge their duties of office with wisdom and prudence and justice. Great indeed are our faults and numberless and numberless our needs, but complete is our trust in thee, the God of all consolations, into whose hands we commit ourselves with faith and docility. Bless the people of our country that they may be governed by thy law and walk in the ways of thy commandments to bear one another's burden in that generous spirit which befits men in true brotherhood under thee, the common father of all men. Send forth thy Holy Spirit in the fullness of his gift to bless us with wisdom to perceive the ways of thy holy will with understanding to enlighten the darkness of our minds, with counsel to guide us unfailingly in the path of rectitude, with fortitude to sustain and strengthen us, with knowledge to instruct our ignorance, with piety to fructify in good works, and with reverent fear to deliver us from evil. Multiply, O Lord, upon this nation the manifold marks of thy divine approval and benediction. Set up as it is like a sign and symbol among the nations of the earth. Bless the land with fertile soil to bring forth the harvest that nourish us and feed the hungry mouth of the unfortunate who look to us for the necessities of life. and kindle in our people the spirit of charity for the many whom poverty and misery have reduced to conditions unworthy of the dignity of man. Awaken in the souls of all who call these fathers a hunger and thirst after social justice and fraternal and fraternal and fraternal charity. Grant, O Lord, peace in our days, peace in our land, and peace among the nations. to the end that the rainbow of peace and reconciliation may unfold under its serene light all peoples of the earth with the graces and blessings of tranquility. amen. Amen. did you come inова in that's Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.