Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This evening we continue with our program 1950, midpoint in the 20th century, with a discussion of new trends in education. I think most of us will agree that it would be impossible to have a series on 1950 without some discussion of this problem of education, and particularly of new trends in this very important field of endeavor. We're very fortunate this evening, and our speaker is Dr. Eric Maughan. Dr. Maughan is Executive Director of the Institute of Intercontinental Studies, and has had a great deal of experience in education in Europe and here in this country, traveled all over the world on several different occasions. He has been a lecturer at the Sorbonne, and he has a great wealth of background material on the problem of education and new trends in the field of education. I personally am very happy about one little incident. Dr. Maughan just told me that at one time he wrote a letter to our late, great president and suggested to him that every public official should be made to take a course in geography before they could serve in the public office. Of course, you can all imagine that that pleased me a great deal. I think that's a very nice idea, doctor. And so, without further ado, may I present Dr. Eric Maughan. Dr. Fairchild, ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to be here today and to have an opportunity to discuss with you the most important problem in the world today. Now, this problem is for us to make certain that our military victory should be followed by a political victory. In other words, to win the peace. But in order to do that, we must adjust our own mentality to a new world, a world torn and reborn, we hope, out of the sufferings of war. And this we must do against the background of a changing world, changing on account of scientific and technical discoveries. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm not talking about the atom bomb, nor do I talk about the hydrogen bomb said to be so powerful as to make the atom bomb itself obsolete. I'm talking about a new development, much more frightening, and yet much less publicized. On September 9th of last year, a meeting was held, sponsored by the World Health Organization in a little town in Switzerland. and the Director General of the World Health Organization, Dr. Chisholm, a very well-known and famous American doctor, made a speech. And in this speech, Dr. Chisholm said that a germ had been developed, a bacteria, a bacteriological, so powerful that seven ounces properly distributed could kill all the people in the world. Now, this is not the fantasy of a crazy lecturer who tries to impress you, but this is the statement of a great man, the Director General of the World Health Organization, a great medical authority. If Dr. Chisholm is right, and of course we have no doubt, no reason to doubt that he is, it follows then that any country with expert bacteriologists and perhaps a few fanatical distributors is as potent militarily as any other country in the world. And so the measures of military potency are obsolete. Manpower is totally irrelevant. Heavy industry has nothing whatsoever to do with this development. Large armies, large navies, large air forces are completely useless. Anti-atom bomb, anti-hydrogen bomb, both, are obsolete as the hydrogen bomb is child's play as compared to bacteria. They are deadlier, easier to make, much cheaper, much easier to use. Anybody prepared to use hydrogen bombs would certainly not hesitate to use bacterias as moral considerations do not enter here. The use of one is as immoral as the use of the other. now we are therefore at the beginning of a new age. It's a new age in the history of the world as distinct as the one that ended before these bacteriological developments took place as was the age when our ancestors left their caves and came out into the open and began to build the civilization. now we, you, you and I, not our children, but we, we have been called upon by fate to decide whether we do want to go on building or whether we do prefer to go back to caves. Now air-conditioned caves perhaps, some vitamin tablets, stored there and perhaps for those who like it, a few Frank Sinatra records and Canasta games, but caves nevertheless, air raid shelters. And then our scientists tell us that not even the deepest air raid shelters which we can possibly build are an adequate defense against atomic warfare, not even the deepest air raid shelters which we can possibly build are any defense at all against bacteriological warfare. Therefore, I submit that the only defense we have is peace. But peace is not the absence of war. Peace is a way of life. Peace is a condition of the soul. peace cannot be had by sending delegates to international conferences. Peace must be based upon confidence from man to man. Now, my friends, if peace is a state of mind, we must come to the very uncomfortable conclusion that we have not been training our mind or our minds to achieve this blessed state of peace. Now, while this failure is very, very dangerous and has brought untold suffering to millions of people in the past, it has now become a matter of survival. Our doctrines of education and, as a consequence, our political philosophies, our theories of sociology and our business practices in a very practical sense. All these have been derived from a very long line of great thinkers, a long tradition of great thinkers from Plato up to today. As Professor Whitehead once pointed out so convincingly, this tradition has been warped by the vicious assumption that each generation will live substantially amidst conditions governing the lives of its fathers and will transform these conditions to mold with equal force the life of its children. human history but we are living in the very first period of human history when this assumption is false. The problem of our day simply is that we combine greatest scientific competence with utter social incompetence. Our enemies are not framed men, foreigners, wild beasts pouring over our frontiers. Our enemies are of our own creation and whether the world is going to be a nightmare ending in complete destruction or whether it's going to be a peaceful place to live in, well the answer to that question will depend entirely upon our dealings with our own man-made means of destruction. Today we have two great schools of thought. Both are telling us that if we would accept them they would show the way out of our dilemma. They would bring about the proper education of our minds. One the dogmatists and the other one the traditionalists. Now let's see what they offer. And I like to emphasize that what I'm going to say here should not be construed as an appraisal but as statements of facts. The first place among the dogmatists is taken by the Roman Catholic Church and the many Roman Catholic colleges. Pope Pius IX in his syllabus of errors in 1864 condemned the proposition that the church should reconcile itself to modern progress. Pius X in his blast against modernism declared that there was no progress anywhere in any field by anybody outside the pale of the Roman Catholic Church. Leo XIII protested against the equal treatment of all religions by various states. the speaker for the Roman Church in matters educational in America Father O'Donnell published a book which was published in 1939 and in this book Father O'Donnell said a new civilization and culture are being molded in America even as the civilization and cultures of older European nations decay. Catholicism in the divine economy must colonize permeate and direct this vast enterprise and one of its chief agencies must be sound principles founded on abiding truth. Divine revelation delivered to the Roman Church is abiding truth in the eyes of the church and therefore Father O'Donnell concludes logically since truth cannot contradict truth and the false alone is opposed to the truth the philosopher realizes that if he should arrive at conclusions incompatible with revelation such conclusion must be false. Now we all know that naturalism has been extremely successful in western civilization and if this point of view should prevail it would be up to the scientists to accept infallible dogma. It would be difficult perhaps to persuade the non-Catholic world that the only proper study of Abraham Lincoln or Beethoven or geography would be one conditioned by infallible dogma. Now the second place among the is those who see no return to the medieval university the solution and then believe in a series of books 110 books as basis for our humanistic education. Now we cannot deny that perhaps a return to the medieval university would be a good thing. Then the nationalism which has invaded so many of our schools would be eliminated to a large extent and the organization of a college would be built around the seven liberal arts which are logic and grammar arithmetic music geometry and astronomy well that would certainly be a step forward perhaps but a lot more can be set against these 110 books. Now there are disclaimed and Chicago University is the proponent for this type of education it is claimed that there are in the world about 110 books books of permanent value books which everybody who wants an education has to read books which alone can give you the basis for what is called a good general education well the proponents of these 110 books they believe that wisdom you know is so much a thing or a past that one has to go back to 110 great masters and accept their dictum without further questioning a sort of intellectual totalitarianism but what are these books prominent is Plato an apologist for the totalitarian state Thomas from Aquinas an apologist for the totalitarian church Habes an apologist for the totalitarian monarchy the list includes skeptics such as Lucien the Greek Montand Swift Hume Pascal who thought of course that man can know nothing by unaided reason Malthus who put his trust in selfishness Rousseau is represented with one single book his social contacts and then this is the only book which discusses the common man the only other being Karl Marx well then therefore good measure we have Voltaire and we have Dostoyevsky now that one can learn from 110 books great books and indispensable books is certain one can learn from any good book and I would certainly be in favor of reading good books and not only 110 but maybe a thousand and ten or more but that these 110 books do represent something which is common to western civilization well that is a little difficult for me to see as I can imagine that let us say the explanation or the interpretation of Karl Marx by a professor at the University of Moscow will hardly coincide with interpretation of Karl Marx by a professor at the University of let's say Nebraska and I can see that perhaps even the great humanists even Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky would be interpreted a little different let's say in Athens and in Stockholm Dr. Hutchins the Chancellor of Chicago University and the defender of this great list of books says that we are living in a society which he calls one of organized competition in greed well it might perhaps be argued that one must make a living by reading these ten books but before one can make a living it seems to me one must make a living but it seems that the proponents of these book lists are not too much concerned with that I frankly cannot see how any of these trends in education that we have can help us overcome the next ten or twenty years can help us to survive can help us face a new world in which all patterns and values which we had which we developed over the years and cherished have become obsolete new trends in education are necessary new approaches to the problem of education are necessary if for no other reason than for the reason of survival you see I know my friends that I have to die someday but I just hate like well I just hate to be rushed the question then now is should we survive should western civilization survive or we could change this question into asking ourselves now can we survive survive and what can we do in order to survive if peace as we have said before is a state of mind and the workings of our mind a result of educational processes world I'm afraid that this question cannot be answered by western man alone western man cannot see that what we are witnessing in the world today is nothing less than the revolt of the world against 20 centuries of western civilization but suppose an oriental one of our friends from across the sea Japanese or Chinese or an intellectual Korean could be brought to talk about western civilization if he could get rid of his shyness for a moment and sit back in a nice big easy chair and smoke a good cigarette and talk to us about western civilization now what would such a man say I believe he would talk something like this he would say western man you are making a grave mistake you talk about western civilization all the time but what you really mean is civilization universal you talk as if there were nothing else but western civilization in religion in art in sciences you are the best the greatest the wisest the most successful the most rational but you see my friend this oriental would say the ambiguity in western civilization to us orientals is much more apparent than its consistency for instance family life now you tell us that family life is the core of western civilization yeah well my god if this is so how about china here you have a civilization based on family life alone and then even here changes are taking place there are influences from right and left influences which have nothing to do with your basic traditional approach to family life yet influence it but you cling to old traditions and then how about romantic love now certainly my oriental would say romantic love is one of the most beautiful traditions in western civilization at least this is what we are being told well if this is so then why do you permit to make a mockery out of romantic love every day and night in every western court where divorces are grinded out at ever increasing rate and with ever increasing flimsy excuses you make a mockery out of romantic love by permitting a flood of dirty gossip emanating from such holy places as Hollywood and others to permeate every home and every brain exploiting such world shaking events as who carries on with whom and what the value of a mink coat or a ring was received by this or that person for services rendered I suppose this maze of emotional propaganda is let loose upon you western man for no other reason than to titillate your nerves which you like and to make you spend your money unwisely romantic love and mind you my oriental is still speaking not I romantic love is a very wonderful tradition but you western man you confuse romantic love with property rights in women you confuse chastity with virtue and this of course must lead to all kinds of maladjustments so that your own humanists proclaim that there is a deep rooted maladjustment at the core of your very civilization which you are trying to save and talking about romantic love how about sex crimes you see in civilizations other than western ones sex crimes do hardly exist well of course you do something about it every first the half the be to go back to romantic love for which you talk so much and to eliminate everything which could disturb it. I'm talking about the movies and the radio and the funnies which to my untrained Eastern mind of course are not funny at all but just shortcuts to complete idiocy. All this you use, all that in order to sell some wares. The atmosphere which you create, this over sexed atmosphere with dirt and smut sold at every newsstand, these are responsible for your sex crimes you see, but you're not concerned with that. You sell what you can, dirt and smut included. And then you make laws which are supposed to stop the consequences of your own actions. But don't you see that you cannot succeed? And then one other thing, life of the individual in Western civilization is so very important you tell me. It is sacred. Well, if this is so, why then did Western civilization kill more people in wars and as a result of wars than all the other civilization combined? During the last 60 years alone, during the last 60 years alone, European powers, for instance, fought 74 wars lasting the total of 297 years, killing 145 million people. And you, Western man, you tell me, Eastern man, that the life of the individual is sacred within the orbit of your civilization. And, of course, of course, rationalism is one of the important features in our system. And when my Eastern friend, who is getting a little tired and will soon stop talking, when he talks about rationalism in Western civilization, then he gets real tired. If rationalism is one of these beautiful traditions of yours, he asks us, then why, why do you subject your rationalism to this maze of emotional propaganda? I mean again the movies and newspapers and magazine and funnies and short stories and motion pictures and television? Why do you use everything? God and all his angels and art and music and romantic love. God and all that in order to sell a couple of toothbrushes. And if rationalism is so important with you, why do you pile up goods in one part of the world when in another part of the world people go hungry? If rationalism is so important to you, then why can't you do something against race prejudices and its evil emotions? Oh, my Oriental would conclude his speech, and I'm sure it was the longest he ever made. He would conclude his speech by saying, well, we have learned a great deal from you. We don't proclaim that our wise men are wiser than yours, but you must permit us Orientals to judge you by the fruits of your civilization, just as you judge us by the fruit of ours. And your civilization is a civilization of destruction. Now, perhaps my Oriental overstates his point a little bit. After all, the world, the Western world, did produce Beethoven and did produce Shakespeare. So he surely overstates his point. But there is nothing in Western civilization which could explain away why the Eastern world views the Western world with such deep distrust. Why? Now the answer is a very simple one, I think. The answer simply is that our world has permitted our great achievements to be misused to unworthy ends. Let me remind you of some noble words spoken by Mr. Huxley some time ago when he celebrated the opening of Johns Hopkins University. Mr. Huxley said Mr. Huxley, I cannot say that I am in the slightest degree impressed by your bigness or your material resources as such. The great issue about which hangs a great sublimity is the terror of overhanging fate is what are you going to do with all these things? What is to be the end to which these are to be the means? Peace we have said is a state of mind. We cannot have peace if we oppose the cold materialism of our enemies with a materialism of our own. If we are to prevail, we will have to create soon this one world which we have been discussing for some time now. But my friends, we must realize that this one world cannot be a western world exclusively. the insistence upon western culture as a culture universal comes out of the same frame of mind which would have us study at school all the German Kaisers or the French kings but is totally indifferent to the fate of 400 million Chinese who play a far greater part in the world today than the French kings and German Kaisers ever did. China was lost for us because we did not try to find a moral, a democratic solution in China. Had we but known a little bit more about China, had we not been so preoccupied with making a few dollars, a revolution against an outdated way of life. The communists took over the revolution. the communists directed the revolution away from us while we stood by helplessly the communists who were. We have no choice, my friend, if we do wish to learn more about the world, the world to go and learn more about the world. The pattern which we have been following so far over a period of hundreds of years have become obsolete. It is of the utmost importance if we are to survive that our children should not be as we have been, that their values should not be our values, that their pattern should not be our pattern. There can be no program which would lead out of the battle. We are so used to getting programs, number one, two, three, four, five, you follow it up and you get results. Well, you don't. There is no such thing as developing a program which would solve these crises. But what we can do is we can try to create an atmosphere which would help, which would be conducive for the development of such a program. And in this respect, I have a few suggestions I should like to leave with you. First, we must study sciences and the application of scientific discoveries in our technology. We are living in a technology, as you know, we have become so gadget-minded. We spend all our time using time-saving gadgets. The hydrogen bomb is nothing but another gadget of ours. So we must know something about science. But even more important than that, we must study, investigate, of what happens to a society upon which such scientific discoveries as we have now are let loose. We must study the assumptions of democratic government. government. I suggest the study of representative government in America, in Britain, Scandinavian countries, and in France. What are its possibilities really? Is it an article for export? If so, why our difficulties in Germany and Japan? What is its weakness? I think if the average businessman would know as little about his own business as he knows about the assumptions of the workings of his own government, he would be in bankruptcy very soon. Now, how many of us could debate with, let us say, Earl Browder or Father Coughlin or Stalin or Franco? How many of us could debate with any one of them? democracy and make an ever so sketchy a defense of democratic principles upon which democracies are founded. And that's a very important thing. Oh, certainly we could use a lot of slogans and generalities, but not much more, I'm afraid. Number three suggestion that I have is the study of Russia. Now, whatever we think about the Soviet Union, she is a union of great importance to us. And this importance will not disappear by name-calling. If Russia is going to be our friend, we must know much about her. If she's going to be our enemy, the more reason to know more about her. Perhaps it is not very popular to advocate the study of Russia. One could be called all kinds of names, you know. But then I'd like to remind you that Karl Marx spent most of his time studying and discerning capitalism, which he wants to destroy. And we are not spending enough time, enough effort, enough study, upon communism, which most of us don't like. As I said, it is perhaps not very popular to advocate the study of Russia. One could be called even un-American. But I think it is much more un-American to ignore what one dislikes or fears, because that is cowardice. And cowardice is certainly un-American. And finally, my friends, we have to study the Orient. We can no longer ignore the great contributions which the Orient can make to our own chaotic world. There are forces alive in the Orient, forces which are not exemplified by bombs and guns, but forces which are exemplified by such men as Gandhi, intellectual forces, powerful forces. We must study the Orient. It is a very sad commentary to see that in Russia, people or the government both are aware of the importance of the Orient. And the Orient is being studied very earnestly everywhere in the Soviet Union. But with us, it is not so. We have to study the Orient and have to stop to ignore the great contributions which the Orient can make to our own chaotic world. Well, finally, I have a suggestion which touches upon a rather touchy subject. Now, we cannot deny that many of our statesmen have performed magnificently over a period of years. But when we look upon the performance of Western diplomacy during the last 50 or 60 years, we must come to the conclusion that the performance is not such as to strengthen the belief in the validity of Western culture. Lack of even the simplest knowledge of geography and sociology is all too common among the statesmen of the Western world. So much so that most of our statesmen, unfortunately, are completely unhampered by knowledge. I therefore suggest that we train our statesmen at least as thoroughly as we train our engineers, chemists, and horse doctors. We pay $167 for the education of a child in Westchester County. And we pay only $67 for the education of the same child in Mississippi. That is unsound, that is unjust, that is undemocratic, and it is dangerous. Because the $67 educated child might someday represent us in the Senate. In all that we must realize that democracy is the product of Western civilization. But so is communism. Communism, communism which we do not wish to see spread over the world, is also a product of Western civilization. And if we want to stop it, we have to create the atmosphere in which it cannot exist. Finally, I suggest the study of personal relationships based on ethical behavior. Now, ethical behavior is not something which you can teach verbally or as part of a curriculum. It can only be taught if we are placed in the midst of a world which would permit the development of ethical behavior. The main threat to the security of man is man himself. The main threat to the security of man, bacteria, bacteria, bacteria, are at the gates. We must re-examine then values that we have. It is of basic importance that the next generation, if any, should not be as we have been. Let me end this by leaving with you one basic thought. Let's keep in mind that war is obsolete. That it is a pattern which has lost value. Bacterias have made wars definitely, absolutely, and completely obsolete. If we wish to save humanity then, we have to become human ourselves. Wars are the results of the actions of man and therefore can be avoided by the actions of man. To make war is not heroic and not noble, but to make peace is both. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Mann, for that very nice talk that you've given us. I have in my hand a large group of questions here. A Frenchman. A Frenchman is a gentleman who has a typewriter. And I always like to start with that question because I can read it for sure. T.S. Elliott says, education should help to preserve the class and select the elite. Will you please comment on that? The gentleman who wants an answer to this question is recommended to read the Bible. It's also a very good book, so it never yet won the Nobel Prize. By some coincidence, there's another question here. It's rather a statement. You have spoken about some books written by some men, but you have ignored the greatest book in history, the divine prophetic Hebrew Bible and the New Testament. Read it and learn the truth. Well, you just commented on that. Do you want to comment on it again? T.S. Well, if I left out the Old Hebrew Testament, it is not I who left it out, but Chicago University. And I can assure you that they did not leave it out, but you read it there. It is one of the 110 books, so you read it, I believe, the third year. Why not the first one? I really couldn't say. All right, thank you. Dr. Mann, what is your opinion of the value of John Dewey's contribution to the field of education? Is progressive education valid for the training you propose? Progressive education is a word which has been used and misused quite a bit. Not everything which is called progressive education is progressive or education. But of course, John Dewey's contribution to American and world thinking along educational lines, which we might call progressive, has been very profound. I would not attempt to comment on that within a minute, but I'd be very happy to come back here some other time and talk about it for an hour. All right, thank you very much. Here's a question, Doctor. What teacher of fundamental ethics has Western civilization developed who could compare with Moses, Isaiah, Christ, Buddha, or Confucius? Are not all our ethics in essence oriental in character? Are not all our efforts oriental in character? Now, the fact that something was developed in the Middle East or the fact that something was developed in Asia does not necessarily make it oriental. The fact is that we have accepted not so much the mosaic law, not so much the Christian fundamental principles as the Hellenistic Greek philosophy, which has been the dominant factor, and we have applied Hebrew as well as Christian principles to that concept of life. The geographical division is, of course, one of not too great importance. If the American people would accept Buddhism tomorrow morning, they would be Buddhists, regardless of where Buddha was born. All right, thank you. Well, if I missed the point, it is certainly not the first one I missed. The gentleman thinks that you missed the point and that you should comment more on, are not all our ethics oriental? Are they or are they not, in your opinion? Well, are our ethics oriental or not? I couldn't say. The ethics which we apply within the orbit of Western civilization and have been applying for some years is the ethic of force. And the ethic of intellectual force which the Orient applies is foreign to us. Gandhi achieved what he achieved without firing a shot. And we achieved what we achieved by firing many. You've mentioned so much about Russia this evening and about studying it. The question here is, what is the best way to go about studying Russia? There are several questions of a similar nature. Could you talk in that little bit? If I would know, ladies and gentlemen, what the best way would be of studying Russia, I would probably be the advisor to Secretary Atchison on Russian questions. I have no ready-made program of how to study Russia. But I do know that the way we are going about it is not studying it, but just name-calling. Now, I have no objection. Name-calling, any jerk can do that. But we have to read fundamental books. In other words, we have to study Karl Marx. We have to study the writings of Lenin. We have to study the writings of Stalin, etc. We have to study them just as carefully and just as diligently as we study anything else, if we hope to understand it. And we have to differentiate between Russia, between communism, and between Soviet foreign policy. Those are three different types of things. All right. Thank you. Albert Schweitzer bases his ethical approach to human conduct on reverence for life. Do you agree with this approach? And if so, how can it be inculcated? Do I agree with Albert Schweitzer's approach that he places ethical behavior upon the reverence for life? For two years now, I've been traveling up and down the country telling people that we must survive and trying to find ways of how to survive. So, of course, I completely agree that life is or should be the sacredness of life. The holiness of life should be made the basis of our ethical approach. And it is exactly in this respect that we have failed so utterly. All right. Thank you, Doctor. Yes, sir. You stated a number of times during your lecture that peace was a state of mind. It seems to me that neither peace nor hunger are a state of mind, but rather an economic problem. During your lecture, you mentioned Marx and other economists. And I believe you also brought in the question of the church. And certainly nowhere along that line could you say it was merely a mental process, peace. I don't quite understand whether this was a question or a statement. I take... I meant to bring out to you that peace is not merely a mental state, but rather an economic problem. Peace is not solely an economic problem. If we consider peace solely an economic problem, we have accepted the same materialism as those which we call our enemies today. Peace is not solely an economic problem. We have been saying for many years that economics and not emotions rule international relations. But in this no approach, in this no pattern of which I've been talking about, we have to get away from this wrong concept. Emotions are important in international relations. All right, sir. Thank you. Do you deny that class struggle exists in our present society? And if it does exist, wouldn't our whole approach and thought necessarily become Marxist in nature? I didn't quite get that. I do repeat that. Do you deny that class struggle exists in our present society? And if it does exist, wouldn't our whole approach to thought and education necessarily become Marxist? Well, if you let me read that, maybe I can get it. I'm sorry. Do you deny that there is a class struggle exists, to start with? The gentleman is trying to pin me down and make a Marxist out of me. Do you deny that class struggle exists? Of course, I don't deny that class struggle exists. And class struggle is a result of economic conditions as well as of some mental conditions. And if we want to solve class struggle, we do not have to become Marxist. If we would apply the principles of Jeffersonian democracy, it would also abolish class struggle and would also bring about a classless society economically. But it would establish a class society intellectually. There would be intellectual leaders and intellectual leds. All right, Arthur. One of the leddest trends in education in our state is red hunting. So the state government passed the Feinberg Law. Now, what I don't understand is how are all our teachers going to teach anything about Russia or communism without getting thrown out of the high schools or getting into all sorts of political trouble? I have said before that our approach to education has to be changed. We can no longer be afraid. We cannot disregard things which we don't like. It is like not studying communism in schools, not being concerned with socialism as a science or an economic system or whatever you have. Not being concerned with that would be tantamount to, well, we say we don't like cancer, so we disregard it. Of course, our teachers should not be thrown out. All right, thank you. Here's another question, doctor. I think I'll have to pick a boner with you, doctor, for the following reason. I like bones. You don't mind it? No. You don't mind. All right. Among your hundred books that Hutchins suggested, I find one quite sympathetic. In fact, I thought he was one of the four men that gave 19th century civilization a lift. And that was Marx among them, Freud, Einstein, and our friend Darwin. But that's besides the question. What I want to say is that one thing I found from Marx, which you are probably not finding indicative in your lecture, is that he told us that the future, mark you the future of mankind, belongs to the workers of hand and brain of the future, and that those that have had conduct of things must have necessity get thrown out of the way. What I think he meant by that is that your capitalism... Yeah. Somewhat long question. Oh. He's going to make this point now, go ahead. Yeah. What I mean to say is that you are trying to pull your punches as most lecturers of this age and day. You do not belong to the generation of the Debses, the La Follets, and even the confused Boras of yesterday. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that I have made it clear through the hour that I spoke here, that I do not believe that we adults can bring about this brave new world which would guarantee survival of the race. I said that our patterns are obsolete. Our values are obsolete. So what we can do and what we must do is to place all the knowledge we think we have at the disposal of the younger generation. Let them study, find out, form opinions. We cannot so completely change. Now, whether or not Karl Marx is right, I do not attempt to say. Maybe he is and maybe he is not. But, so far, neither Karl Marx nor any of the 110 great writers who have published these great books has prevented wars. And I am concerned here not with Karl Marx as such or not with Confucius as such and not with any one group of people as such. But I am concerned here with the preservation of peace and nothing else. The doctor of peace is based on mutual confidence. How can one have confidence in fascists and Nazis? Well, how one can have confidence in fascists and Nazis, I do not know. I have certainly not. But the fact is that you cannot stop the wind with bayonets. In other words, if you call fascist names, if you call communist names, you will not succeed. We have defeated the German army. Oh, wonderfully defeated, completely defeated. But who would say that we defeated fascism? We might be able to defeat Russian armies. But who can say that by doing so, we will have defeated communism. So again, it is a mental approach. And the only answer to international fascism or to international gangsterism is international honest democracy. Thank you. Dr. Ma, the educational system works very slowly. Do you think that through education we can do anything to help us during this atomic crisis? Education works very slowly. I know that from personal experiences. I went through schools for more than 25 years and this is all I know. Of course it works very slowly. It cannot possibly work otherwise. But education is not something the fruits of which can be seen overnight. And whether we do have time or not to put into operation an educational program or not, I could not say. Maybe atom bombs will begin falling tonight. So I doubt it very much. But if we do not presume that we will have time, well, we might as well give up altogether and have a whiskey. All right, doctor. Here's a question. Dr. Ma, from your lecture I gather that you're a pragmatist, that you believe in an open society and an ever-changing, a flux society. Yet, most of you pragmatists, when you come down to essentials, even William James, in his book on pragmatism, speaks about the suicide of a family. But he doesn't take an idealistic concept of a family, but it takes an objective point of view in a world of experience. Yet, pragmatism, yet the question is, why do you people discard such values as idealism? And righteousness and truth and beauty and all these factors in the world of actuality and not in your world of so-called reality. I am afraid that the gentleman somewhat misunderstood what I had said here. I have said several times tonight that we cannot possibly hope to win if we confront the materialism of our technology with another materialism. We have to go back to humanism. If we want to save humanity, I said, we have to become human ourselves. In other words, we have to confront hydrogen bomb with Beethoven. We have to confront with, we know that Heinrich Heine understood Germany and Europe much better than all of our statesmen. We know that Walt Whitman had a better grasp of the American soul than all of our statesmen combined. We have to go back to them. Thank you. Mr. Speaker, I agree with you in part of your talk. Well, at least one person that agrees with me. I will not attack you. I'll volunteer to be a bodyguard going out. He won't need one, sir. Why not stop all lawyers the world over, except Russia, from becoming law makers in their Congress? And let common man who is alert on his government doings go to the House of Congress in their Parliament and Senate to care for the people, including the people who come from the state of Mississippi, the man who knows his problems for the people. Just give this a try for 25 years, the world over, and no more books will be printed on the subject of war. Thank you. I completely agree. All right. Thank you very much. As long as we have complete agreement on that one question, we better rest on answering. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.