Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the reviewing stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The reviewing stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the reviewing stand discusses population and food pressure in the Orient. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the problems created by overpopulation and food shortages in the Far East. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, director of the reviewing stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Our first speaker by transcription is George F. Kennan, counselor to the State Department and top-ranking authority on the Soviet Union. The remarks that Mr. Kennan now makes are taken from a speech delivered at the first Centennial Conference on International Understanding held at Northwestern University on January 29th of this year. Mr. Kennan. Now let's take first this question of population. Now, in 1750, just before the formation of our Republic, the population of the world was estimated at 660 million. A hundred years ago, by 1851, it had risen to something more nearly one billion. Today, in 1951, it is estimated at over 2 billion, 200 million. Now, today, large portions of the earth have reached so severe a state of overpopulation in terms of their own resources, that they can survive only by making out of their territories workshops and exchanging their products for the food and raw materials they need. Now, strangely enough, these overpopulated workshop areas, despite their tremendous economic vulnerability and despite all the shocks that occurred to them during the recent war, and most of them got very severe ones, have been able to keep going and have been able to maintain a vigorous civilization, with our help to be sure, in these recent years. But there are other areas which seem to be in an even worse way, and these are the ones which are both backward industrially and overpopulated. Now, they are ridden to a large extent by traditional prejudices and behavior patterns, which weigh very heavily on their ability even to approach the solution of their problems by increasing productivity. And actually, as things stand today, there is no evidence that increased productivity alone would have more than a temporary palliative effect on their problem. Because in those countries, population is constantly pressing against a ceiling created by the supply of food and other things necessary for existence. And fertility is such that population will readily rush in to fill any new area or vacuum that's created by the raising of that ceiling. The only answer here that I can see, the only material answer would seem to lie in some form of limitation of births, and most of those areas are so far from that that we can dismiss the possibility entirely, I think, from this discussion. Now, no one can speak with any certainty about these matters. There are tremendous exceptions to anything that you want to say about them. There are exceptions to what I've just said here. There are no problems more baffling or more elusive than these questions of the relationship of population to foods, pie, and to other fundamental conditions. But it is my impression that there are large and significant portions of the earth today where the combination of all these things has created a highly unsatisfactory and even tragic state of affairs, characterized by immense restlessness and bewilderment among the respective peoples. And I think we have to adjust ourselves to the prospect that a large segment of the world's population, in terms of numbers, is destined to continue to live in a state of bitter competition for the possession of inadequate resources. That this is going to produce, to continue to produce, reactions on their part which will not be happy ones, will not be similar to our habits of thought in this country, which will seem unnatural to us, and which will inevitably place limitations on the degree of intimacy that we can hope to achieve rapidly and hastily between ourselves and themselves. This is the essence of one of our great problems of foreign affairs, namely our relations with the peoples whose lives are marked as much by technical backwardness and material poverty as our lives are marked by technical advance and material abundance. And we shouldn't underrate the depth of that problem. There is nothing more difficult than for a rich man to talk to a poor man and have the poor man listen to him respectfully. And when we talk to these people, that relationship comes into it, and I think we've got to be very, very careful to try to talk to them in terms of their problems, not of our dreams and preconceptions here, and not to promise them too much or to lead them to believe that we have answers which we do not have. Thank you, Mr. Kennan. Continuing this Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion are E.B. Espenshade, Jr., Associate Professor of Geography at Northwestern University, D. Gail Johnson, Associate Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, and L. Dudley Stamp, Professor of Social Geography at the London School of Economics. Gentlemen, you will remember that Mr. Kennan said, a large segment of the world's population in terms of numbers is destined to continue to live in a state of bitter competition for possession of inadequate resources. When he makes this statement, Stant, what areas of the world does he have in mind? Well, now, I imagine, of course, that he's thinking of those many areas which we call underdeveloped, especially in the tropics. But I take it that this morning we're really going to consider a part of the area concerned, that's to say, the Orient. Now, as I see it, we've got India and Pakistan on the one hand with certainly over 400 million people. We've got China on the other hand also with over 400 million people. And then there's a block of countries in between, let's call them Southeast Asia, and the continuation into the islands of Indonesia. They're rather different. Well, yes, it's quite true that they are quite different, particularly the Southeast Asia countries, because they are a large scale important producers of agricultural raw materials, such as rubber, which they export. And before this last war, Burma and one or two other countries were also important exporters of rice. And they essentially have far more resources in terms of their population than either India or China. Well, in addition, locally within the Southeastern Asia area, there are some areas of intense population pressure, such as in Java and in parts of French Indochina. Although, as Stamp says, there are many areas which perhaps could be developed and support a much larger population in this region. Well, let's look at it in this way. Let's take India and Pakistan. There, there's less than two acres per head of population of land of all sorts. And the actual productive land on which those people live is considerably less than one acre. Now, let's take the relatively prosperous possessor of resources like Burma. Now, they've got 14 or 15 acres to play with. So there is a contrast. It's the great over-populated, if you like, densely populated country of India and Pakistan that I think we ought to look at. Yes, one might contrast the figures for India with our own, where we have considerably in excess of two acres of very fertile land in large part per person in this country. Much more than twice as much land per person as does India. And this shows up definitely in the amount of food we have available. We eat in this country over 3300 calories a day, whereas the Indians do well if they get 2000 calories a day. Well, why do these conditions of population and food supply, in Kennan's words, make for immense restlessness and bewilderment? Stan? Well, I should say that what you've really got there, people are living near the starvation level. And if they get a bad harvest, if the rains fail, as does frequently happen in India, they are going to have millions reduced to death by starvation. It actually happened this year, didn't it? It did, yes. And it's constantly happening in different years. Well, now, when you've got people who are living under conditions of that sort, and someone comes along and says, Now, why not try something new? Why not try communism? You can't be worse off. You see, there's an immense temptation to try something. It's like the drowning man clutching at the straw. And that's where I see the danger. And, uh, Espen Shade? I grant you that these people have a sense of futility and injustice around them. But it seems to me there are two ways of looking at this problem of poverty here. In the first place, you can explain the poverty on an ideological basis. You can say that the poverty is due to the fact that the landlords grind down the farmer, and their high taxes and so forth. Or you can look at it that the poverty in these areas is due to technological reasons. That, uh, you have a large population dependent in almost entirely on agriculture. And that agriculture is essentially a whole agriculture. Well, I'd like to refer to what I think we might call the cycle of poverty. You take the ordinary Indian peasant cultivator. He hasn't the money to buy good seed. He hasn't the money to buy fertilizer. He hasn't the money to buy implements. All right? He, he plants his poor seed and he gets a poor yield. He eats all the food he can produce. He's got no surplus for sale. Therefore, at the end of the year, he's got no money. He's probably still more in debt than previously to his landlord. He's probably got a daughter that he's got to marry off and provide a diary. And there he is, this cycle of poverty. Now, where are you going to break into that? Will have the communists broken into it in China in any way? Well, the communists in China, of course, have attempted to solve the problem. But I doubt it's too early for us to tell what they are going to be able to do in the future. But they've divided the agricultural lands of northern China. But to divide those lands up is not going to increase your agricultural productivity. They have a certain advantage, however. They have a strong immediate appeal to the Chinese peasant. And that immediate appeal gives them certain cohorts that follow very blindly because they're gaining immediately. But they're not going to answer the problem unless they can increase the productivity in these areas. Yes, the problem of increasing productivity is very seldom if ever solved by making your farm smaller and smaller. Because each farmer generally will have less capital and consequently cannot buy the fertilizer, cannot even use the very simplest improved techniques. And I think we should not forget here that the problem of overpopulation or poor food supplies is also a consequence of essential imbalance between the number of people and the quantity of land. It's not only low productivity from the land, but the fact that the land itself is limited in supply relative to the number of people. Well, I want to make certain distinctions there. Now, as far as India is concerned, the acre yields of crops are very low indeed. And I think that there could be an enormous increase in output in food in India from existing land if only we could break into that cycle, say, by starting off with fertilizer. Now, as far as I know China, it's a different story there, where they've got this intense cultivation. We'll call them all gardeners rather than farmers, and they really do use their land very intensively. Yes. No problem. Yes, the Indian situation may be very comparable to the one that the Japanese faced over the past 40, 50 years, in which they have increased their yields by at least 40 percent by just doing the sorts of things you mentioned. More fertilizer, somewhat better seeds, in fact considerably better seeds, and by a little bit better techniques otherwise. And this was very important. I grant you, Stamp, that yields in India are considerably higher than they are, I mean considerably lower than they are in China. But even in the case of China, there's room for considerable improvement in your agricultural productivity. You compare Chinese yields with those of the intensive agriculture of Europe, you could have 20, 30 percent improvement in yields in China. Well, may I break in there because I'm not quite sure about that. It's certainly true of India, but we must not judge these oriental countries from our standards. You know, we are thinking in terms of mechanized farming and so on. What one has got to get there is not any saving in labor. One's got to get this increase in yield from the small units. And I'm not even sure that I agree that there's anything wrong in getting smaller units. Intensive cultivation by hand, that's the point. Yes, but you have very intensive cultivation by hand even in China, prior to the reduction in the size of the units in most places. But I would quite agree with you that mechanization in our modern sense of Western Europe and the United States is not the answer. Because it may well drive down yields as contrasted to what they could be by hand cultivation with good techniques. And good feet. You gentlemen believe then that it simply, it isn't simply a problem of overpopulation. Haspen Shea? Well, as Stamp has already said, there is this problem of underproduction. Although I feel that basically the problem is still one of overpopulation. You take the farms of China. If you, you will find that the per capita production is about twice as great on a farm of 10 acres as it is on a farm of about 3 acres. And you want some excess of production here in order to increase the standard of living of these people. To divide the farms merely means that you have less per capita production. So that underproduction isn't the only answer to it. I still think that there's a strong case here for overpopulation in these regions, Stamp. Well, I'm not sure that I agree on the definition of overpopulation. You see, I come from a country, from Britain, where we've got less than half the area of land per head that there is in India. Now our problem, if you're right, is even far worse. Yes, but over the years you've been able to import up to half of your food supply. That's true. And do it by exchanging your manufactured goods for it. Now a few minutes ago, Mr. Kennan pointed out that the Orient is ridden by traditional prejudices and behavior patterns that tend to block any attempts to solve the problems caused by overpopulation and inadequate food supply. Johnson, what are some of the more important prejudices and behavior patterns that he had in mind? Well, it's a little hard to define either prejudices or behavior patterns in a way that's very meaningful. I suppose he perhaps meant such things as following the same techniques of production as they have over the years, of having certain family attitudes with respect to controlling the number of people and considerations of that sort. Well, in both China and India, I think you find the family is the cornerstone of the social structure. They don't have social security in China. A Chinese farmer has a large family to provide for his old age. It's a pure manner of survival. So he obtains his economic security to some extent from having a large family. In addition, in China, ancestor worship is an important part of their attitude to life. And as an outgrowth of that, throughout China you'll find that in agricultural regions three, four percent of the land may be devoted to graves. Excellent land which could be used for increasing agricultural production. Yes, I agree that that's perfectly true. But I don't want to have this question of prejudice overemphasized. The peasant farmer in any land, he's conservative and he likes to be absolutely convinced before he changes his ways. And he's very right over that. But the point I'd like to make is that at the present time, especially as I know India, the changes are enormous and the changes are very rapid. You see, you've got far or less the caste system swept on one side. And since India and Pakistan became self-governing countries in 1947 in the British Commonwealth, you've got all these little principalities have been joined together. In fact, the Indians themselves have done so much in that way which the British Indian government, I don't think, could have done from outside. Yes, I think that's very true. Though I suppose we might come back just a second to Mr. Kennan's point. Perhaps one of the sort of things he's speaking about in terms of prejudices is the case of the sacred bulls and cows in India. Yes. You want to tell us a little bit about that, Mr. Stanton? Well, yes. I think people know that the sacred bull is allowed to wander about much as he likes. I think you still get him in the streets of Calcutta, sitting under the arcades of the Grand Hotel and are able to fall over him if you're late back at night. Well, it seems strange to us. But then you see the cow and the bull, after all, they're the basis of so much life in the country. It's no wonder that they're revered. A moment ago you said some of these behaviour patterns and prejudices were being broken down quite rapidly in these countries. That's true. Is that true? I think it's very marked with the, what do we call them, the upper level of the people in India. I'd like to... The students in the universities and colleges, men and women working together in a way in which they didn't five, ten years ago. I'd like to put you on a spot here, Stamp, on this question of breaking down prejudices and behaviour patterns. You say that that's happened since the colonialism of the Dutch and the British has been wiped out in those countries. Did the colonialism of Western Europe tend to perpetuate these behaviour patterns and prejudices? Well, I would just perhaps like to come to Mr. Stamp for the defense of these Western powers a moment. I suspect there's a great deal to be said for this, that one reason why the changes in India has been so rapid in the last four or five years, is that the Indians no longer have the British as the whipping boy, as the cause of all their problems. And since things didn't materially improve the instant the British left, they had to look to themselves, to problems indigenous to themselves. And now that they're looking at these problems rationally, they're doing something about them. Well, how do these religious customs tend to operate to cripple food production? I think you started to develop that, Stan. Yes, I think there are some, but I don't know one could pick out any particular ones. And as I say, I think the change is taking place, for example, with regard to cattle. Well, now we think of cattle producing milk, and you've got, for example, the dairying industry being developed in India at the present time. The change is taking place. One of the great troubles, of course, is the use of the goat in India. It's allowed to go all over the place, causes soil erosion and so on. Well, now if we can persuade, or the Indians can be persuaded, that that's a useless animal, or not a very useful one, then I think we may get improvement that way. Up to this point in our discussion, gentlemen, you have set forth the many problems in the Orient that exist because of the terrific population and food pressures in these areas. You have developed in some detail many causes for these problems. With this background in mind, I should like to ask this question. What is being done now to solve the problems you've described? Espinche? Well, we're in the process of making a beginning, I would say. But the first thing that worries me here is how well equipped these nations are to solve some of these problems themselves. To an increasing degree, I feel that education is the cornerstone upon which we must depend to solve these problems in the long run. In both China and India, a large proportion of the population is illiterate. Until the people can communicate freely, you're not going to be able to bring about changes in agricultural techniques and so forth. They're short in technicians. They can carry on or do the research work necessary to develop better agricultural procedures. I think there's a point which we may be forgetting there, and that's the wonderful change which is caused by the use of the radio. You'll go to an Indian village today and you'll see the villagers sitting around their radio and listening commonly. They're getting advice on farming, and although they may not be able to read and write, they can hear and they can listen, and that's making a great change. But may I refer, I think, at this stage to the Colombo Plan. Now, I think it may be known that the Prime Ministers, the Premiers of India, Pakistan, Salon, and other British Commonwealth countries, notably Australia, New Zealand, Canada, and the United Kingdom, they got together at Colombo, and they themselves, these peoples, put forth a six-year plan for their own development. I think your points, that last point you made, Stamp, is very important. That the Colombo Plan is a conception largely of the people who are involved here. That they, on their own initiative to a large degree, have brought forth a plan to solve their own problems. And then secondly, these countries in the Colombo Plan, are, underneath its conception, are supposed to supply at least half the capital involved. That's right, yes. The British government, I think, is going to plan to put in about a billion dollars in that, is it not, Stan? Something of that sort. Yes, I'm certainly glad that we mentioned the Colombo Plan, because I suspect that many Americans are not nearly as familiar with it as they are with our own .4 programs. And to a lesser extent, ECA. However, I'm afraid that the .4 is still more of a wish and a hope than any real program. That we are only really starting on it, and it has yet not made much contribution to these problems. We haven't made much financial contribution under either of the two programs you mentioned, Johnson. But an interesting thing occurs to me here, that in Europe we found it an expensive proposition to support the ECA program. And some people fear the Far East or the Orient, because it might be just as expensive. I think that a program can be developed for the Orient, which is far less expensive, because their needs are of a different sort. They need some technical help. Yes. They need aid in fertilizer. They need aid in medicines and drugs and insecticides and so forth. Things that don't cost as much as some of the capital equipment that Europe needed so vitally. I think two points should be made here, however. First of all, the .4 program has to have a much longer duration than we planned for ECA. In other words, we can't go into it for two or three years or even a decade. I think we have to assume that we have to carry it through for 20, 30, 40 years, if not longer. And secondly, even though the capital requirements will not be large at first in doing the sorts of things that have been discussed here, these countries will eventually want to industrialize. They will not want just to support themselves out of agriculture, which has never meant a very high level of living. And when industrialization starts, then the capital cost will become large. Yes. Well, now, you've brought in industrialization, and don't let us get a wrong idea there. During World War II, of course, tremendous strides were made with factory industries in India. That's been going on for some time. But the net result is that you've got fewer people employed in manufacturing goods than you had before, because the old village industries, you see, are so largely gone. But may I throw in a point here? I think, perhaps, we are still judging these countries too much from our angle of material civilization. You know, take the Burmans. What they want are not material progress so much in our sense of the leisure to enjoy life, and to sit back and see the beauties of nature. That's really their objective in life. Don't forget it. In other words, we have to develop programs in their terms rather than our terms. Is that what you're saying? Absolutely. Yep. I agree with that, Bourne, decidedly. I think the problem is to be stated like this. It is simple to tell a man that somebody's been unfair to him or unjust to him. But it's a different thing to tell him that he's doing his things wrongly or his productivity isn't done, his production isn't carried out by the right procedure. Well, what about what should be done? I think we've been talking here about what is being done. What should be done in these areas specifically? Johnson? Well, I would agree that we should extend both, expand further education, we should extend further technical assistance to aid these farmers to increase their productivity, and we should also do something which will help them bring population within reasonable limits. In other words, we cannot, I think, stand a population explosion in the Orient. Birth control? I say birth control is one aspect, but it's probably not the entire answer. It's not as simple as that. We've got to enter into a phase of sociological engineering along the lines of birth control, in my opinion. Physically, it is impossible to carry on birth control in these areas now. You lack cheap, simple means, and you don't have the sanitary facilities for such things. But in the long run, I think we have to come to some such answer. Well, there's no doubt that we're dealing with one of the great world problems at the present day, and I do feel that these countries have got to work out their own salvation. They've got to give us their viewpoint. Let's help them. I'm not sure that I agree even with your approach to birth control. We've got to get it from their angle. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Population and Food Pressure in the Orient. In a moment, I'll explain how you can secure a copy of this broadcast. But first, I'd like to tell you about some recent reviewing stand broadcasts. In the last few months, we have analyzed such questions as, Should gambling be legalized? Are the public schools doing their jobs? And who should be drafted? You can secure a list of these broadcasts by simply sending a postcard with your name and address and the words recent broadcasts to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. A copy of today's broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were E.D. Eppenshade, Jr., D. Gail Johnson, George F. Kennan, and L. Dudley Stant. Now our moderator, Laken Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand's broadcast falls on April Fool's Day. We will observe this interesting American holiday by discussing the subject, What Fool's These Mortals Be? Our guest will be Bergen Evans, professor of English at Northwestern University and noted authority on the customs and mores of our culture. The writer, Francis Coughlin, director of continuity at WGN. And Menos Spahn, associate professor of German at Northwestern University. For a stimulating discussion of superstitions and practical jokes, we invite you to listen next week for What Fool's These Mortals Be? Remember the address for your copy of today's broadcast, The reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. The reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Dick Coughlin, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. 행s of Irr Tanzania team. David, I'm here. I'm sure I've Also Thecon. The following stand is brought here to The Favorite Who's These Mortals Be? Yes, please do give fighting... You should house our chief, Mission explosion, mass пят glutton to virtual yes earn relatively quick and flexible. You should be Almost The purpose of Our uprising Be. Please dread contracts with the warnings