The End The End The End The End Gentlemen, may I have your attention for a moment? It's very unfortunate that we have to break in on the luncheon. I know some of you, if you have been following your past habits, have eaten some time ago. And those of us that came in late haven't had much chance. But the necessities of the city require the mayor to meet with the members of the Board of Estimate at 2.30. And he will not get there on time, but he will get there almost on time. And we're going to have a few words from the mayor. If you see other members of the Board of Estimate, leave the table. You will know there's not in any way that they're in a hurry to get away from the Advertising Club in New York or the distinguished guests. But that they are due at the City Hall at 2.30. It gives me great pleasure to present to you, Mayor Vincent R. Impelterian. Thank you. To Waylon, Captain Carlson, Reverend Clergy, distinguished members of the Armed Forces, my colleagues on the Board of Estimate, we almost have a majority right here. If the balance of the Board was here, we could convene in an executive session here and it would obviate the necessity of going back to City Hall. Gentlemen, first of all, as Grover has told you, I regret very much that I have to break in at this stage of the luncheon and to tell you that it would be impossible either for me or for my colleagues on the Board of Estimate, the Borough President of the Bronx, the Borough President of Richmond, the acting Borough President of King's, are here with me and have to leave with me in order to attend a meeting of the Board of Estimate at 2.30. We had staged a complete day off yesterday to greet Captain Carlson so that we could have spent the whole afternoon with the members of the Advertising Club and giving this proper recognition to Captain Carlson. But the elements postponed it until today so that we have to go on with this meeting at 2.30. and confidentially on the way up, I asked Captain Carlson if he could help me solve the present financial situation of the City of New York. And I thought that if he had any suggestions, I might have then been able to telephone back to my colleagues at City Hall and postpone the meeting until demore. But the Captain had no suggestions. So we have to go on with the meeting. I also wanted to call attention to the fact that the Commissioner of Borough Works of Manhattan representing Borough President Wagner, Charlie Hand, is also with us. Of course, I've already said everything that I could possibly say about Captain Carlson at City Hall just before coming up here. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Certificate of the City of New York. In addition to that, he was also presented with the City's Medal Honor of Award, which he now wears proudly. everything I could possibly say about him has already been said by me. The members of the Board of Estimate have asked me to express their thankfulness and appreciation to the President, the officers, and the members of the Advertising Club for making available the facilities of this club for this perfectly wonderful luncheon. We appreciate it very much. They've also authorized me, after a very hectic vote that took some time this morning, to permit me to, and to authorize me, to have Grover Whelan take my place after I leave and Grover will express the thanks of the city. I want to thank Grover for the perfectly wonderful job he did today. And before leaving, I think that the whole atmosphere of what we're celebrating here today and what we're here for is the tremendous humility of this man that we honor here today. Just a moment ago, applause I'm not going to talk about his courage. I'm not going to talk about his gallantry. Because a lot of people have that and then fail to possess one of the cardinal virtues of all, and that's humility. Just a moment ago, he turned to me and said, Mr. Mayor, he said, I appreciate everything that the city of New York has done for me. It's been perfectly wonderful. He said, I shall never forget it. But frankly, he said, I don't think I'm entitled to this at all. He said, just think of it. He said, I failed to bring my ship back into port. Doesn't that sum up the type of men that we honor today? applause Thank you very much for permitting the city to join partnership with you and providing your wonderful facilities for the city of New York and honoring a distinguished American and keeping on in the wonderful tradition of the American merchant marine. My congratulations to Captain Carlson. applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause lavaaby EPI países adults they see you in many ways. Watch your half. What the same way, they see you in the my life. Nothing's going to beこう for now. Paul Cold Loved throwing Hey! Hola. What the same time?