Right or work. If we had a cigarette, we'd smoke it, but we haven't time for it. Now, here's another one. We have here some all-time collapsible pencils. We close up them and put them on the end of a chain. Well, that's the end of a chain. They are embalmed in a written document, but they must still reflect the spirit of our people and express an enduring capacity to observe self-imposed limitations. Thank you, Judge Hand. You have just heard Judge Augustus N. Hand of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals. Judge Hand has discussed for our enlightenment and as a stimulus to our patriotism in celebration of the 147th anniversary of the adoption of the Bill of Rights, the authorship and history of the provisions of the first ten amendments to the Constitution of the United States. Next to be considered are the circumstances surrounding the adoption of the Bill of Rights by the states. This phase of the subject will be presented to you by Justice Lloyd Church of the Supreme Court of the State of New York. Justice Church was born in Virginia. The state, it may be said in passing, was the last to ratify the first ten amendments to the Constitution. In his discussion of the circumstances surrounding the adoption of the Bill of Rights by the states, Justice Church will doubtlessly explain the circumstance as a part of his brief historical narrative, which will prove an interesting feature of our discussion of the Bill of Rights today. We are happy to present to you Supreme Court Justice Church. The American colonies brought to a successful conclusion the War of the Revolution by the Treaty of Peace of 1783. In writing of the government under the Articles of Confederation during the five subsequent years, John Fisk the historian says, The period of five years following the peace of 1783 was the most critical moment in all the history of the American people. The Articles of Confederation invested Congress with the authority to make, but without power to enforce payment of, requisitions apportioned among the several states in proportion to the value of all land within each state. In five years Congress received less than two and a half million dollars in requisitions. For the 14 months ending January 1st, 1786, the income was at a rate of less than $375,000 a year, a sum insufficient for the bare maintenance of the federal government. In fact, the income was less than the interest on the foreign debt. Being without adequate funds, the government was helpless to suppress the current insurrections arising from the soldiers of the revolution trying to collect their pay, and from the creditor class attempting to enforce payment of debts allowed to remain dormant during the revolution. In the absence of other means of obtaining funds, Congress had issued paper money based solely on the expectancy of the states to redeem it. Thomas Jefferson claimed that by the end of 1781, $1,000 of continental script was worth about $1 in specie. There was nothing which could be dignified as a national fiscal policy or a monetary or banking system. There was no power to regulate trade or commerce. Various attempts were made to negotiate commercial treaties between the states, although specifically prohibited by the Articles of Confederation. Virginia, subsequently to a discussion with Merlin of duties and commercial matters in general, advanced the cause in an extra-legal fashion and invited all the other states to send representatives to a general trade convention and later announced a meeting to be held at Annapolis in September 1786. James Madison was primarily responsible for initiating the conference between Virginia and Maryland and for the subsequent steps resulting in the trade convention at Annapolis. In the trade convention itself, however, Madison seldom took a conspicuous part. Alexander Hamilton of New York played a leading role. In fact, he wrote the report which was adopted and subsequently eventuated in the calling of the Constitutional Convention, which met in Philadelphia in 1787 for the sole and express purpose of revising the Articles of Confederation and reporting such alterations as shall render the Federal Constitution adequate to the exigencies of government and the preservation of the Union. The task of the Constitutional delegates was, as Madison then said, now to decide forever the fate of Republican government. He, next to George Washington, who was the presiding officer of the convention, was the most important member of the Virginia delegation. He who had helped ably to frame the Virginia Constitution was the leading expert worker of the convention in drafting the federal Constitution. Hamilton seldom attended the convention and had very little to do with the framing of the Constitution, but his influence and efforts were directed to the adoption of the Constitution after it had been agreed upon by the states attending the Constitutional Convention. On Monday, the 17th of September, 1787, the convention adjourned, transmitting the recommendations to Congress, which sent the document to the states, but without a word of approval or disapproval. At the several state conventions called to act on the Constitution, Delaware, the first state to adopt, although Pennsylvania was the first to call the convention and ratified on December 12th, ratified it on December 7th, 1787. New Jersey, Georgia, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Maryland, and South Carolina followed. By the ratification of the ninth state, New Hampshire, on June 21st, 1788, the Constitution became effective. Shortly thereafter, Virginia ratified on June 25th and New York July 26th, 1788. In the Massachusetts Convention, nine amendments, primarily in the nature of a Bill of Rights, were demanded, and the Massachusetts representatives in Congress were instructed at all times to exert all their influence and to use all reasonable and legal methods to obtain the ratification of the said alterations and provisions. The Virginia Convention voted to ratify under the conviction that whatsoever imperfections may exist in the Constitution ought rather to be examined in the mold prescribed therein than to bring the Union into danger by delay with the hope of obtaining amendments previous to the ratification. The credit for the achievement of inducing the New York Convention, of which it was said that at first more than two-thirds of the delegates were anti-federalists in sentiment, belongs chiefly to Alexander Hamilton. By his Federalist papers and personal influence in the Convention, he induced the New York delegates to adopt the Constitution without imposing as a condition the adoption of a Bill of Rights, but with only a recommendation of amendments. He took the position that the body of the Constitution contained the protection in most respects afforded by, and was in every rational sense and to every useful purpose, a Bill of Rights. He thought a further Bill of Rights not only unnecessary, but dangerous as a pretext for claiming constructive or implied powers not granted to the Federal Government. Jefferson, in a letter from Paris to Madison, urged the need of amendments providing a Bill of Rights. The executive in our government is not the soul. It is scarcely the principal object of my jealousy, he wrote. The tyranny of legislatures is the most formidable dread at present and will be for many years. That of the executive will come in its turn, but it will be at a remote period. Many of the leading statesmen of the time were anxious for the prompt adoption of a Bill of Rights, not only because of the tacit or gentleman's agreement that if the Constitution were adopted, amendments would properly be proposed, but also for the reason that such matters of vital importance should not be left to inference, implication, or construction. On March 4th, 1789, Congress convened in New York, which was then a thriving city of 30,000 people. In a burst of civic pride, there had been built Federal Hall, designed as a city hall. On its steps, Washington was inaugurated as president, and in its halls, Congress met. At Pearl and Cherry Street, then a fashionable locality, but which was then giving way to Wall Street, wherein Hamilton lived, as the Park Avenue of the time, Washington took up his first residence in New York. Elegant coaches drawn by four or six muslin horses, with outriders and livery rumbling along the highways, were then the badges of fashion, rather than the high horsepower and glossy bodies of limousines, with uniformed chauffeurs and footmen, parrying along the streets of today. Gentlemen rivaled the ladies in their use of lace, silk, and satin. It was a period of spectacular dress and brilliant colors, and splendor for both men and women. To the ladies kindly listening, it may be of interest to know that the then prevailing fashion was to wear the hair up, as appears from an instant at one of Mrs. Washington's receptions recorded in history. Today, some radio announcer might use this choice bit of news. Quote, Miss McIvers, the New York Belle, had such a tarried cofure, that the feathers which surrounded it, brushed, which surmounted it, brushed a lighted chandelier and caught fire. The fire spread to the pommage, the fire spread before any harm came to the young lady. Madison and Hamilton were then friends, even to the extent of spending many happy leisure hours together. For this was about a year before Jefferson arrived to take up his portfolio as Secretary of State, and before Jefferson and Hamilton had the fundamental differences in political philosophy and action, from which there emerged the two great national political parties. In such times, and under such circumstances, Congress began its work of organization and legislation. Washington had as his friend an advisor to whom he entrusted on the floors of Congress the initiation of essential legislation, James Madison, who introduced the proposed amendments to constitute the Bill of Rights. In the first Congress, Madison, in proposing the amendments, asserted that the omission from the Constitution of the Bill of Rights was one of the chief causes of the opposition. He said, I believe the great mass of the people who proposed it the law of the government, disliked it, dislikes it because it did not contain effectual provisions against the encroachment on particular rights, and those safeguards which they have been long accustomed to have interposed between them and the magistrate who exercises the sovereign power. A great many proposed amendments were introduced in Congress, but only twelve were submitted by Congress for adoption by the legislatures of the several states. Congress expressly recited that the conventions of a number of the states having at the time of their adopting the Constitution, expressed the desire in order to prevent misconstruction or abuse of its powers, that further declaratory and restrictive clauses should be added, and as extending the ground of public confidence in the government will best ensure the beneficent ends of its institutions, therefore the amendments were being submitted to the legislatures of the states for adoption. The first proposed amendment related to membership in the House of Representatives by population, and the second was against the taking effect of a law bearing the compensation of senators and representatives until an election should have intervened. These two proposed amendments failed of adoption by the legislatures in the necessary number of states. The ten remaining amendments were adopted as follows. New Jersey, November 20th, 1789. Maryland, December 19th. North Carolina, December 22nd. South Carolina, January 19th, 1790. New Hampshire, January 25th. Delaware, January 28th. Pennsylvania, March 10th. New York, March 27th. Rhode Island, June 15th. Vermont, November 3rd, 1791. And Virginia, the last, December 15th, 1791. The ten amendments which were adopted constitute the so-called Bill of Rights binding on the federal government. They embody, as the Supreme Court said in 1897, guarantees and immunities which were inherited from our English ancestors. Under them we are protected by fundamental law in life, liberty, property, and pursuit of happiness. On this anniversary of the adoption of the Bill of Rights, it is fitting that we give thanks to our God and our forefathers, that we are saved from the persecutions of those peoples who are not safeguarded by the limitations on the exercise of governmental authority, and that we fervently pray that they may early secure the blessing of the Bill of Rights for themselves and their posterity. Thank you, Justice Church. You have just listened to Supreme Court Justice Church, who has discussed the circumstances surrounding the adoption of the Bill of Rights by the United States, delivering one of three addresses, delivering one of three addresses, as afforded to individual liberty. Each one of us should add a verse of thanks to the Christmas tarot which ought to be written in our hearts for the blessings bestowed by our written consequences. Recognize the starry as called it the greatest doctrine which has ever emanated from the pen of man. Of its content, no citizens complete agree. Knowledge of it will unconsciously uplift your thirst, for it was written by men who took their conception of man as having a soul from religion. The mere mention of the human privileges and rights contained in the so-called Ten Amendments, which we are considering today, reveal their greatness and makes us realize that while force may suspend temporarily their operation, yet might nor force can blur nor take away their immortality, and the helping hand which these ideas will always extend to each oppressed individual, not only standing alone, but in company with his fellows. Of their source and the circumstances surrounding their adoption have been well set forth. Individuals fleeing to a new world from tyranny and oppression, wanted to feel secure that the central government which they were projecting would not result in a tyranny similar to that from which they had fled. So the most common and weighty objection which was raised to the adoption of our Federal Constitution was the absence of a Bill of Rights. In fact, the Constitution was ratified by a sufficient number of states prior to its adoption, only after pledges of the leaders in many state conventions that a Bill of Rights in the form of amendments to the Constitution is adopted would be submitted for ratification to the states. Accordingly and in compliance with this understanding, the first ten amendments to the Constitution were proposed to the legislatures of the several states by the first Congress on the 25th day of September 1789. Even then, two states, North Carolina and Rhode Island, did not ratify until the Bill of Rights actually had been submitted to the states for ratification. Thus, these first ten amendments are not limitations on the powers of the states, but are limitations on the power and authority of the Federal Government, and this interpretation the courts have unanimously placed upon these amendments. As showing that these principles, though old in our form of government, are ever young, we now have our Secretary of State, Cardinal Hull, at the Pan American Conference at Lima, Peru, and Anthony Eden, the brilliant young statesman, who after a brief visit here sailed last Friday for England, both stressing the vital importance of these great fundamental liberties preserved for us by the Bill of Rights in our Federal Constitution. Each of our nations, said Secretary Hull, and I now quote, arose out of a revolution which had for its object national independence and the assertion of human rights. Throughout its national existence, each of our nations has sought to perfect within its frontier a system of representative government and of liberty for the individual. We and you, said Mr. Eaton in his speech at a dinner here, and I now quote, stand for democracy because we stand for the rights of the individual, because our purpose is to assure freedom of thought, to encourage conditions in which the individual personality can live and grow. Indeed, these written guarantees of individual liberty under our Constitution make up today the principal difference between our own governments, national and state, and the governments of what are known as the totalitarian states in other parts of the world. Although the first ten amendments to our Constitution are called the Bill of Rights, as a matter of fact they are rather supplementary too than the mandatory of the original Constitution. In other words, they supplement it. Consider the great liberties, which are packed in a few words into the First Amendment. Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion, or prohibit the free exercise thereof, or abridge the freedom of speech, or of the press, or the rights of the people peacefully to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. Thomas Jefferson felt that religious liberty was of the utmost importance to the citizens. Perhaps this was because Jefferson was the author of the Virginia Act on the same subject, which antedated by six years the adoption of these amendments constituting the Bill of Rights. Benjamin Franklin and Patrick Henry, on the other hand, felt that the nation could not endure without free speech. Thomas Jefferson, in his inaugural address in 1801, Thus enumerated the fundamental rights of man, all of which had been secured by the Bill of Rights of our Federal Constitution, adopted ten years before. And here's what Jefferson said of them. Equal and exact justice to all men, of whatever state or persuasion, religious or political, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, and freedom of persons under the protection of the habeas corpus, and trial by jury impartially selected. These principles formed the bright constellation which has gone before us, and guided our steps through an age of revolution and reformation. And then he added, The wisdom of our sages and the blood of our heroes have been devoted to their attainment. They should be the creed of our political faith, the text of civil instruction, the touchstone by which to try the services of those we trust. And should we wander from them in moments of error or alarm, let us hasten to retrace our steps, and to regain the road which alone leads to peace, liberty and safety. William Ellery Channing, a famous American preacher and author, who was born in 1780 and who died in 1842, just over a hundred years ago, declared that freedom of speech, of opinion, and of the press, is our most valuable privilege, the very soul of Republican institutions, the safeguard of all other rights. If men abandon the right of free discussion, if, or by threats, they suppress their convictions, if rulers succeed in silencing every voice, but that which approves them, if nothing reaches the people but what would lend support to power, then farewell to liberty. The form of a free government may remain, but the life, the soul, the substance is fled. Now, the guarantee against unreasonable search and seizure, secured by the Fourth Amendment, has been given a broad construction by the Court, as it should have. The protection of those accused of crime, by requiring a presentment or indictment by a grand jury, has likewise been broadly construed. It has been extended to aliens, as well as to citizens. So, too, a much broader application than that given at common law, has been accorded to the prohibition of double jeopardy for the same offense. The prohibition that no one shall be permitted in any criminal case to be a witness against themselves, and I now quote, has long been regarded as one of the safeguards of civil liberty. To be applied in a broad spirit to secure the citizens' immunity from every kind of self-accusation. Now I have not time to discuss with you today the inexpressible value of the clause requiring due process of law, and the right to compensation for private property when taken for public purchase, nor the right of an accused to a speedy trial and a public trial by an impartial jury of the state and district where the crime has been committed, or the right to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation, to be confronted with the witnesses against him, and to have compulsory process for obtaining witnesses in his favor. Likewise, the prohibition against the requirement of excessive bail, or of excessive fines, and the infliction of cruel and unusual punishment. While all ten amendments are known as the Bill of Rights, the first eight are those which in terms safeguard the rights and liberties of the citizens. Amendments nine and ten expressly safeguard the rights of the states by declaring that the powers not given or delegated to the United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by the Constitution to the states, shall be reserved to the respective states. In Anglo-Saxon countries, in the enforcement of these great rights and privileges, we also possess this glorious liberty, which it is so difficult for the citizens of other continental countries to appreciate, that we have the value of this right. namely, that the courts will enforce these rights impartially and independently, not only as between citizen and citizen, but as between government and citizen. The enforcement of these rights and privileges in our court is made easier by that other great safeguard in our Constitution, namely, the separation of the powers of government into three departments, namely, executive, legislative, and judicial. In continental countries, where this separation of these three departments of government does not exist, the tendency is to have the executive department all-powerful, as you know. And the courts often want to know in the decision, what does the executive want? So when we see these rights and privileges being destroyed overnight by force and might in those countries, the question naturally arises in the heart and from the lips of our citizens, will we too lose these great rights and privileges? We are safe in saying that we are in no danger of losing these rights and privileges by direct assault. For the person who would propose bluntly the repeal of these rights and privileges would be met with ridicule. Our danger, however, is more subtle. It is that those who would destroy would first seek to confound liberty with license. Abraham Lincoln, in the course of a speech delivered in Baltimore, Maryland in April 1865, said this of liberty. It is as true today as the day he said it. The world has never had a good job. Our people just now, our people just now, we do not own these, we do not own the same thing. Excesses committed in the name of the Bill of Rights are dangers which we must fear. These may come from two sources. Either from those who innocently believe that liberty means life, or from those who exploit liberty to destroy these rights and privileges. If liberty, swollen into life, becomes tyranny, and order is destroyed thereby for all, then the only refuge is force and might to destroy life. This has been the pai of the power to way the future lives of the Braving East. for the rise of the particular dictator. When people can no longer live amidst the licenses and excesses in the name of the government, then they invite force to cure these licenses and excesses. This very force in the end destroys even those who seek its protection. License and force flourish when public officials become so vague in their definition of the Bill of Rights that they are fearful to preserve order lest they be considered to infringe on these great rights and privileges to which we are all so attached. When you visit the World's Fair, as you all will next spring, you will observe as conspicuous landmarks four colossal statues representing the four freedoms. That is, freedom of religion, freedom of the press, freedom of the right to petition an assembly, and freedom of speech. Nearby, you will see a temple of religion, which while wholly non-sectarian is intended to provide the most vital expression possible of the value the American people place on the spiritual in each individual life. Without ethics and without character, no government and no business can long last. The greatest danger to democracy is that it sometimes chooses through mistakes leaders without character. This is true not only of government, but of great industrial enterprises. On the other hand, many of our citizens criticize fine public service, regardless of the merits of what they propose, merely because such citizens oppose a portion of the program. When you visit this temple of religion, perhaps you will feel disposed to enter, and there to breathe a prayer of hope that those who are elevated to leadership, either in government or business, shall possess character, without which permanency of government or of country is impossible. And may you combine with an offering of thanksgiving and gratitude for the Bill of Rights, the hope that the people of this country, in your generation, which is the only generation for which you are responsible, may keep well these precious jewels of liberty, unconfused, and if possible, hand them on even brighter to the generations which are to follow. Thank you, Judge Finch. You have just heard Judge Edward Ridley Finch of the New York Court of Appeals, who has delivered the third and concluding address upon today's program, celebrating the 147th anniversary of the adoption of the Bill of Rights. All of us who have been privileged to hear this program cannot fail to be grateful to the distinguished speakers whom we have heard today, and be proud of the heritage of liberty and security which has come down to us from the founding fathers. This program has been arranged by the Special Events Bureau of your city's own station as a public service to the people of New York. This is Anthony Marvin speaking. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Municipal Broadcasting System.