6 p.m. Naval Observatory time, New York City's own station, WNYC. Ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience, station WNYC occupies a prominent place among the radio stations of our country in the presentation and discussion of the many complex and multiple problems which confront our people and which affect the life, welfare, and happiness of each of us. The municipal broadcasting system has in the past, in keeping with its policy of education and enlightenment, sent over this station many searching and analytical addresses, with the single object, however, of helping the citizens of our city to evaluate and weigh the many sides to the problems which always are knocking and crying for a solution. We are constantly searching for a changing solution to constantly changing problems. How can we make our city a better place to live in? The varied topics we have heretofore presented have all contributed to the high standard we have set in creating a tangible, virile public forum for the benefit of the inhabitants of New York. We are happy to present another outstanding program. Ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience, District Attorney Thomas E. Dewey's address is the second in a series of addresses arranged by County Clerk Archibald R. Watson for the purpose of stimulating interest in jury service and stressing the importance of jury service as a civic duty. I do not have to tell you that the jury system is divided into two branches, the grand jury and the trial or petty jury. The grand jury hears evidence and indicts, and the trial jury hears witnesses and convicts or acquits. For the moment, I do not refer to the trial jury in civil actions. Last week, you heard Presiding Justice Francis Martin of the Appellate Division, First Judicial Department, discuss the subject of the grand jury. Today, you are privileged to listen to District Attorney Dewey, who will discuss the function of the trial jury in the administration of the criminal law. It is not too much to say that within the past seven years, District Attorney Dewey has set new standards as a public prosecutor in New York. No one can doubt that the present District Attorney of New York County is on the threshold of a splendid career of expanding usefulness and value to the public. It is a great privilege to hear his voice today. Ladies and gentlemen, District Attorney Dewey. Last week, the distinguished presiding justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court spoke to you on this program about grand juries. He told you of the important work accomplished by grand juries in protecting wrongfully accused persons from prosecution for crime and of the honor and importance of serving on grand juries. But when the work of the grand jury is finished, the wheels of justice have only started to turn. The persons accused of crime must be brought to trial in open court. The true administration of criminal justice depends in large part upon the learning and industry of the judge and in part upon the energy and initiative of the prosecutor. But above all, it depends upon the integrity of the trial jury. The safety of the city and of every citizen is in the hands of those juries of twelve whose decision is the last word in every prosecution. Jury service is not just a responsibility. It is a rare opportunity to see at first hand many of the major problems of your community. As you sit in the jury box in the criminal courtroom, there is unfolded before you the living drama of crime. You learn the causes of crime and the handicaps of the underprivileged. You witness the tragic effect of crime on its victims, the unbelievable viciousness of the underworld, the hardships under which the police and other law enforcement agencies labor, and the schemes and tricks to which criminals resort to get around the law. There are eight courtrooms in the ancient and almost collapsing General Sessions court building down on Center Street, where my assistants are presenting evidence every day to eight trial juries. The men and women on those juries listen daily to proof of murder, assault, robbery, dope-selling, extortion, larceny, kidnapping, sex crimes, bribery, and many others. Woven into those trials is evidence concerning the illegal sale and distribution of guns, the all-important channels for disposing of stolen goods, the tricks by which men attempt to obstruct justice. Too often do lies fly thick and fast in the courtroom, and appeals to passion, prejudice, or sympathy are present in the defense of every case. But the veteran juror can't be hoodwinked. He becomes the most efficient lie detector in the world, and his work in the jury box makes him an expert judge of human behavior. Here, too, more quickly than by reading a thousand books or listening to countless speeches, you will learn the true nature of the evil effects of broken homes, bad housing, and economic distress upon our people. You will see their effects in the making of wayward young men into juvenile delinquents, and how, after conviction, they are carefully studied for possibilities of help and reformation by probation and guidance. You will see the seamy and tragic side of life, but you will learn how to help to make it better, and with what great things remain to be done. There are a hundred thousand jurors in the county of New York, and during one month in each two years, these men and women sit in a jury box and work for you. They work well and hard, yet you hear every day the grumbling citizen who condemns the jury system. From my seven years' experience as a public prosecutor in New York, in both federal and state courts, I can tell you that the jury system works well, but I must also tell you that it does not work well enough. Let me give you one instance. A few years ago in Brooklyn, an unsavory professional criminal was on trial for his liberty. He had a long criminal record, and when the government had presented all its witnesses, the defendant did not take the witness stand. It is, of course, the right of every man to refuse to answer or testify concerning criminal charges against himself. Moreover, our law stupidly also prevents either the prosecutor or the judge from making any reference to the fact that a man accused of crime has failed to explain or even offer to explain his acts. When that case was submitted to the jury, one of the jurors was so uninformed on the fundamentals of criminal trials that he argued that the district attorney was unfair because he didn't call the defendant to the witness stand. In that jury, there was not one man who knew enough to point out that the district attorney could not call the defendant to the witness stand and that if he made the slightest reference to the subject, the judge would be forced to declare a mistrial. The jury thereupon marched into court and acquitted the defendant. Thus, a criminal was again turned loose on the community because 12 jurors had ignored the facts as well as the judge's charge on the law. With the millions of intelligent citizens in New York who are available for jury duty, how could such a thing happen? The explanation is unfortunately simple. For years, there has been a growing feeling that private business affairs are more important than public service, that jury duty is a burden to be passed on to someone else, and that the administration of justice is a nuisance to be left in the hands of those who do not have enough influence to avoid doing their duty. Some years ago, there was a judge in the criminal courts of New York who used to get on the bench every Monday morning with what used to be known as Monday morning blues. His disposition normally was none too good, and on Monday mornings it was uniformly bad. On the first Monday of a court term, with a new panel of jurors in the courtroom, his honor suddenly declared, all jurors who want to be excused, stand up. Almost everyone in the room rose. Sit down, he directed. Now, he proceeded, all jurors who want to serve, stand up. A handful rose. Get out, said the judge. If you're anxious to serve, I don't want you. All the others will stay and serve. I remember a case where a woman shot a man in cold blood. She or her lawyer cooked up an ingenious defense. She admitted the killing, and with tears and dramatics, explained her act to a sympathetic jury which promptly acquitted her. Shortly afterward, a man I know wrote a long and solemn article condemning juries which acquit women who shoot their husbands and lovers and the lawyers who get them off. I saw the man not long afterward and said I quite agreed with some of his ideas. But when, I asked, had he last done his bit on a jury? Perhaps it was a little unkind to ask that embarrassing question, but the gentleman admitted that he had never served on a jury and did not intend to. Every critic of our judicial system, of our courts, and even of our democracy admits that the jury system is fine in theory, but many say it is bad in practice. Yet these very people, when charged with crime, call quickest for a jury trial. Those who shirk the worst clamor there for their rights the loudest. The citizen who evades jury duty deserves a badge of dishonor. The man who begs off every time he is called is as false to his fellow citizens as a slacker in time of war. What would happen in this state if someone at the Constitutional Convention now in session at Albany should propose to abolish trial by jury? Suppose it should be seriously advocated that your important rights as a citizen when you find yourself in a court of law should be decided by a judge alone. You know very well what would happen. Every newspaper in the state would cry out against this destruction of our fundamental liberties. Every citizen would be outraged, and justly so. The very cornerstone of our freedom would be threatened. Wars have been waged and millions of lives sacrificed to establish these basic principles of freedom. It is unthinkable that the right to trial by jury for a felony should be taken away from our people. And yet, it is true today that a vast number of responsible citizens are undermining the jury system by dodging jury service and leaving it to those who cannot dodge it or who are too honest to do so. They criticize its results, shun its labors, and then refuse to help improve it. There is, however, a more hopeful side. Within the past year, women have been given the right to serve on juries for the first time in New York. Thousands of them in this county alone have seized the opportunity. They have approached this duty seriously. Many women's organizations have conducted lecture courses for new jurors with instruction by experts. Individual women look forward to their service and have arranged their household and personal affairs so they can answer the call of the court. For the past four months, my assistants have been trying criminal cases before mixed juries of men and women in the court of general sessions. Day in and day out, we have seen the women jurors strengthen the system. They bring interest and enthusiasm to their duty. After a short experience in the criminal courts, they quickly learn to distinguish between sham defenses and real ones, to judge lying witnesses, and to see that justice is done. A large share of the success in our fight against the rackets in the past three years must be credited to the juries which prove that the law can protect the public. It has been shown conclusively that both the law and the jury system are bigger than the criminal underworld. Today, there is not a racketeer of first importance left in New York. Every one of the ten chief public enemies listed by the police commissioner three years ago has been removed. Some are dead of gangster bullets, some have left New York for good, or are fugitives from justice, and the rest are in jail. So far this year, the juries in New York County have convicted eight men of murder in the first degree, seven of them as cop killers. This is by contrast with last year when there were only two first degree murder convictions in the entire year. In truth, we can say that the jury system today is just as vital and sound as it ever was. It can and does protect the community and safeguard its people. A tremendous amount of work remains to be done, but we cannot do this without your help. This is the richest county in America. One-tenth of the personal wealth of the United States is in the city of New York. Here, indeed, has been the most tempting field for crime and racketeering, offering a challenge to public officials and jurors alike. only with the real cooperation of every citizen can we finish the job of making our city safe for its people. The kind of help you can give at little sacrifice will pay you tremendous dividends in security, in the knowledge of a job well done, and in the respect of your fellow citizens. I can assure you that one month spent in the court of general sessions will be an interesting and valuable experience. You will be happy to have served. You will honor yourself and your community. Mr. Archibald Watson, clerk of the County of New York, at whose request this series of radio broadcasts is being delivered, has asked you for your help in improving the standard of our jury service. I urge you to do your part in the important work of administering criminal justice in the County of New York.
