The choristers of the Department of Welfare, under the direction of Florence Martirosian, offer The Heavens Are Telling, from the creation by Joseph Hayden, as arranged by Charles Phillips. The glory of God. The wonder of His birth, His praise of firm on end. The wonder of His birth, His praise of firm on end. The day that is coming, this is the day. The night that is gone, the following night. The night that is gone, the following night. The heavens are telling, the glory of God. The wonder of His birth, His praise of firm on end. The wonder of His birth, His praise of firm on end. The wonder of His birth. The wonder of her. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That was The Heavens Are Telling from The Creation by Joseph Hayden. And now we hear the choristers in a Missouri folk song, The Death Old Woman by Catherine Davis. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Old woman, old woman, clear to my watching. Old woman, old woman, clear to my watching. See a little louder, sir, a very hot appearing. See a little louder, sir, a very hot appearing. Old woman, old woman, clear to my watching. Old woman, old woman, clear to my watching. See a little louder, sir, a very hot appearing. See a little louder, sir, a very hot appearing. Old woman, old woman, clear to my watching. Old woman, old woman, clear to my watching. See a little louder, sir, a very hot appearing. See a little louder, sir, a very hot appearing. I don't know, sir, a very hot offering. See a little louder. See a little louder, sir, a pretty hot speaking. See a little louder, sir. I'll decrease the... See a little louder, sir. Lord, I heard me on your soul. I hear you very clearly. Lord, I heard me on your soul. I hear you. I hear you very clearly. You've just heard the choristers of the Department of Welfare singing The Deaf Old Woman by Kathleen Davis. The choristers are under the direction of Florence Martirosian with Isabelle Libori accompanying at the piano. That was one of those people who made it to an independentcrimeander. I remember these people outside and she cracked the opened for him occasionally. jeans allHey, all- night, all of them, how you can dance. That voice was a character Кемерр Twig'r Citizenship of da designed with him. The Űkel god says, you know what I have known to be. I have a question for you. While protecting fire river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river river S пожалуйста YOU SEEMS ay i 22 is Florence Martirosian directs the choristers of the Department of Welfare in two madrigals. We hear first, The Banks of Allen Water, followed by Now is the Month of Maying. The Prince of Allen Water, where the springtime may fall, On the village's lovely daughters, There has come them all, For his rivals, the just sover, And the winnings done that he, On the banks of Allen Water, Now is the day and the king. On the banks of Allen Water, When the northern spread is so, There has come them hill and snow, And the rushing time, And the wild no more. For the summer, free and water, And the soldier, folks, not he, On the banks of Allen Water, When the wind and snow fell past, There was a day and the wind and snow fell past, In the bank of Allen Water, Now is the day and, On the banks of Allen Water, When the wind and snow fell past I was신, In the banks of Allen Water, When the wind and snow fell past, On the banks of Allen's water When the winter snow fell past There was a name on Mill and Norther Till he moved on by On the millers of the old land From the road and careless green On the banks of Allen's water There was a poor place here The New York Times of Allen's water The New York Times of Allen's water The New York Times of Allen's water The New York Times of Allen's water The New York Times of Allen's water He's with his body there A dancing on the ground Lalalalalalalala He's with his body there A dancing on the ground Lalalalalalalala Lalalalalalalala He's with his body there A dancing on the ground The wind is standing, oh la la la la la, oh la la la la. The wind is standing, oh la la la la la, oh la la la la. And through the bay lights down, the gits spread out their ground, oh la la la la la la la la la la la la la. And through all the bay lights down, the gits spread out their ground, oh la la la la la la la la la la la la la. I am worship the music you see, the lights with music, oh la la la la la la la la la la la. The wind is standing, oh la la la la la la la, oh la la la la la. The choristers have sung to madrigals, the banks of Allen Water, and now is the month of May. And now, under the direction of Florence Maderosian, the choristers offer the spiritual Soon I Will Be Done, as arranged by Dawson. ORCHESTRA PLAYS I want to meet my mother. I want to meet my mother. No more weeping and a whaling. I want to meet my mother. I want to meet my mother. No more weeping and a whaling. No more weeping and a whaling. No more weeping and a whaling. No more weeping and a whaling. No more weeping and a whaling. No more weeping. No more weeping and a whaling. No more weeping and a whaling. No more weeping and a whaling. I want to meet my Jesus. I want to live with God. I want to meet my Jesus. I want to live with God. I want to live with God. I want to live with God. Soon I will be done. A spiritual is just sung by the choristers. And now from Gershwin's Porgy and Bats, Florence Martirosian leads the choristers of the Department of Welfare with Isabelle de Bore, accompanist in I've Got Plenty of Nothing. And love is plenty for me. I've got no car, got no mule, I've got no misery. The folks with plenty of plenty, got a lot on the door. Great somebody's a-goin' to run, but without a-make-in' more. What for? What for? I've got no luck on the door. That's the way to be. They can steal the rug from the floor. That's okay to be. For the things that are tied, like the stars in the skies are all free. Oh, I've got plenty of nothing, and nothing's plenty for me. I've got my gal, got my song, my head is a whole day long. Do you complain it? Got my gal, got my gal, got my lord, got my dog. I've got plenty of nothing. I've got plenty of nothing. I've got plenty of nothing for me. I've got the sun, got the moon, got the people's sea. The folks with plenty of plenty, got to pray all the day. He's got plenty, and never got to worry. I've got to keep the devil away. Away, away, away. I am a friend of all, when it's not a ride. Never will be long and not well. Never will be nice until he's gone, to be bad. What the hell are you glad on the boy? Oh, I got plenty of love here, and love is plenty for me. I got my gals, got my gals, for heaven all day long. Now you complain it. Got my gals, got my gals, got my lor, got my lor. You've heard the choristers of the Department of Welfare sing, I've Got Plenty of Nothing, from Gershwin's Forgy and Beth. The choristers are under the direction of Florence Marderosian, with Isabel Labori as piano accompanist. The choristers are under the direction of Florence Marderosian, with Isabel Labori as piano accompanist. The choristers are under the direction of Florence Marderosian, with Isabel Labori as piano accompanist. The choristers are under the direction of Florence Marderosian from St. Hel A The The Thank you. Thank you.