Make today your D-Day by United States Defense Bonds. Music by Ben Thede We fight our country's battles in the air on land and sea. First to fight for right and freedom and to keep our honor clean. We are proud to claim the title of United States Marine. Transcribed from Washington, D.C., the National Broadcasting Company presents a special kickoff broadcast launching America's Defense Bond Drive, a program designed to remind every American that defense is your job too. On the program, you will hear the famous United States Marine Band, the Commandant of the Marine Corps, a Marine Medal of Honor hero of the Korean campaign, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the President of the United States. The Marine Band, under the direction of Major William F. Santonan, opens the program with Hail to the Spirit of Liberty. The Medi canal of the Marine Corps with nCE. Monday. . . Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's the slogan of America's Defense Bond Drive, which opens tonight. And it's the message of the Marines to you. Defending America is a job that requires much more than military power, much more than production achievements. It's a job that requires the heart of every citizen, the courage, the moral strength, and the willingness to make any necessary sacrifice to help keep America strong and free. Buying defense bonds is a very practical way to live up to that standard. It's a way in which you can stand shoulder to shoulder with the men who have fought and sacrificed and died in the defense of freedom. Defense bonds contribute directly to your country's security, and to your own as well. Buy them now, and from now on. Make that your assignment for America's defense. Thank you, Lieutenant Comiskey. Now in salute to their commanding general, the Marine Band offers the General Cates March. Flowers has a great job to have the senior Liaif gain player. Thank you, Lieutenant Comiskey. Thank you. For your committee, Governor Woodrey started trabaling balloons. With the mornome man, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It's my pleasure now to present to you General Clifton B. Cates, Commandant of the United States Marine Corps. General Cates. America's defense effort is a job that requires more than strong military forces. It is a task that must be developed along three fronts, each vital to success, the military, the productive, and the economic. An important factor in this program is the sale of United States defense bonds to keep our country's economy strong. It is a most essential part of our total defense effort, for it helps bear the burden of defense expenditures, it helps curb inflation, and helps to make the individual family unit more secure. I am most proud to be able to take part in this kickoff for America's defense bond drive. The objective of this drive is to remind every American that defense is his job, not just the job of the fighting man or of the defense production worker. By buying bonds, the American, the defense, and the defense, and the defense, and the defense, and the defense. By buying bonds, the everyday citizen aligns himself squarely behind the soldier, sailor, airman, and the Marine in the field. Here is an opportunity for every American to do his share in helping to reach our common goal. That is, a just and lasting peace with freedom, financial security, and a guarantee of our American way of life. Thank you, General Capes. Continuing with the musical portion of our show, here is the Marine Band again with American Ideal. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. the guns and equipment that are being displayed here before the joint Labor Day celebration and the opening of the new defense bond drive are truly symbols. Symbols that we as free men and women are answering through our defense program the challenge of communism. They are a demonstration of the ability and willingness of Americans to work together voluntarily in the common cause of defense of justice and right. During the past few months, we have witnessed most gratifying results of the cooperation of management and labor. In the splendid payroll savings plan, organized labor has responded magnificently in enrolling to make regular purchases of savings bonds. The purpose of this defense bond drive is to emphasize to every American the fact that defense is everyone's job. We cannot all serve in the armed forces. We cannot all work in the factories to produce the military armaments needed to defend our freedoms. But every one of us can play an important role in this great defense effort by helping to mobilize the power of individual thrift behind the productive might of our nation. American thrift has always been one of the great sources of our productive power. Savings have made ours a dynamic economy and given us a better land in which to live. The habits of savings and investment have made us a nation of farm and homeowners, of insurance policyholders, of savings account and security owners. It has enabled us to realize the full benefit from the great resources of this country. These accomplishments are the direct results of free enterprise promoted by individual and collective thrift. Today, the practice of thrift has taken on an even greater importance in our economy and to our national security. Today, we are nearing the peak of the tooling up period in our national defense effort. The thrift dollar has never before become a defense dollar. The defense fund program is a program in which all of us can work together to achieve a financial independence and to preserve our national freedom. And in a modern world, freedom will survive only if we cooperate with other freedom-loving nations in building a common defense against aggression. That is why we need to build up our military power and to keep it ready for any emergency. That is why it is necessary to invest so much money in the cause of peace. That is why it is so important that you, each of you, buy bonds now during this drive and keep them as an investment. A slogan which has been suggested for this new drive is, Bonds for Power for Peace. One of the real inspirations of the success of the Savings Bond Program in the postwar years has been the continuing interest of President Truman. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States speaking to you from San Francisco. Fellow Americans, six years ago, here in San Francisco, the United Nations was formed. It was our purpose then to prevent another world war. That is still our purpose. The United Nations was established to unite the moral forces of the world for peace. And to organize the strength of many nations to keep the peace. In these last six years, there have been many difficulties and obstructions. But today, the United Nations is doing exactly what it was set up to do. When aggression came in Korea, the United Nations took action. It labeled their aggression for what it was. It branded the North Koreans and the Chinese Communists as the aggressors. It called upon peace-loving countries to unite and put down aggression. That is what we have been doing. Young men from the United States have been fighting heroically alongside young men from many other countries to stop aggression in Korea. For they know, and we know, that if aggression were not checked in Korea, it would only be a matter of time until a new world war brought destruction and misery to all of us. For the past several weeks, there have been negotiations in Korea at the suggestion of the Communist aggressors for an armistice there as the first step to a peaceful settlement. Recently, the Communists have broken off these negotiations. We do not know whether they intend to resume them or not. We are ready at any time to reach an honorable settlement in Korea. But we will not give in to aggression. Whether negotiations in Korea are successful or not, we must continue to drive ahead, to build defensive strength for our country and the free world. The plain fact is that the Communists may try to resume the offensive in Korea at any time. Moreover, they are capable of launching new attacks in Europe, in the Middle East, or elsewhere in Asia, whenever it suits them. That is what makes it so vital that we build our defenses and build them fast. Right now, our defense effort is beginning to roll. We have been tooling up for large-scale production of new airplanes, tanks, and weapons of all types. We have a lot of new developments that we are putting into production, ranging from faster jet planes to lighter equipment for our foot soldiers. These things take materials and manpower, and they cost money. That is where this savings bond campaign comes in. All of you know, and I know all of you, want to help in the defense of our country. People sometimes say to me, I want to help in the defense effort, but I don't know what I can do. Can you tell me? Tonight, I am telling you about something everybody can do. This is a personal matter with every one of you. You can help to defend your country by buying United States savings bonds. At the same time, you will be putting aside money at a time when goods are becoming scarcer, which will be available later on when goods are more plentiful. It will be a backlog to meet emergencies, to finance the education of your children, or to purchase a home, and to provide for more comfortable old age. The savings bonds you buy will be bonds for freedom, and they will be bonds for your personal future. I ask each of you to back the defense drive to the limit by buying extra bonds and helping to sell bonds to others. Buying defense bonds is a way in which each of us can play a part in the defense of our country, and in bringing peace to the world. You have just listened to the President of the United States speaking... I have just listened to the President of the United States speak... I have just understood who added the support for the disease and producing money. The President of the United States... I have to say to speak... I have to build that, and it is not as strong as lockdowns. I have to hold down trajectory i don't want to start tripping the flair. If you do, I become the chief of answering the questions I ask questions. The radio dlatego city is one way in which different associations are calling from the Estonian Association. The 21 corporate world is under Cam何 is up against Islam. The Secretary Report,aters in camarader inv destined for human rights.