On this magnificent October day, the microphones of your city station are now at one of the most amazing spots in the world, one of the greatest views anywhere in the world. We're right at the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty in New York Harbor. And the occasion is the 63rd anniversary of the dedication of the Statue of Liberty on Bedloe's Island, under the auspices of the National Conference on Citizenship. The mayor of the city of New York and a distinguished company have taken off in boats from the battery. Escorted by the police and the fireboats themselves presented a very beautiful spectacle there, as again they shot those rays of water into the air, and the rainbows appeared in the mist created by the fireboats. And the legend of the rainbow, of course, is that the world will never again be destroyed by water. And let us hope that we're all working now towards the peace that means it will never be destroyed by war again. And that is a hopeful and apparently a set idea in the minds of all civilized people. The mayor of the city of New York, with the distinguished company who have come over the river with him, are now posing at the foot of the statue on those steps just before they lead down onto the terrace where the microphones are. And as usual, the cameramen are issuing their orders. And now the mayor has broken ranks. One cameraman says, one more shot, Mr. Mayor. And he's very, very accommodating indeed. Now they're taking that shot. His Excellency the Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of France is here with us. The Honorable John D. Hickerson, Assistant Secretary of State. The Honorable J. Howard McGrath, Attorney General of the United States, is posing now there with the mayor. The lineup now in front is the French Ambassador, the Attorney General McGrath, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, and the other distinguished members who will participate in this program today. It's a perfectly beautiful day out here, and of course the panorama of New York Harbor. A grace liner is just now going down past the Statue of Liberty, and we get all the pageantry of this very amazing harbor that saw the early beginnings of this country as a nation. Verrazzano sailed in here, and later on Henry Hudson took a more permanent hold on the situation because he did go back and file a claim, and the Dutch companies formed New Amsterdam here on the tip end of Manhattan Island. It wasn't many years afterwards when the government of the United States began at the corner of Nath on Wall Street, and George Washington took the oath of office for this great country that recognized the inalienable right of every man to life, liberty, and the enjoyment of peace and happiness. The mayor is having a hard time getting through here now. There's not many people shaking hands, but he's finally taken the ambassador by the arm, and Ambassador Bonny, the mayor, and Attorney General McGrath and the rest of the distinguished company are now taking their place on the roster. It will just be a few moments before Mayor O'Dwyer is ready to take over the regular order of program. Irving Berlin is shaking hands with the mayor now. He's brought members of a theatrical group down here. They haven't been identified yet, but they will be eventually by the chairman. They're in costume, and they present a very interesting sight indeed, boys and girls from the show, and Irving Berlin will no doubt make the necessary introductions when the time comes. With the flags flying of all the various nations, particularly France and the United States and the city flag, here on the pedestal at the Statue of Liberty here in New York Harbor, the sight is so thrilling that we can hardly take our eyes from it in order to stick to the description of what our eyes observe here. And this party, all the appearances of a garden party, are settled here on the terrace and steps. The mayor is still shaking hands and meeting some of the people here for the first time that have taken the trip down here, the distinguished guests, who are to observe the 63rd anniversary of the Statue of Liberty. And as soon as these civilities are over, the mayor of the city of New York presiding will make the necessary introductions. The First Army Band has been entertaining, previous to the arrival of the mayor and the guests here at Bedloe's Island at the foot of the Statue of Liberty. And we're just waiting now for a signal from the mayor as to the procedures of the regular order of program. To show people there in the back in their costumes, give this thing a very interesting aspect that makes us look as though it's back in the 80s, the time that Mr. Pulitzer and his campaign raised the fund by the schoolchildren of the city of New York to donate the pedestal for the statue. Even though Congress was generous enough to give the island, there was no pedestal for the statue itself. And that was the activities of Mr. Pulitzer when the New York World, in the famous world building there right opposite City Hall, that is now a relic of the past and no longer a newspaper office, but an office building itself, yet its tarnished gold dome somewhat epitomizes, epitomizes rather, the passing of that great newspaper, the New York World, that was such a crusader at the time for the things that are good. The mayor is still acting the pleasant host and introducing Irvin Berlin now to members of the clergy who are here on the platform. And in just a few moments, our good host, the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, will take over the program, and then we'll have all the pageantry and beauty of this ceremony today. For the benefit of those who may have tuned in late, may we say that our microphones are at the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty here in New York Harbor on Bedloe's Island, observing the 63rd anniversary of the dedication of the statue under the auspice of the National Conference on Citizenship. The quotation being, there is no true liberty for the individual except as he finds it in the liberty of all. The National Conference is sponsored by the National Education Association and the United States Department of Justice. It's consistent, of course, that one of the distinguished speakers will be the Attorney General of the United States, the Honorable J. Howard McGrath. It's just a light breeze, but it's almost a pleasant day down here. It is not cold. Most people have their overcoats off. And if there's any place in the world that should be chilly, it would be Bedloe's Island right out here on the waters of New York Harbor with all the pageantry of this wonderful harbor. The ships passing in and out from their various trade routes to Europe and the other parts of the world. And Baghdad, the beautiful, that wonderful New York City rising out of the mist there just a little bit further up the bay. The cameramen are having their innings, taking pictures, because it seems every face here on the speaker stand is famous, and everybody knows the significance of the Statue of Liberty that greets the person coming into New York Harbor for the first time and thrills all of us every time we pass it, whether it's night or day, because the lighting facilities around the statue now make it available at night as well, and Liberty and her wonderful torch are on view at all times here in this wonderful harbor of New York. And now it looks as though our party will be starting in just a moment, and we're waiting for a few more civilities. It seems everybody hasn't met everybody yet, and the mayor seems never so happy as when he's acting as host and doing what he can to bring the attractions of this great and wonderful city of New York to bear on any occasion, whatever it may be. And certainly this magnificent Statue of Liberty with the wonderful patina that has settled over the statue now from its long residence here in the harbor gives it a very beautiful appearance. And now the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Ladies and gentlemen, we have with us today the very distinguished guest who will be presented to you later. Thank you. We are met on Bedloe's Island to celebrate again the anniversary of the gift of our friends, the people of France, the gift of a Statue of Liberty which has been here all of these 63 years, which is still here, and we pray to the one on high will always be here as a symbol of two things. The great friendship of the people of the United States or the people of France. And secondly, as a symbol of our united belief in the principles of liberty for which it stands. In the 63 years that this lady has stood guard over our harbor, untold millions of troubled ones have come by, have seen it for the first time, have been inspired and among them I came myself. I know what the feeling is to come up that bay as an immigrant from troubled shores without hope until at last she has come into sight. when she holds into sight there's a feeling in the heart that everything is now going to be all right. We who have had the privilege of seeing her from the hold of a ship or a great deal to a nation that has welcomed us in and made us a part of the family of the city, state, and nation. Those of us who have been blessed with citizenship owe her a great deal more loyalty to the institutions of the nation than do those who were born here and did not have the experience of knocking at the door and being welcomed to the fireside. this morning it is with pride that I take part in these ceremonies and with again a renewed dedication to be a better citizen if I can be than you who were born on these shores because I owe that much more and every immigrant who did come owes exactly that. Now the immigrant ship except for the D.P. which are coming all too slowly have stopped their trade in human cargo and most of those who did come are on their way out or have gone. but they have left you children and grown-ups behind as their gift to the energy and patriotism of the nation. On this platform are great names the ambassador of France Mr. Vinay is here the attorney general J. Howard McGrath is here the great renowned beloved Irving Berlin and his cast from Miss Liberty is here Bishop Arnold will address you Dr. Kennan will take over when I leave I'm going to leave I'm going to leave regretfully I don't know whether you know it or not but I am busy every five minutes these days busy I'm something that should not intrude into the beauty of this ceremony regretfully I say good morning to you and I shall present to you Bishop Arnold Chairman of the Army Chaplains for the invocation Almighty and ever living God creator of heaven and earth and all things we gather here today with humble minds and grateful hearts to adore and praise thee to acknowledge our complete and complete dependence on thy infinite wisdom power and goodness and to implore thy blessings upon all those who in every part of the world are spending their lives with the triumph of truth and justice freedom and peace thou hast dominion over all men and all governments and thou alone art the God who does wonders and has made thy power known to all nations throughout the ages thou hast granted us this merciful moment to reflect upon the dangers which surround us and the ills of mind and heart which afflict us and threaten us with the loss of our greatest gifts our father who art in heaven enlighten our minds and stir our hearts that we may know the full meaning of loving thee with our whole soul and loving all men as we love ourselves grant us thy wisdom and power as generously as thou hast given us capacity for thought and purpose save us from false pride and vanity from conceit and self-deception from sensuality and selfishness in order that we may be worthy instruments of thy divine providence in preserving freedom among all men send forth thy holy spirit to fill our hearts with faith love and courage and we shall be recreated and thou shalt renew the face of the earth for thy honor and glory and for our peace and happiness amen ladies and gentlemen I have made no attempt to make the complete list of those who are present I shall leave that to Dr. Kennedy but Dr. Poling is here Rabbi Rosenblum is here and Mr. Hickson of the Department of State is here I shall now present you present to you your presiding officer Dr. Kiff I'll say farewell there are many times when you have to pinch hit quite unexpectedly never did I dream that I would have the privilege of pinch hitting or I should say pinch hitting means knocking out being a better hitter but of substituting rather for his excellency the mayor of New York put democracy's creed into deed build tomorrow's together tomorrow's world accept responsibilities that are the counterbalance against which rights must be weighed this is the challenge of the National Conference on Citizenship it is a challenge that confronts not only individuals but organizations not only single groups but all groups that might work together toward the mutual goal alert enlightened conscientious and progressive citizens with both courage to tackle and ability to solve the perilous problems of today the National Conference grew out of the efforts of the Citizenship Committee of the National Education Association to discover what was being done in the field of citizenship to cooperate with other organizations working in the same area since 1948 it has been a joint project of the United States Department of Justice and the National Education Association the fifth National Conference will be held in Washington May 22nd to 24th 1950 approximately 400 organizations have participated in the meetings of the conference the conference today takes a deep bow to the Mayor's Committee which has done such a marvelous job of organizing this celebration in honor of the 63rd birthday of our great Statue of Liberty I think the main reason they chose me as the substitute is that I believe the main job of a presiding officer is to get out of the way as quickly as possible so that you can hear the real meat of the discussions and therefore I shall present to you immediately Dr. Willett E. Givens Executive Secretary of the National Education Association Dr. Givens has held many important offices in state and national civic professional organizations in 1946 he was a member of the United States Education Mission to Japan and this year he represented the National Education Association on the World Town Hall Seminar he will speak to you with a message to you Dr. Givens Dr. Kennan Ambassador Bonet Attorney General McGrath Ladies and gentlemen This Statue of Liberty is the world's best known symbol of the human freedoms It has beckoned millions to the new world Its glowing beacon for two generations has welcomed those who sought new opportunities The greatest migrations to our shores have occurred during that time These people came to us from many backgrounds but they had one thing in common Most of them were young They brought with them many of the traditions and cultures of the lands from which they came By so doing they have enriched the American civilization But they were not tied to the past The eyes of youth are set toward the future The flow of youthful immigrants who passed this great statue was once a mighty stream Now it has diminished to a mere trickle For obvious reasons world migrations are diminishing They are giving way to a type of mobility in which the movement of peoples is in the nature of exchange rather than permanent migration yet the great torch above us here will forever remind the young people of the world that hope is great where liberty is secure Opportunity is wherever you are Nations once transmitted their successive generations a heritage that was little touched by the needs are the cultures of other people The youth of today in a very real sense inherit the earth This earth has become a much smaller place Prosperity or want anywhere has its effects everywhere Hunger exists in nations where there are resources to satisfy it Disease that could be stamped out or controlled Rages without benefit of sanitation or prophylaxis Tyranny is imposed in the name of democracy Crimes of violence and war flare up in populations that profess morality and peace These are man's common enemies The migrating peoples of the past sought escape from these enemies Today There is no place to flee from them They must be faced and defeated Much misery and tragedy is due to human apathy and neglect One half of the world's population cannot read or write in any language Ignorance and superstition are the shackles that bind men to their afflictions Only in the light of learning can these chains be broken Education must become universal The free right of every person to whatever flag he pays allegiance It is a concern of all nations that it should become so The far away places are not so distant as they once were The quick exchanges of modern transportation and communication have made us all a part of a world neighborhood We must remember that the wide streams of youth passing this statue were not only seizing an opportunity to escape from political and religious persecution and from the physical handicaps of unfavorable environments They were seeking adventure and achievement in an unknown world Adventure and achievement are open to every youth today in a strange world much more vast than the American wilderness Atomic energy because of its dramatic character typifies the opening of new fields of knowledge But it is only one road into a world our ancestors never knew Scientific knowledge is being feverishly advanced in laboratories everywhere Exploration and discovery are being made into thousands of uncharted areas that range from the material and the real to the most abstract range of the mind and spirit This opportunity too is where you are Human knowledge soon becomes the property of all mankind There is a road to adventure and achievement for all To travel this road demands more than willingness to break with the past and start anew Talent must be discovered developed and put to work Universal education again is the key The rate at which the human race moves forward will depend upon the extent of education and the degree to which it is made available to every individual If man's common enemies are to be defeated youth alert conscientious and educated must assume responsibility for much of the task anything And you see when you're afraid of you have to rend that by you through the for your country & you to notric anymore We are here now from the outstanding municipal band of the city of New York for the national anthem of France, the Marseillais. The Marseillais The Marseillais The Marseillais The Marseillais The Marseillais The Marseillais The Marseillais Bishop Arnold and Mr. Hausman, who has been in charge of this program, have hurried up to tell me that it was the municipal band that greeted us at the pier, and that it is the first army band who has just played for us. Thank you, sir, and apologies for the mistake. And they came back to France in the folds of the star-spangled banner. Thus was created a great tradition, which fortunately will endure, because the high objectives which the victory of the forces of liberty in the last wars has saved from destruction are still far from being fully attacked. For the triumph of freedom and progress in an organized world, and for the reign of international peace, we have still, all of us, on the other side of the world, the victory of the forces of liberty in the last wars, has saved from destruction, are still far from being fully attained. For the triumph of freedom and progress in an organized world, and for the reign of international peace, we have still, all of us, on the other side of the ocean, as well as in this country, to toil together with a common will, as strong as our faith in the future of mankind. And France, as always, together with the other democratic people, will find a way to carry their peaceful message to the world. I thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It is heartening in a troubled world like today to find our sister republic led by such outstanding democratic, intelligent citizens as Monsieur Bonnet, and to hear his fine message today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In response to Monsieur Bonnet's statement, we have from the Honorable John D. Hickerson, Assistant Secretary of State for United Nations Affairs, who entered the Consular Service in 1920. In 1927, he was assigned for duty in the Division of Western European Affairs of the Department of State, and has since served notably in the Department. He is at present alternate United States Representative to the fourth regular session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, the Honorable John D. Hickerson. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Tennant, Mr. Ambassador, Lieutenant General McGrath, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. May I express to his Excellency, the Ambassador of France, an old and good friend of mine, the appreciation of the government and the people of the United States. For the sentiments he has expressed here today. He has emphasized the friendship which unites the peoples of our two countries, a deep, sincere, and traditional friendship, which is one of the foundations upon which we and France and the other free countries hope to build a peaceful world society. In celebrating the 63rd anniversary of the gift of the Statue of Liberty, this symbol of a common ideal, we are focusing attention on a relationship between two countries that has translated a mutual regard into concrete acts of shared responsibility. The significance of this occasion was never more marked than it is today. If the free nations are to remain free and to prosper, they must join in a common defense of the great tradition of freedom which inspired the liberty and the free choice which they now enjoy. We need to strive constantly for a more intimate understanding of each other's problems and of the broader problems which affect the free nations as a group. The free world needs to develop, in short, a survival sense that may well lead its governments to even more dynamic acts of peaceful cooperation than even these eventful transitional years have seen. Now it is precisely this sense of a shared destiny that threads itself to the entire fabric of Franco-American relations. The democracies of France and of the United States have common roots in a great period of French philosophy, the 18th century enlightenment, which championed the ideals of liberty, equality, and fraternity. These ideals were the seeds of liberty in the new and in the old world. They flowered into democratic social orders which give the individual citizen the greatest range of political freedom, dignity, and personal freedom he has ever known. Democracy has been successful because it respects, in fact, as well as in theory, the dignity of the human being. It is a tribute to the people of France that the democratic spirit survived the last war and the terrible years of occupation. It is a still greater tribute to the nation and to its determination that democracy has triumphed over the heavy pressure that's been put upon it in the post-war years. Democracy and all that it means in terms of liberty and a way of life for free men is being challenged and in some countries threatened by forces of evil intent on its destruction. The denial of God and the subversion of the individual to the will of the state are basic concepts of communism. The concepts of that wicked totalitarian system of government wish to penetrate and destroy everything that we in the democracies cherish. In the face of this attack, our two nations, in concert with other like-minded peoples, have joined forces for mutual preservation. We in the United States know that we are contributing to the cause of peace when we assist France and her neighbors in their own concerted programs for economic recovery. The North Atlantic Treaty and the military assistance programs are concrete evidence that we in the United States recognize what the external security of France and her neighbors means to our own security. France and the United States have repeatedly stated and demonstrated their determination to do everything in their power to support and strengthen the work of the United Nations. These are principles to which our great nations are committed. They must and they must and they will triumph and establish even more securely the tradition of freedom which we celebrate here today when we in the United States renew our expression of thanks to the people of France for this magnificent and symbolic guilt of 63 years ago. Thank you Mr. Hickerson. Like the mayor of this great city, Rabbi William F. Rosenblum came to this country, formerly a native, in this case, of Poland. He not only, however, has bridged the gap between Europe and America, but also between two of the great forces that are, interestingly enough, holding forth in Washington today, for he has served both in the Navy and as a chaplain in the Army Reserves. At this time, Rabbi Rosenblum will offer prayer. Rabbi Rosenblum, you may remain seated for this prayer. Father of all, to thee we turn this day, not alone with our songs and prayers of thanks and praise for this emblem of friendship between two freedom-loving nations, but an appreciation of the opportunity to rededicate ourselves to the ideals for which it stands. Help us to realize that we must promote liberty, not only through our words, but through our works. Imbue us anew with the courage our forefathers had to open our doors without fear to the tired and the harassed across the seas, so that our blessed soil may restore to them that dignity of the soul which is the right of every man. Three score and three years ago, this statue was placed on our shores to shine as a beacon across hate-tossed seas to the victims of horror in the old world. Today, let us rededicate this statue as an eternal lamp, ever to be fed by humanity's love of liberty, a burning flame of faith and of freedom that shall never go down, but whose light shall become brighter and brighter, as liberty is proclaimed, not alone throughout the land, but throughout the earth, to all the inhabitants thereof. Shine on, thou kind and noble light. Keep thou the faith of mankind bright in God's eternal majesty and man's beneficent destiny. Though tyrants rise to might and power, they are rule but for a fleeting hour, while texture of eternity must air the priceless blessings be of threefold gifts of liberty, equality, fraternity. Shine on, and let thy golden rays illumine seas and all the ways of land and air. And everywhere let mankind testimony bear that all, whate'er their color, race, where'er they do their altars place, shall not in fear or darkness live, but by the light that thou dost give, the light that heaven and earth dost fan, the light of love of man for man. Amen. The Honorable Watson B. Miller took the oath of office as Commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service of the United States Department of Justice in August 1947. Prior to that time, he served his country as Federal Security Administrator, and as a long-time worker in the National Organization of the American Legion. Commissioner Miller will present a certificate of citizenship to Mrs. Anne Garcette, native of France. The delay is due to the cameramen. They're very anxious to get Commissioner Miller and Ossé of France to get to the and now in just a moment the regular ceremony will take place and you'll hear his words as he presents the certificate. And I'm just going to get to the The delay is due to the cameramen. They're very anxious to get Commissioner Miller and Ossé of France. And now in just a moment the regular ceremony will take place and you'll hear his words as he presents the certificate. In the meantime the cameramen are still issuing orders and getting pictures and that's important because right over the head of the lady herself flies the American flag that means so much to everybody. And as Ambassador Bonnet said, Liberty came back to France in the folds of the Stars and Stripes. It was born in France under the tricolor. Here is the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty on the 63rd anniversary of its greeting to those coming into the harbor of New York City for the first time and thrilling all of us every time we see her majestic and magnificent proportions on her pedestal here in New York Harbor. Well, it just seems that the harbor lives because the symbol of liberty is here to decorate and to bring to everyone the assurance and the assertion of everyone's right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. With the liners moving in and out of the harbor here, several have passed down while we're here on the ceremony and the pageantry of the harbor itself on this beautiful October day is an inspiration as well. And now Commissioner Miller is about ready to speak. I think the cameramen have released him. Commissioner Miller. Commissioner Miller. General, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, you will all join me in happiness and being able to present to you here and those afar, Anne Gozette, a native of France, the wife of an American soldier who proudly and gallantly sits on this daise with us today. The surpassingly lovely young woman has just become a citizen of the United States. In this new citizen hour symbolized the age old principle of liberty, egalite, fraternité, which France formulated as a way of life, stimulated by the teachings of Rousseau, Voltaire, Adam and Roland, the nation at Amarillo land made it last to fact through tears and toil and human sacrifice. It gave America the consummate ideal and this great figure of liberty enlightening the world truly back of this new citizen. There stands traditions of culture from the Roman, Gothic, the Frank, Burgundian, traditions of history sometimes written in blood. The blood shed to help establish principles of right and justice and to at length produce security for all people. Traditions of people, traditions of people sometimes crushed to earth, yet able still to rise to greater heights, who even now arise to greet the dawn of a new day. A warm welcome to you, Mrs. Garzette, goes with this certificate of citizenship, which you will hold close to your heart, with the pride in it that we have in you. Madame Mattenau, Donnelly's attached to the knees, who is at 3, 3, B Avenue. The lady was too overcome to speak, and now here's our chairman back again. Isn't it lovely to have such a beautiful representative of France join the citizens of this country? The final speech on the program, but not the final number by any means, is by the great Attorney General of this United States, J. Howard McGrath. Re-elected twice as Governor of Rhode Island, he resigned to become Solicitor General of the United States. In 1946, he was elected United States Senator from Rhode Island. In 1947, he became Chairman of the Democratic National Committee, an office he held until his appointment to the Cabinet of the President in August of this year. In my mind, perhaps even a greater attribute of the Honorable J. Howard McGrath is the fact that he has been a staunch defender of civil rights throughout his entire career. It is a pleasure to present the Honorable J. Howard McGrath. Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency, Ambassador Bonet, the Republic of France, Most Reverend Bishop Arnold, Rabbi Rosenblum, Dr. Poling, distinguished and eminent guests, fellow citizens. It is a common custom to speak of statues as representing the dim and the remote past. But, my friends, today let us feel that if there is any monument upon this earth that belongs to the present and to the future, it is this Statue of Liberty. As men and women of various religious faiths and nationalities gather today on this hallowed spot, it is steering to recall the deep and powerful urges that caused liberty-loving peoples to establish on these shores a nation dedicated to freedom, to justice, and opportunity. Standing at the gateway of our beloved country, no emblem so graphically symbolizes the heart and soul of our great republic as does this glorious shrine. This little light sheds a grand luster from these shores that reaches to all mankind, its beam burning eternally disseminating a message in spirit to the farthest most corners of our earth, notifying peoples everywhere that freedom is universal and is not alone the cherished possession, nor the exclusive blessing of the people of our own land. To us, this magnificent goddess of liberty dedicated here 63 years ago is a vivid reminder of the beginnings of our nation. This gift of the citizens of France to the citizens of the United States is an unforgettable memento of the French contribution in ideals and practical aid that was so vital to creation and the building of our country. It especially recalls the immortal Lafayette who fought side by side with Washington throughout those dark and dismal days of our early struggle for independence. Yes, Ambassador Bonet, the sons of France not only brought to America ideals of freedom and a sturdy devotion to its cause, but your people brought us advanced ideas in education, in science, and in music. In sculptor and in architect also have we excelled because of you. These contributions enriched our national life and have made our democratic way an example to oppressed humanity throughout the world. Just as Lafayette's inborn yearning for liberty transcended the horizon of nationality, representatives of at least 15 other nationalities took prominent part in the long war of suffering and the sacrifice that was to end by making a free America. Brilliantly emblazoned across the pages of history ring out the names of such racially diverse heroes as Patrick Henry, John Paul Jones, Von Steuben, Pulaski, Solomon, John Barry, Ethan Allen, the yes and legions of others of equal glory and service. Today over 100 nationalities representing peoples from every corner of the earth, now citizens of the United States of America, live side by side in peace and harmony, a concrete fulfillment of the promise made in the deeds of the men of the past whom we do honor today. Mayor O'Dwyer, I wish that television were sufficiently advanced so that peoples all over the world could get but a quick glimpse of the daily life of the great metropolis of New York. For this city is indeed a striking and teeming illustration of people living together in mutual understanding and mutual trust and mutual benefit to one another. Here, their deep-rooted prejudices of old have been erased in the workings of our beloved and true democracy. Indeed, this is convincing evidence that our philosophy of government which guarantees liberty to all under the law meets the requirements of mankind in this 20th century civilization. Through the participation in this ceremony of President Basdavant, President of the International Court of Justice, we see the global significance in the progress that mankind is making in his yearning and striving to achieve permanent international peace. The goddess of liberty that stands above us holds in her hand a scroll upon whose inscriptions are the words July 4th, 1776, the date of our Declaration of Independence. This divinely inspired document declaring to the world that all men are created equal. Proclaimed in the Declaration and guaranteed to our day in our Bill of Rights, this sacred concept of human rights became the foundation upon which this nation was built and alone through which it can long hope to endure and prosper. All this may be read in the light that shines from the statue. Within a stone's throw of where we now are, there is rising another and a newer monument, a world monument to liberty, the home of the United Nations. President Truman participated in the laying of the cornerstone of that great structure which holds so much of the hope of mankind only a few days ago. We hope and pray that the United Nations will in due time proclaim an international Bill of Rights that will guarantee for all the world the worth and dignity of man wherever he may be. And that will bring the true light of this statue to him in his home environs. With God's help we pray that this world organization may soon establish that temple of brotherhood and the world of God, and the world of God, and the world of God, and the world of God, and the world of God. And our hope, Mr. Ambassador, to you and your countrymen of France is that the friendship established in the days of this mighty gift may endure until every particle of the dust of this great island upon which it stands has been cast to the winds, and all of its heavy bronze molded away by the ages that will wear upon it, and the solid foundation of granite upon which it stands will no longer be. If God would permit us to look into the future, to see that end of eternity of a friendship with your people, then indeed we are happy on this, the 63rd birthday of this beautiful Lady of Liberty. Thank you. Probably no man has stirred the emotional heart of America much more deeply than Irving Berlin. And we are particularly delighted today, and feel it particularly fitting, that he has brought with him to this meeting, to this celebration, some of the members of the cast of Miss Liberty. It is a privilege to present to you Irving Berlin. Thank you. Thank you. I won't attempt to make any kind of a speech. You've heard so many stirring and wonderful talks. Besides, I couldn't make a speech if I wanted to. But I did want to say this, that this is a particularly proud moment in my life, to stand here before this glorious lady, because a little over 56 years of my life, I was brought to this country as an immigrant with my family, life to stand here before this glorious lady because a little over 56 years ago I was brought to this country as an immigrant with my family and I don't have to tell you of how deeply I have appreciated the privilege of living here in America. Everything I have, everything I am, I owe to this country and when a year ago Robert Sherwood told me he would like to do a play about Miss Liberty and asked me if I'd consider setting music to that great poem written by Emma Lazarus, I thought many times of the time when I came here. I really feel I could become very emotional about it but I won't. However, we will sing for you the little verse, a part of the verse of that great poem of Emma Lazarus which I had the great honor of setting for music. Okay, thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Your heart, old master's yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send me the homeless camp that's taught to me. Hide in my lands, beside the golden dawn. Give me your tired, your cool. Morning. Your heart, old master's yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. Send me the homeless camp that's taught to me. I lift my land, beside the golden dawn. What? I lift my land, beside the golden dawn. Your heart, old master's yearning to breathe free, the wretched refuse of your teeming shore. I lift my land, beside the golden dawn. I lift my land, beside the golden dawn. I lift my land, beside the golden dawn. I lift my land, beside the golden dawn. Good luck. Good Dave. Before moving to the close of this occasion, and we will close with the singing of the National Anthem and the benediction, there are a few people that I would like to have the privilege of introducing to you. I'm sorry that I haven't had the opportunity to meet and to bring to your attention all of the notables who are here on this thrilling occasion. The Attorney General has just mentioned that the Honorable Jules Bardivar, President of the International Court of Justice, is here. Is he here at this time? Well, the Right Honorable Robert Schumann, Minister for Foreign Affairs and Head of the French Delegation of the United Nations General Assembly. I understand that he's present. Is that true? No? All right, I'm being misled on one of two things. I do know that the Honorable F. Poe, Acting Consul General of France and the New York Consulate is present. Mr. Evans, Superintendent of the American Bar Association, is present. I know. Mr. Evans. Mr. Herbert Gallagher, President of the American Bar Association, is present. I know. Mr. Gallagher. Mr. John Cooper, Chairman of the Citizenship Committee of the American Bar Association, is also present. Mr. Francis A. Turner, who is representing Superintendent William Jensen of the City of New York School Board. Mr. Mr. The President of the Gold Star Mothers, I understand, is also here. Mr. The President of the United States National Preserve. Mr. Theribal Star Mothers in the audience at the foot of the pedestal, is not adjacent to the mic, and it's impossible to pick up her speech. She's making a short address to the audience seated here at the pedestal of the Statue of Liberty on Bedloe's Island. The occasion being the 63rd anniversary which is being observed here on Bedloe's Island this beautiful October morning. Now back to the Chairman. We would like to pay tribute to the Ladies Auxiliary of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. We understand that this is their 13th annual meeting here on Bedloe's Island and that their program will take place immediately following this ceremony. I'd like to ask Mr. Osborne of the Mayor's Committee if there are any instructions for those on leaving the island. Mr. Osborne is now conferring with the Chairman. It looks as though everything is alright though. The boat that brought us over will bring us back. The police department, the police launchers, escorted the boats. The fireboats put on their beautiful spectacle of spraying that water into the air. The same boat on the ship came over and the boat will be waiting immediately at the close of the ceremony. We will now have our national anthem. дру cualт The freaky Theok czyli The End The End The End The Final Benediction will be given by Dr. Daniel A. Poling, who is chaplain of the Chapel of the Three Faiths in Philadelphia. God of our fathers and our God, we thank Thee for this day. We thank Thee for this lamp of freedom that shines over a fear-darkened world. Evermore may we feed this flame with our faith and loyalty. Evermore attend it with thy divine grace that it shall lighten every man coming into the world. Rest now thy blessing upon this eternal light. The Lord bless thee and keep thee. The Lord make his face shine upon thee and be gracious unto thee. The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee and give thee peace through the Prince of Peace himself. Amen. Will the audience please remain seated until the honored guests have withdrawn. Thank you. And so we conclude the ceremonies here at the foot of the Statue of Liberty. Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses yearning to breathe free air. Send these the homeless, tempest-tossed to me. I lift my lamp beside the golden door. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.