Today the President of the United States has come to Princeton University to accept an honorary LLD degree. His speech today climaxes a year's observance of the bicentennial of the founding of Princeton. The President is speaking from a platform directly in front of the famed Nassau Hall. A crowd estimated at 6,000 have gathered here under the old trees of the campus for this occasion. At the moment a number of degrees are being conferred upon distinguished Americans, and they are being conferred by the President of Princeton, Harold W. Dodds, and the candidates are presented by Walter E. Hope, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Princeton Board of Trustees. The next recipient of a degree here at Princeton University will be General of the Army, Dwight D. Eisenhower. In just a moment, General Eisenhower will come to the center of the platform to accept the degree of the LLD. Also, I'll be here, Dr. Roy Dwight Davis Eisenhower. General Eisenhower is standing at attention on the stage here to accept the applause of this crowd gathered on the campus of Princeton. Supreme Allied Commander in the War and unofficial Ambassador of Goodwill, of whom it has been aptly said, his character and skill made of a coalition a triumphant army of democracy. Bringing to his task the intensive preparation of a lifetime, he revealed qualities of simplicity, self-effacing efficiency, unerring good judgment, and dynamic but friendly personality, which quickly brought about an acceptance of his leadership with remarkable unanimity, not unmixed with real affection. In his daily decisions, he was just and fair and wise and held the respect and warm admiration of his officers and men. In his post-war missions to other countries, his tact, humor, and refreshing frankness left a lasting and happy impression. For his service to his country, we owe him a debt never to be forgotten. General Eisenhower stands now before President Dodds of Princeton to accept the hood of black lined with orange silk and banded with another color of purple for the law. As the general accepts the hood, he turns now in applause and accepts the applause of this crowd who have arisen on their feet to applaud General Eisenhower. And now another degree to be conferred. For the degree of Doctor of Laws, Frank Diehl Thackenthal. Acting President of Columbia University. Educator and skilled administrator who has dedicated his life with singleness of purpose and rare devotion to the welfare of his famous alma mater. Becoming provost in 1937, he served as the trusted and able lieutenant of his illustrious predecessor, and with self-effacing efficiency, conducted the day-to-day operations of that far-flung organization with smoothness and ease of execution. Upon the retirement of Dr. Butler, he became Acting President, without disruption or dissent, without commotion or loss of motion, and with the complete confidence and friendly support of trustees, faculty, and undergraduates. Such a result could only have been achieved through qualities of fairness, modesty, thoughtful consideration, courage, and the best type of constructive leadership. In his own quiet way, he has made an outstanding contribution, not only to Columbia, but to American education. The most distinguished group of men and women are here at Princeton for this final bicentennial convocation. Former President Hoover is on the platform, and Professor Albert Einstein is here also. A number of degrees have been conferred on these people. Among those have been Dr. Sergei Kusevitsky has received a degree. As has Warren Robinson Austin, the United States Representative to the United Nations. Bernard Manus Baruch, former United States Representative to the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission, received an honorary degree of Doctor of Law just a few moments ago. Dr. Vandivar Bush, the President of the Carnegie Institute of Washington, also received a degree. At the moment, a degree is being conferred upon Justice Learned Hand, the presiding judge of the United States Circuit Court. He has made the figure of the reign of law without fear of its adjustment to meet changing conditions. Dignity without sacrifice of approachability. A profound and ever-growing knowledge without claim of infallibility. Courage to state things as he sees them, regardless of consequences. And above all else, a native and shining integrity which no man has ever thought to question. Present here today for this final convocation of the bicentennial observance of Princeton University are 165 persons representing universities and learned societies of 44 nations. There are 275 delegates from universities throughout the United States that are gathered here on the campus in front of Nassau Hall at the moment. There are a number of members of the French Academy with splendid in black frock coats, trimmed in green braid, and a sword hangs from their belt. A representative of the University of Salamanca, Spain, the oldest in the world, wears a black robe with a huge collar of gold cloth. Directly back to the center of the platform is a huge banner dropping nearly three floors hanging in front of Nassau Hall here. That's 28 feet high and it's about 12 feet wide. It contains the Princeton shield of orange and black against a white background. Along the rear wall of the amphitheater, which provides accommodations for about 6,500 persons, it will be formed by a bleacher seat, that is, that forms the back of the amphitheater. On top of the bleachers will be the flag of the state of New Jersey, the flag of Princeton University, and the flags of the 11 nations represented on the United Nations Security Council, United States, United Kingdom, France, China, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Australia, Brazil, Poland, Belgium, Columbia, and Syria. Now the next degree for Admiral Chester, or Alfred Richard Sloan, Jr., will be the next recipient of a degree here. His career reads like an epic of American success. Starting from modest beginnings, by virtue of hard work and native abilities, he rose step by step to the headship of a great industry. Modest, retiring, always insisting upon teamwork with his associates, he provided the driving force essential to outstanding achievement. More recently, with the lightening of business responsibilities, he has turned his attention increasingly to interests of public welfare, and with his lifelong associate, has organized and made munificent provision for the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research. It is understandable that this approach might appear unorthodox to certain members of the medical profession, but the public, mindful of past achievements on the part of this incomparable team, will be content to wait patiently, but hopefully, for progress in the solution of the world's most baffling medical problem. The citations for these degrees are being read by Walter E. Hope, the chairman of the executive committee of the Princeton Board of Trustees. Also, for the degree of Doctor of Laws, Chester William Nimitz. Fleet Admiral Nimitz is standing at attention in the center of the platform, the bright sunshine going down in this white uniform of his. An admiral in the best tradition of the United States Navy. Called to the command of the Pacific Fleet in its darkest hour after the disaster at Pearl Harbor, this son of Texas took up his difficult task with quiet and assured determination. Reconstructing his shattered command with amazing results, he turned at the first possible moment from defensive to offensive warfare, and by daring leadership and brilliant strategy, achieved a succession of victories which culminated in one of the greatest triumphs in naval history. In this accomplishment, his personal qualities played an important part. Modest, resolute, and wise, firm but human, his faith in his officers and men was reflected in their confidence and enthusiastic loyalty to him. His decisions were dictated by unerring judgment and a sturdy common sense, which won wholehearted support and were executed with skill and vigor. Today, in well-merited recognition of his achievements, he is commanding our Navy in its adjustments to new responsibilities in a troubled world. Admiral Nimitz, rather than have the hood slipped around his shoulders, takes it upon his left arm and shakes hands with President Dodd. The people here on the campus at Nassau Hall are on their feet again to applaud Admiral Nimitz. He shook hands with the President of the United States after receiving the degree. The degree of Doctor of Laws, Robert Gordon Sproul. President of the University of California. Since his election in 1930, he has, by his leadership and able administration, advanced the distinction of that great institution on San Francisco Bay, not only in his own state, but throughout the nation. With all his responsibilities in the field of education, he has found time to take an active part in the intellectual and civic activities of his community, and has brought to its people the resources of his great university, reinforced by his own vigorous personality. For the degree of Doctor of Laws, Eugene Cardinal Tisseram. Distinguished scholar and eminent churchman, interpreter of early Christian documents, expert in the liturgical arts of the Eastern Rites, world authority on the Oriental languages, master of manuscripts. Knowing full well the ancient needs of scholars and the modern means for their greater satisfaction, he has helped to make the Bibliotheca Apostolica Vaticana the most cooperative of all institutions of learning, and by his ever-friendly response, has earned the gratitude of scholars in many lands. Mr. Truman and Ms. Margaret Truman are seated here in the audience for the President's Naval Aid, Admiral Foskett, his Military Aid, General Vaughan. And now the next degree. Mr. President, we are honored by the presence here today of four officials of the highest rank, each chief in his own jurisdiction. We are appreciative of their coming, and of the presence of the President of the United States, who thus continues the precedent of our last anniversary 50 years ago, when his great predecessor, Grover Cleveland, stood upon these steps. Accordingly, Mr. President, I have the honor to present for the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, the Chief Justice of the United States. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause President Dodds has read the Latin citation accompanying the degree for Chief Justice Vinson. Mr. President, I have the honor to present for the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, the Governor of the State of New Jersey, whose early predecessor granted our charter 200 years ago. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Governor of New Jersey, Alfred Eastlack Griscoll, standing in academic roads before President Dodds now, as he reads the Latin citation. President Dodds arises, takes off his hat, shakes hands with the Governor, hands him the small diploma, and again resumes his seat. Mr. President, I have the honor to present for the degree of Doctor of Laws, honoris causa, His Excellency, the Governor General of Canada. Applause Applause Field Marshal, Viscount Alexander of Clunas, is resplendent in the academic robes of English University. Applause in the의회de for the weekly future in France in the Titanian Civil Rights until such time as the growing authority of the United Nations will make such strength unnecessary. That report was prepared by an advisory commission of distinguished citizens. One of them was President Dodds. The commission reported its belief that the United States should have small professional armed forces. These should be supported by a reserve of trained citizens derived from a carefully planned program of universal training for young men. Without such training, in the opinion of the commission, we cannot maintain effective reserves. Hence, the commission regards universal training as an essential element in a balanced program for security. Universal training represents the most democratic, the most economical, and the most effective method of maintaining the military strength we need. It is the only way that such strength can be achieved without imposing a ruinous burden on our economy through the maintenance of a large standing armed force. The justification for universal training is its military necessity. However, it is a matter of deep concern to me that the training program shall be carried out in a manner that will contribute materially to the health and character of our young men. I am certain that the kind of training recommended in the report of the advisory commission will not only make our youth better equipped to serve their country, but better mentally, morally, and physically. The experience of living together and fulfilling a common responsibility should strengthen the spirit of democracy. It will be an experience in democratic living, out of which should come in increased measure the unity so beneficial to the welfare of the nation. We must remember above all that these young men would be training in order not to win a war, but in order to prevent one. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I am confident that our educational institutions understand the need for universal training and recognize it as a vital responsibility of citizenship in our day. The obligations of our educational institutions, which I have been discussing, are great, but in the world today, there is a still greater obligation. It is the obligation of service to all nations in the cause of peace. There can be no greater service to mankind and no nobler mission than devotion to world peace. The course has been charted. The Constitution of the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization states the basic truths by which we must be guided. That Constitution reads, Since wars begin in the minds of men, it is in the minds of men that the defenses of peace must be constructed. The construction of the defenses of peace in the minds of men is the supreme task which our educational institutions must set for themselves. This convocation is a symbol of what our educational institutions can do in the cause of peace. It marks the end of a great series of conferences attended by scholars from all over the world who assemble here for free discussion of the most challenging problems facing men today. The special significance of these meetings is that they restored bonds in many fields of learning between our own and other lands, bonds which had been impaired by the war. The resumption of meetings of scholars, of businessmen, of religious leaders, and government officials is evidence of our conviction that the peace must be founded if it is not to fail upon the intellectual solidarity of mankind. free and inquiring minds with unlimited access to the sources of knowledge can be the architects of a peaceful and prosperous world. As we gain increasing understanding of man comparable to our increasing understanding of matter, we shall develop with God's grace the ability of nations to work together and to live together in lasting peace. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard the President of the United States. And now, our national anthem. Wow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The End The End