It is therefore appropriate with this sponsorship that the man who is to keynote our discussion today on the fight against ignorance in the world is the senior educational official of the United States government. In the past year, in addition to his heavy duties here at home, he has traveled and worked actively with the educational systems of Iraq, Lebanon, Jordan, Israel, Uruguay, and Peru. And in addition, he has participated in meetings on this subject with which we are concerned today in England, Scotland, Ireland, Sweden, France, Italy, Puerto Rico, and Switzerland. Now, you might think that I could make a good thing of all of this in talking about our commuting commissioner. But actually, I think it would be better if I expressed my real feelings, and I suspect the feelings of all of us here, in saying how happy I am as a citizen of the United States that our minister of education takes so deep and vital an interest in using education to build world understanding both abroad and here at home. It's an honor for me to present as our keynote speaker to introduce the discussion this afternoon, Earl J. McGrath, United States Commissioner of Education. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, fellow panel members, ladies and gentlemen, it's no exaggeration to say that this meeting and others like it being held at various times in various sections of the world are of great importance to men everywhere. The matters that we are to discuss here are related to a world revolution. The principles in that revolution are set forth in Article 26 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which is on the stage here. This revolution, fortunately, is one in which bombs and guns will be replaced by ideas and words and human compassion. And if the projects that we talk about here and those to come later are at all successful, they will not only rid the world of the ageless scourge of war, but they will also lift from the backs of men the burdens of hunger and disease and ignorance. It's no reflection on the other sections meeting in this general conference at this time to say that this is, in many respects, the most important meeting because what we do here and what comes out of this meeting will in large part determine whether or not the other efforts can be successful because without education there's little good in talking about health and agriculture and the benefits of technology. I was in Iraq, as the chairman has said recently, and I saw our ongoing program there under Point 4, Mr. Fryer. This is not intended as a criticism at all because the work is very successful indeed, but I was struck with the fact that the health work and the work in agriculture and technology that is going on there cannot possibly be successful in elevating the standards of living in that country unless it is eventually accompanied by a substantial program of fundamental education to prepare the people to make use of the benefits of the other projects over the years ahead when the technical assistance is withdrawn. Now, as the ex-chairman of this meeting, I will speak on some very general topics, leaving the discussion of the concrete steps that are being taken, to use a bad word, to implement these projects to the other members of the panel. I should say that the program that we've made out is somewhat broader than the United Nations Enterprise and somewhat broader than UNESCO for the reason that many other programs, like the Point 4 program, for example, and that conducted by the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, and indeed those conducted by foreign countries like England and Holland to mention only two, also contribute largely to the purposes which we have in mind. In this presentation, I am going to follow an outline which President Schuster will use in presenting the summary of all these sessions tomorrow. This was given to us at a preliminary meeting last night, and it is organized around these three headings. First, what is the global situation today? And in connection with our own subject, that would be with respect to the fight against ignorance. Second, what is being done in these various projects to improve the present situation throughout the world? And thirdly, what obstacles to future action now exist? Now, with regard to the global situation, as you have undoubtedly heard in some of the other meetings, from one-half to two-thirds of the human beings living on this globe are illiterate. Indeed, in one country in Central America, not far from our southern border, 77% of the children never attend any kind of school. We Americans shouldn't be too happy about our own situation with regard to literacy and the upper levels of the educational system in this country. We have a good educational system, but there are still many weaknesses. And I find it necessary, regrettably, to take exception to one of the statements of my good friend George Stoddard last night that the literacy problem in the United States is well under control. The fact of the matter is that there are several million illiterates in this country, and if you add to that, totally illiterate, and if you add to that group about six or seven more millions who are what we call functionally illiterate, that is, have no more than four years of schooling, and not good schooling often at that, you come up with a figure of about 10 million illiterates in the United States. We cannot be unconcerned about this matter. It presents very real problems. It was my fortune in the Navy some years ago to conduct an educational program, and one of the jobs we had to do was to teach thousands of American young men how to read and write the English language. I should also add in this connection that the fascistic and totalitarian-minded people in our own country, mentioned both by Mr. Stoddard and Elmer Davis last night, I believe, fall largely, although not entirely, within this group of people who have not had the advantages of any substantial education. There's so much for our own problem. The question might be raised of why should we be concerned about fighting ignorance in the distant regions of the earth? I think there are three simple and quick answers to that question. First, whether we like it or not, we are living in one world. When you can eat breakfast in Cairo or Buenos Aires one morning and eat breakfast in New York City the next morning, you must realize how closely we are now placed in contact with all kinds of people throughout the earth. We cannot, therefore, be unconcerned about the conditions of life in those countries and one of the determinants of the conditions of life is, as we all know, education. Secondly, we have to be concerned, again, because whether we like it or not, we are in a conflict with another system of living, another way of life. And in some of these countries which have been mentioned, the communists are making a very strong appeal to the underprivileged, to the sick, and to the ignorant. And that appeal can be can be successful unless, in many cases, unless these persons are given the basic education to make discriminating judgments with regard to the relative values of democracy and totalitarianism. And thirdly, as Mr. Stoddard said last night, we are a generous and a humanitarian people. We do not have to take an attitude of colonialism or imperialism to help our brothers in other sections of the world. Our religious convictions and our political beliefs from the beginning of our country lead us in that direction. Now, what is being done in the fight against ignorance? I will speak first of two efforts directly under UNESCO and only mention these because Mr. Elvin will elaborate, I'm sure. The first is the Fundamental Education Project, which some of you know will consist of six and possibly more later centers located in various sections of the world in which a broadside attack will be made on the problem of fundamental education. In these centers, teachers will be trained and teaching materials prepared to be used in those sections. sections. This plan extends over a period of 12 years. I very much hope myself that one of those centers or, if not one of those, another set up under our own auspices will be located somewhere in the western hemisphere. of the country and the other country will be made to the future. Secondly, at a meeting in Geneva last July, the representatives of 43 countries considered, among other things, problems related to the development of a universal, free, compulsory school system. and those representatives agreed unanimously that it was a matter of urgent importance that their governments take action immediately to begin to establish at least what we know in this country as an elementary school system that provides the basic education for citizenship. Now, of course, some of us, England, the United States, Sweden, and so on, have already done this long ago. And we gave our attention, therefore, to the extension or prolongation, as they called it, of educational opportunities in our own country. And we pledged our assistance to the countries only now beginning what we started to do back in the 1830s and the 1840s. other agencies not in UNESCO whose program is related to the fight against ignorance are the Institute of Inter-American Affairs, which has been carrying on a form of technical assistance program in South America for a dozen years or more. Mr. Mark will speak about that in a few moments. our own Point 4 program, which Mr. Fryer will discuss, and then our own other forms of technical assistance, and as I said a moment ago, many other programs in foreign countries like the Dutch, for example, who also are offering educational assistance in the Middle East along with us. now the obstacles in these efforts. First, there are political obstacles. There are people who do not want the mass of mankind to be educated. I was in, as I said a moment ago, in a Middle Eastern country several months ago, and in talking with our own ambassador, I learned that it's going to be awfully difficult to establish a fundamental education program in that country involving technical, take agricultural education, for example, because 400 families own 85% of the land. The people who work that land, like some of our tenant farmers of some years ago, live on a marginal basis. They never are able to get enough out of the land to pay off the owner and to elevate their status in society. Now, it's going to be very difficult, therefore, in that situation, to break into that vicious circle. And the workers themselves are not much interested in improved agricultural methods unless they can see that some of the additional production is going to benefit them and their children. Secondly, there are traditions to be overcome. In another country in the Middle East, a university recognizing the need for vocational agriculture education established a school of agri... a high school level school of agriculture. agriculture. But they found that very few boys would enter that school because the tradition is, as indeed it is in many foreign lands, that if you go beyond the elementary school in the educational system, you are destined to become a lawyer, a doctor, or some kind of white-collar worker. And therefore, this kind of school, this program, does not attract young men and young women in that country. country. A third factor is the obvious one of getting the funds to support such a program. Here I'll use a concrete illustration again, which Miss Griffin may want to elaborate. But in the Geneva meeting last summer, when we were talking about this compulsory education program, the representative from India, Mr. Kirpal, said, well, this is all very well. in the abstract, but let me call your attention to the fact that there are 360 or 70 millions of people in our country. Many of them do not now have the advantages of education, and it will be a long time before we will be able to gather the funds to support such a program. And he pointed out that Mr. Gandhi, recognizing this problem, had undertaken some experimental centers in which the children made small articles for sale, which, when sold, provided in part the cost of their education. But this is one of the problems that we have to deal with. And lastly, this is something with which we should all be concerned and about which we can do something either directly or indirectly. the fact of the matter is that there are very few persons in the world today who know how to conduct a fundamental education program. Ms. Griffin is one of the few who has been working in India and Haiti and other countries. But when you look over the educational personnel of the United States, you find that few have the qualifications for this particular job, however well they may be prepared in other respects. And I submit that one of our most important responsibilities in the teacher training institutions of this country, in the universities and in the colleges, is to take steps at once to train a body of professionally competent workers who can not only help us in eliminating illiteracy in the United States, but who can go out to these foreign countries to assist them in setting up fundamental educational programs for adults and programs of free compulsory schooling for children. in conclusion, I would like to say that this can only be done by persons like yourselves in this audience. This cannot be done by an office of education or by UNESCO or by any one association of institutions or individuals. individuals. This must be a great mass collaborative effort in which we all can play a very important part. And I would like to return in conclusion to my opening theme that we are here engaged in one of the most important human activities, I believe, ever to have taken place on this earth. And I am sure that with a certain amount of missionary zeal, we working with the citizens of other countries can, over the years, guarantee the preservation of free institutions and the democratic way of life. Thank you. That was Earl J. McGrath, Commissioner of Education of the U.S. Office of Education.