Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In nine weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, a hundred years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses two ways of paying our national bills, pay-as-you-go or deficit financing. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the kind of tax program required to pay-as-you-go and the effects on our standard of living. Now, our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Our guests today are Yale Brosan and Kenyon Poole, professors of economics, and Ronald Robinson, professor of banking, all members of the Northwestern University faculty. In beginning our discussion, Poole, what assumptions do you make concerning the international situation? Are we headed for a quick war or a drawn-out emergency? Well, I wouldn't want to predict, but I would assume that the war will go on at its present rate, or perhaps a little faster rate for some time, certainly less than the rate at which we were faced in World War II. The philosophy assumption that we have to make whenever we are facing a situation such as the present, is that we will assume more takes place than is likely. We have to assume that there is at least as much expenditure, at least as much diversion to war as we contemplate, because to over-assume involves very little danger, but to under-assume might involve us in very serious consequences. In other words, you'd rather take a chance on a surplus than a deficit. That's right, Yale. I think we're all in agreement on that. Brosan, does anyone really know what expenditures are contemplated? Well, the preliminary word seems to be that national defense expenditures will be about doubled from the level of $14 billion for last year to around $30 billion for next year. Do you have any special in on the military there, Yale? My impression is that there have been no real official figures, that the military hasn't quite taken us into their confidence. The military hasn't taken itself into confidence as far as I can find. They seem to have changed their minds a half a dozen times in the last month from a budget ranging up to $50 billion back down to this $28 to $30 billion level. That means we've got to watch out for piecemeal expenditures coming along without any plan over a long period of time, which might make it very difficult to balance the budget. Well, we'll know quite a lot more when the President brings out his annual message in early 1951. That at least will be an official statement. We'll know there where we can start from. Does anyone want to predict what the President will say in that message about financing the budget? Is your crystal ball that clouded that you're not willing to try on it, Ken? I see you shaking your head. I'd be willing to try, but I wouldn't want to have to eat my words afterwards. Well, all right, Poole. Are we on pay-as-you-go right now? Well, we aren't in any very effective sense. We won't remain on pay-as-you-go unless more taxes are asked for and voted than the President has yet asked for. Well, the President has asked for $4 billion increase over the amount already voted by the Congress prior to the last election. Now, my reaction to that would be that evidently the President doesn't intend to operate on a pay-as-you-go basis, that we need a much greater increase than that if we're going to meet the expenditures that are contemplated. Of course, he may be going at the taxes on a piecemeal basis, just as the military may have to go on the expenditures on that basis. Well, it seems as if those businessmen have done some thinking on this, such as the Committee for Economic Development, are way ahead of the President. They've already said we need a $7 billion increase. Of course, they're not running for office. They don't have to watch out for the political implications of what they say. I think there's more involved than that. I think this administration has been ridden by what might be called the deflation phobia. They're scared to death of the idea that we might have a deflation that would cause some unemployment. So what they do is may take a large risk of inflation in order to avoid any deflation. In other words, you're pointing the fact that a deficit has likely come out that it's going to have to be financed and all of the consequences that come from it, unless we have some real change in policy, some real addition of what we are now planning on doing. You talk about deficit financing there, Robinson. Exactly what do you mean? Well, deficit financing is spending more than you collect. It's spending more than you have. It means you have to finance that margin by borrowing. It's the same thing any individual has to do any borrowing. Proposition is that of getting money from the public. Now, when government does it, it may borrow by going either to citizens who have saved and take the money, in which case it's a nice even balance. But if you finance it as you may, and as unfortunately some of us fear there's a disposition to do, by borrowing from the commercial banks, that by the black magic of making more deposits at the banks makes more of what we consider money. And it tends to be more inflationary than the other methods of financing a deficit. Essentially, the difficulty is that the government, if it has a deficit, is likely to borrow from banks. If they were to borrow from individuals, we wouldn't worry quite so much. But borrowing from banks means that there's going to be new money created, money put into circulation that didn't exist before, which will add to the inflationary pressures in our economy. And the danger of that is that borrowing from the banks is the easiest way of doing it. It can be done at the lowest rates, and there's always this temptation of giving way to the easy way. Well, they're practicing a kind of an economics of illusion. It makes it seem as if it doesn't cost anything to finance the country, to carry on our various national efforts, if you can borrow this at such a nice low interest rate from the banks. I'd like to point out, of course, in that connection, that that's not a property of any particular administration. In both World War I and World War II, we financed only perhaps a third to two-fifths of our expenditures by taxes. That means that the rest had to be borrowed. We sold as many bonds as we could to savers, which means they lose the money the government gets. The rest had to be sold to the banks. Although I am certainly in favor of taxing as far as we can, we mustn't be surprised if it's necessary to sell bonds both to the banks and to save it. What you're saying, Ken, what you're saying in effect is that nobody has a monopoly on the economics of illusion. The people also have this illusion that they can go ahead and perhaps borrow more than their current income, keep with it quite a while. It's an illusion that's very popular, very lovely, and very dangerous. If we buy television, the government buys tanks. You make this distinction, Robinson, between the government borrowing and the individual borrowing. I wonder, would you explain that a bit? There's no really serious distinction. Both of them may borrow by getting the savings of somebody else, in which case there's a transfer of the funds among individuals, and in both cases the borrowings of government and individuals may be by expansion of bank credit, in which it does involve new money. The distinction is that government borrowing is something central, is controlled by one policy, whereas borrowing of individuals and businesses is decisions, millions of them spread out. That's the basic difference. As a matter of fact, we've had some deficit financing practiced by business firms in the last few months. They've borrowed about three billion dollars more from banks than banks obtained from repayment, with the result that we've had considerable inflationary pressure. That means, by the way, that if we did pay as we go, as far as government spending is concerned, we still have to face the danger of inflation on the business side. That is one of our real problems. We've had deficit financing also by individuals, that there's been a great increase in consumer borrowing, and a great increase in borrowing to buy and build residential structures. The savings deposits and many kinds of banks have gone down. People have withdrawn their funds for hoarding purchases. We've had deficit expenditures by many different groups. Incidentally, excuse me. Isn't that partly a consequence of the fact that the government's been maintaining this very low interest rate policy, with the result that it's very cheap to borrow? We don't have time enough to argue that, but I'm not sure that interest rates make the difference. Well, we might also say, too, that we're still paying the price of the inflation of bank deposits that took place in the last war. Consumers have been in a fairly, quite a liquid position, and we've always worried, ever since 1945, that they might take into their heads to spend that money all at once. Well, this deficit financing, then, in the last war, illustrates the danger we confront now. No one denies the danger, of course, of deficit financing. In other words, you all agree that there are certain dangers here in deficit financing. I'm wondering, can some of those dangers be avoided by effective economic controls? I would like to address myself to one point there. We speak about the dangers of the moment. Really, the dangers now are probably greater than those that were faced before. When we went into the Second World War, we went in with a great deal of slack in employment. We had quite a bit of space that could be taken up in our economy by simply making people work longer hours and put more people to work. Now we are already at a high level. If we try to add on, a serious amount of expenditures, inflation, can proceed simply from the fact that we are already near the margins of productivity. I think that's certainly a very valid point. It's also to be remembered, however, that we have, we built in World War II, a large amount of plant capacity, which can be turned to account. Part of the danger in the present situation that makes this so much more explosive than the previous situation is that you have this very large volume of money that's been created during the last war. It's triple the quantity we had in 1940. There's a large volume of money as yet still has a fairly low velocity of circulation. If it were to jump back into circulation at the rates that we had in the late 1920s, the price level would double. Of course, we have to remember that it's a virtual certainty that there will be some types of controls that will make it a little difficult for that velocity to jump back to what it was in the 20s. And therefore, I would be a little careful about worrying too much about a quick increase in that velocity under present conditions. Though I think after 1945 and 6 that was an extremely real danger. But the moral is still true. The fact is that the direct controls have nowhere near as favorable a place as they had earlier, because now they will be imposed on an economy that is already near the breaking point, whereas the direct controls before had a fair sort of background against which to operate. Now, you've talked here about deficit financing, and I assume that you all agree that we're going to have it, whether we want it or not. Under what circumstances are we justified in moving to deficit financing? Well, first of all, I wouldn't assume we're going to have it necessarily. I think we can avoid deficit financing if we follow some statesmanlike policies. Would you like to avoid it, Brosnan? I would very definitely like to avoid deficit financing. I'm tired of seeing the value of my life insurance and my bonds go down. I bought bonds in 1940. They aren't worth as much today with all the interest I've collected as they were in 1940. In other words, you're taxed anyhow. If you do not tax as you go, you're taxed through inflation. And we're certainly all in agreement that it's preferable to face the taxes that you have to pay. The simple economics of the fact is that if we're going to divert part of our economy to this new tepid war to try to have defense expenditures, we have to take it out of something else. The issue is whether we pay for it the direct or the indirect way. Guns or butter is a real issue today. And we might say also the issue is whether we pay it in an equitable or an inequitable way because inflation hits worse those that are least able to, or are apt to be, least able to bear the burden. What's more, I'm not willing to take this cynicism that we do have to face deficits. I believe that really in the arena of practical politics there are ways of getting around it. That here's one circumstance in which the public opinion of a democracy can be mobilized to accept the burdens that are inevitable in any event. I certainly agree with that under the assumptions that I myself made to begin with. That this was not a total war. Well, I'd say we can practice a pay-as-you-go policy because we can go about two ends of this policy, so to speak. As on the expenditure side for one end of it and on the tax side for the other end. I would first direct myself certainly toward reducing some expenditures such as the postal subsidy, the farm subsidy, the rivers and harbors expenditures, and items of that sort. Of course, some of those subsidies will decline automatically as the level of money national income increases. For example, relief payments after the down subsidy payments. Yeah, but let's nudge them a little bit too. I agree with that. Well, how far can we go with this pay-as-you-go policy? Are there any circumstances under which we might have to deficit to finance our budget? That depends, as I started to say before, on our assumption. If we take the assumption that this war will remain a tepid war instead of becoming a total war, I certainly think we ought and can pay, ought to and can pay as we go. Under a total war, of course, we do know that we've never done it yet. Now, that's certainly no reason why we can't do it and no reason why we shouldn't do it. I'd certainly like to see a little debate on the question of whether we could do it under a really total war, a hundred billion dollars of spending as in 1945. Ken, you're being guilty of the cynicism that so many people accept. They go back and point to the record of history and say things have never been done. The policy has shown that we've always been inept and that we've made mistakes, and I suspect that as long as we have history, we will always make mistakes. Nevertheless, we've learned some new things in other disciplines. We've learned how to make atom bombs. We've learned how to do better in many other ways. Why can't we learn from the lesson in the past and do something about it? Actually, here's a policy that can be faced up right now. The discussion that we have is central to this, of learning to accept our burdens in a more orderly way. I quite agree. Of course, I disclaim the cynicism because what I said was that we've not done it, but I think we should and can do it. But I think what that leads us into is a discussion of exactly how you would do it. It isn't a pious wish, of course. We have to consider just what taxes and also just what the incidents. That is, who pays those taxes? We have to be able to put taxes on a certain part of the public and be sure they pay them and do not pass them on to somebody else. And in the framework of that, I'd certainly like to see a discussion of it. If I were picking the policies that we were to have before us now, I would say that in the first place we would have to put our finger on the expenditure policy. Taxes are important, but in the beginning we have to decide what we're going to spend for before we decide on our taxes. Now, the issue of the military expenditures themselves, I believe, is appropriately discussed in public meetings. That among other things, the military themselves always want as much money as they can get. The issue that we might inquire as to whether when we face an uncertain period, whether the funds for actually building airplanes that become obsolete and building tanks that become out of date is a rise way of spending our money or whether we should do it in true defensive measure, such things as building up the capital capacity of industry. I think the military have finally begun to learn, at least some of the invocations are from the discussions of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, that they have begun to learn that part of the military strength of a nation depends not just on the number of tanks and planes, but also on its economic strength. And that if you were to divert a large part of the nation's capacity at this point simply to stockpiling tanks and planes that would be obsolete three years from now and perhaps thrown away without ever being used, the result of that might be a weaker military machine than by going a little more slowly at this time and using that same effort to build up economic capacity. In other words, you're saying, gentlemen, that we can do a better job of spending insofar as military expenditures are concerned. And non-military expenditures, too. You talked about that, Bros, and you talked about saving some money along the way on non-military expenditures. Would you elaborate on that just a bit? Well, the Rivers and Harbors bill would be a good beginning. How much will that help, I'm wondering? Well, unfortunately, not as much as we'd like because there's only about three quarters of a billion dollars involved there. I say only three quarters of a billion. That's a staggering sum, certainly, for any individual, but we're talking in terms of a national budget which is going to run around $55 or $60 billion a year. Do you think it's really going to be politically expedient to cut down in many places on that budget? Well, Congress doesn't seem to like to cut such things as Rivers and Harbors. They're willing to turn the job over to the President and let him take the blame, then, for things that they're unwilling to do. Now, Yale, how would you like to try cutting on expenditures for agricultural price supports and policies of that sort? Do you think you could save anything there if you were given a free hand? Well, I can see about $2 to $4 billion a year that we could save right there, right away. Do you think you could do it if you were an elected official? See, I'm setting up on the cynicism of Ken at the moment of pointing out that there are difficulties there. Though, at the moment, I wonder if it isn't fair to say that the agricultural policy could be amended, that prices naturally are high enough that farmers, I believe, would patriotically accept the present level without support. Well, at the moment, I would say you'd probably win some votes by dropping this policy rather than by continuing the policy. As we've seen the fiasco of the potato support program, and that certainly generated a lot of unfriendliness by voters. Anybody who would be willing to come out against a program like that would probably win votes on the balance rather than lose. Now, we have already in the last week dropped the egg support program because of another fiasco there. We have these nearly hundred million pounds of dried eggs which are rotting, going to waste in caves in various parts of the country. Now, perhaps we have to have a fiasco first before we can drop them, but we might point to a few of these and say, well, let's prevent these fiascos from arising, drop the program before they happen instead of after they happen. Would you agree, Yale, with all of this saving that we would still have to embark on a substantial tax program? We need a very substantial tax program because I can't see savings of more, the maximum, with great political courage, and maybe five billion dollars a year in a non-military portion of the budget. Well, may I ask some specific questions about this tax program? What kind of an excess profits tax do we want, if any? Well, I think that the answer to that is that we don't want an excess profits tax. I think we should ask the question, should we have substantial increases in the personal income tax, or should we rely relatively heavily on business taxes? There's a principle we might observe here. Taxes don't all have the same effect on the inflationary picture. They don't all have the same final effect on how spending goes forward. A tax that is on profits, particularly on excess profits as has been defined in the law in the past, has not necessarily curbed spending of the sort that we want to curb. Quite the contrary, it might spoil outlays for capital plants, which we do want. And at the same time, it would lead to the possibility that we would have less resistance to price increases, wage increases, all the things that make for inflationary movements. An excess profits tax would help cause inflation. An excess profits tax might help cause it. Whereas, the Treasury says that they will, they can recommend an excess profits tax that will cut down those incentives. I'll believe it when I see it. I'll believe it when I see it. And so a lie. However, we might point out that a way in which that could be done actually disallow excessive fees for lawyers, excessive advertising expenditures. And incidentally, I must say that it would bring you into a certain amount of direct controls, the thing that Mr. Brosnan, of course, is so opposed to, which would mean perhaps, Yale, that you would also be opposed to an excess profits tax on those grounds. Well, that's fighting a battle after you've lost a major portion. That's a rear-guard action to put on these little safeguards after the major front has been lost. The real point is that we have to cut expenditures, and we have to cut expenditures for real goods and consumable goods, and that means taxes where it hurts every one of us sitting at the table. That's right. You would recommend a federal sales tax then, I suppose, Roland? I would recommend any sort of tax that will cut spending. I am not sure whether I put my finger on that, but I think some form of consumption taxation. Well, how about a spending tax then geared in somewhat the same way that the personal income tax is geared, except instead of using income as the basis for judging the tax, you use the amount of spending of each family or individual as the basis for judging the tax then. Ken Poole here is the expert, and he should answer that. Well, it depends on what Yale means by a spending tax. There are, of course, two general types. One in which you have a flat rate tax, in which your purpose is simply to siphon off purchasing power in the form of taxes from those who would otherwise buy the goods and compete with the government for them and cause inflation. The other type is the type that was recommended by the Treasury in the last war. That's known as a progressive spending tax, and the rates get higher for each successive thousand dollars of spending. Now, there's a difference there between that tax and the other, because it becomes prohibitive to spend at all after a few thousand of spending. The result is people won't spend, but they'll save. Now, if they save, they're not paying the money in taxes. Which one of those spending taxes did you have in mind, Yale? Well, I would like to see the progressive spending tax, partly because I can't see raising income taxes very drastically over a very short period. In the case of income taxes, you have them falling on people who may have commitments of various sorts, such as life insurance programs or mortgage payments, and they can't easily get out of those commitments, and they're stuck with them for a period of five, ten, or twenty years. Well, the spending tax is perfect for that, because if they can't spend on one type of goods, then they can pay their insurance policies and so forth. However, if they only have certain commitments for insurance policies and so forth, and then save still more because of this progressive spending tax, the Treasury has a problem how to sop up those funds. I think that problem can be solved. The technical problem of sopping up the funds that don't flow quite directly through all the savings channels is a technical one that I believe that we can safely assure the public can be solved. Well, why sop up those funds, though, if they're not out there causing any inflation? All we want to do is prevent them from being spent, and what do we care if individuals hold them or if the Treasury holds them, as long as they're held off the market? Yale, I believe they should be sopped up because of the fact that liquid funds, even if not used, do turn out later on to be a danger. We've had that in the post-war period. We had much of the problem that these funds that weren't sopped up during the war were idle and were liquid, weren't doing any damage, but did come to be damaging in the period following the war. On that point, I'd like to say, remind us that we made the assumption this war would go on indefinitely this way. Now, if by indefinitely we mean maybe five, ten, or fifteen years, it's important to notice that these savings will build up year after year after year. Now, there's a difficulty that the public might in time begin to feel that this money was worthless. It's what the Germans call hidden inflation, and the people in Germany in the last war did come to believe this money was worthless for precisely these reasons. Well, do they need to build up in this necessarily liquid form? Might not they actually go to building up the economic capacity of the nation in the sense that they'd be used to buy the securities of companies which would then use the funds to finance the expansion of aluminum capacity, airplane capacity, or what have you? I think the facts would show Yale that whenever liquid funds are built up, that they have not, in general, gone out for investment. People hold them in either idle form or put them in the very secure form of investment. It looks to me as if it might be necessary to introduce some of those controls. Let's get back for a moment to this spending tax that was introduced as a policy. I'm wondering, does that really differ from a general sales tax, Jim? Yes, excuse me. Well, it differs from a general sales tax in that it's geared to the spending of an individual, and it is geared in such a way that he pays a higher proportion if he spends more, whereas a sales tax tends to be a flat tax, that the rate is the same regardless of whether you spend a thousand or ten thousand dollars. There's another important point on that. On a sales tax, it's very difficult to give exemptions unless you do it by exempting food or housing or something of that sort, and that wrecks a sales tax base and you don't get much revenue from it. Under a spending tax, you can give the exemption just as you do under an income tax by exempting the first two thousand of spending, regardless of what it's spent on. And therefore, a spending tax is in that sense a much more desirable tax than a sales tax. In other words, it's a fairer tax for the ordinary layman. I certainly think it would be a fairer tax for the average public. Now, isn't it very possible that we're going to have to have two or three different types of taxes if we're going to finance this expenditure? Yes, we ought to think in terms first, I should think of substantial increases in the personal income tax, and incidentally, unfortunately, that means in the lower brackets as well as along the line. You make me unhappy when you say substantial increases. Well, let's assume a current rate in the first bracket of 18%. It wouldn't surprise me if we were forced up to a 25% or 30% rate in the first bracket before we were through. All right. And with perhaps lower exemptions, the $600 exemption, I believe it's still $600, might be lowered, not substantially, but somewhat. Can't we get more money out of the rich? They've got lots of money, haven't they? Well, as you very well know, Yale, it is not the rich who primarily compete for these goods that the government wants during a fighting war of the sort. Well, haven't they got lots of money we can tax in? Well, the answer is they're at the top of the income pyramid, and that is not where the bulk of the money is, even though any one wealthy person has a good deal of it. And thank you for that opportunity. Would this excess profits tax be passed right on to the individual, or would it stay with the... It's generally agreed that an excess profits tax, owing to the difficulty of defining profits so it makes any sense, tends to be passed at least in large measure along to the consumer. That doesn't mean it's all passed to the consumer by any means, but that there's a tendency for this cost, this tax, to get into cost of production, as we say, and to be reflected in higher prices, particularly under conditions of large purchasing power generated by war spending. Isn't this demand for an excess profits tax largely a result of the feeling that if you're drafting men for war, you ought to draft profits for war? And in those terms, why do we have, let's say, just excess profits that are drafted for war? Let's just draft a large part of all profits for war. Why not just profits? Why not have an excess income tax? That's been proposed. One fellow makes $2,000 a year before the war, and another $10,000. Both make $10,000 after the war. So you tax the fellow who came up from $2,000 higher than the $110,000. How about that, Yale? I'd say there are some of the same difficulties administering that sort of tax. I'd never recommend it myself. But couldn't we erect a sort of a corporate income tax, let us say, that would be on the order of a 30% normal rate and, let us say, a 25% defense profits rate? And in that way, meet the demand for the drafting of profits for war purposes. I think that's perfectly possible. Always remembering, of course, that there is a discrimination against corporate profits as compared with the income of proprietorships. We've heard a good deal in recent years about compulsory savings. Robinson, what do you think about that as a policy? Well, compulsory savings is brought out by Mr. Poole's suggestion that we have some form of spending tax because once you have that, the other side of it, if you stop spending, you then have more savings and you therefore have some form of compulsory savings. Well, that's an incentive to save rather than compulsory savings. It comes with the same thing, though. But I think for all purposes, we might as well say it's an incentive with a club. That's right. With a club, what's more, that has probably shaped a little bit more to the necessities of the moment than the very crude club of just a pure sales tax. Aren't you, gentlemen, a little afraid of all the controls that will come with this very complex tax scheme you devised? You mean the spending tax? Yes. Well, there is no doubt that it's complex. I once had to put my mind to that problem and I came to the conclusion, at that time reluctantly, that it isn't much more difficult than an ordinary income tax, that you can use a tax blank which isn't too different from it. Thank you, gentlemen, for an informative discussion of the problems faced by those who would decide on a finance policy for our government expenditures. Well, thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Pay As You Go or Deficit Financing. Why not send now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Yale Brosan, Kenyon E. Poole, and Roland Robinson. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand discusses the subject, Accidents, Childhood's Greatest Health Hazard. The speakers will be Dr. Harry F. Dietrich, Practicing Pediatrician in the University of Southern California Medical School, and staff member of Children's Hospital of Los Angeles. Harold C. Hunt, General Superintendent of the Chicago Public Schools, and Dr. Rustin McIntosh, Professor of Pediatrics in the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University. We invite you to listen next week for Accidents, Childhood's Greatest Health Hazard. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Marshall Kent. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. And that means I'll make you famous 80% Georgia National per semen by claims and ACLUного вамп Clear. Ar �um shot dead