Eleanor Roosevelt says, It would be difficult for us in this country not to be grateful for our preservation from some of the hardships of this past great conflict. In return, we can only show our gratitude by helping others. I'm very glad on Sunday, March 12th, we will have one great hour of sharing in our churches throughout the nation. Walter Reuthe says, Unless we in America share some of what we have with people overseas who have so little, there's not much hope for a peaceful and secure future. That's why it's important for Americans to go to their churches on Sunday, March 12th, and support the one great hour of sharing. Senator Paul Douglas of Illinois says, We can create a lasting bond of friendship that will bind together all democratic and peace-loving nations by aiding the needy of other countries through reconstruction and relief of projects in the spirit of Christianity. The one great hour of sharing in churches all over America on Sunday, March 12th, strikes at the heart of the problem. Bishop G. Bromley Oxnum says, It's always been the business of Christians to look after the needs of their neighbors, no matter whether that neighbor lives across the street from him or across the ocean. On Sunday, March 12th, the American churchgoer will have a chance to help some of his needy neighbors overseas through the one great hour of sharing. Congresswoman Helen G. Bromley Oxnum says, Congresswoman Helen G. Bromley Oxnum says, It is a happy omen that nearly 25 million people in America will join together in a program of voluntary aid to reconstruction and relief in the one great hour of sharing in their churches on Sunday, March 12th. I am sure that this project will help us all to a better understanding of the word brotherhood. Ralph Bunch of the United Nations says, There are probably more refugees in the world today than at any time in history. National and international agencies give aid to these people, but voluntary agencies such as churches are needed to help too. Go to your church on Sunday, March 12th and support the one great hour of sharing. Congressman Bob Sykes of Florida says, The people of America, both great and small, have a fine and generous spirit. That is why on Sunday, March 12th, they will support in their churches the one great hour of sharing, which will help to alleviate the needs of the world, both material and spiritual. Harry Emerson Fosdick says, When we see the big government programs of post-war aid to countries overseas, we must not forget that the churches, through their voluntary agencies, have helped a great deal also. But they need your support to continue that help. Go to church on Sunday, March 12th, and share in the one great hour of sharing. Donald Harrington of the Community Church of New York says, The one great hour of sharing has a great appeal to the conscience of America. We will join with 100,000 other churches all over the country on Sunday, March 12th, to participate in this effort to alleviate some of the world's suffering. Branch Rickey of the Brooklyn Dodgers says, There are plenty of people in this world who haven't been able to forget the recent war as quickly as we in America have. There are still people without enough food and clothing, without a roof over their heads. On Sunday, March 12th, we can help such needy people overseas, through the one great hour of sharing in our churches. Congressman Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. of New York says, The one great hour of sharing will help to tell the world that the impetus for American efforts on international reconstruction comes from our free citizenry. It is my earnest hope that all Americans who can do so will participate in the one great hour of sharing in their churches on Sunday, March 12th. E. Stanley Jones, world-renowned spiritual leader, says, God shared with us and we must share with others. That is the center and purpose of the Christian gospel, which is put into action in the one great hour of sharing in churches all over America on Sunday, March 12th. Henry Luce, editor of Time Magazine, says, In a few months, we will be celebrating the fifth anniversary of VE Day. But even five years after the war's end, there are still millions of people overseas who are in need of help. Americans can help them by going to church on Sunday, March 12th, to support the one great hour of sharing. Senator John Sparkman of Alabama says, We can only hope to build a democratic and Christian world through all our international cooperation projects. The churches of America, through their one great hour of sharing on Sunday, March 12th, can have a tremendous influence in the worldwide struggle to preserve democracy and Christianity. Norman Vincent Peale says, Thousands of Americans would be healed of emotional and spiritual neuroses if they would simply learn to give themselves away. Through the sharing, they secure inner relief, peace of mind, and deep happiness. I commend the one great hour of sharing in churches all over America on Sunday, March 12th, for the healing of the world. Norman Thomas says, The chances for a peaceful world in the immediate future depend very largely upon the willingness of Americans to share their abundance with people overseas who are so desperately in need. One opportunity to do this is through the churches on Sunday, March 12th, in one great hour of sharing. Senator Hugh Butler of Nebraska says, To my mind, the one great hour of sharing is one of the finest expressions of Christian sympathy since the war. It symbolizes dramatically the brotherhood of Christians throughout the world and says once again that we have not forgotten the biblical mandate to be our brother's keeper. Go to your church on Sunday, March 12th, and share. Right Reverend Henry Sherrill, presiding bishop of the Protestant Episcopal Church, says, The need for world relief is a continuing one. It is my earnest hope that the one great hour of sharing in churches all over America on Sunday, March 12th, will result in a generous response from the church people of our country. Warren Austin, United States delegate to the United Nations, says, America is interested in teaching democracy to our recent enemies in the last war. But it's pretty hard to learn democracy when one is cold and hungry, as so many people in those countries are. We Americans can relieve some of that hunger by supporting the one great hour of sharing in our churches on Sunday, March 12th. Senator Hubert H. Humphrey of Minnesota says, Americans can best demonstrate to the peoples of the world its sincerity in behalf of democracy and human dignity in the basic humanitarianism as expressed through the religious principles of the church. Go to your church on Sunday, March 12th, and participate in the one great hour of sharing. Dr. Walter Van Kirk of the Federal Council of Churches says, When we hear the news reports about civil war in China, Burma, and Palestine, we would do well to remember that the fighting is always accompanied by human suffering and need. We, in America, must help to alleviate that suffering. One way is by going to church on Sunday, March 12th, to join in the one great hour of sharing. William Green, president of the American Federation of Labor, says, We can have neither peace nor security in America as long as there are large numbers of people in other countries who are cold and hungry. One of the ways Americans can help needy people overseas is through their churches on Sunday, March 12th, in one great hour of sharing. Congressman Brooks Hayes of Arkansas says, The objective of the American people is to assure a lasting peace and a stable world in which spiritual values may be preserved. On Sunday, March 12th, through the one great hour of sharing, the people of America will be speaking directly to the peoples of other countries, providing aid and comfort in a time of dire need. Reinhold Niebuhr says, Our children here in America have little chance of growing up in a peaceful world if the children of other nations continue to lack the food and medicine and warm clothing they need. We can help our own children by helping the needy overseas through one great hour of sharing in our churches on Sunday, March 12th. Senator Homer Ferguson of Michigan says, My recent travel around the world has convinced me that we need a loud voice for democracy and Christianity overseas. Voluntary effort on our part will demonstrate more than billions of governmental aid, our faith in American institutions. Go to your church on Sunday, March 12th, and support the one great hour of sharing. Dr. Ralph Sockman says, The war-ravaged countries overseas are still in need of outside help. Just as important as the big government aid programs is the work done by voluntary agencies, such as those sponsored by the American churches. You can give your support to this work on Sunday, March 12th, in your church through the one great hour of sharing. Congressman Charles R. Howell of New Jersey says, The voluntary efforts of church people in America in their projects of relief and reconstruction overseas will go a long way in presenting the truth of democracy to peoples abroad. Go to your church on Sunday, March 12th, and join in the one great hour of sharing. This is Ben Grower. About a century ago, a famous story was written about a man without a country. In our day, there are several millions of men without countries. We call them refugees. On Sunday, March 12th, we here in this country are being asked to give help to these refugees and others in need overseas through one great hour of sharing in American churches. This is Quincy Howell. This is Quincy Howell. The first half of our century has seen widespread violence and bloodshed. But even though we have not yet learned to live in peace with our neighbors, we know that we must give help to those who have suffered. On Sunday, March 12th, we can help war-stricken people everywhere through the one great hour of sharing in churches all over America. This is Joe Hassel. America's record at the last Olympics proved that we are tops in sports. But what we don't often think about is that there are people in the world who can't afford to spend their energy on athletics. On Sunday, March 12th, Americans are being asked through their churches to help such needy people overseas in one great hour of sharing.