What's up? Yeah. Good afternoon, everyone. This is Ken Joseph speaking to you from Floyd Bennett Airfield. Today being Navy Day, we have a special celebration out here at Floyd Bennett, spectacular demonstration by naval aircraft. And now to give you a summary of what's happened up to date, I'm going to call upon a very dear friend of mine, Lieutenant Ed Bunker. Come on in, Ed, and say hello. Well, thanks a lot, Ken. There's so much been going on. So much still is going on. It's hard to get a perfectly accurate picture all at one place. You know, everything's happened here. We've been buzzed by every type of Navy plane that you could possibly mention. The grand finale happened just a few moments ago when an R5D, which is commonly known to the civilian trade as a DC-4, a four-engine Navy transport plane, has just buzzed afield as a parting gesture. And believe me, that Nats plane brought forth a lot of memories. They don't do much of that buzzing anymore, particularly not now during peacetime. Anyway, we ought to say a few words, I think, about the crowds that have been coming through all day. Ken, what do you think? Well, I think that's a very good suggestion, Ed. There certainly is a terrific crowd. There were more people out here a while back, but I'd estimate that there are still around 7,000 or 8,000 people out here at Floyd Bennett viewing this exhibition being put on by the United States Navy, the greatest Navy in the world. Yeah, I think you hit it just about right. Incidentally, the Floyd Bennett celebration is one among 21 that are going on in Naval Reserve flying bases. There are 21 of them throughout the nation. Not of the least of these is, of course, Floyd Bennett Field. This is the second celebration observance of Navy Day, peacetime, and the first observance by the now organized reserves. The Navy, you know, their system this time is to be prepared at the least economic cost. They believe that if they keep these boys who've done such terrific service during the war, keep them sharp and fresh with just enough flying, say, six or seven hours a month to keep their reflexes and everything else connected with piloting a plane, just as fresh as it can be, why they've got the best basis of operations should there be any trouble at the later date, which we hope there won't be. Well, let me cut in on you here, Ed. Am I to understand that all of the flyers participating in the exhibit this afternoon are members of the Naval Reserve rather than the United States Navy? That is absolutely true, with one exception. You have Marine Reserves, too, and they are very, very, well, they insist, and I don't blame them, that their part be known, what they're doing out here. The Marines, you know, are a very exclusive group, just as the Navy are. They operate under one head, but there's a lot of friendly rivalry going on. They were the boys that you saw in the TBMs this afternoon. There are no harder pilots than the Marines. I'll handle that. As a Navy pilot myself, I know. And what sort of planes have you flown, Ed, as a pilot? Well, as I tell you the truth, I did mostly instructing during the war, finished up with a refresher course down at Corpus Christi. I've flown, well, let's see, SNJs are my favorite plane. That's an advanced trainer. But I've got some SBD time and a few other arginine, some Beechcraft time. But why don't we have, I tell you, a good idea now. Let's call Nelson Case over here. Nelson Case is pretty well known to radio audiences, but less known is the fact that Nelson is a lieutenant commander in the Naval Reserve and a flyer of no mean repute himself. I see Nelson is having some fun over there on the microphone. Suppose we call him over from that microphone. Nelson! Nelson, come on over here a minute, will you? Ah, here he is. I saw you playing around with that microphone, giving some instructions to planes, flying about the field. You're giving me too much credit. They do what they want to. I just try to follow them. You just try to follow them. Are you the one who gives them these different instructions, telling them what formations to take? I'll tell you, we've been trying to figure out exactly who's boss all day. In other words, everybody's been on his own. That's right. But it certainly made for a beautiful, I don't like to keep using that word exhibit, a beautiful show, let's say. And I'm sure everyone out here was as thrilled by the spectacle of these Navy planes maneuvering over Floyd Bennett Field as I was. But you know more about that than I being a Navy flyer yourself. Suppose you tell the friends some of the things that have happened and some of the pertinent facts about Naval flying. Well, I'll be glad to do my best. I don't know just what you and Ed have covered over here earlier. Of course, it's a real pleasure to be out here in uniform now and then. It takes us back to the old days of the hard work, which we did our little part in the late unpleasantness. As you've undoubtedly heard, all the flyers taking part are members of the organized reserve of the United States Navy, which means that they put in weekends throughout the year and go on a two-weeks cruise. Of course, with pilots, their crews may be land-based. They may be assigned to duty anywhere in the country or outside the continental limits. Then they return to civilian life and maintain their reserve standing with these occasional exercises. Today is one example. The crowd here has enjoyed seeing this very much. There's been on display almost every kind of naval aircraft from the old primary trainer, the N2S, which is down at one end of the runway up through the advanced trainer, the SNJ, the various transport types, the Douglas R-4D, which is your DC-3, and the R-5D, which is the DC-4, a Coast Guard B-17, which is used in Air-Sea Rescue, is on display, as well as several Lockheed PV patrol bombers. And, of course, we've mentioned the visit of the truculent turtle. I suppose you tell us a little more about that visit. I'm sure people are very, very much interested in that famous aircraft. Well, so are we. For most of us, it was our first sight of the plane, which, of course, during the actual war was still in the secret and developmental stage. It's a big Lockheed. A lot of people have thought it looks like the PV or the Lockheed Ventura or Lockheed Hudson, but it's rather different. It has a single big tail rather than the twin tail, which has always been a Lockheed trademark. The power plant, 2,800 horsepower, Pratt & Whitney, I believe, won't be sure. And the actual appearance of it is very much like the Tiger Cat, the Grumman F7F, which was the twin-engine night fighter, which was developed late in the war and which put on a wonderful show for us here earlier in the proceedings. Oh, yeah, we saw a part of that, and they certainly did. They certainly shook the tower. Here comes our fighter sweep now. Right as we speak, some F6 have just come down, sweeping at our tower here. They're going by perhaps 50 feet above our heads. Now on the other side, to the south side of the field, two more F6s, which are just clearing the hangars. Now here's one directly at the tower, just going by a few feet overhead. That's the F6, the Grumman Hellcat, which have fought so nobly in the war. They've swooped over with a great buzz and a roar, not quite as close as on the previous one. Now here comes the next part of the attack group. F6s, and there are some F2Cs, the Curtis dive bomber a little further out away from us. Now here comes an F2C right past us, about 50 feet in the air, with that 2,000-horsepower engine in full low, setting up a whine, which the crowd on the ground is enjoying to the full. Now the rest of the group is somewhere in the haze. This is really like attack conditions. You notice they're coming in out of the haze so that you don't see them until they're almost there. It's very similar to an actual combat. And besides coming in from the haze, it's been my experience that on bright, sunny days, when they can't avail themselves of any haze, these planes also come in from the sun, using the sun to the same advantage that they use the haze on not-too-bright days. That's right. They didn't come out of... You can see a little bit of sunlight to the west. I think they didn't come in out of that today so that the spectators could have a laugh out of it. I see. And there's not too much sunlight right now. Other SB2s. And that was pretty close. Yes, sir. Nelson, I'm going to call another friend of ours over to the microphone. You stick around because we want to say some more to you later in the program. But right now, suppose we give the Marines a break. This is Navy Day, and even though they may not admit it, I've heard it rumored that the Marines are a part of the Navy. And I'm going to call to the microphone Colonel Bess. Colonel Bess is commandant of the Marine Flyers Detachment here at Floyd Bennett. And Colonel, I suppose you say one or two words. Thank you very much. The Marines, incidentally, are the oldest branch of the Armed Services, being something like about two years older than the Navy is. We're quite proud of that fact, as we existed before they ever thought of a Navy. Well, out here today, I think you could ask any of the spectators who were present, to which part of the show was perhaps the most spectacular. And I think they would agree that the first act put on this afternoon, which was the flight of Marine Corsairs flown by the members of Marine Fighting Squadron 132. Colonel Bess, I'm not going to take sides, but I think it's only fair that we give a yell for Ed Bunker. Ed! Ed Bunker, come on over here a minute. You don't know what's happening. What's the matter? We gave a Marine a break, and he's trying to tell us that the best part of the show was the Marine exhibit. Now, you may not know this, but I used to be a Navy man myself, so that sort of steps on my toes and hurts my feelings a little bit. But not being in the Navy at the present time, I'm going to call upon a Navy man to debate with you. And that Navy man is Ed Bunker, from whom we heard earlier in the program. Ed, say a couple of words in defense of your outfit. Well, I don't think really that either outfit needs any defense, but I will say that he did have a point there in the Marine exhibit. The Marines and the Navy boys have split the show today so perfectly that I don't think there's a hair's breadth between them. What do you think? Well, I think we had the advantage of doing victory rolls after we made a strafing run over the field. I haven't seen any Navy plane do that yet. Maybe they aren't that proficient yet. Well, they're waiting until night when it's hard. Well, to get back to the Marine Corps, though, we have one squadron out here commissioned now, and we're going to commission another one about the 10th of next month. Each squadron has 45 pilots in it, all veterans of the Pacific War, with 12 ground officers and 164 enlisted. Our first squadron is about up to strength now. And on the recruiting for the Marine Corps, we're coming along better than any of the other outfits. And no one will argue with me on that point. There's one reason why we can do better on recruiting for the Marine Air Reserve than any other reserve organization, is that we are the only reserve organization which will offer a man from any branch of the armed forces, that is, Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard, the same rank in the Marine Corps Air Reserve that he held on discharge from his former branch of service, regardless of branch. Now, that's a mighty good offer. And we're the only service which will make that offer. But our big day is November the 10th of next month, which is the Marine Corps birthday, when we really let the world know that there is a Marine Corps existing. But on today, which is Navy Day, it must be remembered that, after all, we are a part of the Navy, and we join with the Navy in wishing them every success. And they've sure had a grand turnout here on Navy Day. And it makes us Marines just as glad to see that as it does the Navy. Thank you. Well, thank you very much, Colonel Best. Before you leave, I want to tell the friends of WNYC listening in a little about you. And I think we can learn a lot about you by looking at your chest and those campaign ribbons. Now, I see the Pacific Asiatic campaign ribbon with four battle stars across the victory ribbon. And there's one that I don't know much about. What is that one over there? That's for the occupation of North China. When we went in after the war, we couldn't get the normal occupation ribbon for that because China is a friendly country. We went in to assist them in disarming and repatriating the Japs. And that ribbon is known as the China Memorial ribbon. And then you have the pre-Pearl Harbor ribbon with a star. Now, the star indicates something special. I have heard that the star indicates people who had a little difficulty even before Pearl Harbor. Is that true? No. That star indicates overseas RRC service during a period of national emergency that the ribbon signifies service during. I got that star for the same reason that I got the next ribbon, which is the European Theater, and that I was on duty over in London in the office of the Attaché for Air covering RAF Fighter Command for the Navy via the time we entered the war. I went over there in the summer of 1941, say until the spring of 1942. And then there's the American Defense ribbon and the Secretary of the Navy citation. And finally, I believe that's the Legion of Merit. That's right. That's right. And I guess that one. Okay. Thanks a lot, Colonel Best. And best of luck to Best always. Thank you very much. Suppose we tell our friends a little bit about the tower in which your city station's microphones are located. Wandering up to the microphone at the present time is another good friend. Oh, we have a lot of good friends up here today. And his name is Bob Lyons. But we're going to hold him off for about two or three minutes while we describe the tower. There is a maze of equipment up here. There is a very, very intricate intercommunication system set up with which the ground forces can communicate with the planes and tell these various planes what formations to enter into, what maneuvers to go into, and give them any information which they deem necessary. Then, of course, there are the plotting tables with Navy quartermasters, Navy radio men working over, plotting the course of these various planes. And these planes' courses are plotted through the means of radar. And we don't want to say too much about radar at the present time, primarily because we don't know too much. And for another reason, we don't know what we're allowed to say and what we aren't allowed to say. And quite a bit of gold raid around, lieutenant commanders, commanders. There was a captain up here before, plenty of lieutenants. And, of course, the four stepped upon ensign. And now we're going to call to the microphone Bob Lyons. Bob, what have you got to say for yourself? Oh, I'm glad to be here and participating in this show. I've been handling a few of the announcing chores for the Naval Air Reserve, describing the flight formations and the helicopter demonstration that they had a little while ago. And now we've just gotten through with a pretty impressive display of an air carrier attack formation, which included the fighters, F6Fs, the Helldivers, SB2Cs, and the Avengers, the TBFs, TBMs, and the Corsairs, F4U. Pretty impressive. They flew low right over the field and flew about control tower height. And I think it's very spectacular, and I believe the crowd got quite a kick out of it. The pilots are all Naval Air Reserve personnel. They're civilians basically now. And they fly on weekends to keep up their combat skills and training. They're all back from civilian life with their wives and children and families. But they fly weekends. Bob, I want to ask you a favor now. Suppose we organize some sort of an air-to-ground interview. We'll take the microphone and put it next to your intercommunication system equipment and see if we can pick up a pilot in one of these planes and have him say a few words to the radio audience. And you talk to him from the ground, and he'll talk to the radio audience from the air. I think that would be interesting. How about we'll pick up the microphone. Here we go, right over to the equipment. Here's a specialist Y second class at the equipment. Bob? Yeah? You better tell him what to do. I'm not too familiar with the technique employed in this sort of thing. And I'm going to let you take over from here on in and try and raise one of these aircraft flying about Floyd-Bennett Field on this Navy day. Okay, I'll be glad to. See what I can do for you. You probably can hear a lot of voices coming in over the intercom. There are planes flying around, getting flying instructions from the control tower as regards landing. Each one has to receive special instructions because there are so many planes flying around, and they're apt to become pretty confused as they land independently. The control tower has to give them the right of way and clear the landing for them. And we have a man constantly up here with a microphone in his hand who is speaking to the various planes that try to reach him. And he sort of acts as a traffic policeman, sorts the planes out, and lands them as orderly as he can. We'll try and let you hear one of the pilots speaking from a plane to the control tower, and we'll see if he'll talk to the radio audience. The way we'll have to work that, Bob, is after we raise him, put the microphone right next to the speaker. Okay, we'll do that. Put the microphone right up against the speaker and see what we get. You bet. It's a gamble. Well, we'll try. We'll see if it works. I hope it comes out clear enough for all you people and your radios to hear the pilots talking to you. Do you think we can reach some of the pilots and have them speak to the mic? All right, I'll bring it over to the loudspeaker here. Now, just listen closely. You'll hear the aircraft. You'll hear the aircraft. The pilot's calling for landing instructions, and the control tower operator will give them directions as regards landing. Now we're waiting for the pilot to come in. We've got a contact with one of them. And he should be coming in, receiving, asking his instructions from the control tower operator. And I suppose we employ two microphones, and we'll take this microphone and put it right up against the speaker. Here's one. Here's one. Here's one. Here's one. Here's one. Here's one. Here's one. Here's one. There are the instructions being given to the truculent turtle. Maybe the truculent turtle will come in again. I realize it's not too clear. Here they are. Oh, just a roger. Just a roger. Didn't give us enough to pick up. But we did pick up one or two words from the truculent turtle, that famous aircraft of which we've heard so much about. All right. We'll try and get the instructions being given to the pilots by the, uh... Uh, 429, uh, starting a wide circle. The field at 2,000. 2,000. Roger. 429. Remain at 2,000 until further advised. We have this flight of F6F's landing now. We'll advise you when they're on the deck. Over. I don't know. Thank you. Hello. Flight back tower. This is 78. All right. You just heard the, uh, control tower operator giving landing instructions to, uh, one of the pilots asking, uh, whether he could come down and land without causing any confusion. He's acting as a traffic director up here. And, well, Bob, I want to thank you for having appeared on our show. Later we'll be able to get a few words from you. We were both busy doing different things. Let's compare notes. Were we able to raise, uh, any of these planes outside the trucking and turtles? Uh, yes. We got a few of the, uh, uh, SB or the Helldivers, SB2C's that are coming in now. They, and, uh, they got landing instructions from the, uh, control tower operator. I see. And, uh, of course the radio audience realizes that, uh, reception may not have been 100% perfect, but I think they were happy to sacrifice the reception for the thrill of being able to listen to the planes communicate with the control tower and vice versa, the control tower communicating with the planes. Thank you very much for having appeared and giving us a hand. Thank you. I'm glad to go. That was Bob Lyons, Lieutenant in the United States Navy. And, uh, now let's flip around here. I wanted to bring Pat Sullivan to the microphone. But, uh, Pat Sullivan, duck, got a little mic right and he decided he didn't want to, uh, say anything. But, uh, we still have a little time and over in the corner is a commander who seems to be in charge of this entire operation. And I'm going to see if the commander won't be good enough to say a few words to our radio audience. Unfortunately, I haven't been introduced to him, so we'll introduce ourselves right now over there. I'm Ken Joseph of WNYC and you, Commander, our... I'm, uh, Commander DeVoe, the operations officer for this station. And you planned, uh, most of this operation this afternoon or some part of it anyway, didn't you, Commander? Well, as a matter of fact, all our flight operations on this field come under operations. That includes the control tower, the aurology tower, clearance, flight, fire department, and boats. And, uh, we're always glad when we see the planes coming home to roost and nothing's happened with the nose up or the wheels collapsing. And right now, with my fingers crossed, I'm saying that everything is going perfectly. Well, thank you very much, Commander. And we can attest to the fact that the Navy places all importance on the safety of their personnel. Everything else is secondary to the safety of their personnel. And regardless of what else is going on or how important something else may seem, safety comes first. Commander, you know what we haven't done all day? We haven't gotten in a Navy recruiting plug. So, this being Navy day, suppose we let you say a few words about that. Being a 20-year Naval Reservist, I can safely tell you that it was one of the best experiences of my life. I wear the 20-year Naval Aviation Reserve pin. And I'm very proud of the fact that I think that it would be to everyone's advantage to come out and talk to our recruiting officers to get in the organized reserve. Because we're just beginning to get in on the ground floor while this thing is just rolling along now. Thank you. Thank you very much, Commander. Hey, look what we got. You know what I said about you before, Pat? I said some very nasty things. I said you got mic'd right and ran out on us. But apparently, you've got the guts to face a microphone as well as you have the guts to face any battle, which may come up. And we're happy to see you came back to speak to us. Pat Sullivan, a lieutenant commander in the Navy, is the public relations officer out here at Floyd Bennett Field. And it was through Pat Sullivan that WNYC was able to arrange this broadcast. I think he knows more about the celebrations which are going on all over the country in commemoration of Navy Day than any other man on the post. And so it gives me a great deal of pleasure to present Lieutenant Commander Pat Sullivan, the smiling Irishman. Look, I've been so busy, I don't know what's going on over the country. I do know that at Floyd Bennett Field we seem to have quite a crowd here and they seem to be enjoying themselves. Floyd Bennett Field is one of the 21 stations throughout the country devoted to the Naval Air Reserve. I'd like to, at this time, if you don't mind, put in a plug for enlisted men of all branches of the armed services to join our organized reserve out here. The fellows seem to have a lot of fun and we'd like to see a lot more of them show up. Thanks. Thank you very much, Pat Sullivan. Pat, I think a good idea would be to call upon one of the enlisted men over here. I know when I was in the Navy I was an enlisted man and I always used to feel that people used to forget all about the enlisted man. The only person that meant anything was the Goldbrake. We won't forget them. We're going to bring one of them over. Suppose we start out with a chief. Oh, come on over, chief. We were just saying, and you didn't hear us, that it's been my experience in the Navy that everybody forgets about the poor enlisted man. And we don't want to do that. We want you to say a few words in our broadcast. And give us your views of what's been happening and your views of what the Navy is like today and what a splendid and fine outfit it is. And what a wonderful demonstration they put on for all their friends who came out to pay homage to the Navy on this Navy day. Well, it's good enough for me to go back in again. I was out for 10 months and I thought I'd have to get back in. There's nothing like it. It's been a beautiful show. You ought to be out here. And if you haven't been asked somebody that was here, you'll really hear something. Is that enough? Oh, that's fine. Hey, let's not run away without letting the friends know what your name was. Aviation chief machinist mate Milton Allen Barnett. Over. Over and out. Righto. And thanks a lot. Hey, there's a quartermaster over there with the glasses. Quartermaster. Quartermaster first class with a hash mark. What's your name, Quartermaster? Ralph Havlin, sir. Oh, let's get in a little closer and let's forget the sir. I'm just plain Ken Joseph. Ken to you. Hi, Ken. And you've been in the Navy for how many years? Going on seven years now. Going on seven years now. Going on seven years, I see. And what do you think of this outfit? I think the Naval Reserve program is one of the finest things that the Navy has ever started. I do hope it continues. And it is one of the best things for preparedness that they have ever thought up yet. Uh-huh. Could you tell us something about your duties as Quartermaster first class up in this control tower? Well, my duties in control tower are the same as any of the rest of the fellows up here. We control traffic coming in and going out, giving them clearance to land and taxi instructions, avoiding any collisions that may take place without a tower that have happened quite frequently without tower control. In other words, we just are traffic cops. Traffic cops. And you do a mighty fine job of it, too. Thanks a lot for coming up and having said a few words to our audience. Thank you, Ken. Well, our time is just about drawing to a close. We've been broadcasting to you from Floyd Bennett Field. The occasion has been Navy Day. Navy Day. As most of our friends know, Navy Day is celebrated on Theodore Roosevelt's birthday. Theodore Roosevelt having been such a fine friend of the Navy. And they pay homage to our former president, Theodore Roosevelt, by observing Navy Day on his birthday. And so, having come to the end of a beautiful celebration, a wonderful show of Naval aircraft strength and power, a wonderful demonstration of coordination between ground forces and air forces, we've come to the point in our program where we say goodbye, and we extend our thanks to the many enlisted men, many officers here at the air station who have given us so much help in making this broadcast possible. And so we return you to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.