The representatives of the Police and Fire Department City Hall were representatives of the Police and Fire Department, the rank and file of both departments, members of their families and loved ones have assembled to be present at the appointment, the swearing in by Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary of the new Police Commission of the City of New York, the Honorable George P. Monaghan. Commissioner Monaghan has the distinct honor of being the first one to be head of the both great armies of blue, the fire and the Police Department and both of those great armies are here because they are concerned of course with the protection of life and property within the gates of our city both from different angles of approach of course but they do face the responsibility and the hazards of a great city like New York in carrying out the duties of these two great departments and Commissioner Monaghan will certainly have an extremely interesting viewpoint on the activities of the scene. He made a very distinguished record as we all know in the office of District Attorney of New York County and there's so much handshaking and greeting just now that we're just waiting till such time as the mayor calls the meeting to order and the regular process of appointing Commissioner Monaghan will be in order. The council chamber has been packed before but never quite as packed as it is at the present moment. Mrs. Monaghan's there smiling I presume it's Mrs. Monaghan with a very beautiful corsage of orchids dressed in dark blue and there's just a few preliminary adjustments now with the press and photographers and just a moment we'll hear the voice of the mayor Impeletari. The mayor is just issuing a few instructions to a few people gathered around the rostrum here. The cameramen are getting busy to record the scene and we'll hear the mayor in just a moment. The mayor is calling over former police commissioner Murphy now Judge Murphy and he's very tanned dressed very modishly in a light summer weight suit and the mayor is having Judge Murphy come over and sit beside him. He looks fine indeed and now the two commissioners shake hands former commissioner Murphy and commissioner to be Monaghan. The mayor is still making a few little private arrangements so that this party will be a good one. We'll hear his voice in a few minutes. The cameramen are getting spots on the scene so that we'll get a good picture and this will be recorded for all time. For the benefit of those who may have tuned in late the occasion is the swearing in by the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletari, Mayor of the City of New York, of former fire commissioner George P. Monaghan, to become police commissioner of the City of New York with a tremendous turnout for these two great armies of blue. And now the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletari looks to be about ready to start the proceedings. No, he's just having a little word with commissioner Monaghan and then he'll begin. He looked over for a signal but he changed his mind for a moment. And now it looks as though the mayor is ready. The mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletari. I, George P. Monaghan, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge, the duties of the office of, police commissioner, of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you. Mayor of Pelletari is now pinning the badge on the coat of commissioner Monaghan, and there'll surely have to be some speeches for such a huge crowd as assembled here in the Council. Now there's the badge pinned down and there's the applause. The cameras are lining up now, and of course they have a few imperial orders to issue. And as soon as that is done, why, we'll possibly hear the rest of the ceremony. It's supposed to be a brief ceremony, but no doubt there will be a few words of congratulation. The mayor has asked them to cut the lights down because it blocks his visibility of the speech. Now the cameramen are ordering some pictures now, so Mrs. Monaghan is standing beside the commissioner with the mayor, and the cameramen have to, of course, get these pictures because we know the fact that a picture tells volumes of story. And when we refer back to these events, it's a mighty fine thing to have a picture that epitomizes and re-illustrates the scene so capably and so wonderfully. And it's always interesting to look back on these pictures and see who actually was there sometimes when we think we remember, only to see the picture and know that we didn't remember at all. It wasn't what we thought it was because the picture is accurate. And now the cameramen are issuing orders to the mayor that he re-pin that badge on, so they have a real picture of it. We use the people of the city of New York who cannot crowd into this magnificent little colonial room here, little when they use it for a purpose such as today, but a huge room in itself, the council chamber in City Hall. So the mayor is very obediently now pitting the badge of office on Commissioner Monaghan, his insignia of power as police commissioner of the city of New York. As we said at the beginning, the first man to really head the two great armies of blue, the police and the fire department. Those two great armies that are constantly fighting danger in our city in the protection of life and property, and the observation of law and order. These duties fall upon the police and the fire department, and the element of hazard would never completely vanish from a city like New York because of the tremendous requirements, technical and otherwise, of a city like New York. And these men are really soldiers because they never know when a day begins, what the end of the day holds in store for them. And very often in the awarding of medals for the deeds of valor that these men very often perform outside of the regular line of duty, why we get some idea of what those requirements are from time to time. One can never predict a hazard, one can never predict an accident, a tragic occurrence of any kind, but when it happens, these men are trained to meet the situation, and we know the valor and bravery they display in meeting it. Mayor Impelletari is very patient with the cameraman. They're demanding all sorts of techniques in pinning this banjo on the police commissioner, but it's a happy occasion and everybody here seems happy and pleased today that George P. Monaghan is a police commissioner of the city of New York. He has a magnificent record from the DA's office, which gives him a splendid legal background, of course, and an information and an insight into some of the things that do occur in our city. And then having come through the ranks of the fire department, a very great protective organization of our city, from one angle of the protection of life and property, he now is heading from this moment on the police department of the city of New York, in the same method of protection from a different angle, and from an extremely diversified and hazardous one at times. The cameramen are still insisting on a few more intimate details, and they have Commissioner Monaghan smiling as Mayor Impelletari leans over to press more assiduously the business of pinning on the badge. There's still a few orders being issued by these cameramen, and they're going to have their own way. The mayor has asked Judge Murphy now to stand up and join the group. Judge Murphy is certainly the Tower of Gibraltar in this city, because he towers above everybody else. We didn't hear what that joke was, but it must have been funny. They said, bend your knees, Judge. They wanted to level off Judge Murphy with the rest of the people he was having his picture taken with. Well, he's a stalwart no matter what he does. And now Commissioner Monaghan has his hand up and the mayor has his, and Mrs. Monaghan's looking on, and Judge Murphy, other distinguished guests gathered around there. And it certainly looks like a real popular appointment, this appointment of Commissioner Monaghan to the police department. I have never yet, in all my experience in this building, seen a turnout for the swearing in of a commissioner of the police department, such as it's turned out today, combining as it does, of course, the two departments of fire and police. The very keystone of the government of the city of New York, because without either department, the city might well be destroyed from more things than atom bombs. The splendid training of the firemen, the equally fine scientific training of the policemen, protects the city. When they lie down at night and go to sleep, we can really stop and think that the policemen, particularly the policemen on watch from midnight to 8 a.m. is really our night watchman, watching over the neighborhood because he is the first one very often to observe an irregularity of any kind, and is very often the means of reporting a fire that might be very devastating and cause great loss of life if it wasn't discovered soon enough. And then the training of your fire department, trained to respond in the split second, we know that a fire never gets very far in this city, or a danger of any kind. It's extremely interesting historically, the connection of these two great departments within the jurisdiction of one man, Commissioner Monaghan, who has just been sworn in by Mayor Impeletere, who is now relieved of his strain by the cameramen, and it looks as if there's to be some speeches and greeting. The mayor will be host and turn on the, uh, the cameramen have turned their lights towards us. We can't even see over there what's going on. And now we'll just wait to see what the mayor wishes to do before we tell you any more. There's quite a lot of greeting and handshaking going on from the other side. The lady has just been kissed by Commissioner Monaghan. It looks like a family kiss or a relative. These congratulations now are taking place here. They must be members of the family, I believe, because the greetings are most effusive and affectionate. I don't think I made speeches. No, there's not going to be any speeches because the record will not be in speeches but in action. And Police Commissioner Monaghan has certainly received one of the most amazing turnouts for his appointment as Police Commissioner that we have ever seen in this historic building that is noted for turnouts. There didn't seem to be a speck of available space here in the great council chamber, a big room in itself, but a mighty small room when you try to concentrate the activities of the government of the city of New York, particularly when those activities concern the two great departments, the fire and the police department. Even the balcony was crowded. And now it looks as though that is all. Commissioner Murphy is having an additional shand handshake. I say Commissioner Murphy. Now Judge Murphy is the last final greeting as he leaves the rostron. And the mayor and Commissioner and Mrs. Monaghan are leaving the stand now. So that's about all we can report to you from the council chamber and city hall. Your new police commissioner is the Honorable George P. Monaghan, police commissioner of the police department of the city of New York. With the best wishes to this new commissioner and always to our beloved police and fire departments, we take leave of you from the council chamber and city hall. We return you now to the program now in progress, chamber music time, and thank you for your kind attention. WNYC, the voice of New York City. WNYC, the voice of New York City, joins once again with WNYC FM to bring you our regular scheduled programs. connections are we will be aware of an interview, and the