New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. New York, Queen of Commerce. to the early New York, the Queen of Commerce, that we bring you today. Mail come! Mail come! Fresh from the good cows to you! Dolph! Hey, Dolph! Wait! Oh, boy! Hi, Tim. Hey, how's the newspaper going? Fine. See, you have a new cart. It's a beauty. Say, did you hear about the ruckus over in the fields last night? Did I? Mr. Holt, our new editor, hauled me out before daylight to set type on the story. Why? Clam-o! Clam-o! Yeah, look who's coming. Clam-o! Clam-o! Morning's fresh clams, fine clams. Hi! Hey, that voice of yours will raise the dead. Well, Jack, how's business? Fine, fine. Tim and I were just talking about it last night. The Redcoats tried to cut down another flagpole belonging to the Sons of Liberty. Yes. And if Captain Sears of the Liberty Boys hadn't arrived in the nick of time to quiet things, there would have been serious trouble. Gee, I'd like to join Captain Sears and the Liberties. And if the soldiers cut this pole down, that'll make the fort. All right, there's trouble all over the city. Did you hear about the lieutenant from the Man of War, Hussar? No, what happened? He came ashore looking for trouble, wearing a big seal-skin hat. Somebody threw him a fish. Now, wasn't that rude? It was. But he started caning the only person he could catch, a little kid. Well, if I'd have been there, that wouldn't have happened. Then some of the big boys stepped up. The lieutenant called to several Navy seamen for help. And then things got pretty rough. It's a good thing Mr. Isaac Roosevelt was at the hand-in-hand firehouse nearby. He had the lieutenant arrested for starting a riot and locked him up for safekeeping. What's going to come of all this? Yes, I thought when the king repealed the Stamp Act, our troubles were over. Now the new tax laws are worse. Times certainly are terrible. Don't you complain. Selling milk or clams and, I guess, working on a printing press are a whole lot more prosperous than most other business. Shipping is at a standstill. Half the city is idle. And it'll get worse. I don't see how. Well, the New York merchants are not going to ship out any goods until they get fair treatment. Oh, what will they do? Only yesterday, a group of merchants, John Kruger, Mr. Roosevelt, Captain Sears, and William Walton, came in to get Mr. Holt to support them in organizing a chamber of commerce. What would that be? That would be an association of the leading merchants. And what would they do? They'd do anything they could to improve commerce and would stand for pure products, full weights and fair trade. But most of all, right now, as I understand it, they'd clamp down on the selling of all imports from England until the king comes to his senses. No tax repeal, no trade. Well, Dolphin boy, no more water in the milk. And, Jack, you'd have to dig honest clams. I guess we all better get back to work. See you again. Bye, boys. So long. Get in. Milk. Fresh milk. Milk. Milk. Milk. Milk. Just as Tim said, a group of New York's most distinguished merchants made their way to the tavern of Messrs. Bolton and Sigal in Lower Broad Street on April 15, 1768. This inn, then known as the Queen's Head, is of special interest to us because during the Revolutionary War, it became France's tavern. And to this day, we can see the long room there where the Chamber of Commerce was founded and where later George Washington was entertained. Mr. John Kruger, the sugar merchant, was quickly elected the first president. The men agreed to stop trading in tax goods until justice prevailed. Captain Sears addressed the gathering. The people would never stand for compromises now. As long as we have ever-growing numbers that the King's soldiers quartered here and are taxed for their support, there can be only one path the people will follow, and that, I fear, will be a bold one. Gentlemen, there are grave days ahead. And so it went. It seemed a paradox that the Chamber, dedicated as it was to the laudable purpose of promoting trade and commerce, had to start its career by the restriction of a large volume of trade. Many meetings were held. Many fine standards were set. Local business improved, but the political troubles in the city simmered hotter and hotter until one day the following incident took place. Look, Dolph, down by the market house. Soldiers in a big crowd. The Redcoats are trying to put up a sign of some kind. Here comes Jack. Come on, Jack, grab a barrel stave. That sign's an insult. Lobster backs, go back to your kennels. Go home and let honest folks be. Yeah, let's dust them off with these staves. Hey, stand back there for the King's soldiers, dirty rabble. Rabble is it? We'll show you. British thieves, beggars. Here comes Captain Sears and the magistrate. What's the trouble here? Quiet! Corporal, why are you here? We were just coming to market. It's a lie. They're looking for trouble. Look at the sign, Captain. It's an insult. Well, now, Tim, let's see. I wouldn't call this a love note, would you, magistrate? As magistrate of the city, corporal, I order you to take your sign and return to your barracks. I'm one of you. Since when do the King's soldiers take abuse from rebellious dogs? You've been arrogant enough. Now be gone. Don't. The soldier's drawing his bayonet. Watch yourself, Captain. The bayonet. Oh! Did you see that, Dolph? The captain knocked him cold with a ram's horn. Well, the fat's on the fire now. Let's charge them. Look out for those bayonets. Here come some sailors, and they're drawing their cutlasses. Come on, men. They can't stop us. Come on, men. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. When order was finally restored on that fateful day, some of the soldiers and several citizens were wounded, and a sailor was killed. This has been called the first bloodshed of the Revolutionary War. It was known as the Battle of Golden Hill, from the name of the hill leading from the market house on the East River in the vicinity of John Street and Maiden Lane. From that time on, Isaac Sears and other members of the Chamber of Commerce were forced more and more into the fortunes of war. After the formal outbreak of the Revolution and during the occupation of New York by British troops, the Chamber continued to function only intermittently with the few members remaining loyal to the King. The struggles, privations, and final victory of the Revolution are well known, and the new nation was formed. But immediately, after the glorious evacuation day of November 25, 1783, when the British troops boarded their ships and departed, the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York was reformed under state charter. Its first post-war president was the heroic and honorable Isaac Sears. Down through the years, New York's Chamber of Commerce has contributed more than any other public group to the business and commercial success of New York, the Queen of Commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York Queen of Commerce. Today, Commerce organizes in Francis Tavern. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Mark Gordon as Tim, Arthur Seelan as Dolph, Alan Feinstein as Jack, and Alfred Israel as Sears. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunchie. The next voice you will hear is that of Mr. John T. Gwynn, assistant executive secretary of the Chamber of Commerce of the state of New York, Mr. Gwynn. We at the New York Chamber of Commerce are proud both of our history and our accomplishments. While it was not mentioned in the story just related, the New York Chamber is the oldest Chamber of Commerce in the country. In April 1953, we will celebrate our 185th anniversary. Our Chamber of Commerce is especially proud of its civic achievements. The Chamber took a leading and valuable part in the laying of the first Atlantic cable in 1858. Cyrus Field, whose name is always associated with this work, was an early and active member of the Chamber. It was largely through the initiative and energy of the Chamber that our first subway system was built. The original construction of the Catskill water supply system was another important project in which the Chamber played a conspicuous role. The establishment of the Port of New York Authority, an outstanding example of cooperation between two great states, was in no small measure due to the aggressive action of the Chamber. In the future, as in the past, the New York Chamber of Commerce will continue to work towards the objectives laid down by its founders nearly two centuries ago. And one of the most vital of these is to make this, the world's greatest city, a better place in which to live and work. Thank you, Mr. Gwynn. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City of Males, and on the New York City of less than 1,000 children the state ofullen. The City of theta Moore provides new Fate natureisz The End The End