Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. To introduce today's program on the psychiatrist's contribution to the concept of health and disease, we present Dr. Roy R. Grinker, Director of the Institute for Psychosomatic and Psychiatric Research and Training of Michael Rees Hospital and lecturer at the University of Chicago. And now, Dr. Grinker. The subject of today's discussion is the psychiatrist's contribution to the concept of health and disease, a difficult and important subject. As a matter of fact, there is considerable difficulty in explaining this. Participating, our Dr. George Engel, Associate Professor of Psychiatry and Medicine at the University of Rochester, New York Medical School, and Dr. M. R. Kaufman, Chief Psychiatrist at Mount Sinai Hospital, New York, and Clinical Professor of Psychiatry at Columbia University. Dr. Kaufman, what is your understanding of this psychiatric contribution? Perhaps the best start towards such an understanding and explanation is the very fact of the dedication of your institute, and perhaps the name of the institute. The Institute for Psychosomatic and Psychiatric Training and Research is an indication of the changing trend in medicine, and is explanatory in a way as to why and how the psychiatrist, what kind of role he plays at the present time. The fact that it's part of a general hospital rather than isolated from it is the most important aspect of our discussion today. Yes, well, the psychosomatic in the title, of course, includes the mind and the body and their relationship, and really means an approach which is comprehensive. This field of comprehensive medicine brings to bear on the problems of human beings in health and sickness, concepts, attitudes, and procedure, which are broad and include multiple factors. Would you agree with that, Dr. Engel? Yes, Dr. Grinker. I think one should emphasize that comprehensive medicine essentially is an approach, but it is an approach which is broad and which broadens the traditional concepts of medicine. It's an approach which takes into account all the factors, the environmental factors, biological factors, psychological factors, social factors, which may have bearing on illness and health, on whether or not a person remains well or falls sick. Well, that differs considerably from the traditional point of view in medicine. Actually, the common concept of disease in the minds of the lay people and, unfortunately, in the minds of many medical individuals has been that it is something that comes from without, like the possession of a demon. And actually, in our mass communications through magazines and the press, people have been led to believe that there is something that gets hold of them, something that gets into them, sometimes because of their own responsibility, that produces specific illnesses. Today we believe, however, that the external agents, such as germs, representing stresses that come from without the individual, are on rather equal terms with stresses that are inherent within the individual. Now, these things are very difficult to discuss in specific ways because all people suffer from some kind of difficulty and we don't want to touch upon specific diseases. Now, the word disease has been used. Dr. Kaufman. Well, even the word disease, if you parse it and separate it into dis-ease, which is really a kind of discomfort, which is a lack of ease as opposed to a other concept, which actually what we're talking about when we talk about disease in the human and in the animal is an attempt to adapt to a series of stress reactions. And the difference between health and disease may be a quantitative rather than a qualitative one. Dr. Engel has talked about comprehensive medicine. How does that fit into your idea of comprehensive medicine, Dr. Engel? Well, I think, Dr. Kaufman, that you've raised a very important concept when you've emphasized the actual meaning of the word dis-ease in its semantic sense and brought out the fact that health and disease are actually phases of life processes, that we need to consider disease now not as a quantitatively, not as a separate thing, but rather as a process. And if we take the view that ordinarily we attempt to maintain ourselves in a state of comfort, in a state of ease, that we are constantly bombarded by a variety of stresses, stresses that come from without, stresses that express certain needs of our own, we would recognize that we are always in a situation in which we are attempting to adjust. Yes, but that kind of adjustment that you're talking about has an implication that a person can do something about it. Don't you really mean that in the organism there are many levels of adjustment or adaptation to stress? For example, there's the adjustment that occurs within the cells and the fluids of the body, which we may call biological. There are adjustments that occur by virtue of action of the person himself, what he does to avoid stresses, what he does when he meets them. And there are adjustments that he makes in life situations, both in health and illness, in relation to other people, which might be called social adjustments. Yes, the question of adjustment, Dr. Rinker, it seems to me, brings up a great many important factors. One can think in terms of the current situation and an organism which is adjusting to a current series of stresses, either well or poorly, either making an adequate adjustment or a failure. But it seems to me that from our point of view, as psychiatrists who are familiar with and deal constantly with the life history of the individual, both in the biological and in the psychological sense, that we must emphasize that it's the life history of the individual in its totality, and particularly his past experiences, which play a role in what kind of adjustment to what kind of situation at this or any other time. Dr. Engel, could you give us, coach, an example of that sort of thing? Yes, I think an example at this point is called for. One could take almost any illness to illustrate this. Perhaps a convenient one would be to take the example of tuberculosis. In tuberculosis, it was demonstrated many years ago that a germ, the tubercle bacillus, was important in this disease. We may examine now what happens when a man, let's say, comes in contact with the tubercle bacillus. We may view his response to the tubercle bacillus at a variety of levels. At one level, for example, we may refer to the biochemical, the immunological, the physiological responses to the organism itself. Yes, but most people believe that the disease consists of being infected by this germ and that's all there's to it. Well, that would be too narrow a concept. The disease, what the patient perceives, actually would represent or would constitute some of the expressions of this attempt to adjust, to deal with the organism so that the patient may complain of fever, he may have a cough, he may have sputum. All these may be understood in terms of the effort of the organism, the man, to deal with this invading organism. However, we also have to keep in mind that there are other levels of adjustment, that the patient perceives that something is wrong, and that he responds to this perception in many possible different out on his past experience, on his current situation, so that one person may accept the fact of being ill, go to bed, call the doctor, and so on. Another person may have a very strong need to deny that he is ill. Perhaps his current life situation is such that at the moment would be an even greater stress for him to accept his illness. And further, we can speak of the social aspects, not only from the point of view of the social devices that the patient may use or call or make use of to deal with his illness, such as sanitarium, social agencies, and so on. We might also mention the social attitudes about the illness. Now, the patient who develops tuberculosis or any other disease, as far as that's concerned, then follows some course of treatment. Let's say he goes to a sanitarium, and let's say, for example, that after a period of a number of months, the X-ray and the sputum examination all indicate that the active infection is over, but it then may happen as sometimes does that this one patient still feels ill. The doctor who views this from the point of view of comprehensive medicine will now recognize that while this disease is no longer tuberculosis, that he's dealing still with an ill person who now needs a different type of help. How would he influence other people, Dr. Kaufman? The doctor or the patient? No, the patient. Well, there again, if you take tuberculosis as an example, you'd have to take into consideration what the meaning of tuberculosis would be in a specific community. And at a specific time, certainly tuberculosis meant something different when we called it consumption 25 years ago. Whether the man is married, whether his family relationships are, what his wife feels about this, how she feels about the fact that she has a male husband, all of these things become important. I would like to elaborate one aspect of Dr. Engel's contribution, and that is, he talked specifically in terms of the current situation primarily. I would like to emphasize that, I think we all agree on, that it isn't only the current situation, but that the current situation as such is viewed and looked upon and reacted to in terms of previous life experience. and that these life experiences are not necessarily and actually for the most part are not within the awareness of the individual deal. That there is a concept which has been stressed, particularly by the psychoanalyst, a concept of the unconscious. And this unconscious and what goes on there plays a tremendously important role. For instance, in our own work at Mount Sinai Hospital in recent years, as you know, Dr. Engel, we've been working on certain patients with gastric fistula where we had an opportunity to actually observe visually and in various other ways what goes on in the stomach. And some very interesting things came out. But from the point of view of the unconscious, it became clear that one kind of need, namely the hunger need, the need for food, can in the unconscious be equated or associated with other kinds of need. For instance, the need for love, so that it might be a perfectly logical way of saying that there is a hunger for food. And the folk language has it that there's a hunger for love. And the interesting thing is this, that when the patient is hungry for love, the stomach reacts as if it were hungry for food in terms of the juices. Now, to come back again to Dr. Engel's example, I think that one has to take into consideration this unconscious, both in terms of the psychological and emotional, and from our point of view here, from our discussion today, what the relationship is to the psychophysiology. Well, then you would say that in the past experiences of an individual preparing him to a particular situation, that the value, the importance of psychological experiences in the past are of the same nature as physical experiences, experiences with previous illnesses, experiences which give to the individual certain types of immunity. That both of these levels of activity that are constantly present remain as chronic tensions which prepare the individual for current reactions to stress situations. There, of course, comes to mind the fact that not all stress impinges upon a person who is prepared. For example, during my work in the army during the war, we found that even the strongest person, the most stable individual, if given enough strain and stress, would react with a neurotic kind of condition, sometimes evidenced in anxiety, what the boys used to call the jitters, or even with certain physical symptoms such as stomach or bowel troubles. stress. Now, in this case, even on a relatively strong individual, when the stimulus became so severe, the stress overcame the individual's ability to cope satisfactorily with it. So we must deal then with the intensity or the rapidity in which a stress situation occurs. Now, it's true, though, that even in these situations, some of the present stress may touch off a past pattern. I can give you a very good example of that. Flyers who were stationed in England, who were successful in enduring combat over Germany, lived in clean quarters and were given excellent food. When they were asked to fly to Africa on round trips and base themselves in the desert with a great deal of heat and dirt, they reacted to this situation very often with a kind of breakdown, which we called the war neurosis, which had nothing to do with combat. Now, these individuals were prepared to react to this particular kind of situation involving dirt in a particular way, and therefore, both the present stress and the past preparation was extremely important. Now, we've been talking about the influence of cause, influence of psychological factors on cause. Dr. Engel, what about the course of this disease as it's influenced by psychological means? Well, it becomes clear, I think, from the discussion so far that the course of a disease is going to be influenced by many different elements, that it can't be understood only, let's say, tuberculosis, for example, in just what we understand about the tubercle bacillus, that we now have to understand that the course of a disease may be influenced by the past experience of the person, but also by his current psychological situation, current social situation. This really brings us to what I think is one of the central factors, the central points in our discussion. What we've been talking about is our concept of disease, comprehensive medicine's concept of disease. After all, we are doctors, and I hope later in the discussion, if we have time, to indicate as to how this comprehensive medicine approach, medical approach, can be infiltrated into medicine. But now, what is actually the difference between the comprehensive medicine and the common current notion of disease that's held by most people? I think Dr. Engel has already indicated in one relationship, namely, that tuberculosis, the disease tuberculosis, occurs only when the person comes in contact with the bug or the germ or the bacillus, whatever it is you call it. And I think that's aided and abetted in many ways by our current magazine articles and various other aspects of this type of unitary pathology. Whereas, actually, traditional medicine medicine in recent years has been undergoing a change. And I think that this change has been in terms of recognition of the many factors that enter into it so that the mere presence of the germ in itself is not sufficient. And any attempt at understanding illness purely in terms of a single factor acting on a single organism fails to take into consideration what I think psychiatry really has to offer, namely, a kind of multiple approach in understanding all the variables that enter in and the weighting. Now then, the patient has his disease, which is a failure of adjustment, a degree of failure. But now that his symptoms are present, which are called disease, he has to make a new kind of adaptation. He has to change his way of living. He has to change his relationship to other people. Sometimes, as Engel pointed out, he has to go to a sanatorium. But there are many ways in which he has to restrict his life. And all these bring on a new form of adaptation, not only for himself, but for others around him. But, Engel, the psychological influences also the patient's adjustment and reaction to the therapy, to treatment, doesn't it? Yes. And will you tell us how? Well, it stands to reason that the patient, in coming to a doctor, has to feel, has to be able to know that all these stresses, some of which may be known to him, some of which may actually not be known to him, are going to be taken into consideration by the doctor. Too often, the doctor focuses attention exclusively on one aspect of the illness. Well, then, this means that our comprehensive medicine requires a different orientation by the doctor. There seem to be required methods which are over and above the actual treatment of the infectious agent or the reaction within the body. There have to be methods which deal with other aspects. Isn't that where your institute comes in, Roy? That's where we're in. Isn't that what you're set up to do, actually, in modern medicine? To sort of sensitize, let us say, the coming doctor, your new residents, both in psychiatry and in medicine, so that they become aware of the multiple factors. And that will lead, it seems to me, to a different, not only a different approach to the problems of medicine, but a different kind of doctor. Not that the present-day doctor is not doing his job, but as Dr. Inglis said before, comprehensive medicine and the contribution of the psychiatrist leads to a broadening and an understanding of the complexity involved in the relationship between a patient and his illness, a patient and his doctor, and much more important, a doctor and his patient. Well, Angle, you've been engaged in teaching medical students. How do you envisage the training of medical students to come into this new field of comprehensive medicine? Well, we've come to feel that the training of the medical student must be changed to take into account this total process of adjustment, to take into account all the factors that may have bearing on illness, whether it be biological or psychological or social, and that in our training of medical students, we emphasize very much that the student must understand, must investigate all the aspects of the patient's adjustment and not merely the specific ones that may be most obvious. In other words, you're not training them to become psychiatrists, but you're training them to have an understanding and a sensitization to the multiple factors concerned in disease. On the other hand, they must be able to recognize when, as a result of their knowledge of the patient's multiple problems, the treatment situation requires a psychiatrist. Just in the same way as the general practitioner or the internist or any other practitioner of medicine will recognize a surgical condition, but doesn't feel qualified to serve, to act as a surgeon. I don't think that there's any basic difference in principle here. And I'm delighted to hear that Dr. Engel says that he's not training all his medical students to become psychiatrists. I think that my own feeling is that the major contribution the psychiatrist can make to medicine is not necessarily in training more psychiatrists, although we know they're needed, but in transmitting this point of view to the doctor and the practitioner of medicine. Yes. Well, now, there's another change that would necessarily occur if the field of comprehensive medicine develops, and that's a different orientation of the patient himself to the treatment process. The patient now can no longer assume that the disease is something that comes from without, that he can go to the doctor and say, give me some medicine to cure this disease, give me a surgical operation to cut out the area that is diseased. He will come to recognize that the disease and he are one, and that the treatment in his relationship with the doctor imposes upon him a function, a work process, in which he has to learn through clarification the meaning of his symptoms as they are expressions of difficult adjustment, and become aware through, in certain cases, of the unconscious forces which are perpetuating his invalidism. Now, that brings into consideration the fact that in some cases, the techniques of therapy are extremely long when we are particularly dealing with the unconscious. Yes, that is true, and unfortunately, with our present state of knowledge, certain therapeutic techniques are long. Nevertheless, there are two aspects to the problem. One is the treatment, and the other is the knowledge of what is wrong. In medicine today, there are many things we know about, and we don't know what to do. And I think this is true in relation to it, so that I feel that the psychiatrist has two contributions. One is the contribution to the understanding of illness, and the other is the contribution to the treatment. Now, Dr. Engel, we often see patients who are suffering from what we call disease, who are undergoing treatment, who react in a way which indicates that they're worsened. Is there any danger in treating certain diseases? Yes. We often fail to recognize that the symptom, that of which the patient complains, represents an attempt at adjustment. I think we've seen recently some very striking illustrations of this in the use of some of the new drugs like ACTH, where we have a pharmacologic, we have a drug which has the property of being able to dissipate very quickly a physical disability. And at times, this may be followed by certain disturbing symptoms, often psychological symptoms. I think particularly of a young man with arthritis of many years, who, when his joint stiffness dissolved in 24 or 48 hours, began to feel very panicky and expressed it by saying, I'm not used to having my muscles so loose. I don't feel ready. He had suddenly had his adjustment to an illness disturbed. Now, in closing, Dr. Engel, would you recapitulate this broader concept, this added factor of comprehensive medicine? Well, I would recapitulate it by saying that we must view disease and health as a process, a process of adjustment, where when it is successful, we conceive of it as health. When it is unsuccessful, we think of it as disease. And Dr. Kaufman, this means a reorientation of the approach to therapy? It means a reorientation of many aspects of the practice and training of physicians. Now, in psychiatry, as a study and a treatment of the whole organism in health and disease, using every level of activity, from the cellular to the social, includes also a study of what has been called the purely mental. It is a field that we have not touched upon today. But the same comprehensive approach, when applied to these serious mental conditions, indicating that there are neuroses and psychoses, which are adaptation to stress, pose before us the problem of what are the somatic, the physical sources of these disturbed emotions, which are expressed on a higher level, but are still reactions which can be understood as processes of adaptation. And it is to that end that our institute has been dedicated on this weekend. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on the psychiatrist's contribution to the concept of health and disease, for Dr. M. Ralph Kaufman, Chief of Psychiatry, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York. Dr. George Engel of the University of Rochester Medical School. And Dr. Roy R. Grinker, Director of the Institute for Psychosomatic and Psychiatric Research and Training, Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and additional special materials explaining further the contribution of the psychiatrist to the cause, effects, and treatment of disease. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. The National Broadcasting Company independent, visit us at theempst ocp.