Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, can India resist communism? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will focus upon the evidences of communist influences in India, some reasons for this situation, and a possible means of modifying this influence. Now our moderator, Kenneth G. Hance, Assistant Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Hance. Will India go the way of China? Is the recent communist conquest of Tibet but a forerunner of a similar conquest of India? Or on the other hand, can India resist? To analyze these questions, the Reviewing Stand welcomes to its microphone today Robert Crane, instructor in modern history at the University of Chicago, who was born and who lived for some years in India, and who was in India during the recent war as a member of the Office of Strategic Services. James Avery Joyce, British barrister, author and lecturer. Irving Flom, Foreign Editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. And Paul A. Schilt, Professor of Philosophy at Northwestern University, and editor of the Library of Living Philosophers series, who recently spent a year in India while preparing a volume in this series upon the philosophy of Sarapalli Radhakrishnan, who is now Vice President of India after having been for two years India's Ambassador to Moscow. Now, gentlemen, just what is the situation in India today with respect to our problem? Well, I would say we should start off by remembering that five years ago India was granted her national independence from the British, and is now an independent country, and that she has parliamentary government, and that a certain amount of economic aid has been going to India over the years to help her get established as an independent country. Now, usually those three things, independence, parliamentary government, and aid, are considered to be the necessary factors to a free country and to a country that is not threatened by communism. Unfortunately, gentlemen, the coming of independence to India on the political level has by no means solved India's economic problems. The poverty situation in India is really indescribable. And one remembers that 86% of the population are illiterate, and that 85% of the population live out in the villages, the something like 750,000 villages, in which they barely make out a subsistence, if you can even call it that, that the average income, national income, per person in India is $60 a year, you can see that here are the seeds for a revolutionary movement. Now that we've heard from Flom and Schilke, let me ask you, Crane, how serious is this? Do you see evidences of a communist menace? Yes, I think that the recent vote by six million Indians in favor of communism in their elections is an evidence of communist strength that was unexpected. And again, I would agree that the hunger and poverty and hopelessness of the bulk of the Indian population are very fertile ground for communist propaganda and for the communists to make effective measures in their own behalf. We're delighted to have our British friend, Mr. Joyce, with us today. What does the situation look like to you, Joyce? I agree to some extent with my colleague Crane that the situation is menacing in terms of poverty and misery, which are always the seedbed of communism. But at the same time, I think the member of this group this morning who has put his finger on the chief point, which we should give full consideration to, is Schilke, who reminds us that India has entered a new democracy. And I would suggest right at the beginning of my little contribution here that the factor which is most important is that in India it isn't communism, which is the trouble, but the struggle for the means of life and the struggle for a better life. And therefore, the points that we've so far have had from Schilke that there is a new democracy which has had its first five years run on the 14th of this month, plus an economic plan which has begun, are in fact the constructive solutions to the question we're here to discuss. Now, I'd like to put the question this way, can this new democracy and this new plan, and all the other things that have been happening on the favorable side in India, are they enough? I mean, is that the sort of thing that can prevent the spread of communism in a backward country where most of the people are illiterate and are starving or very close to the starvation level? That, Mr. Flom, is exactly where I think part of the rub of the problem lies. In other words, it's asking people who have very little in the way of economics to lift themselves by their own bootstraps. Undoubtedly, they must be given every opportunity to do so insofar as that is possible. And to be very patient about it, because it's a slow process. And to be very patient about it, because it's a slow process. And to be very patient about it, but it seems to me to expect them to get very far by merely helping themselves is simply expecting the impossible. The communists, of course, have another program. I have here a dispatch from India where the leader of the Communist Party is speaking in the parliament. When the Indian government passed a law to put all communists in jail for two years or more without trial. And he's saying that the communists promised to shoot down landlords, capitalists, and black marketeers if they get into power. And that, of course, is a sort of direct action that the people perhaps understand and that they might even favor. Because after all, the capitalists and the landlords are, so they think, their enemies. Well, certainly among the Indian peasantry who are living in feudal conditions and have been for some time, a promise to eliminate landlordism is one of the things that will go farthest by way of winning their allegiance. So then I want to present this question, then I'll keep still. Doesn't an Indian government have to be a very radical revolutionary government in order to prevent communism? And doesn't it have to be something more than the Nauru government? Or at least Nauru has to have more freedom to operate and put in a land reform such as General MacArthur did in the... in Japan, a basic change in the economic and social system. Isn't that what's needed? Just a word about the present government. In a sentence or two, what is the Nauru government in essence, Crane? Well, it's the Congress Party which fought for India's independence for upwards of 50 or 60 years and finally succeeded in gaining that independence on a program that was relatively radical by American standards. And... To use a label, is it communist or anti-communist? Oh no, no, it's anti-communist. Anti-communist. The government of India has been very strongly against communism within India since independence was established. I think we might take that as certain that it is anti-communist. But also, if I could just go back to a point raised by Flamme, it is a revolutionary government in Western terms, in Western concepts. And for that reason, it is in a sense more an answer to communism than anything we can produce in the West. Insofar as we ourselves are part of the system, the world system which has produced communism since 1917. Now, if there is an answer in Indian terms from India and in terms of the Indian future, that I think is what we must consider, not the Western concept. Well, I was just going to say to Mr. Joyce, he said it's a revolutionary government in Indian terms, but it's supported by the richer classes in India. They're members of the Congress Party and they are absolutely... they're paying the taxes and they are the supporters of the government. Nothing really very revolutionary is happening in India. But the 176 million who voted, and that itself was a miracle of democracy. The 176 million who voted were mainly poor people. But that doesn't feed the people, that doesn't change the economic conditions. While you're speaking of voting, is there any record in recent months of communist strength? Is there tangible evidence to show... Six million people voted communist in the most recent election. About six percent. How significant is the six percent? Well... Is that a drop in the bucket? Is that a significant indication of... ...because no one expected them to do anywhere near that well. I... Moreover, it seems to me that while I might agree with Mr. Joyce's proposition that in a sense, the... ...at least from a Western point of view, the Indian government is a revolutionary government. The thing that, after all, we found over there last year was almost a complete disillusionment. I would like to pick the thing up where Mr. Greedy had it a moment ago when he pointed out that... ...that they had fought for independence for 50 to 60 years. Thirty thousand of the leaders of India had spent part of their lives in jail. And it was a very strong movement and, of course, a very patriotic movement and had the support of the people from one end of the country to the other. Naturally, they expected great things from this new government. A better life. And when... And when the economic conditions of India did not get any better in the first year, there was disappointment. When it didn't get any better in the second year, there was more than disappointment. And by the time we arrived there, three and a half years after the coming of independence, there was disillusionment with the government all over the country. True, they voted for it overwhelmingly in this recent election. But perhaps one of those reasons is that they have still sufficient prestige to carry on. But if the communists can promise them really to lift their economic status to something else, it is just as natural that in the next democratic election they may turn to this movement in much greater numbers than they did in the last one. Unless some help can come to this present government from the outside because, as I said before, they can't lift themselves by their own bootstraps. I think another thing has to be added here. It isn't just a question of the communists promising more economic aid or development or improvement than the current government of India. There's also another problem that enters in and that is that in certain instances, such as in the Tunisian and Moroccan affairs in the United Nations, the democratic countries have taken stands which to the Asian nations such as India look like a betrayal of democratic principles. And this no doubt helps the communist cause a great deal and has hurt us considerably in these areas. You're suggesting that the United States is a causative factor. Yeah, insofar as we, for example, voted with the French against an investigation of conditions in Morocco and Tunisia. If we keep on doing this, are we likely to alienate India still further? We'll certainly alienate many more Indians. I'm sure that Crane is right. And this is one of the vital questions for us, the British and the Americans in particular, to discuss in the next year or two and to decide about. Because, and this in a sense is an answer to Schultz's point, it isn't just India we are concerned with, it is the whole of Southeast Asia. And Southeast Asia economically and otherwise must be taken as a unit and certainly psychologically must be taken as a unit. And if the British and the Americans and the other Western Christian nations are not able to think of the Indian problem in world terms, rather than in terms of their own particular viewpoint, then I think we shall lose India and we shan't have to worry about the communists because we shall have thrown it away. I want to get back now to something Schultz said. He said we have, unless the Indian government, Nehru, gets more aid, more assistance than they've been getting, things might go very bad and the communists might increase their strength in the next election. I agree with that. I also agree with other things that have been said, that our conduct in the United Nations reflects on our position in India and often helps the communists. Now, to get back to the aid, does that mean that the United States, Great Britain and other Western countries have to give aid to an Indian government in order for it, the Indian government, to conduct a more radical revolutionary change in India? I think that's what it means and it takes a great deal of foresight on our part to do it. Well, of course, I would agree with you, except you've used the words radical and revolutionary, about which I'm rather hesitant. After all, eliminating feudalism in India, we did it in the West 300 years ago, isn't really radical even by our own standards. And one of the major, perhaps the major problem facing the government of India today and the one in which they need help the most, is reforming their land tenure situation, which really means getting rid of feudalism. Now, how radical that may be, I'm not too sure. Well, I accept that. It may not be radical by our standards, as you pointed out, since we did it 300 years ago, so it couldn't very well be radical now for us. But if India, after all, has had this system for thousands of years, then to make a basic change in that, it seems to me, is a radical and a revolutionary change. I think one of the things we ought to do in this country is to get rid of fearing such words as radical and revolutionary and face up to the fact that what is required in India is something radical and revolutionary. I fully agree, and I'd like to explain that word radical. I don't think Nehru has to be any more radical in India than General MacArthur was in Japan. General MacArthur put in land reform, attacking a feudal system in Japan, and I only want Nehru to be able to be as radical as General MacArthur was. No more. I agree with you. I think Nehru might have views on that matter, because if it is right, I think it is right that Shilke has reminded us of the very long background of the Indian economic technique or atmosphere, may I say. The kind of changes which will happen will not be changes in terms, once again, of the Western concepts of capitalism. They will be more in terms of the, shall I call it, the Eastern concepts of communism. In other words, the communist economic and social, and I'm not talking of the ideological impact here, is important. Because if India, in fact, is taking over some of the communist controls, particularly with technical assistance over land and industry, and will not pass through the capitalist stage at all, then that radical change will be a radical change halfway between us and communism. And that itself will release, will release the menace of communism because it's being met halfway in terms of economic and social planning. There's one thing I think needs to be said, though, in connection with your comment, Joyce. And that is that the fundamental program of the Congress Party in India is one which would create private ownership in land, not communal ownership in land and not collective villages or anything of that sort. The Congress Party has promised for a long time to make land available to the Indian peasant who now owns no land and works at a sharecropper. And I certainly wouldn't call that a communist program. Nor, for that matter, do I think after reading the Five Year Plan, that one could really say that this was a state control system. I just don't believe it adds up that way. No, you refer to Five Year Plan, Crane. That is something that is in existence at the present time. The Government of India has published a Five Year Plan proposing certain modifications in the traditional structure of the Indian economic order in which there will be an important, though by no means dominant, public sector, something like our TVA program with regard to... Something like the British Labour Program. Yes, very much like the British Labour Plan. 20% public and 80% private, so-called. Yes, in this order. But the popular democracy controls even the 80% private. Well, that's true in this country. I would disagree with that. What is likely to happen, as you men understand it, if we allow the Five Year Plan, so-called, to follow its natural course? Do you think with that India could resist communism or do we need something else? Well, I'm afraid that the Five Year Plan, as stated, would overtax the budgetary powers of the Government of India unless they secure outside aid. Therefore, it would probably grind to a halt unless we give assistance of several different types. What might be one kind of assistance? That is precisely the point that Crane just made, that it seems to me we in America must be very clear about. That while I could thoroughly agree with Joyce in the proposition that we certainly cannot attach strings to any gift if we want the Indians at all to develop their own course under the circumstances in which they find themselves at the same time. It's simply inconceivable that you can get blood out of a ternum. And when you talk about a Five Year Plan, it runs into three billion dollars. I'm not talking about rupees, I'm talking about dollars. And there is nobody to tax except the relatively few rich and wealthy people that are in India. I don't see where India is going to get the money for running a plan like that. Are you saying then that the Five Year Plan is good on paper? It needs outside assistance? Yes. I think it needs outside assistance on a considerable scale, on a very large scale, and as I've tried to say before, without any strings attached. That is to say... And that assistance coming from the United States? Yeah. Where else can it come from? Probably from the United States because no one else can really afford to fund a problem of this sort. But I'd like to point out that it isn't just financial and monetary assistance. There are problems of technical training. There are problems of bringing Indians to this country so they can secure education which they need to actually... We're doing some of those things, aren't we? Yes, we're doing it under the Fulbright Program, which is excellent. What is the Fulbright Program in a sentence, please? The program of the American government designed to use, I suppose, lend-lease funds left from the last war to train foreign technicians and other foreign persons in this country in our colleges and universities. As well as to send people from here as ambassadors of goodwill over there and help them. And training specialists. Under this program then, men from India would receive training in this country. Some already have. They are. They are receiving training. Is the Fulbright Program, Joyce, in your judgment, a good one? Well, this is a very, very familiar subject to us because first India is part of the British Commonwealth and until five years ago was controlled from the British Parliament in London. But moreover, since then, the Colombo Plan, which is not a plan but... What is that plan? ...is happening at this moment as a... Colombo. The Colombo Plan, which was founded just 18 months ago... In relation to Colombo. In Colombo. No, not Columbus, although it has just the same element of discovery and pioneering as that. And we have found after 12 months working with the plan that it has done the thing which I think Shilp has overlooked and other members of this group have overlooked. That you cannot plan for India as such but you must plan for Southeast Asia as a whole. And insofar as the Colombo Plan is of that to calibre and has in fact already started so well, we are hoping from that through the United Nations technical agencies and point for and so forth to build up almost a hemisphere plan of mutual aid which will be the answer to the problem which Shilp has posed. But it cannot therefore be the simple question of America or Britain or some other individual nation supplying aid. It's the question of organising aid in Asia for the Asians and in terms of international cooperation on the widest scale. I don't want to argue about the Colombo Plan but my understanding is, and this is not said in any nationalistic sense at all, but that capital for any such plan on the western side of the world, that is outside of the Soviet bloc, must come, basically a large amount, must come from the United States. Capital, but not goods and services. That's the, that I think is the assumption which we haven't challenged, which I challenge now. I would say in answer to that, that when you talk about goods and services, maybe the services can be made available if you don't have to pay for them, but I've never seen how that could be done. Maybe Mr. Joyce can enlighten me on this. If services can be made available without anybody paying for it, that's something new to me. And when it comes to goods, all the goods I've ever bought, I had to pay for. And I, I rather think even the British must do so, even though we sometimes have to help them in order to pay for them. Wonderful. And consequently, it seems to me we're still in the same boat. And that's the point I wanted to say to Grein, when he said a while ago it isn't all economic, when he pointed to the Fulbright Programme and technical assistance. All of that are things which have to be paid for and therefore are economic. Yes. Practically the whole of the Colombo Plan up to this moment has been paid for in the sense that you're using the word pay, and I challenge it economically, by Britain and by the British Commonwealth, Australia and so forth, all of whom are cooperating. The payment is a purely accountancy business when you've made up your mind what the payment is. Well, are you suggesting, Joyce, that without American assistance in any large scale or any larger than now, things will go along fine in India and Southeast Asia? There has been very little. I think it's half of one percent American assistance up to this point to India. Then I know. I mean in the future now. Things will go along fine and there will be progress and reform. My point is that American and British assistance must be pulled through the United Nations agencies to deal with this on a reciprocal basis as between the kind of Western industrial machinery and the Eastern agricultural and raw materials side of it. The two must be related. I'm going to have to go back to the point that I started to develop a minute ago about this not being just a problem of plans and economic or technical assistance. There are other important factors. There's a factor of national psychology. There's a factor of a feeling of anti-colonialism. There are factors of pro and con, Western or white or European control. And these are some of the things which we have tended to overlook. And if we look only at economic plans and only at five year plans or six year plans, I'm afraid we'll probably miss the boat in India and Southeast Asia. Yeah, yeah. The plans seem to suggest financial assistance in part, technical assistance, means of creating goodwill, United States, British cooperation to the United Nations. If we were to ask Ukraine to sum up in a moment your point of view and answer to this question, what would it be? Well, I should say that communism, if it has an appeal in India, has that appeal for two main reasons. One, it has stood forth supposedly as being resolutely opposed to colonialism. And two, it represents supposedly a technique for raising oneself by their own bootstrap and modernizing and industrializing. Now, these, I think, are probably the challenges we have to meet by also making it clear that we recognize colonialism as being dead and gone, and that we too can participate reciprocally with the Indians in creating a better life on the basis of modern science and technology. We as the United States primarily or Western States? I think primarily we will have to do most of the job, but of course we should do it with other people and preferably through the United Nations. Joyce, how do you see this problem? Well, that was a very excellent point on the part of my colleague Crane, that colonialism is dead and gone, because part of the communist appeal is to those who think that it hasn't yet been dead and gone. And therefore, I think I can say quite shortly that the new sense in India today of a democratic and parliamentary system, with the outlook for the next five years in terms of this increasing development economically, plus the raising of the standards of life in terms of the individual, that these are the things the Indians are speaking about and discussing. I think that the three percent, six percent, six percent of the last vote went to the Communist Party. If we therefore continue as we are doing to support the democratic and progressive elements in India, and assist them without attempting to dominate them in colonial terms, to achieve their own ambitions as an independent community, then I think we are doing what we should do, and that in effect is the only answer to communism we can do. What is your answer, Flom? Well, I think India is at least as important, perhaps more important to us than, say, Germany and Japan. Perhaps than Germany and Japan put together. Because if India goes communist and becomes a part of Mr. Stalin's empire through the Communist Party in India, then we probably will lose the rest of the Eastern world, the rest of the Orient, and the Middle East as well. So I would say that we, the United States, should consider India and her future as important as the future of Japan and Germany put together, and therefore spend as much money in helping the Nauru government, the Nauru government being on our side, an anti-communist and liberal and democratic, help them with as much money as we help the people in Japan and Germany at the end of the war, Western Germany. And that we should do this even though it means that Nauru will undertake reforms which we may not like, or even undertake political positions, international positions that we don't like. No strings attached necessarily? Well, strings of course in the administration of the money so that it's not stolen, but not strings in the political sense of telling them that he must run his government and his foreign policy in a certain way. Shilp, how does this problem look to you? Well, I find myself in complete agreement with what each of you three gentlemen have just got through saying. It seems to me that Indian communism is of the utmost importance and interest to all the rest of us because 360 million people added to all the other millions that have already gone communist. It's just too much to counteract. Besides, as has been pointed out, if India goes communist, so will Pakistan. If Pakistan goes communist, so will the Arab world in Southeast Asia. And with that, you have an overwhelming majority of people in the communist part of the camp. And I think both the matter of colonialism as well as the economic aid and the whole attempt of helping the Nauru government to accomplish what they set out to accomplish is about the only thing we can do, but it seems to me we have to do, no matter how much it costs us individually or socially or economically or politically. And when I say us, I don't mean merely the United States, although we happen to be the most fortunate ones economically, but I mean the people in the United Nations who are interested in preserving democracy in the world. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Can India Resist Communism? We want to thank our guests for today, Robert Crane, instructor in modern history and member of the Policy Board Research Center on Economic Development and Cultural Change, University of Chicago. James Avery Joyce, British barrister, author and lecturer. Irving Flom, foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. And Paul A. Shilp, editor of the Library of Living Philosophers series and professor of philosophy at Northwestern University. We invite you to send for printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, Kenneth G. Hance, returns to tell you about next week's program. Each week we receive a substantial number of written comments about our reviewing stand programs. We always enjoy hearing from you. And many of your comments have been quite helpful to us in planning future broadcasts. Starting next week, we're going to repeat four of the reviewing stand programs which you have chosen as our most popular discussions during the past year. Next week, should more people read the Bible? Our guests will be Dr. Richard Hertz, associate rabbi of the Chicago Sun-Ti-Yai congregation. Dr. Charles W. Collar, president of the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary of Chicago. And Fr. Barnabas Mary, professor of sacred scripture at Passionist Theologate in Chicago. We hope you will join us next week as we ask, should more people read the Bible? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, John Mallow, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System.