Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses the tyranny of leisure. Participating in this program are Rule N. Denny, social scientist and expert on popular culture, Henry W. Sams, specialist in modern literature, both of the University of Chicago, and Milton Mayer, author, lecturer, and member of the Great Books Foundation. Now to open today's Roundtable on the tyranny of leisure, Mr. Mayer. For purposes of our discussion, gentlemen, let's identify leisure very simply. Let's identify it as the time that a man or woman does not have to spend on the necessities of life, what we ordinarily call free time or spare time or time off. Will you take that, Denny? That seems a fair definition to me, Mayer. Of course, we don't have an easy topic there when we size it up that way, and I think one of the reasons is that there are so many myths and stereotypes involving the use of leisure, in the United States particularly, and those myths and those stereotypes do include all the questions that people raise about the use of TV and the media and the entertainment world. Sam? Well, can't we define it probably more efficiently by a historical exercise than otherwise? Imagine what typical American life was like in Kansas, say, in 1850, and imagine again what it is like in 1950, if you have to imagine. But certainly there in 1850, a hundred years ago in Kansas, the division of life between work and play, or work and leisure, was a very different one from the one we have now. Well, I don't know whether I could make an accurate enumeration of the leisure pastimes in Kansas in 1850. What do you suppose they did? Fishing, hunting, talking, going to church. But they certainly spent 16 hours a day or thereabouts defending themselves and earning a living. I think that historical dimension there is pretty important, Sam. They certainly did spend most of their time making a living. And, of course, in Kansas in 1850, they spent a lot of their time defending themselves. The point there, I think, is that the problem of leisure, if you want to call it that, didn't exist for many people in Kansas at that time. Their minds were occupied. They had problems to solve in other areas of life. Let's jump, Denny, to, say, 1920. The world has changed. How has the world changed as of 1920? The point there, Mayor, I think, is that between 1850 and 1920, without having thought very much about it at all, the American people found that they'd built an industrial system which produced spare time. Whereas, for instance, the 16-14 hour workday was not unusual on the farm in Kansas in 1850, by 1920, almost everybody in the United States was working fewer hours and having more time off. And the children were all going to school. And let's say that by 1920, a man in Kansas or anywhere else had time to cultivate a front lawn, something he didn't have in 1850. When we come to 1950, we find our problem confronting us in terms of the tyranny of leisure. Do we have time to cultivate our front lawns now? Huge institutions to fill up our leisure have developed in the last 30 years or so. Great newspapers move with all kinds of entertainment and diversion in them. Movies, radio, now television. I get the feeling that we are prisoners of our leisure time, that we don't have any time left. The word tyranny there is at least an odd one. I think perhaps I suspect what you mean. But to think of movies, radio, television, newspapers, schools, public libraries, golf courses, and the many other facilities that people have for disposing of their spare time as a tyranny seems to couple a good word with a bad word. A happy one with a sad one. The difficulty there is I think that the tyranny comes in, and not merely because these things are there and they force themselves on people as they often do, but the tyranny comes in partly as a result of the fact that they are there, and many American people involved with them feel that they ought to be doing things with them, that they ought to be understanding them, that they ought to be participating more in what they offer, and above all, perhaps, that they should be developing some kind of criticism toward them. They're worried about the passivity that they may feel they have about these various big institutions that are filled in the field of leisure. Well, maybe they have reason to worry, Denny. And in this sense, they're slaves of a new sort. Our immediate ancestor didn't have to choose or decide how to spend his leisure time because he didn't have any. He was a slave to his work. A man who worked from dawn until night didn't have enough leisure to worry about how to spend it. He had a lot of other worries, all of which we still have, and we have this new one, too. Maybe, maybe, Denny, we shouldn't be worried. Maybe he shouldn't be worried. Maybe this is just the nature of the case, and people are worrying too much about what is being done to them. Well, certainly, in 1920, everyone expected nothing but pleasure and release from the technological development in these fields of leisure time. And even before the development of radio, in Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward, you remember the dream there of canned music? One could choose choral music or Bach or Beethoven by switching from one number on a wall to another. Actually, perhaps it hasn't worked out quite that way. Well, there's some evidence that it hasn't. There's some evidence, particularly in the field of television, that there isn't choice. The choice is an illusion. You switch from one station to another, and you get the same kind of program. In a survey made on last January 4th to 6th in New York City, out of 564 hours of television on seven TV channels over a period of one week, there was only one half hour of what the Federal Communications Commission calls an educational program. But I don't quite understand, Danny, what you meant a few minutes ago by posing a problem, a problem confronted by the average American citizen, if, as a matter of fact, there is no choice. Well, I mean something like this, Sam. As you said, in 1920, I would put it this way. In 1920, people had great expectations of what they might get out of their leisure time and what the media could contribute to them in various entertainment fields. They didn't realize that in having these great expectations, they were also building up the possibilities for a feeling of dissatisfaction, a feeling of disappointment, in some cases, a feeling on the part of some people that a fear that they might be passive in relation to these things. Now, I think one of the reasons that this fear got built up was the kind of optimism they felt about the use of their spare time in the earlier stages of our development of the entertainment industries, but I think it's also this. I think that the tyranny of leisure today is perhaps the result of the fact that many of us haven't gotten around to thinking of the way we happen to get this leisure, the way it's been built up for us, and the psychological pressures that it puts on us. Now, in the first place, it seems to me, we didn't realize when we were creating this spare time from industrial productivity, that we were doing it. It crept up on us almost unobserved and tended to become filled up more or less unofficially and in terms of accident by the various entertainment industries. And the second place, during the, say, around the 1920s, I think we were still beginning to be, we were beginning to be troubled by the kinds of expectations that were built up in the earlier period when a rather moralistic attitude was being taken toward leisure. And we've had the feeling that leisure in 1920 or 1950 should be the same as it was in Kansas in 1850. Now, I see it somewhat in this way, that on taking a historical look at it in that way, we have been presented very rapidly with a large amount of spare time, tremendous development of means to fill that spare time, and as a third step in the process, gradually increasing fear, at least in parts of our society, that we were heading fast into standardization. For example, the European observer, the intellectual observer from Europe who takes a look around the United States, is likely to accuse us of being overstandardized in our employment of our spare time and in our leisure pursuits. This is a fear that very many Americans have today, I think, and I think it's based very largely, very largely, on a general social inexperience with something that's relatively new on the American scene. Well, maybe the fear is justified. Maybe it's not. Gentlemen, let's try to sharpen what we all three admit is an immensely complicated and very nebulous problem. Let's look at the 564 hours of entertainment during a week of television in contrast with the one-half hour of educational programming. Maybe the American who is viewing television or listening to the radio is not a victim of tyranny at all. Maybe this is what he wants. If this is what he wants, then maybe it's good for him and not bad for him. If this is what we Americans want, is there a basis for complaint? Is it the business of the radio or television industries or any other entertainment industry to improve people and to cram education down their throats if they don't want it? What about that, Sam? Well, you raise, of course, a fundamental human question. Is there any such thing as a good thing as opposed to the bad thing, which presumably we all know about? I don't know how one could expect a man who forms a tremendous financial organization to name it a society for the improvement of the human race. His criterion for whether he's successful or not is whether he can get people to listen and advertisers to support. At the same time, there must surely be some difference recognizable between programs which entail participation on the front of the audience at a fairly demanding level and those which allow the slack, absolutely unintelligent, spectator attitude, which I've heard you refer to a number of times, that is in no sense constructive. Leisure in the sense of being asleep on the demand in the front room. Well, I'm saying, Sam, that maybe that's what leisure or leisure, I hope that by the time this program is over, we will have decided how to pronounce it. I'm saying that maybe that's what leisure is for. I'm not sure. If we think of leisure, I'll take that school for the moment, as simply repose, then, of course, we have no problem. We can go to sleep. On the other hand, if we think of leisure as fulfilling, in some sense, this moral demand that Denny referred to a few minutes ago, this curious puritanical notion we have inherited from 1850, that our time should be profitably spent, then we have a different question. Well, I think that it's the way this demand hits us that is often very important, Sam. Now, we hear a good deal of talk, for example, about the effect of the media and movies on children. I'd like to change the dimension of that and talk about some of the issues that you're bringing up in terms of the way in which the children's handling of the media creates a problem for the grown-up, for the parent. There are probably a good many of us, the people in the society who are in touch with the newspapers and the movies all the time, say the man that works an industrial job every day, for example, who feels fairly sure, perhaps, on the basis of the way he was brought up, that the way he's using his leisure time is all right. But even if he thinks so, when he gets home, he has a whole series of questions raised about the use of leisure because of the fact that his children are developing certain tastes and attitudes toward it. And he finds also that people on the block or in the neighborhood are tending to worry him about questions as to whether this or that radio program is acceptable or whether this or that way of going at the acceptance of the things that are on the air in the movies or so, feel some skill and sense of assurance about what attitude he's going to take toward a ball game or a movie or however he likes to spend his spare time and maybe tinkering with the car or the garage. He still has these questions brought up to him in a very pressureful way, I think. Well, I'm prepared to say, Denny, that the people who worry this man and who worry us are only the reformers, the lunatic fringe, you, Sam, I. It's we who think that people ought to be improved, that it's the responsibility of entertainment to put them through school. Maybe that's not what people need. Maybe that's not what people want. Are we going to set up a little totalitarian dictatorship of the improvers and reformers and cram good works and good words down the throats of people instead of letting them enjoy themselves and their time off? Somehow I discover that I wouldn't mind being called lunatic during my working hours, but I really resent being called lunatic in my leisure time. Sam, let me ask you a question, a rhetorical question. You don't expect the liquor industry or the department store industry or the railroad industry to improve the human race, do you? No. You expect them to furnish services that people will buy and to furnish any services that people want that are within their competence. Why should we expect the entertainment industry to take this responsibility on itself or threaten them that if they don't, they'll somehow or other we'll put them out of business or we will appeal to the government or something of that sort. Well, you have, oddly enough, moved what should be the qualifying word into the position of the noun, the entertainment industry. Perhaps we should say industrial entertainment. In that way, we could still have a phrase after we had got rid of the industry. Must we presuppose that the considerations of big business determine the ways in which we spend our leisure time. Ah, here's a man who wants to worry us. Norman Cousins, the editor of the Saturday Review of Literature, writes, Out of the wizardry of the television tune has come such an assault against the human mind, such a mobilized attack on the imagination, such an invasion against good taste as no other communications medium has known. Behind it all, Mr. Cousins goes on, behind it all, apparently, is a grinding lack of imagination and originality, which has resulted in the standardized television formula for an evening's entertainment, a poisoning, a variety show, and a wrestling match. Mayor, I won't accept that definition of the current state of affairs. and in order to say why I won't accept it, I'll drop back a minute to the kind of an argument that industry used to make about that sort of an attack. The entertainment industries would often say that the only answer to that was that it was in the power of the individual to turn the dial off. Now, that is a kind of an answer, and I don't think myself that it's a bad one. But I think that, for example, I don't necessarily agree with Cousins' artistic estimate of all the things that are on radio and television. I think that he has his case stacked because there are lots of things that he doesn't like that I can find other people that do like, and I think for fairly good reasons. But even more important than that is, I think that Cousins' left out, a whole dimension of the relation to these supplies of entertainment, that is very important. And that is that even when people, let's say, can't turn it off, there is another kind of thing that they can do, and increasingly, people are doing it. There are a whole series of what you might call revolt or critical attitudes toward commercial entertainment which have led people to establish their own interests in certain kinds of cultural entertainment pursuits. The reaction against commercial music, for example, has produced a considerable interest in jazz and the development of a criterion of criticism for handling it. You've got people nowadays, instead of going just to the neighborhood movie, will go to what's a relatively new institution among movie houses, that is, the small theater where they can expect a certain kind of fare which satisfies them that it has a higher artistic dimension than what they've been seeing before. There are a whole series of liberties that people have taken under themselves here in which they've developed a whole series of critical attitudes toward the media and building on what they learned from the media, whether it's the movies, the radio, for example, in the field of music, they've gone on to form their own taste in groups, classical music, which seems to me to constitute a very healthy element in the relationship to the whole commercial product. But you're talking about an intellectual fringe, aren't you, Denny? What about the isolated housewife listening to the standard soap opera? What about the man on the assembly line job who seems to be at least content with what he's getting? Perhaps the answer to Mr. Cousins' position might, another answer, might take this form. Not that he is wrong in his estimate, but that he is quite out of role in being surprised. The entertainment which we hear may possibly be so perfectly appropriate to the, well, I won't say needs, but requirements of the public, of us, of the people of this country, that Aristotle himself, assigned to the job of a poetics of soap opera, would devise precisely what we have. Well, Sam, it seems to me that when you talk about a fringe, you're making some sense. You and Denny and I and maybe a million other people out of the 150 million in this country who are doing all of this protesting and all of this rebelling are operating on the assumption that we are right and the other 149 million are wrong, that people ought to be improved, that this is what leisure, or leisure, is for, that people ought to be improved. But what are you going to say to the man who gets no joy out of the job that he's in, the assembly line worker, the housewife with her drudgery, gets no pleasure out of the work that he is in and turns to light entertainment in his spare time. Are you prepared to say that this man is wrong or that he's a low creature and, or are perhaps this million, these million people who protest and want to reform television and the other entertainment, media, maybe they're just snobs. Well, maybe we're incorrect in our estimates. Maybe the numbers are wrong. What reason do we have to suppose that the managers of the mass media really know that they are providing for the public what the public wishes to hear? I think the answer is an evident one. The managers can't be wrong. If they're wrong, they go out of business. And since they don't go out of business, it is obvious that they are providing what the American people want. I give you again this 564 hours of entertainment in contrast with a half hour of education over a week of television. If the managers were calculating wrong about the taste of the American people, the managers would lose their shirts. But they don't. This is what the American people are buying. That sounds too pat to me, Mayor. I really don't believe that the leaders of the entertainment industry, no matter how bright they are, and we know that they are very bright people, are always that right. They do make mistakes. The power groups shift. Some things fail and some things succeed. I think it's again here that we have one of the stereotypes of the industry that we have to deal with. We're fond of thinking that the media man, the movie maker, is a man who can see the future. I don't think he can see the future. He's a guesser, and sometimes he's a good guesser, and sometimes he isn't. And I don't think we should attribute to the people that run the media this power over our lives or the power over the future of our lives that we sometimes do. No, I don't think it's that they are exercising power over our lives. I think we're exercising power over our own. Where you point out that there are people who go to little theaters and see foreign films and the like, you must observe, Denny, that these are the few, the very few, and these theaters are the tiny theaters. Most Americans go to the big shows, the spectacles, the Cecil B. DeMille stuff. I certainly think that's true, Mayor, but I think that's precisely where they received the essential parts of their training in dealing with these other forms. I don't follow you, then. I think that the earlier developments of the movie, well, let's put it this way, 15 years ago, who would have predicted, who would have predicted art, movie, theater? Can we apply the idea, the theory, which I'm sure is a very popular one in this country, that the managers can't fail to this particular discussion? because, and this is implied in your remarks, they're in a competitive situation. The film here takes a different structure, seven channels, I think you said, in New York City, which might be analyzed, in which we would find seven people competing to see who could get the best wrestling match. Now, competition would produce a consummate wrestling match, presumably, in time. But there is simply no pressure to provide on those seven channels at that time everything from Beethoven to wrestling match, so that a genuine choice might be made. When you say there's no pressure, you're saying there's no audience pressure, no public pressure. No, I think... This is my contention. I think they deal in terms of averages, and they all compete for the same fragment of the audience, and they all ignore a very large part of the audience which has no intention of watching the wrestling match. Sam's, the Federal Communications Commission has just allotted 209 out of the 3,000 television channels in the country, 209 have just been allotted for educational television stations. I understand there's a good deal of criticism of that decision, by the way. There is a tremendous complaint that the country doesn't want this much educational television. Now, are you prepared to say that the country does or that the country should have it whether it wants it or not? The majority of the country might not want it at any particular moment, but that there is a demand for it, I would insist. Managers can prove it. The managers of entertainment, I think, can prove their case by their sales records. Now, you're saying that Americans want something better than they are getting. Can we prove an induction on one item? I want it. Well, there are great changes going on in industry that fills up so much of our leisure or leisure, and wages are going to be for the better or for the worse in all the shifting that is now coming about. Whether or not the changes are going to be for the better or for the worse, I think depends on the answer to the question, what is it that we Americans want in the way of entertainment, and are we going to depend on somebody else to improve us, or are we going to improve ourselves, and should we be improved? Well, we've learned during the last hundred years to spend our labor very stingily. We buy more with our work than any society has ever done. On the other hand, we're complete spendthrifts of leisure. We have yet to learn an economy of leisure anywhere near so efficient as our economy of work. I think that's right, Sam, but I think that there are some reassuring factors that need to be introduced here about that. I think one of the things that we worry about in connection to the use of leisure is that we want it to be as free from waste, for example, as our work life is and was, and I don't think that the same standards can necessarily be applied to it. That, I think, to me, is one of the tyrannies of leisure. The right to be quiet and to be let alone is still unimpaired. We can flip the switch. We may not be the life of the party the next day, but we still have the freedom not to be the life of the party. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on the tyranny of leisure, leisure, were Rule N. Denny, social scientist and expert on popular culture, Henry W. Sands, specialist in modern literature, both of the University of Chicago, and Milton Mayer, author, lecturer, and member of the Great Books Foundation. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of the tyranny of leisure contains the full text of the discussion and additional supplementary material on changes in American leisure. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's valuable pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlets costs $3. For $3, you may receive the roundtable pamphlet for the next 52 weeks. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Today's program originated in the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is a public service presentation of NBC. Rosalind Russell stars on Theater Guild today on NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC. NBC.