The Police Safety Program. Good morning, good morning. We've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. It's the Police Safety Program sent to you in the cooperation of His Honor the Mayor and the Police Commissioner in the interest of highway safety by members of the Safety Bureau. Be a little bit careful. You cross the corners when the light is green. Be a little bit careful. You cross the corners, that's where you'll be seen. Be careful, Meg. Be safer and safer. You're the one so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful and take it easy. We don't be in a rush. Say good morning, boys and girls. Good morning, good morning to everybody. Good morning. You know, there's only two of us here in the safety studio this morning. There's only two of us, that's all there are. Mr. Piano. And me. Yes. The singing safety policemen and Jim Alert have not arrived as yet. And you know, without them, I just don't know what to do. Well, let me see. Let me see now. I have some papers here. Oh, say, perhaps I could tell you a story this morning. Would you like to hear a story? Say, Mr. Piano, would you like to hear a story this morning? Oh, say, he wants to hear a story. All right, then. As long as you want to hear a story this morning, I think I'm afraid, Mr. Piano, that you'll have to set the scene for me. And I think, let me see now. Now, let me see. Well, suppose that you play some woodland music, huh? Yes. It was a day just like this that I first met those two little squirrels. Boofums and Peanuts. Yes. Boofums and Peanuts, they were brothers. And Boofums and Peanuts, they lived with their mother and their daddy in the trunk of a huge oak tree on the edge of the forest. But Boofums, he was a nice-looking squirrel. But Peanuts, he was not so handsome. He was not as handsome as his brother Boofums. But Peanuts, he was more thoughtful and Peanuts was more alert. But Boofums, oh, Boofums, he had the prettiest and the fluffiest tail of any squirrel in the woods. And of course, Boofums knew it and it made him a very self-centered little squirrel, thinking only of himself and forgetting all about proper things. I mean by proper things, the things that his mother and his dad told him. And there was one important thing and that was the danger of a nearby bridle path. Now down this bridle path, the horses race swiftly all through the day. Very often, Mother Squirrel, she was worried, you know. And she would say to Popper after the little squirrels were asleep, I'm so worried. I'm so worried about our son, Boofums. Someday I'm sure he'll get hurt because Boofums shows off too much, displaying his beautiful tail and all that. You really should do something about it, Father. He just does not seem to listen to me and I'm constantly warning him about that bridle path. But somehow, he just likes to go down there and lie in the sun all by himself. And then Popper Squirrel, in his gruff verse, he would reply, Don't worry, Mama. Perhaps Buffums will learn by watching how careful his brother Peanuts is and how quickly Peanuts scampers up the trees when he hears the sound of danger. Well, one morning, one morning, bright and early, Peanuts, he was very busy, little squirrel, and Peanuts was out gathering nuts for the family breakfast. Suddenly, suddenly off in the distance, Boofums appeared and then Peanuts yelled to him, he said, Brother, oh, Brother Buffums, come, Brother Buffums, say, say, will you help me gather some nuts? The day is so nice and a good breakfast would please us all. To which Boofums replied, Oh, no, no, no, no, Peanuts. I may soil my beautiful tail and get it all messed up and then I wouldn't be as handsome as I want to be. I'm afraid you'll have to do it yourself. Peanuts, you know, he was thoughtful and alert, so he just smiled to himself and he murmured low, Hmm, poor, poor Buffums. How selfish he is. He will never learn. And then Buffums went over and he stretched himself out slowly and he started to wash his little face with his nice, soft paws. Mm-hmm. And after he finished washing himself and then he said, Well, I think I'll go down and take a little walk and he wandered carelessly off towards the forbidden bridle path and the sun was shining and of course Buffums did not realize the direction he was going because he was not thinking. But he did think, What a lovely day. Oh, what a lovely day. He thought, The air is so nice and fresh. Oh, what a lovely day. And the sun is so warm and strong. He says, I am the handsomest squirrel in the forest. And then he suddenly thought, Well, the sun is shining down on the bridle path. And he said, I am going over and I'm going to lay down in the sun on the bridle path. And he started to smooth his pretty tail. When clippity, clippity, clippity, clop, clippity, clippity, clippity, clop, the loud sound of horses' hooks came pounding on the path. Now, now Buffums was too interested in himself to hear the danger of the approaching horse when suddenly a huge hook stepped... Oh! Oh! Oh! Oh, it stepped heavenly, heavenly, and painfully on Buffum's pretty tail. Buffum screamed. Hmm. And of course, he was kicked then over to the side of the road. Mama Squirrel heard his cries and she came running down the road and she ran up to poor little Buffums laying there on the road and she said, Oh, my poor baby Buffums! And the tears were streaming down her face and Buffum's beautiful tail, oh, that was badly injured. I was so afraid something like this would happen. Oh, Buffums, Buffums, look at your beautiful tail now. I knew you would get hurt hanging around this bridle pad if you had only listened to me and now your tail may never be the same again. Well, it was a very sad story to tell. But Mama Squirrel thought, well, I've got to take him back so she took him back to the home that they had in the huge oak tree and she started to nurse her sick little baby. And she took care of him and she watched over him. And Peanuts, of course, he went on about his business being very alert and being very careful where he went. But poor Buffums was sick, sick because he did not think, sick because he was too self-centered. And then, after a few weeks rest, of course, Buffums became well again. and you can bet, you can bet from that day, I mean the day that he had the accident, from that day and all the pain that he suffered and all the grief that he caused his mother, from that day on, Buffums was more alert and he was always careful whenever he went out with Brother Peanuts. he was always careful about any path that he was about to cross in the woods. Yes, Buffums learned his lesson. And someday, we hope, that Buffums will be a pretty squirrel again. Well, look at who's coming in. Hello, Jim Alert. How are you, Jimmy? How are you? Good morning, good morning, Mr. Oh, Mr. Singh and Safety Police. How are you, Mr. Singh and Safety Police? Good morning, how are you? Say, I'm awful glad to see you gentlemen here this morning. I was wondering what happened to you. Say, you fellas walked in here this morning and you did not say good morning to Mr. Piano. Oh, that's right, too. Good morning, Mr. Piano, good morning. Good morning, Mr. Piano. You fellas came a little late, you know, this morning. Yeah, well, do you know what happened, Mr. narrator? What happened to you this morning, Jim? Well, I'm very sorry to tell you this, but I didn't give myself sufficient time and I'm glad that you arrived here safely because I'm glad you didn't do any rushing, you know. Undo haste can cause accidents. So, if you are a little late, we're glad that you took your time. Well, even though, even though I knew I would be late, I thought perhaps it would be best if I took my time and allowed myself sufficient time to cross streets properly. That's right, you were thinking, Jimmy. You know, that puts me in mind that the story we had this morning, we had a beautiful story this morning, Jimmy. Oh, yes, what was it about? I told the boys and girls a story this morning about two little squirrels, one whose name was Peanuts and the other whose name was Buffum. Oh, that must have been cute. It was a very nice story. What was it all about? Well, Peanuts was a very thoughtful and alert squirrel, but Buffum, well, he was a little self-centered and he failed to think, but he found out later that he had to be careful in the woods. Well, what happened, Mr. Nareta? Can you tell us? Well, I think before I tell you what happened, I think it would be a good idea if Mr. Singh and Safety Policeman sang a song for us this morning. Would you sing for us, Mr. Singh and Safety Policeman? Sure, but what one do you think I ought to sing at this particular point? Oh, I think maybe in keeping with your story or something like that? That would be an excellent idea. You know, I sang this song this morning, but I think you will do it just a little bit better. You know, that one is called Be a Little Bit Careful? Oh, fine, sure. Be a little bit careful You cross the corners when the light is green Be a little bit careful You cross the corners That's where you'll be seen Be careful May speak safer and safer For the ones so near and dear to us So be a little bit careful And take it easy Don't be in a rush Hey, that was very nice, Mr. Singh and Safety Policeman. That was very nice. Everybody, did you like that song, Jim, I thought it was very nice. And incidentally, Mr. Narrator, I think that a song like that, although it serves its purpose in the city, you know, around the city streets and all, I think it serves its purpose in the country, too, in a forest, just like that story you told us about. It does, it does. Yes, you know, Mr. Narrator, I agree with Mr. Singing Policeman. I firmly believe that even the animals must be careful at all times. What, do you know that the river horse, you know what a river horse is, Jimmy? He's called Mr. Hippopotamus. Oh, that's one of those great things. Yes, but he stays in the river. Well, he must be careful while he's in the river, or maybe some boat will hit him. Now, you know the long-necked giraffe, the giraffe was a long-necked giraffe. Oh, yes, yes, I like to see those at the zoo. Well, he must be very careful also, because he's got to be very careful that he doesn't run into some trees. That's true, and those low branches might hurt him. All animals must be careful. The squirrel, all the squirrels must be careful. The little birds in the trees, that's right. Every animal in the woods, boys and girls, everybody, should be just a little bit careful. So I think it's time now for our thinking ritual, Jimmy. Oh, very good. Yes, yes. Let's do our thinking ritual. All right, now let me see. Our thinking ritual is, first, we have that safety thinking music. Listen, listen. Everybody think. Everybody concentrate. First, you go to the corner. To the corner. Then you look at the traffic light. Then you look at the traffic light. Be sure it's green. Be sure it's green. Then you look left. Then you look left. And then you look right. Then you look right. And here is another thing we want you and everybody else to remember. To walk safely. Remember what's said. Don't cross streets while lights are still red. Cross at the corner. Don't run in the street. Cause that's where trouble and accidents meet. Walk safely. You look left and right. The roadway is no place to play. Now don't take any chances and don't wander around like Bookum's did in trances. And you walk safely each day. Yes, it's a police safety program brought to you each Saturday by His Honor the Mayor and the Police Commissioner in the interest of highway safety. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. of Jetway