Good afternoon. From the new Alfred E. Smith Memorial Park, located between Cherry and Monroe Streets, your city station brings you the dedication ceremonies for this memorial park and the statue unveiling. Besiding over the ceremonies this afternoon is Commissioner of Parks Robert Moses, who will be introduced by Arthur Hotchkiss, the Executive Officer of the Department of Parks. We will hear messages paying tribute to Alfred E. Smith from Mayor William O'Dwyer, Lieutenant Governor Joseph R. Hanley representing Governor Dewey, Mrs. William H. Good, Judge Joseph M. Korskauer, Alfred E. Smith III, and many others. In addition, we will hear entertainment by the musical organizations of the Police Department of the City of New York. Right now, there are hundreds of people gathered in this little park, hundreds more looking down from the windows around us of the Alfred E. Smith housing project. In the park itself, the distinguished guests are seated in the front. There's Grover Whalen, many other city officials. The Police Department is seated to the left of the statue, which is now covered and which is to be unveiled this afternoon. And right now, here comes the Executive Officer of the Department of Parks, Arthur Hotchkiss, to introduce the program. Will the audience please rise? We'll open the ceremony with the first stanza of the Star-Spangled Bands. To come together, there will be a 23-adanusa program from the one who Espavel Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We are pleased to have here Monsignor O'Donnell representing his eminence, the Cardinal. Will the audience please rise? The invitation will be pronounced by Father Gaulman. Let us pray. Almighty and most merciful God, look down upon us humbly standing in thy presence. Give us grace on this occasion that we might fully understand the significance of the unveiling of a statue dedicated to one of your most gifted sons. A son who was truly a man among men. A natural leader of men. May we and our children and our children's children see in this lasting bronze monument the lasting and strong principles for which this happy and battle-scarred warrior always fought. May future generations always see in him a man of the people and for the people. A man of God and for God. May this image of Alfred Emanuel Smith, wrought in bronze, always give a spiritual lift to everyone trying to make something out of himself, to everyone trying to rise to nobler heights before God and man. Amen. A great governor returns today in enduring bronze to the east side which produced and raised him to eminence, the east side which he was never too successful to forget. It is however a new east side, the old neighborhood reborn and rebuilt as he planned it should be. Those whom he inspired have carried on his work. The past is by no means done, but the slums of his youth are fast being mowed down. The force which levels these infamous rookeries is the civic conscience which he aroused with the most eloquent tongue of his generation. In no comparable space have so many families sacrificed so much to give their children the advantages of our land of liberty. And out of this teeming slum and babel of tongues have come some of the greatest, most representative, and authentic Americans of our time. The next generation will live in far better surroundings. It is unlikely however that comfort and security will produce the salty leaders in all walks of life, bred on the old east side by poverty and ambition. This memorial is the gift of Governor Smith's countless friends and admirers. A small park and playground, an oasis bounded by the sidewalks of New York. The balance of our funds was used to provide new doors for St. James Parochial Schools, where the Governor received his only formal education. For improvement of the facade of the Mariners Church and toward the restoration of the old Spanish and Portuguese cemeteries. The first generation of the old man who was a very popular institution sacred to free faith as the great Governor, who was without a trace of bigotry or intolerance, would have wished it. As the Park Department assumes the guardianship of this shrine, we ask the neighbors to protect and enjoy it. I now give you the undisputed First Lady of Brooklyn, a great citizen of our state, long a friend of Governor Smith, and supporter of his cause, Mrs. William H. Goode. Mr. Chairman, Reverend Claddey, Lieutenant Governor Henry, Mayor O'Driar, distinguished guests, friends of Alfred Emanuel Smith, the side blocks of New York, where we meet today. Captain Street, Perry Street, South Street, the river, the old East Side. This was home to our kids. Here he was born and grew to manhood. From here he started out on that path of glory. The glory which is rightfully won by a man whose life enriched and made more secure the lives of all the southern men and women of New York State. Those of us who knew best and loved the most went proudly to Albany for his first inauguration as Governor of the State and his succeeding inauguration. Many of us here campaigned with him as he went up and down the state, demanding all those great progressive and humanitarian measures, which his name will be forever associated. Better conditions for labor. Better housing. More efficiency in government. Better care for the aged and the mentally ill. Better parks and playgrounds. All those great social advances to which he felt the people were so well entitled. These were the gold in the years of achievement and success. And then many of us here worked for him in the un-American, heartbreaking campaign of 1928. And that was the time that Al had to learn to take the bitter with the sweet, as we all must do in this life. Many honors, many opportunities, he had served as his community, lay ahead of the first citizens. And if he lost an election, he never lost his place in the hearts of the American people. Their love for him, their gratitude for what he had done for them, could never die. But time marches on, and the long shadows began to fall. And one spring morning, his wife, his dear companion of so many happy years, left this troubled world. And many of us here, and many of us here, went to her funeral. And as we watched a broken hearted man, follow all that was mortal, of Catherine Smith, of the long island of the cathedral, we knew that Al's days were a number. And so indeed they were. But just six months from that day, Al's great heart was spilled. And America had lost one of the noblest of her sons. This is a great day. We all need here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here to be here. We all need here to view the transformation of the old east side that Al Smith's in, and to dedicate his path to his memory. We know that his spirit is in every one of these pleasant homes that surround us and bear his name. We know that his spirit will be in all the children who will play here in safety and comfort today and tomorrow and tomorrow. So we salute the imperishable memory of a great American, a statesman, a humanitarian, a man who had faith in God and who greatly loved his fellow men. Thank you, Mrs. Good. The next speaker, a distinguished lawyer, jurist, and philanthropist, rank high among the influential and constructive advisers of Governor Smith. In the length and breadth of the land, no one is better equipped to interpret the Governor with justice and affection than Joseph M. Proskauer, whom I now present to you. Mr. Chairman, Reverend Tudy, Governor, Mayor, Ladies and Gentlemen, if Al Smith were with us today, he would show little concern with that statute. That one's my favorite clip. Remember to by many more exhale, Randy? On your own worldview today. rusty littleGM stars. Gabriel asked Markostery. When Pacific is in the space where he'd have had he'd have a man shut fall. But his heart would be warmed by the sight of those children in the swings over there on that playground. He would choose as a memorial dearest to his heart, this lovely park one and that playground. For he truly lived in the spirit of him who said, Suffer little children to come unto me. His heart was filled with solicitude for the children and the people of this neighborhood which was his home. And he would gladly associate his name with this happy place of recreation and refreshment. And the lesson that you people of his old neighborhood should draw today is that his life demonstrates that in this free America of ours, the past can lead straight from St. James's Parish to the highest places within the gift of the people. Now you've all heard Al Smith described as the happy warrior. I would like you people of his old neighborhood to get the true significance of that. That phrase came from a poem written by the poet Wordsworth. This love of his fellow man was an essential part of what made Al Smith the happy warrior. And combined with other qualities which Wordsworth described, that poem fitted Al Smith as though Wordsworth had by a prophetic vision described him. He describes the happy warrior as one who roared upon the plan that pleased his voice taught. Smith radiated unceasing energy and the optimism of youth. He never grew old. No cynicism of age. No bitterness of experience. No reversal of fortune. Ever dimmed with youthful aspirations. So too in the poet's words, he was one whose law is reason. You all remember how he used to say, let's look at the record. He looked at it and with wisdom irradiated it. Others had more learning. None ever had more wisdom. Then he was one who in Wordsworth's praise, if he rise the station of command, rises by open means. Al's life was truly an open book. He knew the techniques of the politicians. But he sprained his hypocrisy. And he was a man who again, in Wordsworth's praise, did not scoot. The lion wait for honors of the worldly faith. He was born of a people. He waged many a heart-thored battle for their rights. But truly, he walked with kings, now lost the common touch. And he was one whose master bias leans to home-felt pleasures. And the gentle scenes. His moral cyber was rock. But in Al's heart lay a great and abiding love. There was never-ending romance in the idle of his union with Catherine Gunn-Smith. But his capacity for love went out beyond those who were near to him in ties of family and friendship. Because he loved all humanity. He was in truth a big brother to all his fellow men. Finally, he was one who drew in Wordsworth's praise, his breath in confidence of heaven's applause. Father, he was the most devoutly pious man I ever knew. He chose Catholicism as a pattern for his worship. But always he knew full well that other men followed other dreams. And he sought, as I pray to God you and I will seek, to make his world a brotherhood of men under a common fatherhood of Almighty God. So as we dedicate this part today, let us dedicate ourselves to the fulfillment of his great mission. remembering that this memorial is to Alfred E. Smith, a great husband, father, friend, statesman, lover of his church and his country, lover of all mankind, and in this I thank truly the happy warrior. Thank you, Judge Croscar. The contribution of Alfred E. Smith to the machinery of government of this state has been most accurately and generously appraised by Governor Dewey and Lieutenant Governor Hanley. Both of them have gone far out of their way to acknowledge handsomely and publicly the debt they owe to the man who fought to reorganize the ancient, creaky state administrative machines which so severely handicapped previous governors. Only great public officials admit obligations the predecessors of another party. I give you now our Lieutenant and Acting Governor, Joe R. Hanley. Miss Chavin, Reverend Clergy, ladies and gentlemen, fellow American all. Some 25 years ago, I went up to the capital of Albany, a young, green assemblyman. I was unacquainted with anybody in the building. I didn't know anything about the location of the various offices, but I had an occasion, after being there in about a month, to call on the governor of the state, the man we're doing honor to this afternoon. As a young, green assemblyman, I was half scared to death to go down there. I didn't know how to get in, and I suppose I'd find a lot of uniforms and guards and everything else. To my amazement, when I went down to the door, a gentleman met me, and I told him who I was, and he said, Come on in, the governor, be glad to see you. And I walked in the governor's office, instead of finding a man sitting in austere judgment behind a desk, an individual got up, walked across the floor, took me by the hand, and he said, Good morning, Joe, I'm awfully glad to see you. And in that minute, an Al Smith Republican was born. And ever since that hour, I've watched this career with a magnificent achievement, with a thrill in my heart. For I, like most of you, have come from very humble homes. Mr. Smith and I have talked many times of our boyhood, and of the struggles of our families and our relatives, to get a foothold in this nation. And he typifies to my mind the thing we so sadly need today, the right type of God-fearing American leadership in public life. One thing I admired about Alfred E. Smith, I can honestly say this of him, that as far as I knew him, and I knew him innately in the political field, both as a friend and as an opponent, Al Smith was one man in public life who was more anxious to be right than he was to be re-elected on election day. And that thrills me to think that we have that great heritage to follow. He was a man of integrity, he was a man of courage, and a man of faith. He loved his fellow men, he loved his family, he appreciated his opportunities, and above all, he was faithful to his God and worshipped him according to his training and belief. So as representing this great empire state of New York, in the absence of Governor Dewey, down here to Albany, to pay my respect and bring the greetings to not only one of the greatest governors, but in my opinion, one of the greatest citizens this state has ever produced in its history, our friend and yours. Like the mighty oak, when it falls in the forest, his going left an open place against the sky. But in that open place, we can gaze forward to the tomorrows, knowing he's made the today's better because he's here. I'm happy to bring you the greetings of the administration and of the state of New York, and to Mr. Smith's family and his friends. we want to congratulate you on the fine thing you're doing this afternoon. Thank you very much. Thank you, Governor. I now call upon one who, like Alfred Emanuel Smith, has risen through his own talents and efforts from obscurity to high office to accept this part on behalf of the city. Mayor William O'Dwyer. Commissioner Moses, Governor Hanley, Mr. Good, Mr. Posca, Reverend, and distinguished friends. We meet today to first of all welcome Mrs. Glenn Smith's family and children, grandchildren, to an hour that must pay them back for the miseries of his loss. after all, if we of the great public regard the passing from the political scene that Governor Smith by how many million times more must that be an irreparable loss to a family that he loved so much and have loved him daily. the hour that we spent in his name today in the ground of the tallow by his tiny footsteps as he went to school and went to church and went right around the corner to the political club. The place, the people, the things that were a part of him when he was like one of those tiny cops right in this neighborhood. Surrounded on all sides by the tenements, the poor living conditions, the lack of light, the struggles of each family to keep alive. We are reminded now in the midst of this beautiful improvement dedicated forever to his name of what he began, the things that he started, and the conclusions of which they have been brought today. So much has been said by the eloquent speakers who have preceded me and have made it possible for me to refrain from boring you with a repetition of the things that they said and which you and I have known. That Al Smith was a great man first of all because he was a kind man. Secondly, because he had that sense to feel for those who needed help, who had, who recognized the principle that where a condition affecting masses of people is something beyond their own control, that their public leaders have got to think for them, they've got to work for them, they've got to bring about something that will enrich their lives, that will make them glad to be alive and give them that faith in government, that will be a defense in itself against the end roads of termites who will destroy the march. Al Smith looked at people, knew people, he knew the little fellow, knew the little slave, in trouble, he felt for them. And when he finally rose step by step into the highest of all places in this state, all of his life's experience, all of the humanity in it, the love of the people in it, came to an expression of good housing, of protection for the worker in the factory, of safety to the orphan and to the orphan's mother, to keep them together in the home. The sick, they couldn't help themselves to see that they had a hospital bed where kindness and health would be their need rather than the destitution of leading sick who had no place to go. God was in his heart. He loved his fellow man. But Moses was right. He knew nothing about intolerance. He knew nothing about discrimination. A human being to him was a brother or a sister, a child of a common father, as was so eloquently stated by Judge Trotter. That was the man, the living man. And today, in the grounds that were hallowed by his earliest footsteps, within, in an atmosphere that was within his memory, no matter how far away from here he trapped, constantly before his mind. We're about to unveil in his name a statue to perpetuate his memory. The whole place is a memorial to him. Every new housing is a memorial to him. The safety of the worker in the factory, the hospital system, the state of New York is a memorial to him. The progressive thinking of government today is a memorial to him. But this particular one is one that's integrated with those early days of him. That is a net of joy and an honor to me, as mayor of the city, to accept this gift from the people who made it possible. May the God that sent him to us and that took him away, may he get into our minds the kind of thinking that was as for these things. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor. We now call upon Alfred E. Smith III to unveil the statue. Come on. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Let's set it up. Let's get it. And now, ladies and gentlemen, young Alfred E. Smith III mounts the steps in front of the veiled statue. Photographers gather around. The police department band begins to play east side, west side, all around the town. The seated guests rise in tribute. Workmen are ripping away the wire around the statue, and now, young Alfred grasps the rope that will pull away the curtain. The curtains slowly part, and we see the statue beginning to emerge. A momentary pause while the photographers have their day. From various angles, there photographing Alfred E. Smith III, Mayor O'Dwyer, and the various other dignitaries who are assembled on the pedestal of the statue. There are steps leading up to the statue itself. And now, at any moment, Alfred E. Smith III, will pull the cord. There it goes. And the wraps fall from the statue of Alfred E. Smith. And we see the happy warrior himself standing before us. The End The statue itself was by Charles Keck, the ornamental flagpole by Paul Manship. The statue is about twice the size of the average man, and in it, Alfred E. Smith is looking over this playground, the swings, the benches, the boys and girls that we've heard about this afternoon. And now, Alfred E. Smith, Mayor O'Dwyer, that's Alfred E. Smith III, with the statue of Alfred E. Smith I, are still posing for photographers' pictures. The assembled guests are still standing, looking at the statue, watching everything that's going on. The boys and girls gathered, are waving their flags, looking and shouting, some of them singing along with the music. The coaches are being in the ceremony. And that was the voice of Arthur Hotchkiss, the executive officer of the Department of Parks, who introduced the Commissioner of Parks, Robert Moses. Ladies and gentlemen, from the new Alfred E. Smith Memorial Park, located between Cherry and Monroe Streets, your city station has brought you the dedication ceremonies for this memorial park, and the unveiling of the statue of Alfred E. Smith. Some of the guests, whom you heard, were Mayor William O'Dwyer, Lieutenant Governor Joseph R. Hanley, representing Governor Dewey, Mrs. William H. Good, Judge Joseph M. Froskauer, and Alfred E. Smith III, who unveiled the statue of Alfred E. Smith I. The music was by the Department of Police Band under the direction of Eugene Labar. This program has been a special presentation of the Municipal Broadcasting System.