Stay tuned for a transcribed feature broadcast produced by United Nations Radio and starring John Garfield. Dr. Albert Einstein will be heard with a special message later in the program. Dr. Einstein, would you say atomic energy is here to stay? That, madame, is not the question. The question is, are we? Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Listen. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. This is a story of atom and evil. The courtship is causing a great upheaval. For evil got him drunk on prejudices and hate. And she taught him how to gamble with humanity's fate. United Nations Radio presents John Garfield in Year of Decision, a progress report on the atom. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a usual radio program. We tell you quite frankly, we are not here to entertain. We are here to present the facts of a case. It is a case in which we are all involved. And we thought you might, therefore, be interested in hearing the facts as plainly as we can give them. About atomic energy, that is. Some of these facts you will have heard before. Others you may hear for the first time on this program. But this is a year in which all of us, you and I, are faced with an alternative. To be or not to be. When making a decision between alternatives, a sensible man looks where he is, how he got here, and where he can go from here. And that's what we'd like to do now. Maybe unraveling the threads will make the pattern clearer. I guess the realization that something new had been added came to some of us like this. The White House has just made an important announcement on the war. And to bring you this story, we interrupt our program to take you to Washington. This is Ralph Howard Peterson in Washington. I have just returned from the White House, where it has just been announced that the United States is now using an atomic bomb, the most powerful explosive yet developed. To others, the atomic age was announced by newspaper headlines like these. In Buenos Aires, Con poderosas bombas empieza a usar la energía atomica. In Paris, Le président Truman proclame l'air atomique. In Vienna, Verwendung der atomenergie für friedliche Zwecke. In London, Basic power of universe released. In Moscow, Atomne bombas broshen a nach Hiroshima. In Washington, Day of atomic energy hailed by president. New Age ushered. New Age? What kind of new age was being ushered in? Or rather, what kind of new age are we being ushered into? Here from the American magazine of a few years ago are the words of the Chancellor of the University of Chicago, where the early wartime experiments were made, Mr. Robert Hutchins. Our paramount problem, our chief hazard in the atomic age, will be what to do with our spare time. The atomic city will be built along scientifically functional lines to provide maximum comfort and convenience to its inhabitants. Streets will be hundreds of feet wide. Buildings will be far apart. The only smoke will come from fireplaces used for pleasure. They will not be needed for heat. Heat will be so plentiful that it will even be used to melt snow as it falls. Parks, playgrounds, and other places of recreation will abound, for leisure will be almost unlimited. A very few individuals working a very few hours a day at very easy tasks in the central atomic power plant will provide all the heat, light, light, and power required by the community and all its surrounding areas. And those utilities will be so cheap that their costs can hardly be reckoned. Factories will operate only on a comparatively few hours a week to produce more goods than can be used. They will produce, among other things, new metals, foods, and vehicles which will run for a year or two on two ounces or less of atomic fuel. The atomic city will have a central diagnostic laboratory, but only a small hospital, if any at all, for most human ailments will be cured as rapidly as they're diagnosed. The end of all human suffering is in sight. If we're permitted to live at all, there's no reason we cannot expect to live as long as Methuselah. If we are permitted to live at all, there's the rub. For the energy that may make the dream possible also makes possible the end of the dreamer. Five years later, how close are we to the dream? Or are we closer to a nightmare? Let's ask a man who owns one, Professor Harold Ury, who said, we have been and are now in an atomic armaments race. Ask another, Dr. Albert Einstein, who said, Armament is no protection against war, but leads inevitably to war. It may be the public is not fully aware that in another war, atomic bombs will be available in large quantities. Atomic bombs have already become the most economical form of destruction that can be used. unless there is a determination not to use them far stronger than can be noted today, atomic warfare will be hard to avoid. Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer has written, With misgivings, and there ought to be misgivings, we are rearming, arming atomically, as in other fields. There are not many men who see an acceptable alternative to this course. But whether these measures which we are taking appear excessive, or on the whole insufficient, they must at least have one effect, inevitably, they must appear to commit us to a future of secrecy, of coercion, and to an imminent threat of war. Dr. Andrei Vyshinsky, in official translation. We in the Soviet Union are utilizing atomic energy, but not in order to stockpile atomic bombs, although I am convinced that if, unfortunately, and to our great regret, this were necessary, we should have as many of these as we should need, no more and no less. Mr. Trigver Lee. When the United Nations was established in San Francisco, it was created as an organization for the entire world. Now it is proposed to split the world permanently into two camps. There is only one possible end to that road. Sooner or later, a third world war. The End These are sobering words. We ask ourselves, where do we go from here? Perhaps it would be most helpful to ask first how we got here, because the bomb that went off that day in August 1945 wasn't the beginning. It was only an incident in a very long story. It began this way. The next voice you hear will not be that of the actual speaker. According to convention, there are a sweet and a bitter, a hot and a cold, and color, but in truth, there are only atoms and a vacuum. All things consist of indivisible particles, which I call atoms. These move in empty space, and by their coming together, produce being, and by their separation, destruction. That was not the speaker's actual voice, because the speaker lived over 400 years before the birth of Christ. His name was Lequipos, and anyway, it would have been Greek to us. In the early 1800s, Napoleon Bonaparte was too busy marching to hear this news. The theory that all chemical elements are composed of atoms has been corroborated. Before the First World War, the structure of the atom had been determined, and the fact that it held great quantities of energy, and by 1918, the British scientist Ernest Rutherford was able to report. In my experiments, I've used radium explosions to crack and pull the electric charges out of the nuclei of nitrogen atoms, and thereby cause them to fall together into new arrangements. And in the middle of the Great Depression of the 30s, when most of us were wondering how to pay next month's coal bill, a great scientist named Arthur Eddington wrote, I am going to tantalize you with a vision of vast supplies of energy, surpassing the wildest desires of the engineer, sources so illimitable that the idea of fuel economy might be put out of mind. We have not to travel far to find this land of El Dorado, this paradise of power. The energy to which I am referring exists abundantly in everything that we see and handle, only it is so securely locked away that for all the good it can do us, it might as well be in the remotest star unless we can find the key to the lock. We know very well that the cupboard is locked, but we are drawn irresistibly to peep through the keyhole like boys who know where the jam is kept. And a strange kind of jam it was. Let's take a peek through the keyhole ourselves. Every material thing is made of atoms. There are no exceptions. The atom is about one hundred millionth of an inch in diameter or very, very small. Let's enlarge one atom so we can see it better. Ah, there we are. Now we can see what the atom is made of. In the center of each atom is a nucleus. That's the nucleus. Around the nucleus whirl little particles called electrons. Just to give you the picture, if the nucleus, the center of the atom, were as large as a U.S. 50 cent piece or a British half crown, the electrons whirling around it would be down the street and a couple of blocks away. If the nucleus were as large as a baseball, the whirling electrons would be about half a mile away. Now, let's look inside the baseball. That's the nucleus. The nucleus contains a number of particles of two kinds. Protons, which are very positive, and neutrons, which are very neutral. The various elements are known by the number of positive particles or protons in their nucleus. For instance, hydrogen, the lightest element, has one. Helium, the second lightest element, has two. But uranium is one of the heaviest. It has 92 protons. Now, this proportion of protons to neutrons makes heavy elements like uranium a little unstable, like Humpty Dumpty sitting on the wall. Inside the nucleus, all the protons and neutrons are rushing about with tremendous energy. But give that unstable nucleus a good shove, something has to give. The nucleus breaks. But while all the king's horses and all the king's men couldn't put Humpty Dumpty together again, the nucleus merely rearranges what's left into a new element. But meanwhile, and here's the important thing, the breakup of the nucleus has sent some of those particles shooting off into space with tremendous force. And if the flying neutrons from one exploded nucleus can be made to break up the nucleus of other unstable atoms, then we would have a self-propelled chain of atomic power. hot stuff, huh? Some jam. Fine in a locked cupboard. But the boys finally found the key, and Pandora's box had nothing on what happened when this lid got lifted in August of 1945. The editorial that day in the New York Times said, The bomb that dropped on Hiroshima was doubtless heard by human ears for hundreds of miles around. But morally, it was heard around the world. Said the matron. My dear, I hear this radioactivity can keep you young, well, almost indefinitely. Said the clerk. But if the chain reaction got out of hand once, the whole world would blow up. Said the housewife. They say it'll do all your cooking, washing, ironing, cleaning, and free. Said the athlete. Yeah, but all you need is one sip of that radioactive water and you're not much good for a man. Said the poor man. It'll revolutionize money. They'll be making gold out of lead anytime now. Said the rich man. Any crackpot scientist anywhere can blow us to kingdom come. We're at their mercy. Said the reformer. This is God's punishment for the world's wickedness. Said the other reformer. I tell you, it's the work of the devil. But let us first look at the facts. What did the atomic bomb which fell on Hiroshima actually do, according to the official reports? Here is what they say. This is official. 60% of Hiroshima was destroyed. Over four square miles were totally destroyed. Seven square miles were seriously damaged. And structures, as far as 10 miles from the center of the blast, were leveled. The interiors of all concrete buildings were gutted. The majority of the wooden buildings within half a mile were reduced to splinters. Fire raged throughout the city for 10 hours. Over 90% of the residents were killed or injured or 306,545. There were 92,133 lives lost. Although six months later, nearly 14,000 bodies had not been found. Of those people within 3,000 feet, about one or two in each building, perhaps 5 or 10% escaped death from blast or burn. But many died later from radioactive rays, which affect the blood-forming tissues in the bone marrow. Now an unofficial report direct from Hiroshima sometime later. There are still great tragic mounds of desolation stretching in every direction from the center of the city. There is still a helpless sense of uneasiness. One Japanese told our interpreter this afternoon, we are wondering what to do when the war comes between Russia and the United States. If they use only ordinary bombs, we could evacuate to the suburbs. But they will undoubtedly use atomic bombs, and in that case... In that case? That was Hiroshima, Japan. This we know one bomb of the earliest type could do. We also know that a new hydrogen bomb, a thousand times as powerful, is in the news, says Dr. Einstein. The H-bomb appears on the public horizon as a probably attainable goal. Its accelerated development has been solemnly proclaimed by the president. Radioactive poisoning of the atmosphere, and hence the annihilation of any life on Earth, has been brought within the range of technical possibility. The H-bomb That brings us up to date on the bomb, one of the uses we have found for atomic energy. But is that all there is to atomic energy? Soviet scientist Peter Kepitzer once remarked, My views on the use of atomic energy as a weapon is the same as the use of electrical power for electrocution on the electric chair. No. Atomic energy is much more than an instrument of death. Listen again to Mr. Hutchins in the early days of the new atomic age. It is the most important discovery to mankind since the discovery of fire. Medically, it provides the most important discovery since the microscope. Economically, which means industrially and commercially, it is the most important discovery since the discovery of the wheel. I know that less than 15 pounds of atomic fuel, no more than a small child can carry in a basket, will produce enough electricity to meet all the demands of the United States for one year with a comfortable excess in reserve. One boxcar of atomic fuel will produce enough energy to heat every building, illuminate every electric bulb, and operate every machine in the entire world for 1,000 years. How much of the dream is within our grasp? Let's take a look in the United States, for instance. Here are the words of David Lilienthal in October 1947 when he was still chairman of the United States Atomic Energy Commission. What are the prospects for electric power from atomic energy for factory and home and farm? When can we expect a substantial part of this country's requirements, say 10 to 20 percent, to come from atomic energy plants? Are such things right around the corner? No. This doesn't mean that within the next 12 to 24 months, useful electric power couldn't be actually developed from a nuclear reactor. That is to say, from atomic energy. Such atomic power could turn motors and light bulbs and heat buildings. As a matter of fact, on a demonstration basis, 1,000 kilowatts or so, that could certainly be done. But we are not entirely dependent upon the future. Remember when we looked through the keyhole at how atomic energy was released? The neutrons went whirling inside the nucleus until the nucleus was exploded and flying neutrons shot out into space? Now, when this happens inside an atomic pile or furnace, great numbers of those neutrons are flying around and anything you put into the furnace is likely to get hit. Only instead of getting wounded, the substance gains a new kind of life. The particles which hit it, having been newly released from the nucleus, are radioactive. They make the substance radioactive too. Now, let's take a piece of metal, say, cobalt. put it in the pile, bombard it with radioactive neutrons, and soon our piece of cobalt isn't feeling like it. He's a new man. He feels radioactive. Just to distinguish him from other bits of cobalt who still feel the same old way, we call this one an isotope of cobalt, which means he's still cobalt, but a little different. In the same way, we might have an isotope of iodine, let's say, or phosphorus. These are radioactive isotopes, and they have a great advantage. We can follow them among all the other atoms just as if they had a striped suit on, because we have an instrument known as a Geiger counter, whose heart goes thumping. Whenever he's near a radioactive atom. What use is all this? Let's ask a man who ought to know, Dr. Paul C. Ebersole, Chief of the U.S. Atomic Energy's Isotope Division at Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Have you heard, doctor, of any new industrial uses for these radioactive isotopes? Well, they can be used for a number of control gadgets to help control better the products that are being produced. to keep the thickness of a sheet of material more uniform, or they can also be used to find out how to make better steel, better alloys, all types of better materials for improving the materials of industry. You'd like a for instance? Let's visit a factory actually using atomic products. Here in the Shamrock Factory in Patterson, New Jersey, we're about to witness a preview of the new Vatcraft machine which will revolutionize the dyeing of cloth. Dr. Ravage, how does your process mark a first step in the peaceful use of atomic energy in industry? Our process employs radioactive source materials such as uranium compounds. And the products of our work are directly available to the consumer in a finished product such as garments, and clothes, and fabrics. Hasn't that ever happened before? The consumer has never received a product directly made with a radioactive material. Well, Dr. Ravage, would you care to say anything about the future possibilities for your process in industrial uses? Yes, we're quite enthusiastic about the future. Laboratory investigations have shown that our process is very definitely applicable in fields of color photography, in the manufacturing of plastics, in the manufacture of printing inks and paste and pigments, and just all sorts of uses in the field of photochemistry. Would you say that we are now getting very close to what is popularly labeled as the atomic age? I think our laboratory investigations, along with the work of others in the field, is bringing about an awareness of the atomic age and bringing the atomic age closer to the public. Now let's go and ask Dr. Ebersold at Oak Ridge another question. Doctor, are there any developments in the field of atomic medicine that look promising to you? You realize that these radioactive elements can be traced in all types of life processes, both in a healthy animal or a healthy person, as well as in diseased animals and diseased persons. We can learn in detail the difference in the way the cells behave when they're diseased as compared to when they're normal. This type of medical knowledge, I think, is the key to future medical progress, and it is in this direction that the radioactive isotopes will find their most used. Take, for instance, radioactive phosphorus. Let's go to Mount Sinai Hospital in New York and ask Dr. Lewis Wasserman how he uses radioactive phosphorus in treating a patient. It's used very effectively in treating two serious blood diseases, polycythemia vera, which is a disease where too many red blood cells are manufactured. The blood becomes sluggish and clogs up and clogs up the blood vessels. The other is leukemia, which some people call cancer of the blood and is actually in excess of the white blood cells. Can you use this radioactive phosphorus in treating other types of cancers too? Yes, it's very effective where you can get at the cancer. For instance, on the skin where the treatment is the simplest we've ever had, all you do is put a drop of radioactive phosphorus in a piece of filter paper that just fits over the affected area, and you leave it in contact with the cancer just long enough for the radiation to kill the tumor cell. Does this treatment leave another scar? Practically none, much less than a surgical scar. Or take radioactive iodine. Let's ask Dr. Solomon Silva of Mount Sinai Hospital. There are two uses for radioactive iodine. First, we employ it in diagnosis in order to find out whether a disease is present. For example, say you wanted to spot a man in a crowd of a thousand. If he's mixed up in the crowd, it's almost impossible to see him. But if you paint a red stripe down his back, it's easy to spot him. No matter where he goes in the crowd. That's exactly how we spot or trace these single atoms of radioactive iodine. It doesn't matter where they go in the body because they are tagged and we can easily follow them in the body by using a Geiger Miller counter. Well, Dr. Silva, can you tell us how you administer this radioactive iodine to use it as a tracer? It's very simple. The patient simply swallows a little radioactive iodine like ordinary drinking water. Then what happens? The iodine goes into his stomach, is absorbed in the bloodstream, and within a very short time, it concentrates in his thyroid gland. Then with a Geiger Miller counter, we measure the amount that he has fixed in his thyroid gland, and this is a measure of how active his thyroid is. We asked Dr. Silva if we could see these theories at work, if we could watch them test the patient who had drunk one of those atomic cocktails. Dr. Feitelberg made the test. Now, would you lie down, please, on the stretcher? That's right. Just relax and lie quietly. I'm going to put the Geiger Miller tube over her neck. I see. And the clicks you hear now are the disintegration of radioactive iodine, which has concentrated in her thyroid gland. I'll turn the stop clock on now, and now I will take a time which it will take for a thousand disintegrations, or I should say for a thousand counts to occur. Dr. Feitelberg, what is it you're measuring now? We will know how much radioactive iodine we gave this lady two days ago, and now I want to see how long it takes for a thousand clicks to register. the faster it goes, the more iodine is in the thyroid gland, and this means the more active a thyroid is. Doctor, what does it read now? Forty-five seconds now. It's coming to a close to the shut-off point. Now it's off. Forty-nine seconds for a thousand disintegrations. Thank you. You can go now. Excuse me, madam, did that hurt you at all? Oh, no, not at all. Did you feel anything? No, nothing. He didn't even touch me, so how could I? Dr. Silver told us the results of the test. This lady is suffering from a too active thyroid gland. Dr. Silver, how are you going to treat her? With the same radioactive iodine, a few years ago, she would have had to undergo a major operation. Now, she will drink a portion of radioactive iodine, which is tasteless. The radiation will kill as much of the thyroid gland as you want to eliminate, and she'll walk away thinking she has just had a glass of water. Is there anything else that you can use radioactive iodine for? Yes, when radioactive iodine is incorporated into a dye, we can locate certain types of brain tumors, and it's also very useful in diagnosing the thyroid cancer which has spread about the body. These were actual recordings you heard made by United Nations Radio at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. At other hospitals and universities in many countries, similar work is going on, and by the use of radioactive isotopes, we are coming very near the secret of life itself. Listen. A plant will use the energy of sunlight to build its food from water and air. A cornstalk grows up. A cow eats the cornstalk. A man eats the corn and or part of a cow. The best roast beef I've had this year. But how does this process begin? How does the plant use the sunlight to make the food it passes on to us? This is photosynthesis, one of the basic mysteries of biology, the science of life. We are near its solution, says Mr. Lewis Strauss in these words to the New York Academy of Medicine. Now, by using a radioactive isotope of carbon, tagged carbon atoms which can be traced by the radiations they emit are introduced into plants through the soil or otherwise and followed through each stage of photosynthesis. At Antioch College, at the University of California, at the University of Pennsylvania, at the California Institute of Technology and a number of other laboratories, groups of researchers are hot on this trail. Agriculture is bound to be profoundly affected and tremendously benefited by the findings which are current and imminent. As a direct result, the standards of human life all over the world will be raised continually. early? The In Continue This is not guesswork. This is happening. These are the facts of life. You heard a few moments ago the facts of death. These facts all scientists of any or no political creed are agreed upon. They are agreed upon something else. Life and death are mutually exclusive. You can't have both at once. Back in 1947, the Federation of American Scientists made this statement. We scientists keep reiterating atomic warfare is intolerably severe. There is no adequate defense against atomic bombs. There will be no defense. We assert that national security cannot result from military preparedness. Inescapably then, national security lies in world security. And that can be attained only by international action. With all this agreement, how did we ever get into the political snarl we seem to be in? Let's look at it. Let's see how we got where we are politically. Because it was only five short years ago, four months after the bomb had been dropped at Hiroshima, that the United Nations sat down to vote on the setting up of an international atomic energy commission. The commission's instructions, gentlemen, will be one, extending between the nations, the exchange of basic scientific information for peaceful ends, two, two, control of atomic energy to the extent necessary to ensure its use only for peaceful purposes, three, the elimination from national armaments of atomic weapons and of other major weapons adaptable to mass destruction, four, effective safeguards by way of inspection and other means to protect complying states against the hazards of violations and evasions. And the vote for this commission, unanimous. Six months later, in June 1946, the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission held its first meeting and heard the United States representative, Mr. Bernard M. Baruch, put forward his country's proposals. My fellow members of the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission and my fellow citizens of the world, we are here to make a choice between the quick and the dead. The United Nations Atomic Energy Commission Areas of agreement were found there, too. If we had the committee here with us now, we might ask them, gentlemen, do you agree that the ultimate aim of atomic energy control must be the end of atomic weapons as a means of waging war? Agreed. Do you believe that to outlaw the bomb is not enough, that effective international control and inspection must be set up for mining to power plants? Agreed. And do you agree that an international agency is required for this, established under the United Nations? Agreed. Not a bad beginning. Those areas of agreement, by the way, were quoted from the Bulletin of Atomic Scientists. But differences arose over interpretation and over the timing of the various steps to be taken. The United States plan, now supported by a majority of the commission, called for gradual introduction of control of atomic energy, followed eventually by the abolition of atomic weapons. The Soviet plan wanted the weapons destroyed and abolished at the same time as controls were set up. Said Andrei Gomiko of the Soviet Union. The consideration of all the questions related to the establishments of atomic energy control will inevitably require some time. And in view of this, the postponement of the conclusion of a convention on the prohibition of atomic weapons cannot be justified. The second point of difference was over the degree of inspection necessary. USA Representative John Hickerson said, Inspection by the international personnel of the international control agency is of crucial importance. Unless the treaty contains broad provisions to this effect, the world can have no confidence that the treaty is being obeyed. We do not want periodic inspection of declared facilities. We want continuous inspection. Not inspection on Monday and maybe Thursday. We want inspection Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and holidays. But in supporting the Soviet Union's plan for periodic inspection of facilities declared by governments, Mr. Vyshynski said, I wish to make it quite clear that there are no reasons whatsoever to allege that we wish to evade control or that we do not wish control. What is the meaning of periodic inspections? Periodic inspections mean inspection on Monday, then next Monday, then Thursday, let us say, then the following Thursday, then two weeks after that, or any time. This would be what is explained by the expression from time to time, or periodic. And periodic inspection under the Soviet plan is complemented by special investigations in cases where suspicions of violation arise. But the United States wanted to go even further. It wanted all atomic plants in the world to be owned and managed by the same International Control Commission. When asked why the United States thought this necessary, Mr. Hickerson replied, because of the very special nature of atomic energy. Atomic energy comes from plutonium and uranium-235. These are heavy metals. A small piece of them, no bigger than a matchbox, contains more energy than thousands of tons of coal. If we prohibited these metals, we would never be able to use them to make electric power. We have to control their use, or they might be used secretly to make weapons. Without effective controls, they could be transferred very quickly into use for weapons. That is why the United Nations plan on atomic energy control is based on the premise that nations are not to be allowed to own and control atomic source materials, nuclear fuels, and facilities for making or using dangerous quantities of these materials. Here's Mr. Gromyko's reply to this. I have already pointed out that the proposal would lead to interference by the control organ in the internal affairs and internal life of states. I dim it necessary to emphasize that granting broad rights and powers of such a kind to the control organ is incompatible with the state's sovereignty. The Soviet Union is aware that there will be a majority in the control organs which may take one-sided decisions, a majority on whose benevolent attitude toward the Soviet Union the Soviet people cannot count. Therefore, the Soviet Union, and probably not only the Soviet Union, cannot allow that the fate of its national economy be handed over to this organ. The question of national sovereignty came in for a lot of discussion, and the Canadian representative, Mr. Lester Pearson, put it his own way. It will be small comfort if and when some atomic bomb drops on us to know that while we have lost everything else, we have saved our sovereignty to the very end. The Soviet Union These issues have never been settled. In May of 1948, after two years of negotiation and two reports to the Security Council, the third report began this way. The Atomic Energy Commission reports that it has reached an impasse. This impasse was still in effect when a recordable rumble was heard across the world. And on the 24th of September, 1949, while the 59 nations of the General Assembly of the United Nations were meeting in solemn conclave on this very subject, the President of the United States had his secretary announced to a press conference the end of an era. We have, uh, we have evidence that within recent weeks an atomic explosion occurred in Soviet Russia. It takes two sides to make a war. A shutter followed the rumble around the world. Said a former optimist. There'll be war in six months. Said a former pacifist. We should act now and get it over with. Said a former soldier. Mary, go upstairs and get my uniform out of the trunk. Said a former president. This is not one world, but two worlds. The United Nations has been defeated as a preservative of peace. The council chambers of the world recorded the rumble too. At late success, the new President of the United Nations General Assembly, General Carlos Romulo, of the Philippines, told his fellow statesmen. The choice is rapidly becoming either peaceful negotiation through the United Nations, or the unimaginably horrible negotiation of mass murder on the battlegrounds of an atomic war. Then a fresh approach was made by the Soviet delegation in a new resolution. The Security Council recognizes that it is essential that information should be submitted by states on conventional armaments and on atomic weapons. But the next day, the United States delegate replied, Such account without verification would be meaningless. And the President of the United States referred once again to the U.S. plan. We support this plan and will continue to support it unless or until a better and more effective plan is put forward. Reply the Soviet Foreign Minister. One would have to be devoid of the least shreds of reason to even dream that this plan could ever be acceptable to the Soviet Union. This, then, is how we got here. This is how we stepped over the threshold into the atomic age. I wonder how much of it has sunk into our consciousness or have we just tucked it away into a corner like an old daydream and gone on with life as usual. Let's put it this way. If I wanted to see what marvels the atomic age had brought us and I looked up the new listings in the Manhattan telephone directory, what would I find? I always start at the bottom of a column. Let's start at the bottom. Atomic Undergarment Company. If you're caught that way, just call the... Atomic Dress Company, Longiger 36042. Or if it's a nice day, try the... Atomic Sportswear Company, Gramercy 724 and Iron 7. Perhaps it's not a nice day. Atomic Rainwear Incorporated. Or if it's cold... Atomic Knitwear. Then if you're going out to dine at the... Atom Restaurant, you'll be happy to know you can complete your wardrobe at the... Atomic Hat Company. Atomic Neckwear Manufacturing Company. Atomic Jewelry Company. Atomic Handbag Company. After dinner, if you like, light your cigarette courtesy... Atomic Lighter Company. You can sit at your favorite chair and read the... Atomic Energy News. If you don't like it, there's always the... Atomic Wastepaper Company. Or you might like to write a letter stationary courtesy... Atomic Anvil Open Printing Company. With an... Atomic Ballpoint Pen. Of course, if you don't like writing, the... Atomic Letter Service... will handle the whole thing for you. And you can just relax and enjoy yourself courtesy the... Atomic Radio and Television Company. And listen on your radio to something like this. Brought to you by the Atomic Exterminating Company Limited. And now, the quartet sings Adam and Evil. This is a story of Adam and Evil. The curse of his cousin agreed of evil. For evil got him drunk on prejudices and hate. And she taught him how to gamble with humanity's fate. Now, the atom is a youngster and pretty hard to handle. But we'd better step in And stop that scandal Because if Adam and evil Should ever be wed Oh, darn it All of us are gonna be dead So true I'm talking about atom And evil Atom And evil If you don't break up That romance soon We'll all fall down And go boom, boom, boom We're sick On the edge Of Doom, doom, doom So much for the phone book New names for all faces In that telephone directory If you've ever been exposed To a bikini bathing suit You'll know it doesn't Uncover anything new But in spite of fashions Even in spite of political deadlock Atomic energy is changing More than the surface of the world For instance Let's look in another directory This one put out by the United Nations Better still Let's have an introduction From its editor The secretary of the UN's Atomic Energy Commission Dr. Otto Frey One of the important tasks With which the General Assembly Has charged the Atomic Energy Commission Is to extend between all nations The exchange of basic scientific information For peaceful ends But most of the scientific literature On atomic energy Is contained not in books But in articles Which are scattered through hundreds of periodicals In various languages To make these articles Accessible to scientists everywhere The UN Secretariat Has collected all the titles together And prepared the first existing International bibliographies On atomic energy The reception these bibliographies were given Showed the enormous interest Which exists in all countries For a better understanding Of the great and varied applications Of atomic energy When so many are hungry Sick and poor The possible benefits Of atomic energy In farming Medicine Industry And so on Must be made known to all We hope to have a new edition Of the scientific volume Containing about 27,000 entries Ready in the summer Of this year We shall then have Collected together Almost everything The world has published On the subject And the world knows There's a great deal Judging by some of the entries In this directory The United Nations bibliography On atomic energy Leonardus Oaga Tantalum, niobium, uranium And radium in Brazil Les possibilités d'utilisation industrielle De l'énergie atomique Possibilities for industrial use Of atomic energy Paris, France Barber, Mitchell and Spinks Soil studies using radioactive phosphorus Ottawa, Canada Baltkevich gave a role Atomic energy In the world The role of atomic energy In calculating the age of the earth Leningrad, USSR Fusher de shenwu yin-yang yu yung-tu Biological effects of radium And their uses Nanking, China Bartleston, H.J. And others Use of radioactive iodine As a tracer In the study of physiology of teeth Baltimore, USA Goldsmith, VM Geochemical composition particles Of the elements Oslo, Norway And in London, England Acres, Sir William Metallurgical problems involved In the generation of useful power From atomic energy Now why have we not heard So much of the things In this directory Well When a bomb travels It's news But when a book travels It doesn't get met at the airport By reporters with microphones When a blueprint sails From Copenhagen to Cape Town There are no photographers on hand And when a radioactive isotope Takes a trip from California to Cairo There are no banner headlines But the story is there And it's not all black At Oak Ridge, Tennessee We ask the top man Dr. Abersold How many countries Are now receiving shipments From your lab at Oak Ridge? We've shipped radioactive isotopes To about 150 institutions In 21 foreign countries Dr. Abersold To your knowledge Are any other countries Distributing radioactive isotopes? Well the British now Have a reactor At Harwell And they are distributing Radioactive isotopes To countries in Europe And the Canadians now Also have a reactor And will soon be distributing Radio isotopes To other countries I don't know about The Soviet Union What about the Soviet Union? Here is Mr. Vyshynski In the official interpretation Right now We are utilizing atomic energy For our economic needs In our own economic interests This is with us too As well as the bomb And the deadlock So we have seen where we are And how we got here Where do we go from here? Few of us have the gift of prophecy But all of us must make up our minds Which way we want to go Those who know most About the ways we can go Are not all in agreement We had better hear them Says David Lilienthal Writing in Collier's magazine To make the industrial atom Really sprout and flourish Within the next decade or so Would create kinds of jobs And businesses And ways of living Now undreamed of Here would be something concrete And understandable For the whole world To take note of Says Dr. J. Robert Oppenheimer In an article Clearly arrangements That could be established Between governments For the purpose of Profitably exploiting Atomic energy Have an important bearing On the probabilities For the maintenance of peace But such arrangements Significant though they may be For our future welfare Cannot pretend to offer us Real security They are part of The necessary conditions For the long range Maintenance of peace But no one would For a moment Suppose them to be Sufficient Thus if we try to examine What part atomic energy May play In international relations In the near future We can hardly believe That it alone Can reverse the trend To rivalry and conflict Which exists In the present day world And now This is Jeff Sparks Of UN Radio I've just come from talking With Professor Albert Einstein In the study of his home At Princeton University And in a moment You will hear his own voice First Here are some of the views He expressed During our long conversation This afternoon I asked Dr. Einstein If he thought it was An exaggeration to say That at this moment The fate of the world Was hanging in a balance He replied It was no exaggeration He said that striving For peace And preparing for war Are incompatible With each other And in our time More so than ever When I asked If he thought We could avoid a war He said If we have the courage To decide ourselves For peace We will have peace He told me If you are not firmly Decided to resolve things In a peaceful way You will never come To a peaceful solution I then asked Dr. Einstein Just how he thought We should go about Preventing another war He said That the remedy Didn't lie In preparing For the event of war But in starting From the conviction That security For military disaster Can only be realized By patient negotiation And through creation Of a legal basis For the solution Of international problems Supported by a sufficiently Strong executive agent In short Some sort of world government As an immediate first step He recommended That the present stock Of atomic bombs Be placed in the hands Of an international authority But he warned That one-sided disarmament Is not possible He told me The most important thing Is the will to peace And the readiness To accept every step Needed for this goal Then I asked Dr. Einstein One more question And he recorded for me His answer In which he refers To another giant Of modern times Mahatma Gandhi Here is my question Dr. Einstein Since this is a moment Of great danger To us all What word would you broadcast To all the peoples Of the world? Taken on the whole I would believe That Gandhi's views Were the most enlightened Of all the political Men in our time We should strive To do things In his spirit Not to use violence In fighting for our cause But by non-participation In anything You believe is evil Thank you Professor Einstein Says President Harry S. Truman Now you hear a lot of talk These days To the effect That the world Is full of dangers And that our civilization Is heading Straight for disaster Of course the world Is full of dangers The world always Has been full of dangers For people in every country And in every period Of history As men have gained More scientific knowledge The dangers Which could come From the misuse Of that knowledge Have grown greater But by the same token The opportunities For human advancement Have also become greater Our scientific achievements Can be used for good And need not be used For evil Our civilization Need not wind up In disaster It can go on To greater heights Need not Need not Which is it to be The prophets Don't all agree You see About which road We should follow They agreed about One thing though We must decide now The dream Or the nightmare To be Or not to be This Is the year Of decision justified declared To the earth choice hopes Ready And T末 Which one And from that should go on To the earth And to the park 라� United Nations Radio has brought you John Garfield in Year of Decision, compiled and directed by Mabre Moore, with a musical score composed and conducted by Louis Applebaum. The program was produced by Gerald Keene of United Nations Radio. The Golden Gate Quartet sang the song Adam and Evil, which was written by High Zaret and Lou Singer. Field recordings were made by UN reporters Jeff Sparks and Michael Haywood. United Nations Radio wishes to acknowledge the cooperation of Dr. Otto Frey, Secretary of the United Nations Atomic Energy Commission, for assistance in the preparation of this transcribed broadcast. The Golden Gate Quartet Thank you.