Your City Station presents Calling All Gardeners, brought to you by the New York Botanical Garden in Bronx Park. Catherine Stevens is here with us as usual. And who is your guest this morning, Ms. Stevens? Good morning, Mr. Benson. Our guest this morning is Mrs. J. Henry Harper, assistant to the president of the New York Botanical Garden. Who really needs no introduction, as she appeared on our programs long before my time. Hello there, Mrs. H. Hello, Ms. Stevens. The only excuse for my appearance this morning is vacations, spelled with a capital V. They are the order of the day at the New York Botanical Garden. Everyone's having them, and I must say I'd rather enjoy one myself. Anyway, our staff of experts are definitely unavailable, and I'm sorry to tell you, but such will be the case for the remainder of the summer. Confronted with this unpleasant truth, Ms. Stevens and I decided to give you a farewell broadcast on our own. We have collected a great deal of advice, all that gleaned from the experts, may I hastily add, which we hope will help you the remainder of the season. I would suggest, Ms. Stevens, that you start us off on the right track. Let me see. Mr. A. C. Fander, our superintendent of buildings and grounds, has given many bits of important advice, which I feel we should hand on to our audience. The first item on our agenda is paint. I think most people enjoy donning some old clothes and starting out with a brush and a can of new paint to brighten up their picket fence or garden furniture. And Mr. Fander says that this warm weather is just the time to do it. If your outside painting is done in the middle of the summer, on a dry surface, the paint will dry readily and will last much longer without blistering. Wood preservatives too should be applied now. There is a greater penetration at this time of year, which makes a better and more lasting job. And speaking of wood preservatives, Mr. Fander showed me some terraces and paths made of cut logs, which are very easy on the feet and extremely attractive. The logs are cut to even lengths of about eight inches each, set on end in a bed of cinders, with more cinders used to fill in between the logs. If these are well treated with wood preservatives, they last a long time. All those suggestions are new to me, but I'm always learning new things at the garden. Another piece of advice which Mr. Fander gave me is that the best time to patch up tar paths and driveway is in warm weather. The tar sinks in more thoroughly than it does during the cold part of the year, and one won't need to repair it again so soon. Also a hint of warning about cement construction during hot weather. You must be sure to keep the surface of the cement moist, so that it won't dry too quickly. If you cover the cement with wet rags and hay, it will dry uniformly from the inside and will not crack or shale. Did Mr. Fander say that cement construction should preferably be done during summer months, Mrs. H? Oh no, not necessarily. Any time before frost is all right. And by the way, if you're planning a flagstone path, a terrace set in cinders or cement, Mr. Fander says that evenly cut stones are just as economical in the long run as random flags. The random flags may cost less, but there is always a certain amount of wastage from cutting, while the rectangles of flagstones can be cut in halves, quarters and eights to vary the pattern, and still every piece can be used, so there's absolutely no waste. Of course it takes much less time to lay the even ones too. If you're setting your flag walk in cement, here's how to do it according to Mr. Fander's recipe. Excavate to a depth of eight inches. Fill in four inches of cinders. Tap perfectly flat and firm. Mix your concrete to these proportions. Three parts gravel or broken stone, two parts sand, and one part cement. Stir it up thoroughly, at least once in a dry state, and then add water and stir it some more. The mixture should have a mushy consistency, but it shouldn't run. When it is thoroughly mixed, put it over the cinders to a depth of two inches, and leave it rough for a better bond with a flag bedding. Let it dry overnight, and then place your flags. After they are all fitted on the concrete, make a new mixture of concrete. One part cement, two parts of sand mixed with water, to a consistency barely short of running. Picking up one flag at a time, put a one inch bed of concrete under each flag, and replace the flag firmly into the soft concrete. Fill in the joints between the flags with this soft mixture, and the job is finished. I feel exactly as if I had given a new receipt for soup, and I assure you the results are wonderful. But I'm talking too much, Miss Stevens. Who's our next advisor? Dr. P. P. Perrone, our plant pathologist, whom I'm sure that many of our listeners remember from previous broadcasts. Before I forget, I want to repeat some advice that Dr. Perrone gave a few weeks ago, concerning the control of ants. I know that this will be old information to some of our listeners, but so many people have asked me what to do about these pests, which are so numerous this year, that I think it is worth reiterating. Dr. Perrone says that there are many different kinds of ant baits on the market. Liquids, powders, and even jellies. And all of them do some good. They usually contain thallium sulfate, sodium fluosilicate, and some other chemical as the active ingredient. The one that Dr. Perrone likes best contains chlordane. I'll spell that for you. C-H-L-O-R-D-A-N-E. Chlordane is a very recently introduced insecticide, and acts as a stomach poison, as a contact insecticide, and even to some extent as a fumigant. He recommends a water-soluble type, which merely requires spraying over the areas where ants are prevalent. And whatever Dr. Perrone recommends, I would be willing to wager is most efficient. I certainly agree with you there. What does our ever-helpful plant pathologist say about spraying from here on? It seems to me that right now, just as one carries a powder and lipstick, one should carry a spray slung around the neck. Well, I have a bit of encouraging news for our listeners on that score. For now that the rain has subsided a bit, always provided this state of weather continues, those disease-susceptible plants, such as phlox and asters, only need to be sprayed every once or two, every once every two or three weeks, instead of the heavy weekly schedule that Dr. Perrone so strongly advised during the exceptionally wet spring and early summer. As for your roses, no let-up. They really need to be sprayed every week or ten days, right through the summer and fall until frost. During the hot period such as this, however, Dr. Perrone says that it is advisable to leave out the sulfur in the rose spray schedule. The reason for this is that sulfur will injure your rose plants if it is used in extremely hot weather. At such times, use only fermate. And that is spelled F-E-R-M-A-T-E. At the rate of two tablespoons full of fermate per gallon of water. Any word in weed killers, Ms. Stevens? Yes, a word of warning. Dr. Perrone advises that any gardener planning to use the so-called selective weed killers containing 2-4-D must use them with great care, and should be sure to follow the directions for use which come with the preparation to the letter. 2-4-D sprays should not be allowed to drift onto ornamental trees, shrubs and flowers, or into your vegetable garden. If they come in contact with these plants, they will cause severe distortion and may even kill them. To go back to diseases, you know our plant doctor at the garden subscribes to many of the theories of our own physicians, who stress the importance of keeping the patient well rather than trying to cure him after he gets ill. So Dr. Perrone feels that a gardener's chances of growing healthy plants are best if he provides those plants special requirements as to soil, fertilization, watering and light. First, be sure that your soil is well-drained. The stagnant water around the roots leaves an adequate space for air, which is imperative for plant growth. Second, be certain that the soil contains all the necessary nutrients. Third, be sure to do your watering properly. The best time is early on a clear day, for late watering may keep the foliage wet for many hours and promote the development of leaf-infecting fungi, which like dampness. And lastly, be sure that there's adequate light. For most plants need at least three, four hours of full sunshine a day to develop normally. Also, the plant doctor, like the physician, urges sanitary measures to provide hygienic surroundings. Well-prepped gardens where the weeds do not crowd the flowers are much less likely to become diseased than are those in a weedy, neglected, and overcrowded garden. Plants need plenty of room. The removing and burning of all above-ground diseased parts of plants will reduce diseases next year. But you know, listeners, the best way to appreciate what good gardening practices will do for your gardens is to visit the New York Botanical Garden in Bronx Park. It certainly is a heavenly place to be on a hot summer day. What is your favorite enough on those 230 acres, Mrs. H? That's hard to say, but I think that one of the most charming spots is the little herb garden. It is northeast of the main conservatory, surrounded by woven wood fence. If you just lift the latch and walk in on a soft green lawn, you'll find yourself surrounded by the lovely grey-green herb foliage. The air is filled with a spicy and appetizing odor, and here and there are spots of pink and white and lavender blooms. This herb garden was designed in cooperation with the New York Unit of the American Herb Society, with the special assistance of Miss Helen Whitman of Salem, New York, Mrs. Oliver B. Capen of Bedford Village, New York, and Mrs. Helen Fox of Peekskill, New York. Mrs. Fox, you know, is the author of that delightful book, Gardening for Good Eating. But among the 67 herbs in this 40 by 50 foot area are many of the culinary herbs. The times, the sages, the rosemary, the savory margarine, and many others, even including chamomile. The tea, which was the dread of Flopsy, Mopsy, Cottontail, and Peeta. And when you leave the herb garden, be sure to walk down the path in front of the conservatory. The annual borders there are simply lovely. Right now, many of the most beautiful annuals are in bloom. The phlox, red and purple verbenas, yellow coreopsis, the anthurium and lobelia, white zinnias and convulvuses and petunias, delicate lavender petunias too, and the lovely little sweet alyssum in shades of lavender and mold. The striking scarlet flowers of the cannas are out in their full glory right now, and along the rear of the bed the dignified sunflowers slowly turn their heads. Down at the other end of the path in the herb garden is the model vegetable garden, with peas and spring beans and cabbages and all sorts of delicious looking vegetables that seem to have thrived in spite of the rainy spring and summer. As Mrs. Harper said, the New York Botanical Garden is certainly the place to visit if you want to see the rewards of good gardening practice. So bring a picnic lunch and come up to visit us on one of these lovely summer days. The meadow furnishes plenty of space for the children to play, and in the hemlock grove along the Bronx River Gorge there is shade from the hot sun. Please come often, for the New York Botanical Garden is your garden too, and it is open every day until a half hour after sunset. Our time is just about up, Stevens, but there is one more invitation that I would like to extend. On one of our programs, Mr. T. H. Everett, horticulturalist, told our listeners something about our members' days. These afternoons of the New York Botanical Garden will be resumed in the fall. On the first Wednesday of each month, there will be a fascinating speaker and a beautiful display of flowers from the greenhouse. And I should like to take this opportunity to tell you all that you would be most welcome to attend one or more of these meetings as our guests. Just drop a line to the New York Botanical Garden downtown office at 801 Madison Avenue, New York City 21, New York City 21, and we will send you more details concerning the program as soon as the schedules are out. And so, with great reluctance, we bring to a close this series of our practical gardening programs. We hope that you have found them of some interest and assistance, and I assure you that in spite of all vacations, all questions which have been sent in to calling all gardeners in care of this station will be answered by the experts by mail. Goodbye and a pleasant summer to you all. You have been listening to Calling All Gardeners, a weekly program which has been brought to you by the New York Botanical Garden in Bronx Park. And we feature today the Robin Hood Dell Orchestra. Tomorrow we shall feature the New York Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra. You are invited to hear their music through outstanding recorded interpretations in the Masterwork Hour. This is a municipal broadcasting system. Now here's the news from the WNYC newsroom. Worry of a food, an expression, and a song. Yes, here's the inside story. Behind our everyday expressions, the customs we follow, and the music we hear, there's many a fascinating story. The inside story. Today and every Saturday and Wednesday at 11, WNYC brings you 15 minutes of popular music and inside information. Featuring today, the inside story of tea, the inside story of the expression by Hack, and the inside story of the lilting song, There'll Be Some Changes Made. After water, tea is considered the most democratic drink known to man. It's drunk in all climes and by all classes. But not so many years ago, it was unknown in the Western world. And here's the inside story of how tea came to take its place in your pantry. The arrival of tea in Europe dates from the 17th century, when the Dutch opened the road to the marvels of China. In ancient Cathay, tea has been revered as a beverage for more than 40 centuries. The first recorded reference to the drink was made in the year 2737 B.C. The tea trade got underway in England in 1658 A.D. when Thomas Garraway advertised it for sale in London. He called it Tay, spelled T-A-Y. It's recorded in Peep's diary that he tasted his first cup in 1660. And the ungallant notation follows that his wife had to wait seven years for her first cup of the exotic brew, when the price was lowered. Well, that's the inside story of how you come to drink the essence of a leaf that was first tasted centuries ago in far off China. You know, I just wonder what those ancient Chinese tea drinkers would have said back in 2737 B.C. if they knew that in less than 40 centuries later, a guy named Vincent Youmans would write a love song called Tea for Two. Being tea exporters, the merchants of Old Cathay would probably say, Tea for only two? Why not tea for three or four? Tea for millions! But even 40 centuries ago, the rank and file Chinese who knew the meaning of love would understand what Vincent Youmans was driving at when he wrote Tea for Two. Here's the orchestra of Meyer Davis with Tea for Two. A long time is a mild expedite, a harmless substitute for stronger language in times of stress. But do you know the inside story? Do you know that every time you say Bi-Hek, you're making an allusion to classical literature? Yeah, the original expression was Bi-Hector, and it was a big favorite in classical literature. Bi-Hector disappeared from popular usage during the Middle Ages, but then in the writings of the Elizabethan Age, it was introduced again. And now, one school of thought thinks that Bi-Hek is the modification of Bi-Hekete, the goddess of the underworld. But most authorities favor the Hector theory, because his name was much more frequently invoked through the ages. Hector was a man of many admirable qualities. He was the chief hero of the Trojans. Hector was that fellow who put up such a gallant fight against the Greeks, and who infiltrated into the besieged city by using that famous wooden horse device. That, Bi-Hekete, is the inside story of one of America's pet expressions. Here now is another of America's pets. That ageless international personality of the straw hat and the pouting underlip. Yes, Bi-Hector, it's Maurice Chevalier, who sings now in English, all about Weaving Willie. Here's the inside story of a song that has become a perennial favorite. There'll be some changes made. You know, changes is the kind of tune they call in the trade and all-arounders. That is, it can be played by small Dixieland groups, big swing bands, and sweet orchestras with equal effectiveness. It can be sung in jazz style or as a ballad. And it's more popular today than ever before. There'll Be Some Changes Made was written in 1929 by Billy Higgins and Benton Overstreet. Higgins was a colored comedian who played in many musical comedies. He was prominent in Haudrill, too. There'll Be Some Changes Made was his only published song. Benton Overstreet, who was the co-author, he's made over 30 hits to his credit, most of them comedy and minstrel show tunes. But Changes was turned down by most of the New York publishing houses until E.B. Marks saw the latent possibilities in the song and he bought it for his firm. It was introduced by Ethel Waters in her vaudeville act. It was a smash hit overnight. Now here's Peggy Lee to sing it with Frank Duvall's orchestra. Here we are, that fine evergreen, there'll be some Changes Made. Well, that winds it up. That's today's edition of the Inside Story. The City Station WNY is an expression and the inside story of a song. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. 500 blind persons will get a free summer vacation with public support. The Lighthouse for the Blind urges you to remember those without the sight you treasure. They too deserve the joy of country living, of good food and fresh air, of food and companionship. The Lighthouse asks you to send your gift now. Mail it to 111 East 59th Street, New York 22. Help the blind of all ages, creeds and color get a free vacation this hot summer. This is New York City's own station, WNYC. WNYC FM. This is the night fantastic, what the time of New York. Dedicated to the promotion of a friendly relationship between the youth of New York City and the police department. Drive from associate memberships and donations to the Police Athletic League. Come in. Is this a don't teach him, just Jippum School of Radio, Television and Motion Pictures, Eugene Lilly Principal? That it is, sir, and that I am. What can I do for you? I like some information. The recreational facilities of the Police Athletic League are available to all children of New York City. This program is one of many PAL activities. If you have any talent as an entertainer and you'd like to appear on this program, send a card to Pals of the PAL in care of Station WNYC. We'll be glad to arrange an audition for you. Grown-ups are invited to become associate members of the PAL at annual dues of $1. You may forward your dollar by mail to the Police Athletic League, 240 Center Street, New York 13. Bob Kahn was featured in today's program, which was written by Lee Seymour and produced by Ed McManus. Music was on the direction of Arthur Ford. Music was on the direction of Arthur Ford. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Will you open your home to a Jewish child whose parents are temporarily unable to care for him because of illness or other unfortunate circumstances? The Jewish Child Care Association of New York appeals to you to answer this call. You may phone or write the association for further information. That's the Jewish Child Care Association, 329 East 62nd Street, New York 21 or Region 4 5600. This is New York City's own station, WNYC. WNYC FM.
