We conclude the Midday Symphony on WNYC to bring you a special broadcast. The Midday Symphony will continue on WNYC-FM. And now for the reception to the Governor of the Federal District of Mexico, we take you to the Council Chambers at City Hall. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, is host today to His Excellency Dr. Fernando Casas Aleman, Governor of Mexico City. The entourage has just entered the Council Chamber here in City Hall, and in just a few moments, after a few personal greetings are over, you'll hear the voice of the Acting Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, Mr. John A. Coleman. There's a little conference now with a few friends that are meeting possibly for the first time or not having met in some time. They're taking this opportunity to greet each other here in the Council Chamber in City Hall, which looks perfectly beautiful with spring flowers, palms, and the flags of Mexico, our own stars and stars. stripes and our city flag. A beautiful review has taken place outside in greeting the President. Just a moment. And now we're just waiting because the cameramen are having their innings. It's a wonderful opportunity now to photograph the Mayor and the Governor of Mexico City while this opportunity prevails and friends are greeting each other. It makes a nice background. The flowers here look perfectly beautiful. And the dais that ordinarily is occupied by the President of the City Council has been somewhat rearranged. The large chair is taken away and gives it much more facility for moving around. The steps have been taken away and everything is on the same level now, and it makes it much easier for the Mayor and Dr. Aleman to get to the microphones when the time comes for their presentation speeches. It looks as though the Governor will speak in Spanish, but however that will be elucidated by Mr. Coleman. They've given out very interesting little booklets here which carries the complete speech of the Governor in Spanish. There was not to be a translation, but that may come along later. And now I believe that the Mayor has insisted like a true gallant that the Governor's lady come to the dais with the Governor. And that is so. Now the Mayor is bringing the family of Dr. Aleman to the dais too, and has given up his own chair that they may sit down and join the crowd. They're in the pictures too now. Oh, the cameraman are going back to work again. They want these. These ladies are very beautiful. They're beautifully dressed. They make a lovely appearance. And what cameraman would miss an opportunity like that? And now the pictures are being retaken with the ladies in the picture, and they present, oh, and Mrs. O'Dwyer is there. It's a very, very interesting picture. You know, they say, East is East and West is West and here the Twain shall meet. We had a contradiction of that yesterday when Mrs. Impeletarian, her impeccable Western clothes, escorted the Lady of Pakistan up the aisle here in the Council Chamber. She in the traditional costume of Pakistan. The contrast was beautiful, and East and West did meet. And two beautiful ladies brought about that wonderful union when Mrs. Impeletarian escorted the Lady of Pakistan up the aisle. Now the cameraman, you'd really think there was a thunderstorm here in the Council Chamber with all the flashes and the bulbs. And now the ladies are taking convenient places. And in a few moments you'll hear the voice of Mr. John A. Coleman, Acting Chairman of the Mayor's Committee, making the preliminary introductions. Mr. Coleman's about ready. In just a few minutes you'll hear his voice. And now Mr. John A. Coleman. The reception to His Excellency Dr. Fernando Casas Allamond, will open with the playing of the National Anthem of Mexico by the Department of Sanitation Band. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The Star Spangled Banner by the Police Department Glee Club. The Star Spangled Banner by the Police Department Glee Club. The Star Spangled Banner by the Police Department Glee Club. The Star Spangled Banner by the Police Department Glee Club. And the Rockets' red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that the flag was still there. Oh, say does that Star Spangled Banner yet wave, for the land of the free and the home of the brave. The Star Spangled Banner by the police department Glee Club. The Star Spangled Banner by the police department Glee Club. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Senora Alamon. Senora Alamon. Your lovely children. Mrs. O'Dwyer. President of the Council, Mr. Impoletari. Borough President Lyons, distinguished City Commissioners, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. The response of the welcome to His Excellency will now be delivered by the Honorable William O'Dwyer, the Mayor of the City of New York. Mr. Coleman, Your Excellency, Governor Fernando Casasalemán, your charming lady, your charming children, your friends, The visit of your Excellency and your family to the City of New York affords me a double pleasure. To have the opportunity of extending to you and to your family an official welcome on behalf of the people of this city is in itself a great honor. As Mayor of this city, I know that our people want me to express to you their affection and goodwill for the people of Mexico with whom we have forged bonds of friendship that make us proud. This happy welcome, however, gives me an additional pleasure and an opportunity to tell the people of the City of New York about your great accomplishments. I have a warm recollection of my visit last year with a group of other New Yorkers to Mexico City. The sincerity of the welcome accorded to us and the heartfelt fellowship that created it left among each of us a feeling for Mexico that will live as long as life lasts. It is a feeling that gives me a desire to tell all Americans of the love and esteem shown to us by the people of your great and growing nation. I regret deeply that my visit to Mexico City was not as long as I would have liked it to have been. I also regret the circumstances that cut it short. It was a bus strike. But I was there long enough to learn that your Excellency is a builder who has added to the beauty, already great, of one of the world's renowned capitals. I was there long enough to learn that your Excellency is a humanitarian and a builder who has made Mexico City better in every way for the people who live there. It was a pleasure to see that in your three years as governor, you have given the federal district of Mexico one of the most progressive administrations to be found anywhere. I recall the many beautiful schools that you built for your educational system. I also recall the concrete roads, and in particular the beautiful Paseo de la Reforma and the road that leads to the shrine of the Virgin of Guadalupe. Your Excellency has accomplished the incredible feat of constructing a gigantic waterworks system to provide an adequate water supply for the more than two million people of your city. A project that involved the laying of conduit pipelines for many miles and the boring through of the mountains. I said then, and I repeat now, that it is the work of the Romans. And finally, your Excellency, I know that the people of the city of New York would be very much impressed as I was in the democratic manner in which your Excellency conducts public affairs. I observed how any citizen, no matter how humble his status, had free access to your personal attention. I might add that when Mexico City has eight billions, it might be a good deal more difficult for your Excellency. From the bottom of my heart, I offer you the freedom of our city. I salute your lovely wife, your son and daughter. I hope that your stay with us will be a happy one, one that you will long remember. And finally, let me extend through you, to his Excellency, the President of Mexico, Don Miguel Aliman, my best personal good wishes for a bright and happy future for himself and for all the people of our beloved Mexico. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I regret that I shall have to ask, in the interests of accuracy, that this welcome of mine be translated into science, translated into Spanish by the Mexican Consul General of New York, Dr. De La Rea. If the doctor is here, I'll ask him to please come forward and make the translation. Dr. De La Rea, please. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm not going to speak to you, isn't it? He's in Spanish. Excuse me. If the doctor has any trouble in translating, I'm going to help him. All right, it's all right. Señor Gobernador, don Fernando Casas Alemán, señora y familia, la visita de vuestra excelencia y de su distinguida familia a la ciudad de Nueva York me proporciona un doble placer. Tener la oportunidad de extender a usted y a su distinguida familia este recibimiento oficial en nombre de los habitantes de esta ciudad y esto ya es por sí para mí un gran honor. Como alcalde de Nueva York, tengo la seguridad de que mis conciudadanos desean por mi conducto expresar a usted su afecto y buena voluntad para el pueblo mexicano con el que nos ligan lazos de amistad de los que estamos orgullosos. Esta bienvenida me proporciona además un placer adicional, la oportunidad de dar a conocer al pueblo de la ciudad de Nueva York lo que usted ha llevado a cabo durante su administración. Recuerdo vivamente mi visita a la Ciudad de México el año pasado en compañía de un grupo de neoyorquinos. La sinceridad del recibimiento que se nos dispensó y la cordial amistad que ahí se formó dejó para siempre en cada uno de nosotros un sentimiento hacia México que perdurará mientras vivamos. Este sentimiento me mueve a referir a todos mis compatriotas el afecto y la estimación que recibimos del pueblo de esa gran y progresista nación. Lamento profundamente que mi visita a la Ciudad de México no hubiese durado cuanto eran mis deseos. Sin embargo, bastó para darme cuenta de los trabajos que ha llevado a cabo vuestra excelencia para embellecer esa gran ciudad que es ya una de las más renombradas capitales del mundo. Ese tiempo fue bastante para saber que vuestra excelencia, a la vez que un hombre humanitario, es un hombre que ha mejorado a la Ciudad de México para beneficio de los que en ella viven. Fue motivo de placer darme cuenta que en sus tres años como gobernador ha dado usted al Distrito Federal una de las mejores administraciones que se encuentran en lugar alguno. Recuerdo las hermosas escuelas construidas por usted. También recuerdo las calles, las carreteras y en particular el hermoso paseo de la Reforma, así como la avenida que conduce a la Basílica de la Virgen de Guadalupe. Su excelencia ha llevado a cabo la obra increíble de construir un sistema para dotar de agua a más de dos millones de personas, proyecto que comprende la instalación de tuberías y la perforación de montañas. Yo dije entonces, y lo repito ahora, que tal obra es obra de romanos. Y finalmente, sé que la gente de Nueva York recibirá la misma impresión que yo recibí al notar la forma democrática en que su excelencia conduce los asuntos a su cargo. Yo noté que todo ciudadano, no importa que humilde fuera, tenía libre acceso para recibir atención personal de usted. Desde el fondo de mi corazón, ofrezco a usted las llaves de la ciudad. Ofrezco un cordial saludo a su digna señora, a su hijo e hijita, y confío que en la estancia de ustedes con nosotros sea placentera y la recuerden por largo tiempo. Finalmente, permítame extender, por el estimable conducto de usted, a su excelencia el señor Presidente de México, licenciado Miguel Alemán, mis muy atentos saludos y deseos personales por un futuro brillante y feliz para él y para el pueblo mexicano. ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! Thank you very much, Mr. Consul General. It is now my high privilege to present to you His Excellency Dr. Fernando Casas Aleman, Governor of Mexico City. ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! ¡Gracias! Thank you. El alto honor que ha tenido usted a bien dispensarme al recibirme en audiencia solemne en el recinto oficial es motivo de agradecimiento para mí en cuanto significa la expresión de su sincero afecto personal y de un legítimo orgullo porque en ello veo fundamentalmente una señalada distinción para México de la cual sólo me considero depositario hasta que me sea dable transmitirla a nuestro primer mandatario, señor licenciado Miguel Alemán. Deseo referirme en primer término a su grata visita a nuestro país, aunque desgraciadamente fugaz, porque ella tuvo la virtud de dejar en el pueblo mismo el recuerdo cariñoso de una amistad. Y por mi parte, considero muy satisfactoria la misión de traer al pueblo norteamericano, por medio de la comprensión nuestros fervientes deseos de buena vecindad, ya que geográfica e ideológicamente nos ha unido el destino. Ambos pueblos afortunadamente vivimos dentro del orden político bajo el régimen democrático, que es el mejor para nuestra propia evolución. En él, el hombre vive en función del hombre, y el mejoramiento común se desenvuelve sin privilegios de raza ni preferencias de autoridad. Esto hace que podamos sentirnos unidos en igualdad de soberanías sin que predomine el capricho de los más fuertes ni la voluntad de los más ambiciosos. Hace 40 años, se inició en nuestro país un magnífico esfuerzo en pro de la causa democrática. Y dentro de ese periodo, nuestra conciencia cívica se ha venido fortaleciendo y profundizando. Hemos conseguido afirmar nuestra propia unidad, pugnando por encontrar una vida mejor y más justa. Nuestras conquistas, alentadas por un inmenso amor a la libertad, están ennoblecidas por el recuerdo de nuestros héroes y selladas con la sangre de nuestros mártires. Y por ello, aspiramos a ser factor, aunque muy modesto, en la obra que es necesario emprender para lograr la construcción de un sistema en el que América, como una sola, indivisible, pueda vivir sin hostilidad, sin rencores, sin opresión. Las perspectivas que avizoramos nos dan la convicción de que América está viviendo horas de graves responsabilidades. El panamericanismo, como sistema de libre conciliación para fines de paz y de concordia, adquiere de pronto singular trascendencia, cuando se trata de garantizar el respeto de nuestros derechos y la dignidad de nuestra existencia. Incurriríamos, pues, en un error si creyésemos que las medidas que pudiésemos tomar aisladamente, sin colaboración, bastarían para responder de la continuidad de nuestra cultura dentro de las normas democráticas en que convivimos. Por fortuna, la fidelidad a estas normas ha encontrado en este gran país una expresión tan firme que robustece nuestra esperanza y reafirma nuestra cordial solidaridad. Inspirándonos en el fervor americanista que enaltece nuestros actos, observemos una política de positiva coherencia continental. Formemos nuevos y fuertes lazos de unión en busca de una más amplia comprensión internacional que descanse sobre cimientos sólidos de armonía, de equidad y de entendimiento. La historia nos ha demostrado que no son precisamente los ejércitos enemigos los que derrotan a las naciones, sino su inactividad, su indolencia, su desunión y sobre todo, su falsa convicción de que pueden separadamente, sin ayuda de nadie, resolver sus diversos problemas. Es necesario advertir que todos necesitamos de todos y que la única fuerza que perdura es la que se crea con el trabajo en un ambiente de paz y de amor al prójimo. Contra el odio que esteriliza y estanca, es imperioso poner una actividad redentora, limpia de egoísmos, que asegure la prosperidad de los hombres, alimentando los sistemas libres y generosos que brotan espontáneamente de la voluntad auténtica de los pueblos. Creando, trabajando coordinadamente, no sólo estaremos preparados para atender a nuestros propios consumos, sino que podremos responder al llamado angustioso de una humanidad empobrecida que ya está reclamando la sabia vigorosa de nuestra joven América. Y todo ello adquiere una singular importancia en el vasto escenario de esta gran ciudad, donde se advierte una obra de titanes, conjunción de esfuerzo y de talento, amalgama de razas, coordinación de espíritus, laboratorio mundial, en donde se han experimentado los valores más serios en la evolución del mundo. Y en este propio lugar, donde se admira un esforzado avance en los rascacielos, sentinelas avisores de una cultura moderna, en los puentes gigantescos, en los prodigiosos túneles por debajo de los caudalosos ríos, resulta oportuno concentrar el pensamiento para conducirlo a establecer un nuevo orden político en la tierra, que no se ha llevado al corazón humano mediante el uso de la violencia, sino pacíficamente y sustentado en los más nobles principios de justicia y de libertad. Solamente así podremos confrontar gallardamente el porvenir. Y con la expresión de mi fe en los altos destinos de América, vayan también particularmente mis votos más efusivos por la grandeza y prosperidad de esta maravillosa ciudad y por la aventura personal de sus dignos mandatarios que han sabido presentarla como ejemplo de los más grandes impulsos de la civilización. Lady di bonso Ladies and gentlemen, especially those who didn't have the opportunity of being present here this morning at this reception to His Excellency, the governor of the Federal District of Mexico, Fernando Casas-Seliman, I wish to make this explanation. Reference has been made in Spanish, which will be translated for you that don't understand the language, later to my recent visit to Mexico City. I'd like to explain to you what that was. We were to be there for 12 days. Two days after I got there, there was to be a bus strike, and I had to come right back. The next time I go to Mexico City, I shall take out an insurance. I shall have along with me to Mexico City, Senor Miguel Quill. Now, during that trip, after I left, my place was taken by Mr. Grover Whalen, who is, at this moment, engaged in his business in Paris, and sent me a cablegram last night stating how much he regretted his inability to be here today and hoping to be able to get here before the governor and his party leave. In his stead, in handling this function, we had to rely on a youngster to take his place who has done a magnificent job, a senior Juan Coleman of New York. Everyone in the room has a translation, ladies and gentlemen, of the governor's speech, but you on the outside who are listening in do not perhaps understand it. I'm going to have the translation of the governor's speech made for you now by Mr. Juan Coleman of New York. For the record, Your Honor, one came from the west side. Your Honor, Mayor O'Dwyer, the great honor that has been bestowed upon me of receiving officially in the City Hall of New York has given me a strong feeling of appreciation and pride as it is significant of your sincere personal affection and, above all, a marked distinction for Mexico. I only consider myself as receiver of this honor and will transmit it to our president, Sr. Licenciado Miguel Aliman. In the first place, I would like to mention your visit to our country, unfortunately too brief, which left in our people a happy remembrance of your friendship. It is a very pleasant mission to bring to the American people our best wishes for a continued good relationship, considering that destiny has united us both geographically and ideologically. Fortunately, our countries live politically under the same democratic system, which is the best for our progress, in which men live in freedom and the betterment of the community develops, without racial privileges or one-sided views on the part of the authorities. This makes us feel united and sure that the strong ones will not oppress the weak, nor the ambitious ones rule the nation. Forty years ago, a commendable effort toward the democratic cause began in my country, and since that time, our civic conscience has been growing in deepness and in strength. We have been able to affirm our ideals struggling for a better and a juster way of living. What we have conquered through our true love for liberty has been heightened by the remembrances of our heroes and sealed with the blood of our martyrs. By this, we hope to be a modest factor in the work that it is necessary to do, to build an undivided American system that may live as a whole without hostility, without oppression, and without resentment. Thank you. Our views of the present situation convince us that America is living through moments of great responsibility. Pan-Americanism as a system tending toward peace and agreement suddenly becomes highly important as it deals with the guarantee and respect of our rights and the dignity of our existence. We would be mistaken if we believed that the measures taken separately without collaboration would be enough to give us continuity in our culture within the democratic system in which we live. Fortunately, the truth of these ideas has found in this great country a firm expression which strengthens our hopes and reaffirms our cordial solidarity. The American fervor inspires us to elevate our actions and observe a policy of positive continental unity. Let us struggle for a new and a stronger bond seeking for a better international understanding that may rest solidly in equanimity and sincerity. History has taught us that it is not merely enemy armies which destroy nations but rather their own inactivity, their indolence, their lack of unity, and above all their false conviction that they can by themselves find a solution to their own problems. They must realize that we all need the cooperation of our fellow men and that the only lasting strength is that which is acquired by hard work surrounded by peace and neighborly love. Against hatred that sterilizes and paralyzes all energies, it is imperative to oppose a redeeming activity free from selfishness that may ensure everybody's prosperity, supporting the free and generous systems that spontaneously emanate from the genuine will of the people. Creating and working together, we will be prepared to satisfy our own demands but we will be in a position to answer the urgent call of a humanity that is already begging for vigorous help of our young continent. All this acquires singular importance in the vast scenery of this great city which is the result of a giant's job. A combination of effort and talent, a mixture of different stocks, a coordination of ideals, a huge laboratory where the most precious values of the world have become a reality. In this very place where you can admire the numerous skyscrapers which stand watching the growth of modern culture, the gigantic bridges, the wonderful tunnels under the rivers, you cannot but concentrate on the establishment of a new political order in the world that should not enter the human heart through violence but by peaceful means and based on the most noble principles of justice and liberty. It is only in this manner that we can bravely meet the future. With the expression of my faith in the highest destinies of America go my sincere desire for the greatness and prosperity of this city and for the personal welfare of its rulers who have made it a perfect example of the most valuable achievement of civilization. We will now be honored with the selections by the police department Gleicklough. Thank you, gentlemen. South of the border down Mexico way She was a picture in old Spanish ways Just for a tender while I kissed a smile upon her face For it was fiesta And we were so gay South of the border South of the border Down Mexico way South of the border And we were so gay Then she sighed As she whispered Mañana We tomorrow Never dreaming That we were party For our sorrow And I lied As I whispered Mañana For our tomorrow Never came South of the border I rode back one day There in a veil of light By candlelight She now to pray The mission bells And she just told me That I mustn't stay South of the border Down Mexico way I, I, I, I I, I, I I, I, I I, I, I, I I, I, I, I, I. . . The land of the home in the low to last, and bustling as true as cows might do and perilous blasts. Glory and love to the men of all, their sons may copy their branches bold. Courage in the heart and the sword in hand, ready to fight for all the land. The home again, we come along in fiery strife, for now is over. Rest in charge of scrap, the toilers are as art beneath the strangest soul. The world is strangest soul, any maiden fair, is waiting here to greet a truant soldier lover. And many a heart will fail and grow, will fail to hear the tale of peril he has run. We are at home, we are at home, we are at home, we are at home. Glory and love to the men of all, their sons may copy their branches bold. Courage in the heart and the sword in hand, ready to fight for all the land. All ready to fight for all ready to die for our land. All ready to fight for all ready to die. All ready to die for our land. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the Glee Club. We will now have the presentation of the scroll and the official medal of the City of New York, by his honor to the Mayor, to his Excellency the Governor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honor first to present to his Excellency a medal of the City of New York. The inscription reads, Presented to Dr. Fernando Casas-Elliman, Governor, Federal District of Mexico, May 9, 1950. To your Excellency, I have the honor to make this presentation. For those who are not in City Hall today, the cameramen are very faithfully recording this remarkable scene as the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, pins the medal on the breast of His Excellency Fernando Casas-Elliman, Governor of the Federal District of Mexico. The Mayor. I believe the Mayor is going to speak. Yes. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have also the honor to present to His Excellency the scroll for distinguished service from the City of New York, which I will now read. Office of the Mayor of the City of New York. I know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, the Honorable Dr. Fernando Casas-Elliman, Governor, Federal District of Mexico, whose public benefactions and improving conditions of life for the people of the Federal District by organizing public programs to improve their health, housing, public works, and hospital system, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the City of New York. I have the honor to sign this as Mayor of the City and to present it to His Excellency. The Mayor of the City of New York is now affectionately presenting the scroll. The cameramen are issuing those imperial orders in order that you, the people in your papers and periodicals, may have an excellent picture of all that took place here today, for reference not only now, but for all time and for history. The Mayor. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I turn the microphone over to Mr. Calderon. The reception will conclude with a review by His Excellency and his party, the Mayor and Mrs. O'Dwyer, on the steps of City Hall. Thank you, one and all, for honoring us with your presence today. Would you? Radio's microphone have brought you the picture within the Council Chamber in beautiful City Hall, historic City Hall, of the magnificent reception which the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dyer, attended to His Excellency Fernando Casasalemán, Governor of the Federal District of Mexico, in this great building here today. And now, as the Governor of Mexico, Governor of the City of Mexico, retires on the Mayor's arm to City Hall, with Mrs. O'Dwyer escorting his lady and the distinguished entourage to take in the review that has been organized by the Mayor in front of City Hall, may we say that we take leave of you now from the City Council Chamber, since we do not have television to bring you the magnificent pageant in front of the building. Borough President Lyons says that he is going to conduct the Governor of the Federated District of Mexico to a ball game up there in the wonderful Borough of the Bronx, up to the Botanical Gardens, and, well, Borough President Lyons is going to see that the Bronx gets on the map in this wonderful reception, and during the visit of His Excellency. Well, that's all now from the Council Chamber. We return you to the studios in the Municipal Building. Thank you and good afternoon. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.