Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the City Department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Edward F. Kavanaugh, Jr., Commissioner of Marine and Aviation. Commissioner Kavanaugh is the Deputy Director of Waterborne Transportation under the Division of Transportation. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Once more, our civil defense report to the people of New York City will cover the important subject of waterborne transportation. Our short question and answer session tonight will try to give you a clear idea of how waterborne transportation would function in the event of an enemy attack. Again, I would like to emphasize, as I have in the past, that the purpose of our civil defense program is not to create panic, not to give our fellow New Yorkers the erroneous idea that our city is immune from any unexpected cataclysm. The purpose of our program is to organize our resources so that we may face the future with that confident security that comes only from knowing that we are fully prepared for any contingency. This tremendous job of preparation is not merely restricted to myself and the commissioners of other city departments, but is the job of each and every citizen. It is your job. We can group our civil employees into organized defense units. We can set up emergency fire, police, communications, transportation, medical, and numerous other units. But if the individual citizen doesn't realize our task and his task, and doesn't cooperate with the city officials, the whole program would suffer. It is therefore of the utmost importance that you, the individual, be informed as to the extent of the city's preparations, and make a firm resolution to do your job, whatever it may be, in the event of any emergency. The peace we cherish so dearly must be put above our personal interests and aims. So much for the introduction of this evening's discussion. And now to turn to the topic at hand, and to the gentleman at the microphone with me tonight. He is Commissioner Edward F. Kavanaugh, Jr. of the Department of Marine and Aviation. Now, Commissioner, first of all, suppose you briefly review the function of your department, and its place in the civil defense setup. I will state that very briefly, Commissioner Wallander. The preliminary function under the Department of Marine and Aviation is to organize, coordinate, and administer, under the jurisdiction of the Chief of Transportation Division of the Office of Civil Defense, all waterborne transportation from the five boroughs of the city of New York. Probably no other city in the world lends itself more to waterborne evacuation than the city of New York. The significance and importance of the method of transportation becomes quite apparent when we understand and visualize the limitations of our surface transportation under emergency conditions. Waterborne transportation, generally speaking, is a lot more rugged than any surface transportation, and by its very nature is better equipped to continue operating in the event of a sudden attack on the city. As a matter of fact, in certain areas of our city, and more particularly our insular hospital centers, waterborne transportation is the only method by which patients and personnel may be transported. Well, I am sure we are all aware how important waterborne transportation is to the city, particularly in the event of an emergency situation where immediate large-scale evacuation is one of the vast problems which we may have thrust upon us. But tell us, Commissioner Kavanagh, just what are your plans under such a situation? The Department of Marine and Aviation, in conjunction with the Marine Division of the Fire Department, has made a very thorough survey of all available ferries, small craft, public craft of federal, state, and city agencies, steamships, excursion boats, harbor carriers such as railroad flat cars, barges, scows, tugs, and lighters, construction and repair equipment, communications equipment, and personnel. If a disaster should occur, the evacuation division would designate assembly points to the Division of Transportation for waterborne transportation pickup areas. The operations section, through a simple cross-index system, would be able to select the proper type vessels for the required situation in addition to the local landing conditions. We estimate that the time consumed from the receipt of request to actual dispatching of equipment would be but a matter of minutes. If a situation should occur amounting to an emergency at the location of your dispatching center, knocking it out, how would that affect your operations? It would not affect them too greatly at all, Commissioner, because, as you see, in addition to our main operational office located at Pier 1 North River, we have complete facilities in each borough designed to operate as complete independent units in the event of complete destruction in one of the boroughs. These stations will be manned by the personnel of the department familiar with all conditions prevailing along the waterfront. Now tell us what would happen if you should lose contact through the communications system? That is a very pertinent question, Commissioner, because it is my earnest belief that communications is the backbone for defense planning. We are very fortunate in having available to us radio communications with our ferry boats, department tugs, and special installation in the commissioner's cars. In addition, the shipping industry in many instances have their independent radio communications system, which is ready and available at all times to the civil defense. In the event of radio failure, we still have at our disposal small pleasure craft, which when placed at strategic locations could transmit messages by means of signal flags or blinker systems. Well, that must create quite a problem for you in getting trained personnel to handle your emergency communications system. Could you tell us more about your operations? Yes, Commissioner Wallander, that is one of our major problems at the moment. It is our thought that perhaps amateur radio enthusiasts would remain available to us through the communication division of civil defense. It would also be an opportunity to make use of sea scouts of the Boy Scouts organization who are trained in handling watercraft or signaling. In your earlier statement, you mentioned a joint survey with the Marine Division of the Fire Department of all the available equipment that I presume is around the New York Harbor. What connection would the Fire Department have with waterborne transportation? The ports area, the vulnerability of its waterfront piers, ships, and cargoes being stored, handled, shipped, and shipped create a severe fire hazard that may possibly entail a serious loss of life and heavy property damage, but may also be militarily disastrous to our country. However, precaution must be exercised to minimize the consequence of any such disaster. Because of that, in the cataloging and allocation of the floating equipment, it was necessary to separate units that would be advantageous to use for firefighting along the waterfront. As you can readily understand, the Marine Division, with their present equipment, would be sorely handicapped in fighting fires on piers at a dozen different locations at the same time. Well, with the extensive waterfront area under your control, it must be quite a problem to plan emergency landings for possible evacuation. You cannot emphasize that point too much, Commissioner Wallander. In the preliminary planning, it is estimated that there are some 400 or more evacuation points that could be used in case of an emergency. Each individual landing must be investigated for water depths to ascertain what type of craft could be birthed at that particular location. In addition, a list of the material must be estimated for emergency tie-ups. This construction material must be available at an instance notice and transported to the site of evacuation. Our department has at the present time sufficient equipment and personnel to construct 12 to 15 emergency landing areas at the same time. If, in the event of a greater demand, the waterfront contractors have additional equipment available to us from the Public Works Emergency Division to carry on simultaneously approximately 20 additional sites. This is, of course, exclusive of existing facilities which may be adequate depending on the location of an incident. Thank you, Commissioner Cavanaugh. As each day, each week, each month of our civil defense program goes by, we can see tangible results from the unselfish efforts of the city's thousands of volunteers. However, one of the worst attitudes we could assume would be one of unrealistic overconfidence. We have certainly come a long way since the inception of our program, but we still have a great many roads to travel before we can call our city fully prepared. Worry is a healthy sign as long as it remains the calm, thoughtful worry that gets things done. If a day ever dawns when we find ourselves not worrying at all, then we really have something to worry about. The preparation always seems longer and tougher than the actual fight, but it is the success of the preparation that determines the success of the fight. Let's all of us get behind our city's civil defense program and make sure that we are prepared. Thank you very much. You've been listening to another in the important series of Reports on Civil Defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of various city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Edward F. Kavanaugh, Jr., Commissioner of Marine and Aviation. Commissioner Kavanaugh is the Deputy Director of Waterborne Transportation under the Division of Transportation. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will once again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. Before we conclude our program this evening, New York's gigantic air raid warning system, which is nearing completion, will be tested at noon on Saturday, May 26th. And every Saturday thereafter, Mayor Vincent Impelletarian, Arthur Wallander, Director of the New York City Office of Civil Defense, announced last week. At least 500 sirens, including 22 40-horsepower ones, will take part in the test, in contrast with the 453 fixed sirens used during the last war, and the 214 fixed sirens used during the last siren test. When the entire system is installed, there will be 31 40-horsepower, 87 2-horsepower, and 463 5-horsepower sirens. Director Wallander stated that the air raid warning system cannot be completed until this test reveals the existence of any so-called dead spots. During the siren test, the special committee appointed by Director Wallander and headed by Mr. William Tracy will study the similarity of the air raid warning fixed siren sound and the sound of the sirens on police vehicles, fire engines, and on ambulances. Within a short time after the test, they will report to Commissioner Wallander on the advisability of raising the ban on the use of sirens for emergency vehicles. The ban will be raised only if they decide that the sounds are so different that there is no danger whatsoever of public confusion. So, when you hear the three-minute warbling sound of the sirens at noon on Saturday, May 26th, it will be a test to determine the location of dead spots and to familiarize the public with the sound of an air raid warning. The three-minute warbling alarm will be followed by a three-minute period of silence. The all-clear signal will then be sounded. Three one-minute straight blasts on the sirens separated by two minutes of silence. The test will be over at 12.13 p.m. this Saturday and every Saturday thereafter. Marking the complete installation of Manhattan's 40-horsepower sirens, Director Arthur Wallander and Public Works Commissioner Frederick Enzer-Millen, accompanied by Victor Barella, Vice President in Charge of Operations for Rockefeller Center, and Walter Detmar, Chief Engineer of the Department of Public Works, made the final adjustments, which completed the erection of the last of the borough's giant sirens on top of the RCA building at 9 a.m. on Monday, May 14th. This seven-foot siren on the RCA building is on top of a tower four feet high. All sirens will be operated by remote control from police and fire stations. Constructed after exhaustive experiments by engineers of the Department of Public Works, the giant sirens are activated by 40-horsepower electric motors, which develop 3,600 RPM, and can be heard clearly within 2,500-foot radius in the city and a 6,000-foot radius in the suburbs. We'd like to remind you once again that next Tuesday evening at the same time, we'll bring you another in this series of reports on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. . .