And Tuesdays we have the privilege of presenting Becky Reier, author of the book Children and Puppies Are Fun, and whose forthcoming book, My Mother is the Most Beautiful Woman in the World, is here to bring you another Tuesday morning broadcast, in the course of which she'll introduce the most interesting guest. And now Becky Reier. Good morning, city mothers. We're having a lot of excitement. Peace is almost here. Gladness is in all our hearts. A little warmer smile is on everybody's face. But warmth comes from the inside as well as the outside. Many of us get a wonderful warm glow from books we enjoy, or even just with the mention of books we treasured as children. Books are magic doors, a world of enchantment, to children who love to read. If mothers want to share in their children's sharpest awareness, their most sensitive and happiest moments, they must share their reading and book experiences with them. Help the children to get the books that mean the most to them. Always be on the alert to find new reading materials for them to explore. Mothers and children can get a lot of joy and build a close, lasting companionship by reading together, either aloud to each other or reading the same books, so they can talk about them. They can buy or choose books together. Be on the lookout for book reviews of possible interest in the book sections of the daily papers. One of my favorite book spots in all the world is the children's room at the New York Public Library at 42nd Street and 5th Avenue. The sun pours in and lights upon the tables, where new books are within easy reach and upon the open shelves, brimful and overflowing with simply beautiful children's books for all ages. Stop there for a few minutes, as I often do, and the parents, children and librarians focus into a picture, a very busy, absorbed atmosphere, a vital center in the life of New York mothers and their children. We're very fortunate indeed to have with us today Miss Helen Mastin, an authority on children and their books and what they mean to them. Miss Mastin is librarian in charge of the Central Children's Room at the 42nd Street Library. Miss Mastin, some mothers may think that the name Children's Room excludes them. Perhaps you'd better begin by telling us, do mothers as well as children use your room? With many parents, the children's room is a family habit, Mrs. Ryer. Parents often come with their children. They choose a book either to gather or to take home or read aloud in one of the window seats. Doesn't that disturb the other children? Oh, no. You've seen the room. It's very large. The window alcoves are large enough to accommodate a little group of children. Other children, seeing a story being read, are apt to wander over and join the group and listen, too. We interrupt this program to bring you a special bulletin from the WNYC newsroom. Washington. The White House definitely expects Japan's surrender reply during the day. Presidential Press Secretary Charles G. Ross said, quote, It looks as if we're at last nearing the end of our long vigil. Unquote. Quote. We return you now to our program in progress. Keep tuned to your city station for all late news. Miss Mastin, how old are the children who come to you in the children's room? All ages. Sometimes a mother brings in a baby and shows at the picture books. Do the very young ones behave, keep quiet? Well, children generally behave when they're genuinely interested. I often see adults alone in the children's room. The children's room has always been a center for adults interested in children's books and reading. It is used regularly by teachers, publishers, authors and artists as well as parents. Many fathers drop in during their lunch hours to return their children's books. Mothers and fathers come to get our advice and book selection. What are some of the ways in which you help parents with their children's reading, Miss Mastin? We're always eager to discuss books with parents and to suggest books for them to share with their children. With the opening of Children's Book Week in November, we have an exhibition featuring the outstanding books of the year. The best children's books? No, we don't say best. They are the books we suggest in our list of holiday gifts. A very selected list. That is certainly a more diplomatic way of putting it. About how many books are there on your list? There are about 800 children's books published each year. We select about 100. Is that list available? To anyone who wants it. Do the children come to the Fall Book Week exhibit? Indeed, yes. Everybody comes. Parents alone and with children. The children often select the books they want for Christmas. Many times the parents or aunts and uncles come with a list of children and their ages for help in selection. Parents come to consult us about special reference books, sets of books, or what encyclopedias to buy. And you have the books to show as well as discuss. How old should a child be to enjoy an encyclopedia? It depends on the child and the encyclopedia. Some children begin to use them at about nine or ten when they are looking things up for school. Some children as young as six and seven. Do you have a spring book festival exhibition? Note is always taken of the outstanding books published in the spring, and often there is a small exhibition of the books and original illustrations. I noticed you now have an exhibition of Kai Nielsen. Kai Nielsen is a noted Danish artist, best known over here for his illustrations of Hans Christian Andersen and Grimm's fairy tales. Our exhibitions change every month or two and are always related in some way to books. Every February we show old valentines. We've had a very interesting exhibition of old toys and dolls, one of 18th century printed coffins, and recently one of Kate Greenaway's original drawings. In October we are exhibiting the paintings of Jean Charlot. How do the schools use the central children's room, Miss Mastin? They come from all five boroughs. They come to browse, to hear stories, to do research on some subjects such as post-war planning or the history of writing. In the branch library, school classes also receive book talks and sometimes instruction in the use of the library. You said something to me the other day, Miss Mastin, which I thought was very touching. I mean the use of the library by refugee children during the war, who came to find books in their own language. The children came to us almost as soon as they got off the ship. Sometimes they were brought by relatives. On more than one occasion, the ship was met by an enthusiastic user of one of the branch libraries, who told the refugees to go to the nearest library, where they would receive a cordial welcome and find books in their own language. Won't you tell about the little Austrian children? They were almost the first refugee children to come. There were three little girls, dressed exactly alike in flowered chalet, with packs on their backs. Even the three-year-old baby with a pack. They had pigtails that stuck out at the side. They spoke no English, so I took them to the German picture books. And when I handed Hanschen and Blaubirnwald to the baby, she let out a squeal of pleasure, and her mother told me it was a book she owned in Vienna. What other nationalities came? What other refugee children from what other countries, Miss Maston? They came first from Spain, then Germany, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Poland, Hungary. What about learning English? Did the use of the library help them, do you believe? Very much, I think. In addition to serving as a bridge over a very bad period, the books provided the means of learning English. One little Hungarian boy, who spoke almost no English, was reading English very well three months later. You have exhibitions of books of permanent interest in the library for both parents and children, haven't you, Miss Maston? I suppose, Mrs. Rower, you mean our collection of picture books in foreign languages, and that of early children's books of about 1,200 items. So different in makeup from our modern books. Some of them are only two inches wide, with but four pages. That reminds me of the children's books published abroad during the war. Paper shortage made them very small, didn't it? The children are always fascinated by the midget books published in England. Just now, we have an exhibition of the children's books published in France and Belgium during the Nazi occupation. You have some pretty famous story hours. The children enjoy them. We have story hours every Saturday at 3 o'clock, beginning in November. Parents bring children from as far as Coney Island and Westchester. At Christmas time, mothers and fathers are allowed to come, too. And even the guards at the door like to listen. As a special treat, we have a puppet show. The branch libraries have similar activities, and they're close by where people live. Most of the branch libraries have a weekly story hour for the older children, to which they come alone, and a picture book hour, to which mothers bring tiny children. They sit around a table, and the librarian shows the pictures as she tells the story. Little children delight in discovering familiar details in the pictures, as the pages are slowly turned. Mothers often enjoy these story hours quite as much as the children. What are children's tastes in books? Children have highly individual tastes in books, even more so than adults. They're not influenced by books being a bestseller or new. To children, a book which is new to them is always new. What do the youngest children like? Picture books and animal stories. Children somewhat older enjoy fairy tales. Yesterday, a mother brought three or four little girls and read to them. Other children joined them, and one little girl of 12 said she would like to stay, if they were going to have fairy tales. What do the older children go for in a big way? Mysteries. Books about the war, aviation, medical and scientific research, and good stories of adventure. This brings us right to the question of good taste in children's reading. How can mothers and fathers cultivate good taste, a feeling for literature in children? By being informed themselves. Beginning with the picture books, always give children the very best. Our picture book collection at the library is very fine, representing the work of internationally known artists. We have outstanding examples of picture books in 23 languages, besides English. What about a substitute for excitement? It's natural for children to crave excitement. They must have stories with drama and action. That's what they're looking for. It is a legitimate urge upon the part of the children, and has been the incentive for many fine books on the part of writers. When we talked the other day, didn't you say, Miss Maston, have the parents read and enjoy the books, too? There's nothing so contagious as enjoyment. If children see their parents having a good time of the book, they immediately want to read it, too. If good books are left around on the table, children are apt to pick them up and read them. Miss Maston, do you have any special message for the mothers listening on WNYC? Only to say that children's books have much in them to be enjoyed by adults. When books are shared with children, the pleasure is doubled. Perhaps the mothers listening in on WNYC would discover new delights if they went to their neighborhood libraries and shared their enjoyment in the books with their children. You have a variety of specialized reading lists, haven't you? I particularly like the one on books about animals. Well, besides our own list of current books which we publish annually, there are basic lists for parents to use in the selection of a home library. Lists of books on hobbies, stories to tell and to read aloud. We're always happy to make lists for individual children with particular needs or interests. Just now, we're working on a list of 500 books to be sent to the children of Guam as a gift in the Junior Order of United Mechanics. Our time is drawing to a close, Miss Maston. Would you like to tell the mothers of what you think reading means to children? Reading enables a child to find inspiration in the great heroes of folklore, history and legend, as well as to become acquainted with peoples of all nations and their differing ways of life. Reading answers a deep need in a child. In reading, the child finds some of the answers to the thousands of questions that are important to him. But perhaps the most valuable contribution of reading to the child is the opportunity it gives him to discover himself and to grow in understanding of life through knowledge of the characters in his books. And above all, reading gives to the child a good time. Miss Maston, I'm sure that all the mothers who've been listening to you today feel as I do, that we're lucky indeed to have so understanding and sensitive a human being in charge of our children's room at the main library at 42nd Street and 5th Avenue. Thank you very much for coming to us today and reminding us about the services that the children's room at the Central Library puts at our disposal and for bringing home to us how important books are to our children. Next week, our guest will be Miss Margaret Culloch, Curator-in-Chief of the Children's Museum of Brooklyn. Goodbye till Tuesday. Thank you, Mrs. Reier and Miss Maston. Mrs. Becky Reier presented as her guest this morning, Miss Maston of the Children's Division of the New York Public Library, the Central Children's Room. And we all know what a wonderful source of reference the library and its many branches are. Becky Breier brings you this program every Tuesday morning at 10 o'clock in the series serving the housewife and homemaker throughout the week, Monday through Saturday. Your next broadcast comes to you tomorrow at 10 o'clock when we bring you the OPA official information and other cooperations that are still necessary with your United States government. Join us at 11.15 and 11.20 for your next service programs, your Department of Markets and its news of market trends, what is seasonable, reasonable in the markets, ration and recipe information, and then followed by the nutrition message of your Department of Health and its nutritional division at 11.20. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Case Regorks of Are consumers on total number of pamphlet люб every month is feeling relationships with our country, and they begin to draw shows that everybody wants to be happy. Theirtirudes make money first and review blessings and their food. And what they're investing to do is they're investing to help us