Your City Station now brings you another transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Arthur Wallander, director of the New York City Civil Defense Organization, interviews heads of city departments about the aspect of civil defense with which that department is concerned. Present this evening with Director Wallander is Thomas Murphy, New York City Police Commissioner. Now, here is Mr. Wallander. Ladies and gentlemen, we are fortunate to have with us tonight a man who is not only the commissioner of the largest police department in this country, but who is also the head of one of the most important divisions in the Office of Civil Defense of the City of New York. It is a pleasure and privilege to introduce the commissioner of the New York City Police Department, Thomas F. Murphy. Thank you, Director Wallander. Like every member of our department, I deem it a privilege to be connected with the civil defense effort of our city. My department has been organized to carry out the civil defense functions which have been assigned to us by the Office of Civil Defense. Will you briefly describe what the functions are and how you have organized the department to carry them out? The police emergency division is made up of the uniformed police force, the auxiliary police corps, the air warden service, the ground observer corps, and our latest affiliate, the department of correction of New York City. This division will be responsible for the protection of life and property, control of traffic, bomb reconnaissance, fire watches, light duty rescue squads, messenger service, building control, report centers management, and air raid warning transmissions. I understand you have divided the city into geographic units for the purpose of organizing the auxiliary services of the police emergency division. What are the factors which determine this decision? In organizing our air warden service, we divided the city into zones, sectors, and posts. Zones are areas containing approximately 50,000 persons. Sectors, 5,000 persons. And posts, 500 persons. However, in addition to the population, we have to consider the city's peculiar geography and the large number of transient workers entering and leaving our city. After taking these factors into consideration, how many divisions were created? To adequately distribute the forces of the air warden service, we created 202 zones, 1,942 sectors, and 19,567 posts. How many wardens will be necessary to give this city complete coverage for a civil defense emergency? Our quota for the air warden service has been set at 240,000 men and women. We feel that it is necessary that 50% of our wardens be women in order to provide protection during the hours that men are usually at work and away from home. I quite agree with you, Commissioner Murphy, that we'll need many women. But tell me, what progress has been made in the extensive recruiting campaign of civil defense workers that has been carried on throughout the city? Our latest enrollment figures indicate that we have recruited approximately 60,000 persons. Although we have not reached the halfway mark as yet, we are sure that the people of this city will respond to this great civic effort as they have always responded to patriotic calls in the past. However, I would like to point out at this time that no time can be lost. It is much later than many people think. Commissioner Murphy, what provisions have been made by the police department to enroll prospective volunteers in the civil defense organization? Volunteers may enroll in every station house in the city. We have designated an acting lieutenant in each precinct as civil defense coordinator, who shall see that a uniformed patrolman is always present to enroll and advise prospective volunteers in selecting the service for which they are best fitted. Will you describe the various services in which volunteers may enroll? In addition to the regular air warden service, we have specialized units that supplement and aid the wardens in their duties. They are light duty rescue, emergency taxi corps, building defense units, messengers and report center personnel. We also have an auxiliary police unit and a ground observers corps. What progress has been made in organizing and enrolling personnel for these specialized units? Light duty rescue service squads have been organized throughout the city. A citywide director assisted by five borough directors have volunteered to supervise and direct this unit. These men are prominent members of the building trade, whose experience and background will be an asset to the civil defense effort. Rescue squads have been organized in every patrol precinct under the command of a precinct director and deputy director. The squads are composed of one or more teams of ten men supervised by a squad leader. We plan to establish a rescue squad in each zone and eventually in each sector. Our ultimate goal will be twenty thousand men. We have already organized a hundred and thirty teams composed of thirteen hundred trained men. Well, we're going to need them all, Commissioner Myphy. You also mentioned that the emergency taxi corps is also one of your units. Will you tell us about this organization and its personnel? The emergency taxi corps was organized to provide a means of auxiliary transportation for civil defense personnel during an emergency or disaster. This unit is composed of seasoned drivers equipped with sturdy cabs. We have enrolled a city director, director rather, and five borough directors, who are all men associated with the taxi cab industry of our city. The entire industry has unreservedly pledged the use of its manpower, equipment and rolling stock for the civil defense effort. We hope to enroll every one of the thirty-five thousand licensed cab drivers and eleven thousand cabs of the city in this organization. We have already enrolled seventy-five hundred cabs and fourteen thousand five hundred drivers. New applications are coming in every day. The people of our city will soon become accustomed to the emergency taxi corps emblem on windows of our cabs. In addition to transportation, your division has the additional problem of communications. Will you tell us, Commissioner Myphy, the organization of this service and the progress made in recruitment? Our communications division has two units, namely report centers and the messenger servers. We plan to organize twenty-six division report centers throughout the city to receive and transmit emergency messages in the event of an emergency. Twenty-three of these report centers will soon be operating in the following locations. Seven in Manhattan, four in the Bronx, six in Brooklyn, five in Queens, and one in Richmond. Each report center will be under the direction of a communications director, assisted by three deputy communications directors. We have enrolled twenty-six communications directors and seventy-eight deputy communications directors, which is a hundred percent enrollment for the executive offices of this branch of the service. In the event of a breakdown of communications, we have organized an auxiliary messenger service composed of husky boys in the sixteen to eighteen age group. We have received the services of a city-wide director and four borough directors for this service. These men have experience in the communication field and are accustomed to working with boy groups. Although we have only enrolled six hundred boys to date, our enrollment has jumped considerably in the last few weeks. We do expect a tremendous increase in volunteers in the near future. The civil defense agencies which you have described are concerned with the people on the streets. Will you tell us now just what the organization is which is concerned with the safety of those people who spend much of their time working in buildings? Within the Air Warden Service, we have established a Bureau of Building Defense, which is responsible for the organization of protective forces within the buildings of our city. With the exception of one and two family dwellings, every building in the city will have a prepared building defense plan supervised by a building control director. In the case of one and two family dwellings, the householder is asked to construct a shelter in the basement in accordance with the plan prepared by the shelter committee headed by Commissioner Gilroy. Surveys indicate that there are one thousand and ninety-nine, no rather, one hundred and ninety-nine thousand buildings in this city which will require building protection plans. We have already enrolled forty thousand of these buildings and have secured the services of thirty thousand building control directors for the enrolled buildings. As police commissioner, I know that you are interested in the organization of the Auxiliary Police Unit. Will you tell us of the progress of this important unit? I'm glad you mentioned our Auxiliary Police Force, for it is an important adjunct to our regular police force. Auxiliary police units have been organized in every patrol precinct in the city. This unit is under the command of a very able former deputy police commissioner who has conducted a very rigorous recruiting campaign. Have the people of our city responded to the call of the Auxiliary Police Force, Commissioner Murphy? I am proud to say that they have, Mr. Walner. We have been fortunate in securing the services of a hundred and sixteen patriotic citizens who have volunteered as top echelon officers in this service, in addition to ten thousand one hundred and fifteen Auxiliary Policemen who have been enrolled. This is over twenty-five percent of the quota established for this organization. The women of our city may be interested in knowing that we have established a women's Auxiliary Police Unit to assist us in our work. Five hundred and forty-nine women have already been enrolled. Will you describe that small but very admirable group known as the Ground Observers Corps? The Ground Observers Corps is the civilian arm of our Eastern Air Defense Command who have been organized to supplement the protective radar screen of our coast defense. Members of the Division of Civil Defense of the Police Department have organized three ground observers posts in this city. One is in Manhattan and two in Brooklyn. Each post will require a working personnel of three hundred observers who will be under the command of a supervisor and chief observer. We have recruited a hundred and eighty members who are able and willing to withstand the rigors of wind and weather to assist in the protection of our city. Could you describe the training program of your division, Commissioner Murphy? Commissioner Murphy. Within the Division of Civil Defense of the Police Department, a Bureau of Training and Information has been organized to train and instruct members of the Uniform Force and the Auxiliary Police. This Bureau conducted a Civil Defense Indoctrination course from August 28th to November 13th, 1950, for the regular police personnel. A training course was conducted from January 15th to February 19th, 1951, for all zone commanders and directors of training and information. On February 25th, 1951, zone commanders assisted by directors of training began a training program for all air warden personnel in the precinct. During the month of February, lectures for division communication directors were given at the 3rd Division Report Center, 288 10th Avenue, Manhattan. The Bureau of Building Defense has prepared a training program for each of the large city industries connected with civil defense. 250,000 copies of a building control director's manual have been printed and will be distributed to all directors throughout the city. The Emergency Service Division of the Police Department inaugurated a seven-week training course for all members of the Light Duty Rescue Squads on February 5th, 1951. Have outside agencies cooperated in this training program, Commissioner Murphy? Yes. Many agencies have offered to cooperate with us in our training program. Notable examples have been the American Red Cross, which conducted a 30-hour instructors first aid training program for all civil defense coordinators of our department. The staff of the Delafield Hospital also cooperated by training precinct coordinators as instructors in the use of radiological monitoring devices. Have you extended this monitoring course to include other members of the department? Yes. At the present time, the police academy is conducting radiological monitoring course for all members of the uniform force assigned to radio motor patrol. Have you prepared a training course for members of the auxiliary police? Yes. Why, yes, Mr. Wallander. A civil defense course for the upper echelon volunteers of the auxiliary police was conducted under the direction of the chief of the auxiliary police. Commissioner Murphy, you ought to be congratulated upon the wonderful training program organized by your division. Mr. Wallander, I feel sure that when the people of our city become aware of the great importance of civil defense and our great need for volunteers, they will not only fill our quota, but will exceed it many times. We have provided the organization. The citizens will provide the volunteers. Civil defense is everybody's job. You have just heard another in the important series of reports on civil defense. Each week at this time, Arthur Wallander, director of the New York City Civil Defense Organization, interviews heads of city departments about the aspect of civil defense with which that department is concerned. Presenting his report this evening was Thomas Murphy, commissioner of the New York City Police Department. Next week at this same time, your city station will present another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the municipal broadcasting system. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Next week at this time it will suggestİ ask that the international activities are set aside. Let's Eduardo play a long fieldMyth.