I've read your letter, Mammy, oh my. Now I feel better, Mammy, oh my. Still I'm kind of old, no one can cure me but you. Mammy, oh my. These old and old in time. Oh, how wild and old in truth with you. I've been to you all the time. I kiss your picture each night. And read the letters you write. Oh, that gives me my tears. I'll say I'm so, I'm so old. Lordy, how I'm gonna be. When I was old, I thought of the wandering cold. Then I thought, please dear love you. And feeling more, my good heart. Now I know why. Then he's the same. The soul saw the blessing when he gave you all. You're the best, the angel divine. You wasn't just so happy or mine. You're the best, the angel divine. afternoon, and for them, he gave you all access to the guten and old kingdom and 저는. You are the best, the angel divine. Well, this is a thunder and glad to see you. Come inside, is it a god? Don't you say, plantations? Can you list the chords, the calculations andнаруж shapes! Then I'm taking notes to you. This is the most beautiful thing you can learn. Please tell me about your thinking. I'll say, the bells are going so small. I'll single out by your church, you have closed doors. Come inside, see your dad. Thanks combinations. MUSIC PLAYS MUSIC PLAYS MUSIC PLAYS MUSIC CONTINUES MUSIC CONTINUES MUSIC CONTINUES MUSIC CONTINUES MUSIC CONTINUES Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Don't let nothing come betwixt me and that old home of mine. I'm so butso and weary cause I'm longing to be where a light is always burning in a window for me. I'm coming, Virginia. I'm coming to stay. Don't hold it again to me for running away. I've tried to forget you. I found I'm all wrong. Beneath that southern moon, you'll hear me through. A dear old mammy tune. And if I can't win you, I'll nevermore rose. I'm coming for January. My Dixie land home. I'm coming for January. I'm coming to stay. I'm coming for you. I'm coming for you. I'm coming for you. I'm coming for you. Oh, run it away. Always, Virginia. Always, Virginia. I've tried to forget you. Always, Virginia. I found I'm all wrong. I found I'm all wrong. I'm all wrong. She needs that southern moon, you'll hear me through. A dear old mammy tune. And if I can't win you, I'll nevermore rose. You are coming for January. I found I'm coming for January. I'm coming for January. I'm coming for January. My Dixie and home Jimmy Bosco singing Home Beyond the River In all, in all, in all This is the day if in evil you are forgiven And you want to be forgiven Then you'll be that day For your hope is just beyond the river Close your home, oh, see the Lord's astray You'll be living a pain and you will be forgiven Will be a mighty day when you'll reach heaven Home is just beyond the mountain Where you are, the angels really play In a healthy home that lies beyond the river Happiness will be born For your hope is just beyond the river For your hope is just beyond the river Long to walk in a long distance For your hope is just beyond the mountain The day when you'll reach heaven Home is just beyond the mountain Where you are, the angels really play In your heavenly home that lies beyond the river Happiness will be born For us will be gone When we meet the children and woman When we meet the children and woman When we meet the children and woman People mount that lies beyond the river In your heavenly home that lies beyond the river Thank you so much my greetings The grand course of times I'm going to hang on you. I'm going to get tired of you. There's no else in me. Everywhere I'm going to hang on you. No matter what you need. There's no more saving me. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Oh, baby, I'm going to hang on you. I know that system is a great time. Friends, I'll have you. Oh, oh, oh, oh. The End The End The End Mr. Claude Hopkins and his band. I'll do any little thing for you. The End So friends, the radio curtain has just come down on the minstrel show here in Carnegie Hall. The house certainly went wild, for they sure did get a big kick out of seeing these old-timers do these old-time songs and dances. And what's going to happen next, nobody knows, really. I would like to tell you that this evening's program, the second concert in the series of eight in Carnegie Hall, is being presented this week by the American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers, and is an honor tonight of The Negro in American Music. During this minstrel show, the compositions of the minstrel scene were, among others, An Evening by the Moonlight, Carry Me Back to Old Virginia, and Carved Ad Pawsome, all written by James Blatt. Then we heard, listen to the mockingbird, the baggage coach ahead, all I want is my chicken. Dark town is out tonight. Shine, Sister Kate, nobody, summer these days, and under the bamboo tree. And these were followed by Balling the Jack, Please Go Away and Let Me Sleep, Just One Word of Consolation, I'm Just Wild About Harry, Lovey Joe, and Baby, Won't You Please Come Home. Then Tom Fletcher sang, Oh Say, Wouldn't It Be a Dream. Then the Junk Man Rag followed, Dearest Memories, sung by Henry Troy, Ain't Nobody's Business If I Do, Mammy O' Mine, Way Down Yard of New Orleans, I'm Coming Virginia, and Home Beyond the River, sung by the Don Haywood Singers. Melodies from Caribbean Grooves. Right now we're hearing compositions in the blues era, down to the swing period, played by Joe Jordan and the orchestra, and Claude Hopkins and his orchestra. But right now we'd like to say that this is the municipal broadcasting system. The Tennessee, yeah, there was a fellow there named Handy, had a man you should hear. And while they gently swayed, all those darkened plays, real harmonies. I never will forget the tune that Handy called the Memphis Blues, all those blues. They had a fiddler there that always licking his hair, and he sure could pull some bones. And when the big bears looms, second to the trombones croon. Oh, it moans just like a sinner on revival day, on that old revival day. That mill and pully it's drained, that ever-harking refrain, it's serving doggy bone in the stone. Here comes a fairy part that traps a spell around my heart. And it's been me wild to hear that loving tune again, those Memphis Blues. They had a fiddler there that always thickened his hair, and lordy how he pulled his bow. And when the big bears looms, second to the trombones croon. Oh, they moan just like a sinner on revival day, on that old revival day. That melancholy strain, that ever-haunting refrain, it's like a donkey moan in the stone. Here comes a fairy part that traps a spell around my heart. And it's been me wild to hear that loving train again, those Memphis Blues. Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Hooray! Mr. Lully Armstrong. That's right. That's right. Peace. And now, folks, we'll beat out the tune that I wrote for you about three years ago that was so popular that had been Old Man Moses. What are these babies bring to you? What are these babies bring to you? I believe, I do believe, that old man Moses did now. Bo's kick bucket, Bo's kick bucket, Bo's kick bucket. Bo's kick bucket, Bo's kick bucket. Looky here, I went around to the side, and I peeked through the crack. Bo's kick bucket. Bo's kick bucket. Bo's kick bucket. And after looking through that window, I ain't going to do it no more. Cause I found out, I found out, I found out, that old man Moses, I'm telling you, I found out what it's all about. I found out that old man was dead now. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. We found out his bed. Old man. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Old stick bucket. Yalla. Yalla. Yalla. Yalla. Yalla. Yalla. You know one thing, folks. There's been so much discussion about swing. Well, I thought I'd write a little number and ask the same question with the title. The title of this number, What is this thing called swing? That's it. And now, are you ready, boys? Yeah, we are. You ready? Okay. Okay. Watch it. Three beats. Three beats. One, two, three. Now, fifteen cats were swinging like they'd never heard before. Each one took a solo and the people cried for more. All at once, the leader stopped and hollered to the band. Boys, I like the old playing, but they just don't understand. What is this thing called swing? What is this thing called swing? Is it jazz or drag time? Futuristic rag time? What is this thing called swing? Now, if swing's the thing you talk about, I'ma have the boys to beat it out. Now, first of all, our saxophone. Folks, they gonna rattle off some mellow tones. Just, uh, let it come. Up. Hot. All right, now. You talk about the saxophones getting hot. Get along that rhythm section. They're really on the spot. Watch this. All right, buddy. All right, man. Captain Robyn, here we have it. Ah! Captain Robyn, here we have it. Captain Robyn, here we have it. Come on, Captain. There we have it. Now there we have it. There we have it. Yo, of course. Here we have it. Come on, Captain. Come on, Captain. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go.