Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the City Department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Commissioner Henry L. McCarthy of the Department of Welfare and Director of the Emergency Welfare Division of Civil Defense. Now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner McCarthy, since this is your first appearance on WNYC with a report on the Emergency Welfare Division, I want to take this opportunity to wish you the best of luck on becoming our new Commissioner of the Department of Welfare. Today, I believe, is your first day, and we welcome you into our official civil defense family, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner Wallander. Perhaps it's unfair to ask for a progress report on the Emergency Welfare Division at this time, that being your first day, Commissioner, as Commissioner of the Department of Welfare, but perhaps you might want to tell us something about it. Well, it's not unfair at all, Commissioner. As assistant to former Commissioner Hilliard, I worked with him and the rest of his staff on the problems confronting the Emergency Welfare Division in caring for civilians who may be affected by enemy action. I sort of realized that from your talk on March 26th at Hunter College, that you were well-versed in the activities of the Emergency Welfare Division, and that you had devoted considerable time and work to it. Tell me, Commissioner McCarthy, and tell our listeners, how large a staff do you have in the Emergency Welfare Division? We have a little over 10,000 people on our staff now. Now, this includes 7,500 civil service employees of the Department of Welfare, and we have a little over 2,600 volunteers. Do you think this is an adequate staff to man all your installations? No, it isn't, Commissioner. We will need probably 40,000 volunteers in order to fully staff all of our sections. Since you do need so many more volunteers, perhaps you'd better tell our listeners where people may go to enroll in your program. Well, anyone wishing to enroll in the Emergency Welfare Division may do so at any of our welfare centers. These are located all over the five boroughs, and in addition, you can register at our borough offices or at our headquarters at 250 Church Street. All of our offices are listed in the phone book. How many Emergency Welfare Centers do you now have? We have 47, and we are in the process of opening two more, one in Manhattan and one in Brooklyn. Will that complete your Emergency Welfare Center roster? No, Commissioner Wallander. We contemplate establishing quite a few more Emergency Welfare Centers on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, East Bronx, in Brooklyn, and in Staten Island. Well, I thought 47 Emergency Welfare Centers were quite enough to help affect its civilians. What's your thinking on that? Well, you might think 47 would be plenty, but atomic warfare is something new. We feel it would be better for us to have more centers than we actually may need, than less. We ought to have a margin in there. It's my feeling that even if we don't use an Emergency Welfare Center, it's preferable to not having enough. I don't believe that any of us can quarrel with the soundness of your logic, Commissioner McCarthy. Do you intend to operate all of the Emergency Welfare Centers in the event of an attack? Well, all of them will be open and operating, but some of them will be used to give out food, clothing, and to provide shelter. That'll probably be just a few of them. The balance will be operating with the skeleton staff. Suppose you explain this a little more in detail for us, Commissioner McCarthy. Well, we have to be realistic about an attack and about our methods of operation. A small number of the Emergency Welfare Centers around the periphery or the edge of the affected area would handle all of the civilians in need of our services. Since our organization is flexible, we would marshal all of our forces and equipment on the periphery to care for the large numbers of people in need of assistance. The larger number of our Emergency Welfare Centers can operate with a skeleton crew, however, since their only activity will be to receive inquiries for the Central Registration Bureau. For the benefit of those listening to our Civil Defense broadcast for the first time, I would like to outline briefly the function of the Central Registration Bureau. This Bureau maintains the file of all persons displaced by an attack and replies to persons making inquiry about friends and relatives who have suffered as a result of the attack. And what progress have you made in this phase of your activity at this time, Commissioner? Well, perhaps we could start out by defining what you referred to as a person who has been displaced. And I'll give you a definition of that. Go ahead, Commissioner. A displaced person is one who has been forced to move from his home to a new address by reason of the attack, or he may be a child separated from his parents or guardian, or an injured person who has been removed to a hospital or, in case of death, to a morgue. All of these persons would be registered at the Emergency Welfare Center or hospital, and the registration would be filed then at a Central Registration Bureau. Yes, that's fine. A little while ago, I heard you mention something about inquiries. Well, it's been our experience from past disasters that immediately after any kind of an incident, we are swamped with requests for information about missing people or people who may have been hurt or displaced. And this request for information is what we call an inquiry. Oh, thank you, Commissioner. You've cleared that up nicely for us. Well, we consider a prompt reply to inquiries one of our most important functions, because if we give speedy information on the whereabouts and the condition of missing friends or relatives, we will be able to alleviate worry and anxiety on the part of the inquirers. It will tend to eliminate panic, and we believe it to be a really humane service. Well, I'm gratified to see that your approach to the problem of inquiry and registration is warm and humane, and not a cold, technical one. Well, we had plenty of technical problems too, Commissioner. We had to determine the best filing system to use for the millions of cards we would have to handle. And we've consulted with experts in this field, and we finally reached a decision, and the system that we have chosen will operate efficiently. Does this method which you adopted require any special training? It does require some training, but a staff member, an ordinarily intelligent person, can be trained in an hour or two. Our key personnel have already been trained. We are fortunate, too, in that our system has been used by various governmental agencies, and the people in some of these agencies have already agreed to volunteer to work in the Central Registration Bureau. We feel confident that we will have a fully trained and experienced staff for this important job of taking care of inquiries and setting up the Central Registration Bureau. Well, tell us something about your equipment for the Central Registration Bureau. Well, we've got quite a ways already on that. The telephones have been installed, alternative communications have already been planned, files and typewriters are in place, and mimeographs and other equipment is on order. We're waiting for delivery on that now. On the matter of mimeographs, I take it that you propose to put out bulletins printed by these machines. Is that so? Yes, we do plan that. We will make up lists of casualties and the names of separated children. We'll put them on the mimeograph machine, get mimeograph bulletins out, and these bulletins will be distributed to local newspapers, radio stations, press services. These lists will also be published in all public buildings, police stations, and places of mass housing and feeding. We're doing this in order to disseminate as widely as possible and as quickly as possible all the information that we would have. It is our hope that by publishing these lists, we will cut down the number of inquiries. Well, that's very interesting, and that should be very effective in time of great stress. What progress has your division made in providing temporary housing for displaced persons, Commissioner McCarthy? We've made considerable progress, but not enough yet. We're not quite in a position to show the total of the results that we expect. Well, how is that? It was necessary to do a great deal of spade work first, Commissioner. We had to compile a listing of places that might be suitable for temporary housing, and it was necessary to get the consent of the owners to use these buildings. We're now in the process of inspecting all of these buildings. From now on, we should be able to show results for all the labor that we have put into the project so far. Can you give me and our listeners any specific figures at this time, Commissioner McCarthy? Yes, I can. Up to this point, we can provide sleeping facilities for about 30,000 persons. I expect this figure to go up tremendously every day from now on. I'm glad to hear that you expect much greater improvement in your housing facilities in a short period of time. Tell me about your ability to provide food. Well, Commissioner Wallander, we had about the same kind of job to do in our feeding program, as I just spoke about, for our housing. We've been inspecting cooking facilities and equipment, and we're quite far along with that right now. Well, that's fine. Can you give me some definite figures on the number of people you can provide with food at this time? Well, we have now facilities to serve hot meals to a quarter of a million people daily. In addition, we can serve coffee and a light bite to another half million. Our capacity to feed will also expand rapidly now, since all of our inspection reports are coming in every day, being made by the people in the field. Well, Commissioner McCarthy, I think that the emergency welfare division has made tremendous strides to meet its responsibilities, and I want to commend you and your staff for a splendid job. Well, thank you, Commissioner. We are certainly trying hard to serve the people of the city and to provide for them in case of attack. Good. I know that, personally, that you're all working very hard, but can you tell us something about the preparedness of your staff to meet an emergency? Well, our staff is on top of this job, Commissioner. As you know, the Department of Welfare provides assistance day in and day out to people in need. We have disasters quite regularly in this city. Sometimes it's a fire in a small house. Other times it may be a large tenement. These we take in our stride every day. I must admit that in our day-to-day work, we have to be pretty technical because we have a lot of legal requirements that we have to meet. However, in case of an enemy attack, we have prepared a manual of operations, special manual of operations, for this purpose. And this manual does simplify many of our present procedures, and it is geared to handle an enormous number of people in a very short space of time. Well, I'm gratified to learn your approach to this problem. It's a new concept for us. All of our supervisory staff is taking intensive training in the simplified procedures. As soon as they've completed their training, the rest of the staff will be trained too. Will this complete your preparedness program for the entire staff? No, sir. We plan to have practice drills so that our operational procedure will become a part of each staff member's thinking, and their reactions will become automatic in the event of an attack. A large section of our staff is taking first aid courses in our various divisions right now. Who's giving these courses, Commissioner McCarthy? Well, 36 of our employees who have been specially trained and who recently received instructor certificates in first aid. Well, I'm glad that your staff is progressing so well in first aid. I have directed that all civil defense personnel receive first aid training. I think that they all should have it. Well, I think so too, Commissioner. I'd like to bring up the question of volunteers again. It's probably the most important factor in our whole emergency welfare division civil defense activity. Well, I am fully aware of the importance of volunteers. It is true that civil defense is a governmental function, or we might say sponsored by the government. But the government is the people. It is everybody's job to work in civil defense. It certainly is, Commissioner. I would like to bring out the fact that volunteers don't need to have any special skill or training. We will assign the volunteers to tasks for which they are most suited. And we will train them for any specific assignment that we give them. Your point is well taken, Commissioner McCarthy. I want to thank you for being with us this evening. Your talk and discussion on the matters concerning emergency welfare division have been very illuminating. Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to another in the important series of Reports on Civil Defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City civil defense organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Henry L. McCarthy, Commissioner of the Department of Welfare and Director of the Emergency Welfare Division of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening, at this same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the municipal broadcasting system. This is the municipal broadcasting system.