Mr. Mayor, Reverend Clergy, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, This cornerstone laying marks considerable progress towards the completion of the $42 million worth of hospital construction currently in progress and initiated by the administration of Mayor O'Dwyer. This 2,000-bed chronic disease hospital, however, is the crowning achievement of the entire program, for it will place the city of New York in the forefront of communities which are taking active steps to combat the great plague of chronic illness which is engulfing our country. Physically, this new construction is replacing a departmental facility, the city home, that has served the people of New York for more than 100 years, but actually it is no more like a city home than a backwoods kitchen is like a modern operating room. The day is past when we can, in good conscience, throw up our hands at any patient and say, This is hopeless. No situation is hopeless until rigor mortis has actually set in. We are living in the golden age of preventive and therapeutic medicine, and it has been demonstrated in our departmental hospitals and in others throughout the world that the conception that chronic disease is incurable and uncontrollable is dreadfully wrong. We have shown that even without the benefit of miracle drugs, the zeal of a rehabilitation team and a proper approach to a patient can transform a bedridden cripple to a worthwhile member of society. We have examples in our hospitals of sufferers more than five years in bed with a prospect of a lifetime of helplessness who have been brought back to their families and made useful and productive members of their community. Unless we adopt this dynamic approach to the care of the chronically ill, the aged and the infirm, there will never be enough institutional facilities for them. Each year more of the total population is surviving into middle and later life. Each medical discovery that prolongs life adds to the army of the chronically ill. You will notice on the cards inviting you to this ceremony that the name of this structure is given as the Berdeskola Memorial Hospital, and we have left off the last two words, and home. We feel that an institution is not a proper home for anyone, and that if we have to provide for people requiring a home, we must develop a non-institutional type of facility. In any event, we have so many sick people waiting to come here that I expect that we will reach full capacity within a month after opening, and because of our dreadfully overcrowded hospitals, we will not be able to close the city home until much of the construction under the $150 million program will have been completed. Now, except for the very young in this audience, everyone knows that this hospital is named after a man who played a great part in making our city what it is. Berdeskola was a leading public figure for more than four decades. He was the first controller of Greater New York. He served as borough president of Brooklyn, and for three terms he was commissioner of charities, a title which was later changed to public welfare. Our Department of Welfare hospitals were under him before the formation of the Department of Hospitals. We are privileged today to have his son, Eugene B. Kola, and his grandson on this platform, and I should like very much for them to take a bow before we introduce our speakers for this afternoon. Mr. Kola. Our first speaker is a gentleman of great ability and experience in public affairs. By training, he is both an engineer and a lawyer. He has served his country as a soldier in both world wars. I am personally grateful to him for his understanding and support of all measures looking towards the improvement and betterment of the sick poor in his important capacity as a member of the Board of Estimate. It is therefore a distinct privilege for me to introduce to you the president of the Borough of Manhattan, the Honorable Hugo Rogers. Dr. Kogel, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. About less than two weeks ago, we participated in a ceremony down at the other end of the island at which time a very important addition was made to the facilities here, making it so much easier for the City of New York through its departments to service the various functions that take place here on the island. Now again, we're assembled to dedicate or at least to lay the cornerstone of one of the most important additions to our Department of Hospital system. I'm particularly gratified to be here at this time because in a matter of a short period of time, I won't be able to participate as a public official. It's gratifying to me because before the termination of the present administration, we're beginning to see some of the fruits of the planning, of the sacrifice, and of the intelligent distribution of the funds of the City of New York to build up the facilities that were definitely going into decay. It's true that this is about the fourth hospital that we are actually seeing in structural operation. When we added 306 beds in the Francis Delafile Hospital for cancer patients, when we added 275 beds in the James Ewing Hospital for cancer patients, 570 beds in the new tuberculosis and chronic disease hospital, and now 2,000 beds over here, I feel proud to have been a part of the team that developed these things and is seeing them come to life. It's amazing when you read the public press and you see the criticism leveled by people who don't know facts and don't take the trouble to inform themselves about the truth, and it's amazing, too, that some of those irresponsible, cynical statements receive space. It's a tragedy because the public reads those things and it's misguided into the wrong channels of thinking. It's just as ridiculous for any of us to expect this hospital to rise up and be completed in 30 days as it is for someone to say that if he were elected the day after election he would start a 2nd Avenue subway. Anybody in his right mind, anybody who has a sense of responsibility knows, you can't perform miracles, you can't do anything without funds, and your funds can go just so far. In order to distribute the monies that are available to the administration, in order to see that everything that the city has spent millions and millions on don't go into decay, that money has to be intelligently allocated to all the different purposes. That has been done. And while I'm not running for public office, perhaps I'm in the best position to sing the plaudits and to sing the praises of the team of which I was a part for almost four years. Nobody has to apologize for the things that it accomplished. I don't think anybody will be foolhardy enough to do so. Certainly it made mistakes. The administration was made up of human beings and the Lord hasn't made perfect ones yet. But taking those mistakes into consideration, taking into consideration the good things, the tangible evidences of intelligent, proper planning and good government, those things far outweigh any of the mistakes for which normal people can be criticized. We've heard many things about previous administrations, about the fine works. I don't think any administration in many decades came into power, came into its office with more troubles, with more problems facing it than the present one. This administration took office immediately after a world war with shortages of manpower, shortages of money, shortages of material. and with all that, if you review the school program, you review the hospital program, you review all the programs of public service, of improvements, of maintenance work, I'll venture to say that you will feel that we are justified if we are proud of what has been done. I hope that the public will take these things into intelligent consideration and weigh these facts carefully. I want to congratulate the Commissioner of Hospitals on this fine new addition, which in a short time will be available to alleviate the shortage of beds and to make it possible for all the needy sick to find the help and the assistance that will bring them back to a normal condition and to find their place again in ordinary society. Thank you for having me. Our next speaker has the responsibility of building the hospitals that are approved for construction. He selects the architects and awards the construction contracts and his staff watch every phase of construction. He's a distinguished engineer and architect in his own right and it gives me great pleasure to introduce our Commissioner of Public Works, the Honorable Frederick H. Zemmulen. Dr. Kogel, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that Dr. Kogel told you that my responsibility is the selection of architects for our buildings because in this particular case and I want to report this to you, Mr. Mayor, this entire job, the largest hospital in the number of beds in the city of New York was entirely designed from the bottom up and is entirely supervised in its construction by members of the Department of Public Works civil service employees. I am proud to head the largest and to my mind and I've been around a bit one of the finest group of engineers and architects in this country and that means in this world. To give you a few of the facts about this building when completed it will cost very close to 17 millions of dollars. It will accommodate 2,000 patients in the next year. It was started the major contract was started on April the 7th of this year. It is expected that it will be completed for occupancy not later than early fall of next year. And when I say completed for occupancy I mean completed in all its detail beds, equipment and the like. That I think Mr. Mayor is a credit to your administration that not too much can be said about it. It is one of the finest accomplishments of any administration that I have had the knowledge of and I have been a resident of this city all my life. In our program of hospitals it is my duty to select architects. And in our program I want to say to you Mr. Mayor that two years ago you gave me the honor of selecting me as Commissioner of Public Works. Your Department of Public Works at that time had done a yearly business and this I think everyone will understand because everybody understands the almighty dollar. Your Department was doing a business of 12 million dollars that particular year in construction contracts. This year by the end of December we will have done seven times that much. And that is a tribute to your people who were here before I came Mr. Mayor a tribute to your civil service workers and your fine hospital employees from the commissioner all the way down who has cooperated in every single way in the construction program of your hospital program. It is a pleasure and a privilege coming from a private life to have spent two years under your leadership. I hope that the people of the city of New York and I know that the people of the city of New York will realize what a gem they have in this administration led by you. Thank you. No one has a more personal or devoted interest in the sick of our great city than our mayor. Under his administration not only have more hospital projects been initiated than ever before in the history of the city but with his help and guidance we have been able to cast off the shackles of traditional practice and blaze new trails and hospitalization techniques which the entire country is watching with interest and beginning to imitate. It is an inspiring experience to work under a man who has never asked for my political affiliations but who is solely interested in my ability to do the job. I am honored indeed to present to you a great mayor of the greatest city of the world the honorable William O'Dwyer. Mr. Cullen Reverend Guest Family of Commissioner Cullen Ladies and Gentlemen It is nice to look around here this afternoon and see this building on its way every rivet and every brick and every piece of steel will be a guarantee down through the years that those helpless ones in the chronic disease field will have a place for rehabilitation for help in their struggling hours of pain and that even though when it's finished we still will have to continue for some time to come those antiquated 1846 stone buildings that have been for a century now serving that purpose and at least for a half a century have been a disgrace to New York we still must use them because of the terrific demand for beds in the chronic disease field we have them in hospital wards actually taking up the room of acute medical patients anyone who has the slightest idea of hospital administration will easily understand that for the doctors and the nurses to go through those wards of acute patients and have to stumble over one bed after another chronic disease patients that are in there because of lack of adequate space where they could get special treatment and care but know the difficulty and possibility of properly administering wards and hospitals on that basis now it's true this is a political year and may God forbid that I would mention it for a moment on a day that we devote to this sacred duty of the city not only for today but down through the years while the building lasts has been pointed out of course that this is an expensive thing for us to do well of course it is New York's got to make up its mind whether it will take care of its needy sick and within that periphery would come the chronic disease patients it's got to make up its mind whether it's going to take care of them or not if it takes care of them it's got to pay for it and you can't have nurses and help that's inadequate to do the job and you can't have them underpaid you can't have them working hours that wouldn't be tolerated in private industry New York's got to make up its mind that that's got to be done and if the bill is high New York got to make up its mind either to pay that bill or let the sick die without the help well I'm mayor that won't happen now that's a simple proposition for the people of this city make up their minds what do they want I know what I stand for now we had 42 million dollars worth of improvement new buildings new hospitals since we came in well ladies and gentlemen that is so inadequate 42 million dollars worth of new construction is completely lost in the maze of need for our needy sick what in heaven's name have we to boast about when we found 230 beds for cancer in a city of 8 million people and if now we had the Delafield and if now we had the memorial bringing it up to 600 beds have we have we really completed that job is that enough who would suggest that that was enough and in that field of chronic disease where so much can be done to give the helpless ones an opportunity to come back into life again to give them the joy and the morale almost a god given gift of new life if we spend extra money on that and succeed who will be most served certainly not the patient but the city itself will be served if you can get them back someday into normal channels of self support not to talk about the dignity and the morale that it will give to the individual so if we are spending money on this construction today and if we are spending it on housing and on schools we are not spending money on anything that isn't needed badly there has been a crying need in all of these services now while we are talking about hospitals we will have to talk about something else we will have to talk about that five cent fare boys get your pencils ready on this one get it down the day came when you couldn't pay the help in the subway on a five cent fare didn't pay the help and when you didn't pay the help and you found out what you owed them you had to go into some other department and take the money from some other department to pay the help in the subway that meant that I had to come into these poor sick people in our hospitals and take thirty five to fifty one million dollars from services in our hospital and pay the help in the subway or raise the fare to pay the help I raise the fare to pay the help because if New York City wants to rob the sick they better get someone else from there they don't need me I won't do it now to take the money away from the hospitals and from the sick well I've got bad news for New York every time you build one of those new hospitals you've got to get two persons means two in personnel for each patient and I am not going to suggest that the personnel works for nothing just so happens that in this type of a hospital there is a ratio of half of that here you don't need that many in personnel but for two thousand beds here you are going to require one thousand new persons to serve in this hospital someone's got to pay for that and to preach poverty to the dying and the sick is a role that I don't care to play in the history of a city that we all love a city that has been kind and warm hearted and that outside of some selfish private interests never would condemn the sick of this or any other type to a helpless death while we stood around with money in our pockets now it's as simple as that and a decision has got to be made I'm going to give you something else we know that our general hospital plant is inadequate is ancient in many cases and is not suitable for the sick and we know that we've asked the experts the hospital council the academy the commissioners and they've come up to us with a simple answer three years ago that we need 150 million dollars to put our hospital plant into such shape that New York will no longer have to blush for it and its needy sick will be properly taken care of now ladies and gentlemen it isn't easy to get that kind of money because we need it for everything else so we finally decided to make an appeal for the permission to borrow 150 million dollars above our debt incurring powers in order to get that permission we had to go to two separate legislatures each one had to pass a resolution giving us permission to go to the people ladies and gentlemen we have that permission from two separate legislatures and now this year on November the 8th every citizen in the state of New York will have the right to vote on the proposition as to whether or not we can have that money earmarked for hospitals well now let's see how you go about that in the first place it's an amendment to the constitution it will have to be voted upon all the way from Montauk Point to Buffalo even though it applies to New York City only and will not be a charge on any taxpayer outside of the city of New York but yet because it's an amendment to the constitution it must be voted upon by the entire state therefore ladies and gentlemen it becomes of exceptional importance this time that everyone in New York City that has a heart for the sick the needy sick will come through and vote for that amendment and you can't vote for it unless you register and you only have this week to register I am not asking you for your vote for me but I am asking you to register and to take that hospital amendment and do your duty by the needy sick of today and the needy sick down through the years if you don't do it now if you should lose it and I don't know when again you will ever succeed in having a proposition of this child placed before the people of this city and state I have to thank the President Hedrick thank him for having accepted the obligations and the duties of staffing this hospital to I I welcome the descendants of an illustrious forbear after whom this hospital is named I'm grateful to the clergymen who have joined with us today in asking God's blessing on this building and those who are going to suffer in it and those who are going to be made well if that be his will and to Commissioner Zemulian and the men and women of our Department of Public Works for this efficient job done by city employees that is something to be really proud of and to Commissioner Cogel and to Dr. Bernicke who preceded him and who served between the two hospital commissioners during my administration no matter what happens on November the 8th I shall always remember with great joy and pleasure the kind of cooperation first of all the love that these men have for the work of the Department of Hospitals the affectionate regard they have for those entrusted to their care of course they haven't had the equipment or the manpower over the years to do the job of course because of the deterioration of our physical plant it's still impossible to do the kind of a job they want but in thanking them I'm going to commend them to you and when I ask you to get your friends to register this week and no matter what else you do on November the 8th vote for that hospital amendment may the good God bless everyone who is going to take part today tomorrow and down through the years and the glorious work that will go on within these walls thank you honor that setup promised everything he that well there so
