Across the street, across the nation, here is a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross, starring Judy Canova. When I was born, my mom and pa, they looked at me and said, oh sure. The doctor said, it's a girl, I think. Then pa went out and got a drink. Then ma said, I look just like pa. And pa said, I took after ma. My aunt said, maybe she'll fly away. And I've been a misfit to this day. Ooh. They always, always pick on me. They never, never let me be. I'm so very lonely. Oh, for sad, it's been a long time since I've been glad. Now I know what I'll do. By and by, I'll eat some mud pies and then I'll die. And when I'm gone, just wait and see. They'll all be sorry that they picked on me. One morning just at four o'clock, somebody tried to pick our lock. I knew it was papa, sure as sin. So I opened the door and I let him in. My ma said, what time is it, pa? It's 12 o'clock, my pa told ma. Just then the cuckoo cuckooed four. And pa made me cuckoo eight times more. They're gonna be sorry that they picked on me. Cause when I grow up, just wait and see. A wonderful prima donna I'll be. And sing in grand of her re. It's 12 o'clock, my Halloween countdown and so on. Oh! It's 12 o'clock. Oh, tell me! Oh! Do you love me? Tell me, tell me, tell me, do you love me? Tell me, tell me, tell me, do you love me? O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O, O! Help me, do you love me, dear? Two of my対ように泳ぐ 하는 groupe. It is empowering to do whatever day it a day you've ever died for. laoon Weil I love the plaid I love the plaid I love the bombs Oh, tell me I know what I'll do By and by They can't get me down No, to be not I Cause when I'm gone Just wait and see They'll all be sorry That they pick on They'll all be sorry That they pick on Well, I'd have been here sooner But I had to stop And repossess a car My name is Williams, Miss Canova Mr. Williams, I gotta borrow some money Because the bank said They didn't get my mortgage payment On my house Uh-huh Who would co-sign your note, Miss Canova? Uh, mine, Pi, my brother, Zeke He's my working brother What does your brother do? He's a breeder in an optical company A breeder? Yeah, he breeds on the eyeglasses And another man wipes them off I see If you don't laugh, I'll tell it again Miss Canova If your parents co-sign your note I'll need a description of them For identification purposes Like what? Well, a description of any unusual Physical characteristics For instance, uh Do your parents have any moles? No, but we got three gophers In the backyard No, that's not what I mean Have you any pictures I might look at? Uh, yeah Here's one tooken in the backyard I want a picture of your family Not the gophers This is my family There's 12 of us kids Hmm Your mother and father Had a very large number of children What's this alongside them? A duck? No, that's a stork With his legs wore down Tell me this Are your parents substantial people? Do they move around a lot Or do they stay put in one place? Mr. Williams Pa can stay put in one place Longer than any man I know Well, I remember one day Back home in Cactus Junction Ma was saying to Pa She turned to him And she says to him She says Wake up, Pa Wake up, you lazy crudder Wake up Oh, gosh Ma, do I have to get up? Pa Instead of fussing when I wake you Why don't you raise up your head And kiss me? I wished you to ask me sooner, Ma I'd just lean back Ma What's for breakfast? I'm hungry Get up, you lazy critter And empty the garbage can I ain't that hungry Ma Ma You don't look very neat today Oh, Pa I need a new dress I've been wearing the one I got on since the day I've come back From the horse pedal Well, why can't you wear it no more? The horse pedal wants it back Anyhow, it's out of style Well, I hear tell that flapper clothes Is it coming back again Then you'll be right in style Your underwear is always been to flapper Come on Say, Pa Our cow gave 20 quarts of milk today That's the most she ever gov How do you account for that? Well, before I milked this morning I accidentally washed my hands with glue Instead of liquid soap Well, what's that got to do with it? Pa I couldn't let go Anyhow, Pa I don't think we'll be able to sell cow's milk no more I read in the paper That some smart fella Has just found a way to get milk from a peanut Gosh, he sure must use an awful low stool Hey, up, Pa Here comes Judy's dumb boyfriend, Lukey, up on the porch How they leave All you folks say Simmer down, son Lukey, what's all the first about? Well, last night, Grandpa dove into town And he started drinking Then he come tearing up the road back to our house Took a left turn too fast And smashed right into the barn Well, that was That was terrible, Lukey It sure was It's a good thing he didn't have his automobile Lukey When you come over here to see Judy Why don't you wash your face? I can tell what you had for breakfast this morning Oh, I bet you can't You had eggs Oh, I knew you couldn't tell That was yesterday Lukey You've been to court in our duty A long time now Ain't it about time you two got hitched Yeah, Lukey After you and Judy settled down Before you knowed it The house would be filled with a pattern of little feet Gosh, just feet, no children? Anyhow, the last time I proposed Judy turned me down And I was gonna blow my brains out Well, how come you didn't blow your brains out? Well, I didn't have to I must have got rid of them some other way Well, if you folks will excuse me I'm going in and tell the room in court Judy My dingy dong is I sure do love Like our girl Well, Paul, let's get the chores dead You milk the goat And I'll open the window And let the pigeons out Let's get them so there ain't no restaurant Here in nowhere And Mr. Williams That'll give you an idea Of the kind of people who are gonna co-sign that note for me Oh, Miss Canova, you failed to make your mortgage payments to the bank Now, would you mail your payments in promptly if we made this loan? Oh, why, sure Pedro will mail them for me, won't you, Pedro? Oh, see Just like I mail all the other payments to the bank In that special mailbox Special mailbox? What box is that? Oh, that nice red one on the corner, senorita All I do is break that little glass and turn a hand Oh, Pedro Ladies and gentlemen, this is Judy Canova I want to tell you about a woman who looked frightened So frightened that the mailman got worried After all, he'd only told her there wasn't any mail And then the story tumbled out Her husband was a disabled veteran and very sick They had just moved and his disability check hadn't caught up with them They were out of coal, flour, everything She didn't even have bus fare to get into town And wouldn't know where to go for help if she did There wasn't much the mailman could do But he did make a suggestion Even lent her a dollar for the fare The next day, the woman was very happy as she told him what happened She had gone to the Red Cross office They sent a doctor He had called the VA hospital And they had come for her husband in an ambulance And she had money And it was to keep coming until their disability compensation checks arrived The mailman puts it this way Shucks, he says I knew Red Cross wouldn't let her down So folks, that's why people give through Red Cross Let's all give all we can to this 1950 fund campaign Your hand held out to your neighbor when he needs help That's your American Red Cross Bringing help whenever and wherever it's needed Across the street, across the nation, across the world Give generously Give now Today's Judy Canova show Written by Fred Fox, Henry Hoople, Arthur Phillips And transcribed as a salute to our American Red Cross Starring Judy Canova With Mel Blanc, Joe Kearns, Charles Danner and his orchestra Produced and directed by Joe Rimes And yours truly, Howard Petrie This program was made possible Through the cooperation of the American Federation of Musicians The American Federation of Radio Artists And the Radio Writers Guild Across the street Across the nation Across the world Here is a transcribed salute to our American Red Cross Yes, it's the Bob Hope Show With Doris Day, Jack Kirkwood, Irene Ryan Yours truly, High Aberback Les Brown and his band of renown And here he is, the rambling wreck from Palm Springs Bob Hope! Thank you I went out to Santa Anita the other day To watch the horses run and pick up a little easy money If you've ever been out there, that's the end of the joke I stay at Santa Anita was abbreviated I went out in the QT But I did NG Started making out IOUs And walked back BVD I was there about 10 minutes And a pickpocket took my wallet And they arrested him for stealing money That belonged to the track I asked the pickpocket How he developed such a light touch And he said Watching a Republican Applaud one of Margaret's concerts But it's really It's really wonderful watching a race in California The horses start in the sunshine Go around the turn into the smog Come down the back stretch in the rain And finish wind, place, and snow And the smog Thank you losers And the smog And the smog has hurt track condition It used to be Can a horse run in the mud Now they want to know If he can feel his way In the back stretch I had a bet on one horse It was so old They were betting him To win, place, and live He came out on the track Muttering one if by land And two if by sea I wanted to make sure he won So I put two dollars on his nose And two dollars on his tail But he double-crossed me He came in sideways And I also bet on a Florida horse He would have won too If he hadn't stopped in the back stretch To sneer at our oranges I thought the race was on the level But I got a little suspicious When I saw my horse Cashing a ticket on the winner See the horses stand Right ahead There was a horse in the audience I could work the whole thing out One jockey must have been Using a battery Every time he'd hit his horse The street lights would go on in Arcadia You know Want to work on that a while? My brother's making a fortune With an invention For people who've lost their shirts And want to make one more bet It's a zipper for their skin You know with Santa Anita And Congress both open A fella has to be a contortionist These days They got you in a barrel And over it at the same time It's really something While you're losing your shirt At Santa Anita They're going through your pants In Washington Yes this week Congress was back in session Congress that's People are funny With your money The opening ceremonies Were a lot shorter Than usual this year Instead of making His annual budget message President Truman Just stood up and said Put something in the pot boys And it looks as if America's going to recognize The new Chinese government We have to What with Barclay, O'Dwyer Stuart Grant and Gable We're all out of rice Congress plans to investigate Our foreign aid program We've sent over billions of dollars And all we've got to show for it Is Rita's five and a half pounds Thirty-five a week And seven people to support Is it any wonder The future looked black Life had always been tough for Anna But at least she'd had John and the kids Then the tornado came And John was gone So was the house they lived in The kids Well they were all alive But three were in the hospital Thirty-five a week That came from working nights As a waitress The only job Anna could get That was hardly enough To take care of an ordinary family Much less one with Six growing youngsters Anna went to the Red Cross For help and help was given Her house was rebuilt And refurnished And to replace the loss Of John's earnings Arrangers were made For a vegetable garden And a chicken yard Set up and back So now Anna's home With her children Where she should be Home all day And with a hustling young Chicken and egg business They'd all help run I just thought you'd like To know what happens With some of those dollars You give to your American Red Cross I love those dear hearts And gentle people That live in my hometown Because those dear hearts And gentle people Will never ever let you down Ah yes There's nothing like the folks Back in the old hometown They're real people They've always got a ready smile And a place in their hearts For you And you know you can always Count on them Because they never let you down I remember once When I was back home I needed five dollars real bad And I didn't know Where to go for it So I asked my neighbor Tom For the five dollars And he told me where to go Well I'm back home now And after being away For ten years In the town Still looks good to me And I've been to a lot of Strange and exotic places In the world Shanghai Algiers Singapore Hong Kong And that strangest of all places Knott's Berry Farm I'll take a box of Redwoods Boy I wouldn't swap Main Street here For any other street in the world Gee look at all my old friends That are still around Hiya Ned Howdy Bob Hello Sam Howdy Bob And there's old Dobbin The horse that's been pulling The ice wagon for twenty years Hiya Dobbin Howdy Bob I don't know why I said hello to him He didn't answer my last letter Say Look over there Sitting on the steps Of the courthouse Old Pappy Walker Pappy's still sitting there Making a sailboat Inside a bottle I wonder how he's gonna Get out of the bottle When the sailboat is finished Boy I'm glad I came back To the old hotel And say here's the drugstore I think I'll get a package Of cigarettes Here's the cigarette machine I'll just put the money in Take the nickel out of my ear Well Irene Ryan How about that Well I haven't seen you Since we were in school together Ten years ago Let me look at you Okay Gee you haven't changed a bit Yes Isn't it awful For most people Time flies It just sat on me Well it's good to see Anyway How are you Would you mind Talking into my knee please You want me to talk Into your knee Yes My hearing aid slipped Well why don't you wear it Under your hair I always forget And put makeup on Over it I've got so much Makeup in it now Every time I plug it in It mixes a batch Of pancakes Well tell me Miss Ryan What did you do After you graduated Well I went to New York Because I saw an ad In a magazine for models They wanted girls With grace Poise Perfect figure Beautiful face And college education But I didn't get the job If only I'd gone to college Oh that's too bad You'd have made a good model With your lower lip You could have posed For vacuum cleaners Maybe you're right All my friends tell me I look like Hoover Well I'm surprised to hear That you're a career girl I always thought you were Going to marry your Childhood sweetheart Don Hornsby I was But someone in his family Didn't approve of me His mother? No his wife Oh you must have been All broken up Oh I was There's still a wound A raw wound On your heart? No on my finger Where he ripped the ring off Goodbye Goodbye Gee Here's where my old Girlfriend Doris lives Boy I hope she remembers me Robert Doris You sure you've never Been out of your front yard? Robert That fits anywhere Doesn't it? Robert What are you doing Back in town? Well I kind of got lonesome For the dear hearts And gentle people And especially you Here Doris I brought you something From the city Oh for me? Uh huh Go ahead Just lift the top Oh gee A musical garbage can Yeah It's sure good to see you again Doris It's been so long I never would have thought That anybody That anybody Who was so skinny And had knocked knees And freckles And long pigtails Would ever turn out To be so beautiful Well But I did it Oh Robert To think that you're back home It brings back so many Wonderful memories Do you remember Our first kiss? Oh I sure do You were wearing braces On your teeth And I was wearing braces On my teeth And when we kissed Our braces locked Yeah the blacksmith Had to come and separate us With a crowbar Well I'm back now Doris And remember you said We'd get married someday That we were going to travel Down the highway of life together Not with you driving the car Oh Lovely thing Did you do that? Well what do you say Doris? Let's get back to the dull stuff Huh? Well what do you say Doris? Will you marry me? Well all right Robert I'll marry you If we can find a place to live Oh I'll build us a place to live I'll go see a contractor Right now Well here's the place Let's see what it says on the door J.S. Crow Kirkwood I guess I'll go in and sit down Oh how do you do? Are you Mr. Kirkwood? Uh huh Put something in the chair boy Oh Mr. Kirkwood Just a minute boy I was just about to finish the plans For a house here I don't know whether I should have The walls stuck old Or papered Or uh Or uh Plastered? Yeah but I'll sober up Before I go home Uh what could I do for you boy? Well I want you to build me a house What can you suggest? Well I can build you a mansion For $40,000 Or a very comfortable home For $25,000 Or a real nice cottage For $15,000 Now how much do you have to spend? 500 bucks How would you like an orange crate With Venetian blinds? Well I'm sorry I just don't have too much money to spend Well I understand your position And I can build you a nice house cheap By just making a few substitutions In the material What do you mean? Well take the plumbing for instance Copper plumbing is expensive So I use a substitute Oh what do you use for a substitute? The washroom at the corner gas station But you know I'm beginning to doubt That you're a legitimate contractor Oh now how can you say that boy? And I called you boy Only because you were turned down By Phil Spitalny I only had my other arm I think I'll call the police And have them come down here To question you Oh no no no That'll mean fingerprints again You mean you've been fingerprinted before? Have I? Boy my thumbs haven't been clean In ten years Well it wouldn't surprise me If you've been in jail Oh jail is such a harsh word I like to think of it As a home away from home Come on give me a chance boy I'll build you a beautiful home Well gee I don't know Now look look Here's a picture of a perfect dream house For a young couple Gee that's just what I want It's a perfect thing For a fellow like you And his bride Well look here comes my girl now I'll ask her Hello Oh so you're the little girl That's going to marry this boy My you're lovely I'd just like to kiss The little bride to be Oh that was wonderful Goodbye Robert Yeah come on honey Goodbye boy Now wait a minute Wait a minute What happened here I've been going with her for ten years And you took her away with one kiss Yeah boy And I've never been out of the front yard Your hand held out to your neighbor When he needs help That's your American Red Cross Bringing help wherever and whenever it's needed Across the street Across the nation Across the world Give generously Give now Today's Bob Hope show A transcribed salute to our American Red Cross Starred Bob Hope With Doris Day Irene Ryan Jack Kirkwood Les Brown and his band of renown And yours truly Hi Aberbeck This program was made possible Through the cooperation Of the American Federation of Musicians The American Federation of Radio Artists And the Radio Writers Guild And the Radio Writers Guild And the Radio Writers Guild And the Radio Writers Guild