Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is the Queen's College Forum, inaugurating its fifth annual series of public service forums. Tonight our topic is, Shall We Abolish Proportional Representation? Speaking for PR, we will hear George Hallett, Jr., Secretary of the Citizens Union, Associate Secretary of the National Municipal League, and author of two books on proportional representation. Against PR, we will hear Abraham Kaplan, former state senator and past president of the Municipal Civil Service Commission and chairman of the repealed PR committee of the New York County Democratic Party. As mediator, we will have Professor Joseph Kitchen of the Department of Political Science at Queen's College. Professor Kitchen, the microphone is yours. Next Tuesday, the voters of New York will go to the polls to vote, among other issues, on the question of retaining or abolishing proportional representation for electing members of the City Council. This is Proposition No. 4 on your ballot. It reads as follows. Shall the proposed amendment to the New York City Charter abolishing the proportional representation system of electing councilmen and providing for the election of one councilman from each Senate district be approved? The system of proportional representation for electing members of the City Council was adopted in 1936 in two measures that both abolished the old Board of Aldermen and adopted a new election system. The purpose of the system was claimed at the time to be that of giving more adequate representation to other than the majority party and providing borough-wide candidacies and a single transferable vote. The adoption in 1936 was by a very substantial majority. Attempts to repeal were made in 1938 and 1940 when a considerable opposition was rolled up. Since the adoption of PR, five elections have been held under the system. Now, in 1947, a new proposal for repeal has been made. New factors have been introduced. The proposal for repeal is backed by both of the major party organizations and by a large section of the Metropolitan Daily Press. One thing to bear in mind, it does not mean a return to the old, large Board of Aldermen, but to a new small group approximately the size of the present council that is to be selected from Senate districts. I mention this so that it will not necessarily be a point of discussion later. On behalf of proportional representation, I'm going to ask Mr. Hallett, who is an authority in this field, to give a brief statement of why proportional representation is considered to be a desirable thing in city government of New York. Mr. Hallett. Proportional representation was brought forward by Judge Seabury and other civic leaders as the answer to the situation we had in the old Board of Aldermen, in which there was year in and year out a near monopoly for the largest political party. Which political party it was makes a little difference in point of view of civic interest. In Philadelphia, where I used to live some years back, we had the same system in reverse. There, for over 20 years, there was never a Democrat elected to the city council. And that situation was just as bad as the one we had here in New York City, where, for instance, in 1931, there was only one Republican elected to a 65-member Board of Aldermen, all the rest being organization Democrats, and most of the rest simply being hand-picked selections of the Democratic district leaders. It was to get away from that sort of thing and give a balanced representation of all the people of New York City. That proportional representation was adopted. Now, proportional representation is a modern device intended to carry out more perfectly the fundamental principles of American democracy. Majority rule, and it does, I think it can be demonstrated, assure majority rule much more surely than any other method of election, particularly when you have several parties, as we do in all kinds of elections here in New York City. And, on the other hand, it assures representation to other groups as well. One-party monopolies are more in line with the dictatorships of Europe than with American democracy. We like to see an opposition to keep the majority on its toes and to bring out the issues of all problems as they come up. And under proportional representation here in New York, we have been able to get that at every election. Whereas for 18 years, in the last days of the Board of Aldermen, there was never an opposition as large as one-third of the Board of Aldermen, under PR there has never been an opposition smaller than one-third. And at every election except one, a larger opposition has been elected than that. So that the Democratic steamroller of the old days has not been rolling. The majority has been on its toes to make a good record. It has known that if it made mistakes, they would be picked up very quickly by an able opposition. And it has never had enough votes so that it could afford to try to do anything which was not approved by its own best members. Now, the Democratic organization, which Senator Kaplan represents, is, I am sure, the real originator of the attempt to repeal PR here in New York City Council elections. Although much is being said about the two Communist councilmen out of 23 on the present council, we can be sure that they are not the real reason for the attack on PR, since there were no such councilmen when the same Democratic organization put the same charter amendment before the people unsuccessfully in 1940. The chief real reason for the attack, I think, is clear. And that is that the Democratic leaders begrudge the large share of the council they have regularly lost to minority parties and independents under PR and would like to have the rest of those $25,000 jobs on the council for themselves. They much prefer the situation in the old board of aldermen where nearly every alderman was the hand-picked selection of the Democratic district leader. We would get back to something very like that if the amendment up doing away with PR and substituting Senate district elections should be adopted. The Republican leaders who decided to go along with the Democrats in trying to abolish PR evidently don't think so, but they have been badly taken in. They have overlooked the fact that their present Republican state senators were pulled into office by the popularity of Governor Dewey in certain parts of the city in the last state election and that councilmen are elected only in mayoralty years when the Democratic strength in the city is much greater. At the last mayoralty election, Mayor O'Dwyer carried every Senate district in the city without exception. The Republicans even had fewer votes for borough presidents that year than the American Labor Party. A council elected by Senate districts in 1945 would have been nearly or quite 100% Democratic. It was only thanks to PR that we have an opposition in the present council to bring out the issues and keep the majority on its toes. Therefore, I think I may, in starting this discussion, say that the real issue here, we'll have a chance to discuss the communists a little more later, the real issue is whether we shall have even-handed justice to all groups, majority and minority alike, unpopular minorities as well as the most constructive and popular ones, or whether we shall go back to something like what we had in the old Board of Aldermen with a near monopoly for one political organization and the members hand-picked by the district organizations of that major party. That is the choice before us next Tuesday. Thank you, Mr. Hallett. Mr. Kaplan? Ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience, the Democratic Party of this city favors the repeal of proportional representation for a number of reasons. The Republican Party favors the repeal of PR. The American Legion favors the repeal of PR. The veterans of foreign wars favor the repeal of PR. The Metropolitan Press, including the New York Times and the Evening Sun and the Morning News and the Morning Mirror, favor the repeal of PR. And that includes the Evening Telegram. There must be reasons why these groups, why these newspapers favor the repeal of PR and why the New York Daily News in an editorial said, we hereby formally apologize to our customers for having supported it when it was put up to the voters as a referendum question in the 1936 election. The New York Times editorially says briefly, PR results in practice to act as an instrument of disintegration, to emphasize areas of disagreement rather than agreement, and to bring into office extremists who lack the spirit of compromise essential to the successful working of democracy. In Germany and Italy, proportional representation was one of the main factors that permitted the growth of the fascists and nazis and other extremist parties and led to the breakdown of democracy, says the New York Times. Now, my opponent has given you the theoretical basis for PR. He contends that minority parties under PR receive representation in accordance with their strength, relative strength. But practice establishes the fact that this has not worked out. The system PR has not worked in accordance with the theoretical outline of its advocates. For instance, in 1943, Kings County cast 172,310 Republican votes for Joe Henley, then candidate for his present office as Lieutenant Governor. Yet, not a single Republican candidate for councilman was elected that year from the borough of Brooklyn. But during that year, Peter V. Cascione, a communist, was elected councilman from Brooklyn. Bronx County has never elected a Republican councilman, notwithstanding the fact that it has cast approximately 100,000 Republican votes for candidates on the voting machine. Democrats and Republicans have spread their number one preference votes among a large number of Democratic and Republican candidates for councilman, while the communists have given bullet votes to the communistic candidates. The system favors minority groups and favors communistic groups. My opponent has made the state that if the system is changed, there would be one party control. That is not accurate. Certainly, the Republican Party doesn't believe it, because if it did, it would not be fighting for the repeal of PR. What are the facts? In the first place, the system proposed as a substitute for PR is to elect councilmen from the senatorial districts in this city. There are 25 senatorial districts. We had an apportionment, if you recall, in this city, recently brought about by a Republican legislature. Now, what is the net result of that apportionment, or reapportionment? In 1946, in the last election for office to the state Senate, there were 25 senators elected to the state Senate, of whom 11 were Republicans. It is not accurate, therefore, to say that when you substitute the system of election by senatorial district for PR, that there would be one party control in the city of New York. PR has led to a number of difficulties. In the first place, it requires less than 1% of the population of the city to elect a councilman under that system. that councilman may remain in office, no matter how inefficient, at the will of this small minority, even though 99% of the population of the city of New York opposes his retention. That's the reason why we have communists under that system, the only two elected communists in this country. Another problem that is brought about by this system is the length of the ballot. I have a ballot with me which was used under this system in Brooklyn in 1937. It's four feet long, contains some 99 names, and is so long that the voters were and still are confused in their attempt to vote it. The names on it are very similar. An illustration of this is the name of Sonner, the name of Sonner, Shawnee, Shanz, Shanzer, two McCarthys, two McManuses, and two O'Brien's. There is no way that the intelligent voter can go into the poll and vote this system of PR. That conclusion is established for the fact that in 1937, the year of the first election under PR, there were 284,000 void ballots. And in 1945, when the last election under this system was held, there were still 284,000 void ballots. 284,000 citizens of this city who, by reason of the complex system, were unable to cast a ballot. The use of this system involves unnecessary expense and time for the determination of elections. And it takes, as you know, some three or four weeks before anyone can determine who is elected. Proportional representation invites racial groups, language groups, radical groups to intensify their differences by bringing them into political action. The wise majority system of election invites them to forget these distracting prejudices while joining in the task of selecting capable men to look after the interests which they have in common. Proportional representation is un-American, undemocratic, cumbersome, expensive, and foreign to our American two-party system and should be abolished. Senator, I wonder if I may just pick out two or three of those things for brief answers. You have given us enough to talk about for the next hour, but we'll have to be selected. Of course, we all have fun with this original ballot in Brooklyn, but we all know that the ballots have been much shorter since and that even in that election, it didn't cause any appreciable trouble. We all use telephone books with many more pages and names than that without any difficulty. If you know on a PR ballot five or six names of people that you like and want, you have no trouble picking them out in the alphabetical listing and voting for them. And in that first election, there were 80% of the people of Brooklyn who cast valid ballots who actually helped elect people for whom they voted. As a matter of fact, that has been the record all the way through. And right along, four out of every five who have cast valid ballots have helped elect someone that they wanted, whereas under the old plan, a bare majority or sometimes even less than a majority were able to elect people that they voted for. At the first PR election, even disregarding these invalid ballots, which unfortunately are still more than they should be, a half million more people were able to elect councilmen that they voted for than were ever able to elect aldermen under the old system and then would be able to elect councilmen from any sort of district system in New York City. Mr. Howell, may I ask, I understand by that that the vote is transferred and that although that isn't their first choice, their choice was eventually recorded. That's right. May I just, you've just commented on a situation which I'd like to reply to. In the first place, there were 274,000 Republicans in Brooklyn attempting to elect Republican councilmen in 1941 who were unable to elect anybody. Pardon me a moment. They elected nobody. There was no Republican elected from Brooklyn in that year. There was a communist elected from Brooklyn. The point that I am making is that there's such a diffusion of ballot and the ballot is so long as to confuse the populace and that it doesn't work out in accordance with this theoretical presumption that parties would be represented to the extent of their comparative strength. may I also, now pardon me a moment, also say to you when you talk about the comparative length of the ballot that I have here the 1945 report of the Board of Elections indicating that in 1945, which is the year of the last election under this system, there were still 98 petitions filed. And I say that's entirely too many names to give the voter an opportunity intelligently to cast a ballot under this un-American system. Now going back to that case of Brooklyn and the Republicans and the Communists, I want to have something to say on that question before we get off the air. I wonder if we can get this into this Communist question. That seems to come up. In the first place, Genevieve Earle was always a Republican and she was always elected from Brooklyn by Republican and independent voters. And one of the benefits of the system is that if the voters are not satisfied with the official nominees of the party, they have an effective chance under this system to substitute somebody else. And that's what they did when they chose Genevieve Earle and they chose Stanley Isaacs as Republicans when they were turned down by their parties and when they chose James Burke and Robert Strauss, Democrats, when they were turned down by their parties. But now as to these Communists, first, they haven't gotten representation beyond their voting strength. Last time, they cast 138,000 votes for candidates plainly labeled Communists on the ballot. That was between 8 and 9 percent of the council and they got between 8 and 9 percent of the council. You couldn't have gotten closer without dividing councilmen up into fractions. Now to be sure, if we do away with PR, we may do away with the direct representation of this minority, which is very unpopular. But at the same time, we'll do away with the representation of more popular minorities, such as the Liberal Party minority and the independent minorities that are back of such people as Genevieve Earl, in addition to the Republicans officially now. And more than that, we will be putting them in a position where they can do a whole lot more harm than they can at present because they will hold the balance of power in a lot of districts and they will be able to trade their power just as they did when Congressman Mark Antonio was elected last year with the official blessing of the Democratic Party in return for the ALP support of certain Democrats in other districts. May I answer that? You have made the statement that communists are entitled to be represented in the city council in accordance with their strength. That fundamentally is the issue between us. We contend that communists are entitled to no representation, that they are an un-American group, that they have no right to representation under our American system, that we have no duty to give them the city hall from which to use as a springboard, from which to present their ideology, that we don't have to pay communists $5,000 a year in order to pronounce doctrines that are inimical to the interests of this country. And to illustrate what I am driving toward, I want to read you a short extract from a statement by Earl Browder with respect to the council of the city of New York. That was in 1943. He said, and this is from the daily worker of October 20th, 1943, we have Pete Cachione on the council now. If you follow up this election, and it is harder this time than it was two years ago, and send Ben Davis to the council, the very fact of repeating the victory and demonstrating that the gathering of voters two years ago was not an accident, it was not some passing manifestation, but that it represented the crystallization of a permanent and political power in this city. The realization of that fact is going to electrify the whole of New York and to influence the policy of the state and the life of a mayor. We say that's wrong. May I introduce a new issue in here? No, I want to say something more about that, because I think this is the thing most people are interested in. And I agree that we've joined the issue now. Have you joined it on communism? Yes, I think so. It seems to me it's minority groups. Why do you not want? Any minority group, and I say that as long as they are allowed to vote, and that's another question, as long as they are allowed to vote, they should be treated like everybody else. And how can we expect the Russians and their satellites to respect our protests against their suppression of minorities in Eastern Europe? If here in the largest American city we change the rules of elections for the avowed and deliberate purpose of depriving our own unpopular minorities of their proportionate share of representation, I say that the thing to do is to go out and educate the voters and see if they don't vote for them next time. Put out popular candidates who can take votes away from them, but don't deny them their rights as American citizens. Because you've hit another point on which we differ fundamentally. There's no way of taking votes away from them under PR. There is no way of defeating a minority by the majority. As long as the communists representing two or three percent desire to have their representatives in the city council under this system, the majority cannot get them out or defeat them. That fundamentally is the reason why we are opposed to the system and consider it un-American. But we can defeat them by winning their supporters away from them. Nobody believes that they have that many communists. They got that many votes, though. What we have to do is to educate the voters to show more discretion. And after all, that's only one minority. Remember that 82 percent voted for non-radical candidates and they elected 82 and a half percent of the council. What we have to do is repeal PR and get these communists out of City Hall. Gentlemen, I am afraid that our time has practically run out. We have joined issue on a couple of the problems that have been involved here. I wish we could go into more detail on some of the others. I would like to hear from both of these gentlemen. I'd like to hear from them very much on what they think are the positive merits of the council under both systems. Which one elects the best council and whether the majority parties ought to be maintained. whether we want a fragmentation of our two-party system. But I'm sure the listeners have something to start on and that you are going to think these problems over before next Tuesday. Thank you, Mr. Shaw. Thank you, Mr. Hallett, Mr. Kaplan, and Mr. Kitchen for a stimulating discussion. Copies of this discussion, plus guide questions and the bibliography for further study, are available to our listeners free of charge. Write to Queens College, Flushing, New York, or to this station for your free copy. Two thousand copies of this program booklet will be used in over 50 New York City high schools and colleges for discussion purposes, and will be sent to key libraries all over the nation. Next week, on Friday evening instead of Thursday, the Queens College Forum will present a discussion on the topic, Can We Afford the Marshall Plan, with Professor Henry Miller of the Department of Economics at Queens College as chairman. Until next Friday evening at 9.30, this is Herbert Shuler speaking for Queens College, bidding you good evening. Thank you for mentioning, and here are the next few appointments here as well. for So let's take a look at rules and for looking forward, will now consider a summary ofwar to Let's use Ver and family screen of communities and you going to prioritize shows