Commissioner Moses, Judge Harris, Miss Wallman, and the members of the Wallman family, ladies and gentlemen. It's a great pleasure for me to be here today to participate in this very warm ceremony. As a member of the Board of Estimate, I have lived with this memorial since the day that it was first sponsored by Commissioner Moses. It had great appeal for me then. As it progressed through the Board of Estimate, it presented even a greater appeal. And today, when it's officially opened as part of our magnificent park system, I am convinced that not only did Miss Wallman make a wonderful contribution to the city of her adoption, but that the Board of Estimate, in furthering and progressing this very splendid gift, has added something of real value to our park system. Those of us who get around our city realize what a wonderful park commissioner we have in Bob Moses. As we go around all parts of our cities, but particularly in those sections of the city where we have a great number of the people that are so-called underprivileged, you will always find parks and playgrounds, and that program has been continued and will be continued in my administration. I am particularly grateful today to Miss Wallman as the mayor of the city of New York because I know that I speak the sentiments of all the people of the city of New York who I am privileged to represent today and bearing testimonial to the type of citizen that she represents. In our city, thank God, we have a great number of people who have a very deep sense of civic consciousness. Miss Wallman, by this gift, has displayed that type of citizenship that we require so very much in our city. She is the type of citizen that believes in giving something to her community. So, Miss Wallman, to you, may I express my own very deep gratitude and I know that the people of the city of New York join me in that expression and throughout the year and for many, many, many years to come when youngsters come into this skating rink, when the younger children have the opportunity of playing up on this playground that will be erected by the Park Department in cooperation with your, the contribution, rather, made through your generosity, those children every day of the week will thank you for this playground, for this skating rink and I'm positive that when they go to their respective churches on Sundays or on their particular Sabbath day, somehow or another you will be rewarded because I'm positive that they will remember you and the members of your family in their prayers. Thank you very much. We have just heard the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York, who was preceded by Robert Moses, Commissioner... ... ...