Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In one week, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand considers America's role in Southeast Asia. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the political and economic orientation of this area, with respect to Russia and the Western powers, and an appraisal of American policy. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are G. H. Dobie, Professor of Geography in the University of Malaya in Singapore. E. B. Espincheid, Jr., Professor of Geography at Northwestern University. And Earl H. Pritchard, Professor of Far Eastern History and Institutions at the University of Chicago. In opening the discussion, gentlemen, let me ask what you think America's role should be in Southeast Asia. What should be our principal interest or concern in this area? Why is it important to us? Pritchard? Well, first of all, perhaps we should have clearly in mind what is included in Southeast Asia. Generally, Burma, Siam, French Indochina, Malaya, Indonesia, and the Philippines are the countries that are included in the area. Now, it seems to me that this area is important because it has a large population, some 150 million people altogether, and because it has many valuable raw materials such as rubber, tin, oil, and so on. Now, America of necessity is interested in any area which has as large a population as that, and which has these important resources. And particularly in the present circumstances, we're interested in seeing that communism does not spread in that area if we can possibly prevent it. Well, Espincheid, what kind of a policy do you think we ought to pursue in this area? What should be our role in Southeast Asia? Well, in the first place, this is a key economic region in the tropics of the world. And in a broad, in a general sense, we should protect and develop mutual economic and political interests in the area. And I use that word, mutual, carefully because we have certain interests, but the people that live in this area have certain economic and political interests. And whatever we do should take into account their interests as well as our own. Only in that give and take can we find a satisfactory solution for the problems in the area. Well, now, Dobie, you've lived in this area for many years in Malaya. Why do you regard it as important in these times? Well, as I said, as far as Asia is concerned, Southeast Asia is a test case of the benefits to be obtained by association with the democratic system and with the Western powers because all the political pattern of Southeast Asia today and the economic systems that are working there are introductions by Westerners. And therefore, as I said, we must show that such associations with us make for success and are profitable to Asians. Well, now, all of these countries that Pritchard mentioned a minute ago were originally colonial countries. Is that correct? In a very big way. We've got to remember we are apt to think of them as being colonial areas of Western powers of Britain in Burma and Malaya, of the Dutch in Indonesia and the French in Indochina. But we must bear in mind that prior to that period this was a colonial area of Indian powers and of Chinese powers. That both Indians and Chinese prior to the European period treated this area as part of their colonial fringe. I wonder how strong the ties are between these countries and the Western powers now, Pritchard? Well, their ties with the Western powers in most cases are not so great now as it has been in the past. For example, Burma is completely independent of the British. Siam, of course, has always been independent. Malaya still has very close ties with the British. Indonesia is now completely, or for practical purposes, completely independent of the Dutch as the Philippines are from us. In French Indochina, the French still try to hang on to control there and that has precipitated all sorts of difficulties. How do you interpret that struggle going on in Indochina now? Well, I think it's pretty clearly and simply a struggle between Annamite nationalism and French colonial control. Earlier, shortly after the war, the French had an opportunity to work out a settlement with the local nationalist movements, which might have been mutually beneficial to both, but they muffed it at the time. And now the dominant nationalistic group there, which is closely associated with communism, is certainly aligned toward the communist camp. Yes, that is certainly true, but in this present period when we're in something of a grey war with China, I think to consider the French colonial associations is a sort of red herring. We've got to remember that China is using this situation in order to acquire the extensive rice lands of Indochina. Indochina for a long time has been a commercial colony of China, the bulk of the exports of the rice from Indochina have gone to China proper. And without that surplus rice from southern Indochina, China itself, the people of China, are going to be in trouble. Mao Tse-tung sees them in trouble with regular famines. Remember, China has famines every three years. And for that reason, Indochina has got to be denied in a grey war period, has got to be denied to China proper. On the other hand, France has used this opportunity in part to get help from, or sympathy from the outside world, to maintain its control in the region. I suspect that if France had retired somewhat more gracefully earlier, that conceivably we would not have polarized certain groups in French Indochina so radically toward the communist side. Do you agree with that, Richard? Well, I agree with Dobie that we've got to look at the situation as it is now. My original remark was that the French had mopped an opportunity to get a nationalist movement on our side. At the present time, we seem to have little alternative than to try to support the Baudi movement and see if it will not develop genuine nationalistic characteristics and sufficient strength to oppose the Viet Minh movement, which is the communist influence one and which is the one which, of course, is tied up with communist China. Do you have these nationalistic movements, Dobie, in all of these countries? Well, I am very scared of the expression nationalism. In that area, I don't know how anybody could possibly define what the Burmese nation is or what the Indochinese nation is, because the peoples inside those units are of very different stocks, in some cases different religions, different ways of living. Each of them, in other words, has got so many discordant sections of people inside that if we follow policies encouraging every separate group of people to think of ruling itself, we're going to break down that area into not seven or eight political units such as we've got today, but hundreds of them. We must see the picture as it was in Burma, that the withdrawal of Britain from Burma and the long propaganda of Burma for the Burmese led on to an extraordinarily difficult civil war between various sections of people in Burma, the Karen's and the Shans all fighting the Burmese proper. Well, I'd like to ask, Dobie, whether there is a communist movement of any significance in Burma? Well, I'm afraid I haven't any inside dope in connection with Burma. My inside angle is, of course, a connection with Malaya, which I know much better and more recently. And, of course, in Malaya we have got a peculiarly difficult situation with four or five thousand tough guys in the jungles, sniping the people as they go about their ordinary business in the rubber plantations and the tin mines. Now, what I did... But it's not at all clear, really, whether these bad boys, these four or five thousand bad boys in our jungles, it's not at all clear that they are communist. It's very clear that they're bandits, but whether they have any outside help, either in personnel or in equipment, is very doubtful. And we've got to remember that, in the case of Malaya, we've had these bad boys for many years. In fact, at some times, during the depressions of the past, toughs in the jungles have been even more of a problem than they are today. So I'm very... I have an open mind on whether or not our troubles in Malaya are communist-inspired. I think we should realize that all of the people in this area lie definitely left of centre, as we would use the term, and that we have to accept that they have that strong leftism. And we, on the other hand, sometimes tend to put people in that group over on the... automatically into the communist group. Oh, I think you call the British communist sometimes for that reason, don't you? Socialism is a strong word for this area. Well, now, do you accept that characterization of the governments in these nations as you know them? Left of centre, well, I certainly would agree that they use phrases and forms of speech, which would suggest the left of centre, but I think myself, they have very aristocratic attitudes. And I wonder myself whether Sukarno isn't much more of a dictator than an elected president. Well, I would be inclined to agree with Loby in that particular respect. Many of these nationalistic leaders, I think, are primarily interested in taking over the power which the colonial country formally exercised, and they're not too democratic in their point of view. But nevertheless, they're the dominant factor in the area, and the only potential governing group which might provide some stability in the area, and prevent possible communist movements into a vacuum, if there wasn't an effective government. And therefore, we've got to work through these governments, encouraging them to develop democratic processes and take measures which will win the support, and meet the economic problems of the mass of people, and by this device, discourage possible spreads of communism in the area. Oh, yes, I agree. Well, the leaders may be not democratic in that sense, but the people in this area have had a communal society, not a communist, but a communal society for many centuries. They are used to that sort of an existence, and I think their leaders feel those purposes behind the population, and therefore they will tend to at least stay somewhat on the left. Well, I agree with you, Espen said, in this notion that there has been a sort of communalism in the area, and that is one factor why communism as such might potentially spread fairly easily there. Now, we've got to keep this in mind, and therefore, in our policy toward the area, we shouldn't object to certain socialistic principles going into effect in these areas. If we try to impose what we conceive of as good old American capitalism on the area, we will certainly in the end alienate large groups and simply throw them into the arms of the communists. Toby? Oh, yes, I am very glad to, very encouraged to hear an American say that, because from outside I think we often get the impression that Americans believe that every corner of the world could be turned into a sort of Middle West, and that you could have Chicago scattered all around the world. Well, that certainly isn't possible in Southeast Asia, and the approach, the approach to the problems of that area, the economic problems or the agricultural problems, must be on very different lines from the sort of approach which has been so successful here in the States. As far as I can gather, the communists in this area have not used the old social slogans. They've put a lot more dependence upon national unity and so forth, developing nations. And as each of these countries has, in one way or other, developed or obtained more independence, we've undermined to certain extent the strength of any organized communist infiltration that occurred in this area. How strong are the economic ties of these countries with the West, Dobie? Well, in the case of Malaya, the interesting thing to me is I am very conscious of how the meanest paid clerk in any office owes his salary fundamentally to the enormous purchases of tin and rubber that are made by the United States. In that sense, the whole structure of life in Malaya is like an inverted pyramid built up on the sales to you of tin and rubber. And the interesting thing to me is to see that you over here, with your dependence on the motor car and the layout of your towns and the distribution of your industries, all built up on the easy access to a motor car, your domestic habit of canned food and your electronic industries, show that you too have built up a tremendous amount on those same two commodities. And that's why I feel justified very often in saying about Malaya that although it's a British colony by history, it is an American colony economically. And I'd go even further and say that so far as its people are concerned, it's a Chinese colony in people. Yes, Ben Shane? This area also has a considerable importance to us from a trade standpoint. We import from this area considerably more, of course, than we normally, at least pre-war, export. And our payment for those imports has long permitted this area to purchase items from Europe. And that in turn has contributed to the European economy. The three-way trade arrangement that existed prior to the war, of course, has been disrupted seriously. But there's no reason to suspect that that same three-way trade relationship won't re-establish itself in the near future. Well, now you suggest these strong economic relations between these countries of Southeast Asia and America, and I take it Britain as well. You said that Britain doesn't use much of this rubber and tin, you know. The biggest consumer of rubber and tin is the States. Granting that, where are the political sympathies of these peoples? Are they with the old colonial countries, or is there a hostility, an antipathy that's developed as a result of their struggle to take over? Well, I think all the political personalities of this area are very, very touchy. It's a mark of their political adolescence, if you like. They hadn't outgrown the pimples of politics, so to speak. But I think their way of thinking and their attitude to things is strongly influenced by the fact that they themselves owe their present position to Western education, and that the little states they're taking over are laid out and run and have a machinery on Western lines. Well, all of this would seem to indicate that this wouldn't be a very easy area for Russia and the Chinese communists to cultivate. Is that the conclusion you wish us to draw? There's some antagonism against the Western world. For instance, during the years that these colonial powers had considerable control over the economy, they did very little to develop indigenous industrial structure, even for some of the simple domestic consumers' goods. Their interest in these areas was largely in developing the extraction of certain raw material industries. And these countries feel that shortage very strongly today. Toby? Well, that is a common criticism of the colonial powers, and maybe examples can be shown where the old colonial powers did deliberately deny any local man the right to set up a certain type of industry. But it seems to me that we should remember that, take the case of textiles for example, textiles is the one Western product, greatly and almost a staple commodity for the people of that area. But none of the countries down there can grow cotton with any success. Very few of them have resources of power on all that goes to make a textile industry. So that it's not in that particular case, for example, it's not a charge against the colonial powers that textile industries haven't developed. And the same goes for many other things. We must remember that artisans and skilled persons of that sort did not exist there at all when the colonial powers went in. Such of them as exist now are trainees of the colonial powers and are very expensive forms of labour. Our costs of labour in petty industries in Singapore are in proportion to the skill that they have. Our costs of labour are extremely high. Bernie, to go back to your original question, I'm inclined to think that the communist movements in the area as of the present moment are not too strong. But there are certain social and economic problems existing which if they're not solved within, or some effort is made towards solving them in the near future, which will play into the hands of the communists. For example, take the Philippines, which where the United States is primarily, has been primarily responsible. You have an agrarian situation there where the land is dominated by landlords. Now during the long period of time which we control that area, we did nothing about it. The new nationalist government is dominated by mercantile and landlord interests and they won't do anything about it. The result is that you have a peasant uprising going on in the country which is gradually coming under communist domination. And that sort of thing is likely to happen in almost all the areas of Southeast Asia. Well what is, Pritchard, what is our policy in these countries now? How would you characterize American policy in Southeast Asia? Well, I think fundamentally we aim to encourage the development of legitimate nationalistic movements which are non-communist in character. And at least as far as the government is concerned, we're interested in making or giving them some economic help and technical advice which can be used to effective advantage. Now unfortunately, within the country itself and within Congress to a considerable extent, there's another group which thinks that we shouldn't provide any of this economic aid. Personally, I think that economic aid, not on a lavish scale, I don't think they can use large amounts of money. But effectively delivered and with adequate personnel to help out in technical matters would be of great importance in the area. Do you men subscribe to that policy? Aspen Shade, do you think it's wise to try to encourage these nationalistic movements as bulwarks against communism? Definitely so. In fact, if we don't develop something strong in the way of new national units to take the place of the old colonial units, you're going to leave a vacuum here. Just the sort of a vacuum that the Chinese or the communists would love to move into. You've got to develop a strong and stable governments in order to prevent such a thing from happening. Well, within the British policy, the only British territory left there now is Malaya. And the policy there, I don't think the term nationalism is ever used because of its danger in such a mixed population. But what is going on in Malaya is a democratisation of the political life. That is, the sultans, for example, who are now oriental potentates of the old type, they have been persuaded to agree that their legislative councils will shortly become elective. The very promise of making those councils elective has indeed created many awkward problems already in this mixed community of Malaya. But at any rate, the British are pursuing that policy of developing a political machinery on the elective democratic lines. And in that way, hoping to modernise a form of society which hasn't been changing very much politically for the last couple of hundred years. Well, do you see a distinction between the policy that Dobie has just described and the policy that you urge, Pritchard? No, I don't see any fundamental conflict. Perhaps we're using terms slightly differently. And I readily admit that Malaya, I think, is probably different than any of the others. There wasn't as strong a native Malayan nationalist movement. In fact, I'm not sure that there is any native Malayan nationalist movement. Also, there's a large group of Chinese there and so on. In almost all the other countries, you have some fairly strong nationalistic parties. I don't see any conflict between what he is suggesting and what I have in mind fundamentally. Well, how would this policy of encouraging nationalistic movements work out in Indochina, where the French, I take it, are having trouble now? Well, French Indochina is almost lost as far as I can see. The time to encourage a really native nationalist movement was earlier. That movement has now been thrown largely into the hands of the communists. Whether the Baodai regime, which is promoted by the French and which we now support, can really win over the genuine nationalistic elements, I'm very skeptical. I'm afraid that French Indochina, in the end, is going to be lost due to earlier blundering. Do you think that we can, if not Indochina, bring some of these countries into the fold through economic and technical assistance? That was the second point in your program. Well, first on that political aspect, one more item there. I think that we should support the nationalism in these areas, but we also should do it in terms of recognition of the local political atmosphere that exists in these regions. In terms of the economic problem, I think that we don't yet know enough about the capital needs of these areas. I don't think the people themselves know exactly what their needs are. So we have a very serious problem of planning what should be done. There's a tendency to go into it too rapidly. I think we should go very slowly in exploring what their specific needs are. Do you think, Dobie, these countries need American money and technical assistance? They need... I'm not so pessimistic about it all as Pritchard, and I don't think Southeast Asia is at all lost unless we cut our economic ties with them. And in that sense, we've got to show that economic associations with us gives working success. And I think they are much more... they're much closer to ourselves than they are to China on the one hand or to Russia. Well, it's only French Indochina that I think is lost. I didn't say I thought the other areas were lost. I definitely think they are not. Well, I take it we have here in Southeast Asia a group of countries with natural economic ties with the West, with America, and the two gentlemen, by and large, endorse the policy that we're now pursuing of developing nationalistic movements in these countries as bulwarks against communism, and giving them a measure of economic and technical assistance. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, America's Role in Southeast Asia. Why not sit now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, one dollar for a four-month subscription to the reviewing stand, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were G. H. Dobie, E. B. Espenche, Jr., and Earl H. Pritchard. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, in recognition of Northwestern University's Centennial, the reviewing stand presents a discussion of the question, What should the university stand for? Our guests will be Dr. J. Roscoe Miller, President of Northwestern University, Kenneth Burgess, President of the Board of Trustees, and Payson S. Weil, Vice President and Dean of Faculties at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for what we think will be an interesting discussion of the question, What should the university stand for? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The Northwestern University, Iowa public leader, Bayon Langston,3605,1,3,519, peloct from Falun Street, Indiana. Over This time, he comes with the National Library of Adm даль is operating onvard imaginability for setting this sermon, and the Australian Черneval Cab憲, Plant Art, California department, and his favourite records of the school. We find out about that a new article 94 University in Rhode Island for the end, On the site site is branched out by Lip腒 Plappel以前, the GeneralOK London Понcalled Center for dni detracts, of course being pretened from Mudon University. There the village is the Utah Washington Stateimento State KIM Department of State for thewig of New York State professors at 5cm Basel University, The кру верх of theivaliad here on lequel we rule now is crawling to shorelinevation as ablesse.