New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce. A new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, by way of wagon wheels, on New York, Queen of Commerce. When we drive on America's superhighways, we probably don't realize the problems which were involved in the building of our nation's early roads. When the 13 original colonies were formed, the entire eastern seaboard and most of the land as far west as the Mississippi River were blanketed by unbroken forests. The accumulation of thousands of years of the growth and decay of huge trees. To the white centers, land travel became a terrifying ordeal. Only ancient, narrow Indian trails led through this wilderness. By the time the Revolutionary War was won, and our first president inaugurated, the desirability of bringing the 13 states together into a closer economic land union became a dire need. Only by roads could families venture into the wilderness to develop the rich resources of the land. Many were the tales told of danger, hardships, and high adventure on the earliest roads leading out of New York to Boston, to Albany, across the Jerseys, and from there to Philadelphia and down into Virginia. In 1789, George Washington was living at Cherry Hill on Pearl Street in New York. The Franklin mansion where the new president and Martha Washington and the Custis children lived was the center of the social and official life of that time. In October of that year, the president decided to set out on a coach journey over the hard New England roads. The purpose of the trip was to make an official visit to the states that had ratified the new constitution. On the day before the trip, Saul Stone, the blacksmith, was working busily at his shop near the president's home. That's a fine turn you've made on that iron, Saul. Put a little elbow grease on that bellows, boy. They say the president starts on his way to New England tomorrow morning. Yes, so I heard. Look, isn't that Billy Lee, the president's body servant, leading a horse down the hill? Aye, he's riding one of those big bay horses. Why, that's the president's favorite team. Aye, must be something special or he'd never send Billy. The grooms usually bring his horses down. Good afternoon, Mr. Stone, sir. Hello, Billy. You got troubles? Well, sir, not exactly troubles. Isn't that your wheel horse? Yes, sir. But unless he's shod right in front, he works too close to the pole. Well, the grooms didn't tell me that when I shod your bay team before. That's why the general sent me. We're taking off in New England tomorrow. So I've heard. All right, I'll have a look at that horse now. Now, let's see. Steady. Steady, boy. See there, Mr. Stone? How he wears on the inside? He needs barred plates and about 12 ounces of weight in front. Right there. Aye. The general in me found that he goes best that way. And we got a long, hard way to go. That's just enough to keep him off the pole about a foot and a half where he works the best. Take good care of him, because that's going to be a long trip we'll be taking tomorrow. A long, hard trip. Thank you. Colonel Hamilton, your report on the increased revenues is most interesting. And the Chamber of Commerce report is encouraging also. However, we've a long way to go. Thank you, Mr. President. If Congress will only cooperate, shipping and foreign trade will do wonders. And, Mr. Jay, those treaties with France and Italy will help. Well, the State Department is moving with all expedition, Mr. President. I hope to have some good news for you upon your return. Hamilton, Knox, and I will cooperate with Mr. Adams closely during your absence. Whoa! Well, we're at Kingsbridge already, gentlemen. It's been most pleasant of you to ride with me as far as here. I'm most grateful for your company indeed. Well, we do not need to say, sir, that we shall miss you most sorely when you are away. Hamilton, you always have a nice way of putting things. Billy! Yes, sir, General? Please be so kind as to ask the grooms to bring up the gentlemen's horses. Yes, sir. All right. Bring the horses over. Well, most pleasant ride back to the city, gentlemen. Thank you, Mr. President, and good luck. Take good care of him, Colonel Shaw. Goodbye. Goodbye, men. Goodbye, men. The horseback most of the time to the right and left of the heavy coach. Billy Lee, on his own there, led the General's white charger for use if needed. Progress was slow. Abnormally late rains, half-turned to slush, made the roads almost impassable. Streams were swollen and fordings were difficult. Finally, in a Connecticut valley, the coach became bogged down in the mud and was able to progress slowly. Yeah, yeah. Come on, horse, pull. Pull this coach out of here. Colonel Shaw, has Billy returned yet? He's coming now, sir. You post riders, stop and cool your horses. They're puffing like adders. Whoa, girl. Whoa. Colonel Shaw, it isn't any use. What is it, Billy? About a quarter mile ahead, the bridge is out, General. And even if we could get across, there isn't any road on the other side. It's washed away. Mr. President, that lane to the east there seems to lead to higher solid ground. Well, take it by all means, Colonel. Perhaps we'll find shelter down the valley. At least until we can make a fording. Get them up on their toes, boys. Yeah. Hang on, Mr. President. Watch that ditch, boys. Steady now. That's it. We're in the clear now. Whoa. Whoa. What is it, Colonel? I said, hold up there. We're in tarnish, you fancy dudes. Think you're going. Stand aside, you for the... Oh, wait, Colonel. There's something familiar about that man. I tell you, you look too much like Tories to set good on my stomach. Begone off a man's property for a Walmart bitsy gun, aren't you? Why, it's old Silas Camp. I remember him from Trenton in Monmouth. Silas. Corporal Silas Camp. Hey, who calls my name? It's General Washington. You're holding up the President of the United States, man. Why, General, it's you. Why, sure enough it is. Blast me for my blasted eyes. They ain't no good anymore. Well, Silas, they were good enough at Trenton. General Washington, Mr. President, curse me for a fool. No offendment to you, sir. I'm a mighty sorry. Now relax, Silas. No harm's done. How goes it? And what are you doing here? Sir, I've done a bit of wondering since the war. I've tried my hand at trapping and logging, and now I've settled here to try a bit of farming. Well, this looks like rich farmland, Silas. You ought to raise good crops. Perhaps even tobacco. Well, it ain't much use, General. You just can't develop land and make it pay where there ain't no roads. Look at you now. The main road's washed away ever since way last month. Even the President can't get through without a 30-mile pass. There ain't been a road of freight haul through here in six weeks. And I say, in spite of foreign trade and ships that take a talking so much about these days, this country will never amount to nothing. And there won't be anything to trade or to fill those ships until those roads. And roads. And more roads. Well, Silas, we should have you down in Congress. Sorry, General. I guess I do talk too much. No, Silas. No one talks too much who talks wisdom. And I won't forget your words. I agree heartily. Thank you kindly, General. Can you guide us around so we can get back on the Boston road? It'll be an honor, gents. We're due in Boston in six days. And then we continue into New Hampshire. New Hampshire, you say? Well, you'll never make it there. Not with those rigs. Not even if you had eight teams. You'll have to take to the saddle. Come. My horse is tied up behind those trees. You've got a rough trip ahead. And so it was. The president and his party eventually completed their tour and returned wearily but safely to Cherry Hill. Foreign trade and commerce grew. But true to the thoughts and dreams of men like George Washington and such as Silas Camp, America's greatest riches developed directly in proportion to the building and improvement of her roads. Today, at the terminus of the country's finest and busiest roads stands a great metropolitan community, New York, queen of commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York, queen of commerce. Today, by way of wagon wheels. In today's cast were Alan Feinstein as the narrator, Phil Dixon as Silas, Alfred Israel as George Washington, and Henry Lewis as Colonel Shaw. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz, assisted by Frank Dehuto. Production assistant was Carol Coffey. New York queen of commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunche. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education New York City Board of Education