Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the 1027th University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses, Can control of money stop today's inflation? Taking part in this discussion are Lester Chandler, economist at Princeton University, Meyer Kestenbaum, president of Hart, Shatner & Marx, and Milton Friedman, economist at the University of Chicago. And now to open today's Roundtable on inflation, we present Mr. Friedman. This country is committed to a major effort to increase its arms strength. This effort has barely begun it. Production of armed goods is not much larger today than it was before Korea. Yet we are already facing one of the most serious problems of the armament efforts. As we all know, prices have been rising rapidly and are continuing to rise. Why have prices risen so rapidly despite the absence of extensive war production? Was this price rise necessary? How could it have been avoided? What can and should our policy be now? Two weeks ago, the government adopted a program to freeze prices and wages. Chandler, you have worked with the Congressional Committee on our economic policy. Is the freeze an answer to our present inflation problem? No, Friedman. The price and wage freeze is not a complete answer to the program. It deals only with the symptoms of inflation in this period. The basic causes are to be found on the side of money, that is, too much spending relative to the goods and services that can be made available. If we're going to get to the basic causes, we have to hold down the total spending power. And that, of course, necessitates looking at monetary policy, which most people think is too complicated to be considered. Kirstenbaum, as a businessman, you meet these problems every day. In your judgment, is the freeze the answer to inflation? No, certainly not. It will perhaps delay the impact of prices and wages, but I want to point out that it has certain very undesirable consequences. In the first place, we're beginning to freeze our economy even before the impact of this war production has really been felt. We're ending it less flexible, less adaptable to its needs. And furthermore, we always know that price controls are highly deceptive. There are changes in quality of goods and the availability of goods. So that this is only an attempt to deal with the problem, and in my judgment, doesn't go to the heart of the problem. This inflation of the past six or seven months seems to me to have been utterly unnecessary. It could have been stopped by effective action on the part of our monetary authorities, the Federal Reserve Board and the Treasury, to keep down the supply of money and to prevent it from increasing. Because they have not done so, we have had drastic price rises. The cost of living alone has gone up something like 8% since Korea. Kastenbaum, what started this process going? Well, it's obvious that as soon as that Korea had a very profound impact on the psychology of all of our people. As soon as there was general feeling that a rearmament program would be necessary, and that there would be the resulting demand for a large production program, and the probable scarcity of civilian goods, we had a very, very rapid response on the part of people. Consumers rushed in to buy goods that they thought might be higher in price or in short supply. Manufacturers bought goods that they thought might become scarce. Labor unions moved in very quickly to ask for wage increases on the grounds that the cost of living would go up, and there might be some possibility of the freezing of wages. The point I'm trying to make is that the psychological impact of the program was very great, and that you had an inflationary movement long before there was any actual impact on the economy of a defense program. Well, of course I agree that it was the electric shock of Korea that made both consumers and businessmen want to step up their rate of spending. They were afraid of the increased prices which they expected, and also afraid of scarcity. There was no question that gave them the motive for wanting to spend more. But the fact is, of course, that they couldn't translate this desire to spend into actual spending unless they could get the money. So I would say that an increase of money was necessary to make this demand effective. Now, in general, of course, people could get more money to spend in only one of three ways. In the first place, they could draw on some of their idle balances, which were fairly large as a result of the World War II experience. Another way they could get the money to spend was to sell some assets that they had to other people. In that case, of course, when one person had more money to spend, somebody else had less. But the third way, and the one that was very important, was that they borrowed more money from the banking system. Before we get into that, Chandler, it's worth pointing out that they did not get more money by government expenditures, because while the government during this period was trying to step up its expenditures too, it didn't succeed very rapidly. And equally important, taxes were also increased. So that during this period we're speaking of, the government took out of the pockets of the people somewhat more than it paid in. Indeed, from an economist's point of view, this is a nice case, because many things that ordinarily complicate the analysis of what happens were not present. The government was taking in about as much as it was paying out. We had full employment, so that you didn't have any possibility of meeting the demands of these people by more production. What happened was that people who wanted to buy more and more goods tried to spend more money. Well, is it your idea that the fact that the funds were available is really what's responsible for this inflation? I would take the position that you had a combination of two factors. One, this great urge for additional goods arising very largely through fear and uncertainty. It is true, of course, that the banking system made it possible for funds to be provided. But one is certainly just as important as the other, and it's very, it's not easy to suggest that we could have dealt with this problem without approaching both of these aspects of it. Kestenbaum might always have a desire to buy more than I'm now buying. There's no limit to what I would buy if I had the funds to do it. Similarly, the fact that businessmen and consumers were afraid of further price rises, were afraid of a scarcity of goods, meant that they would buy more goods if they could get the funds with which to do so. As Chandler said, they had to get the funds either by using idle balances or by turning to the bank to get more money in the form of loans. Well, I'd like to point out here that it was considered generally desirable to facilitate some expansion of the economy. War production would certainly have to be stopped by. Many of these items, many people anticipated the need for larger productive capacity. This was not all of a speculative nature by any means, and many of these companies felt they were acting in the best interests of the country by putting themselves in a position to take care of increased war production when it became necessary. Well, of course, the fact is that the increased loans were not to the government. They were to consumers and to businessmen for civilian purposes, not for war purposes. And this was hardly a period when we wanted to step up this kind of civilian expenditures. I would want to emphasize the fact that this is a civilian inflation up to this point. And the way in which the civilians got the money to produce this inflation was in large measure by borrowing money from the banks. Now, when they borrowed money from the banks in order for the banks to lend them the money, the banks themselves had to have the means. Where did they get those means, Chandler? Well, of course, they got the money that they used to lend by selling securities to the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve bought the securities and created the new money with which to pay for those securities. And the money went to the banks, and they could use it to increase their reserves and to increase their loans. You say they created the new money. In simpler terms, I take it this means that the Federal Reserve System, when it bought a government bond from a bank, either printed little pieces of green paper that we all try to carry around in our pockets, or else wrote an entry on a book, which was a deposit to the credit of the bank. It said to the bank, we will honor your demands on us up to this amount. Yes, we can take a specific example on that. Suppose that an individual or an insurance company or a bank wanted some new money. Now, the Federal Reserve was standing there ready to buy all the securities that anyone would offer to it. If the person took this security to the Federal Reserve and sold it to the Federal Reserve, then the Federal Reserve would create absolutely new money to pay for it. Now, some of the money is the green stuff that we carry around in our billfold, mostly called Federal Reserve notes. But most of the money was in the form of checking deposits. In this case, however, they were checking deposits for the banks, which the banks call their reserves. Now, if the Federal Reserve System had not bought these bonds, individuals would have tried still to sell them, but they would have been able to sell them only to one another, so that what one person got in additional resources would mean less available for somebody else. Allow me to point out that, of course, this process that you've described is the necessary and proper functioning of the banking system. The banking system is neutral on these points. It creates the money that's needed, develops the money that's needed for the economy, and when the economy demands it, it's produced. Now, who had the responsibility for determining that this was not a highly desirable policy? Well, of course, legally, the responsibility lies on the Federal Reserve System. I'd like to go out, though, and point out that though the banks have the function of lending to private business, that does not mean that they should be allowed to create all the money that's demanded at any time. Of course, an inflationary period, prices are going up, is a time when the demand for money is highest. And if the banking system goes ahead and creates unlimited amounts of money, it can only serve to feed the inflation. It can't increase total output. Well, I take it the culprit here is not the private banks. No one can blame them for trying to expand their loans as much as they could. But they couldn't have expanded their loans if the Federal Reserve System had not provided them with the wherewithal to do so. What happened in this period is written large on the statistical record. Bank loans to their clients went up some 20% in the seven-month period from before Korea to the end of last year. The total supply of money, the total amount of banks' pockets and the money that people carry around in their pockets, went up something like 7% to 8%. This was all made possible by the fact that the Federal Reserve System bought some $3.5 billion worth of bonds and increased its own bond holdings by something like 20%, and in the process created large amounts of additional reserves for the banking system, which in turn they used to expand loans. Is it your proposition that this could have been avoided by specific action on the part of the Federal Reserve System? I think nothing would have been easier had the Federal Reserve System simply refused to buy the bonds, had it refused to create the additional money, or indeed, if necessary, had it sold bonds to the public, and in this way taken money out of circulation, because when the Federal Reserve System sells a bond, somebody has to pay for it, and that money is subtracted from the money in circulation. Had the Federal Reserve System taken these acts, it is my own feeling that prices today would be about where they were in May of last year. They would not be where they are, some 8%, 10%, 12% above that level, depending upon what prices you're thinking of. I'm not quite so sure that it would be feasible to have stopped the inflation dead in its tracks as of last June. I quite agree that prices probably, and almost certainly, would not have been as high as they are today if the Federal Reserve had not followed this policy of creating all the money that anyone wanted to borrow and spend. I think we would certainly agree, however, that they, in this past period, ought to have refused to buy government securities, and perhaps they should have sold some. Well, there might be some questions as to the effect on the economy of the kind of policy which you've described. But if it is as simple as you suggested, what I want to know is why didn't the Federal Reserve adopt this policy? One of the, one of these effects on the economy that you're referring to, Kestenbaum, is that the way in which the Federal Reserve would have to implement its policy would be by selling government bonds or refusing to buy them. Now, in the process of selling government bonds or refusing to buy them, it would have driven down the prices of government bonds. In addition, aside from government bonds, this would have meant, of course, a somewhat higher interest rate for credit in general. By restricting the amount of credit, it becomes more difficult to get it, and one effect of that is that it becomes more expensive. Well, I don't sympathize at all with the position taken by the Secretary of the Treasury on this matter. I suppose, though, it's only fair to point out that his responsibility is primarily that of debt management, and that he doesn't have legal responsibility for monetary management. That means, probably, that he will place undue emphasis upon his own convenience in managing the debt. And he has, of course, emphasized three main points to support his position. The first one is that he wants to maintain low interest charges on the Federal debt. With the interest charges running at almost $6 billion a year, he keeps emphasizing that any significant rise of interest rates would add to the cost of the government budget. Another point that he makes a good deal is the fact that if government securities were allowed to fall in price, that he might find it more difficult to sell them and keep them sold to people. As he puts it, the credit of the government might be affected in an unfortunate way. And, of course, his third point is that a decline in the price of government securities would tend to injure banks, insurance companies, and others who hold the long-term securities. As I say, I'm not very sympathetic with his position, but those are the arguments that he puts forth. I must say, his position seems to me short-sighted both from the point of view of his immediate problem of debt management and, more important, from this point of view that we've been discussing of general economic policy. From the simple debt management point of view, the attempt to keep down the prices of government bonds, to keep up the prices of government bonds and to keep down the interest rate, may seem on the surface as if it made his task of debt management easier. But if the cost of that is that all other prices in the economy tend to rise, it may have the opposite effect. After all, the people of this country remember very well that the government bonds they bought during the last year, while they can get back the number of dollars promised, those dollars have much lower purchasing power. If you again have a period of rising prices, I cannot believe that the American people are going to be willing to buy any large volume of government bonds when they face the prospect that on turning them in, they will be able to buy fewer goods and services with them. So that I think even from the short... from the point of view of managing the debt, the Treasury's policy is extremely short-sighted. Thank you. Well, it would seem to me that the Treasury is seeking to protect something which it considers quite valuable, namely the credit of our government. And to a man who is trying to finance the huge expenditures that are involved, this certainly is a very important factor. Now, it may well be that in the light of the larger considerations that are involved, the Treasury should have been less obdurate in its stand, both as to the question of interest rates and the question of support. I recall that there were some very large insurance companies that felt that the support policy was unwise even before Korea. But we've got to recognize that the strict application of the policies that you proposed would create certain strains on the economy. And it seems to me that the Treasury must have had this in mind, and that the Federal Reserve Board must have had this in mind. But if we follow the general reasoning that you've suggested, then I'd like to ask not only what might have been done, but why didn't the Federal Reserve Board act anyway? They couldn't have acted on their own. Well, of course, the Federal Reserve has no legal obligation to support the price of government securities. There's nothing in the Federal Reserve Act that tells it it should do that. As a matter of fact, the whole spirit of the Federal Reserve Act, as it's been amended over a period of 30 years and more, is that the function of the Federal Reserve is to manage the money supply in such a way as to contribute to general economic stability. And I think the present policy violates the spirit of that act. So I want to make the point that they are under no obligation to do this. It's only a policy undertaking, which merely indicates an unwillingness for some reason or other of the Federal Reserve to fly in the face of the Treasury and to follow the policy that would be stabilizing in its effects. Of course, this conflict has come out and reopened recently in dramatic fashion with the President intervening in it. But it should be noted that the policy on the part of the Federal Reserve of following the Treasury is one of long standing. They have followed this policy consistently for the last ten years. It is only really in the last year or so that there have been signs of real dissatisfaction with it on the part of the Federal Reserve System itself. I think it is long past time that this policy was abandoned, that the Federal Reserve System ought now to assert its independence of the Treasury. The inflation of the past could have been prevented, I think, if it had done so. I think that inflation could well be called a Treasury inflation. But we're now facing the future as well, and it seems to me time now to do whatever you can to make up for past mistakes, and that the Reserve System ought now to take action to restore control over the quantity of money. Well, I like the way you put that, that they should take action to restore control over the quantity of money. Too many of the newspaper reports make this sound like a trivial issue relating to a small change in the interest rate. The primary objective here is not to control levels of interest rates. The primary objective is to restore control of the money supply. I don't, however, know of any way to restore a restriction of the money supply without getting, as a result, some increase of interest rates. Well, shouldn't this be part of a larger program? Even though we agree that this is the critical factor in this whole development, isn't it true that you've got to have something approaching a national policy, which will involve tax policy, which will involve many other factors, in order to, if they're going to accomplish a desirable result in these circumstances? It certainly will involve many other policies, but it seems to me we ought to emphasize the importance of this particular policy, which could be taken today without any new legislation, and that we ought to make it clear what it is the Federal Reserve System should do. It should, in my view, take the position that its primary responsibility, its primary concern will be with the supply of money and the price level. It should stand ready to sell government bonds if necessary to draw money out of circulation. In this way, it should restore control over the supply of money, and in my view, it should persevere in this effort even though it may mean, as an incidental effect, some rise in interest rates on government bonds and other loans. I'd like to raise a question here for the Minister, how this would affect our defense program. Remember, we must expand our production. There are many much larger productions than I've ever had before. They're going to have to build large installations which require money. This money must be provided. It can be provided on your theory only by imposing a very great strain on other industries. And while this sounds highly desirable, I'd like to point out that the strains may be very great. The essential point here, it seems to me, is that we have no choice about what we do on physical grounds. In order to expand war production, we must contract civilian production. The physical realities are that this expansion you speak of, this construction of new plants, the use of more labor and materials in armament production, can only come about by a diversion from civilian production. Now, if we let these industries get additional credit, over and above the credit which is now being granted to civilian industries, the result will be that they can pull away the materials and the men only by raising prices. Of course, the thing that should be emphasized here is that the credit should be redirected away from the materials. It should be directed away from civilian goods industries and toward the defense industries to pull productive resources toward the defense effort. It can only impede the defense effort if the civilian sectors of the economy find it easy to borrow in order to spend away from the military. The point you make, of course, is one that many people are conscious of, namely that as you seek to direct credit into its proper channels, you will be doing great violence to certain areas of the civilian economy. Now, it is true that in the aggregate we enjoy a very high standard of living, and the American people can certainly afford to make some sacrifices, and must make some sacrifices for this effort. But people being constituted as they are, they're very often reluctant to do the things that they're supposed to do. And large elements in the economy have tended to give notice that they do not wish to suffer a loss in their standard of living. Now, is it your judgment that they can maintain this position? Well, the decrease in the standard of living will not be a result of financial policy. It will be a result of the physical necessities of the defense program. The financial program can only help to distribute this sacrifice among the various elements of the community. And inflation seems to me to be a very poor way to distribute these burdens. Your comments are bringing us away from the topic we've been discussing mostly, what has happened during the last seven months, to the topic that is of more immediate interest. What shall be done now in view of the future danger of inflation? I take it the situation we are now entering is one that is somewhat different from the period through which we have gone. Well, of course, the government expenditures are just starting to flow in large volume now, and there's every reason to think that they will accelerate as time goes on. This will have a sort of a double-barreled effect on inflation. In the first place, it will feed out larger amounts of money income to the civilian part of the economy, at the same time that it's taking away goods and services, so that inflationary pressures will unquestionably rise unless some counteracting measures are taken. Well, you would argue on that basis, then, that it's all right for certain prices to rise, particularly of civilian goods which are not in the most essential character, and I tend to agree with that general proposition. But, uh... To offset Kestenbaum's government expenditures, it may be that some particular prices will rise, but surely what we would like to do is to prevent prices in general from rising, and the way we can do that is by offsetting additional government expenditures by additional taxes. Well, it seems to me that this program must include a number of additional factors. Certainly we must have a tax policy which makes it necessary for us to pay as you go. Certainly we must have high excise taxes on those goods that compete with the requirements of the military program. Certainly we must have confidence on the part of the American people, in their leadership and in the general program which is being adopted, so that they will buy bonds freely with the confidence that those bonds will retain their value. In other words, this takes more than the technical application of credit limitations. An essential part of it, it seems to me, is an adequately restrictive monetary policy. It makes very little sense to use taxation to take spending power away from people, at the same time that an easy money policy is making it progressively easier for them to borrow and buy. Then you're saying, Chandler, that heavy taxes to offset government expenditures are not enough? No. Monetary policy has to be a part of the program. There's no reason to think of them as competitive methods. They're really complementary methods of preventing inflation. Can monetary policy alone do the job? I doubt it very much. In other words, you'd agree that this requires an overall program which the people understand, and that the sacrifices that must be made here must be made equitably, on a basis that will satisfy us that we're moving in the right direction. If I sense where we're coming out, I agree with you very much, Kestenbaum, that we must have an overall program which includes more than the particular measures we're talking about here, and that certainly our armament effort, our willingness to undertake the sacrifices involved would be much increased if we could have a common feeling of community, a common feeling that we know where we're going and we know what our leaders have in store for us. The point I would like to emphasize here is, however, that all of this must rest on two essential pillars. A sound economic program for the coming period must have as one part of it a fiscal policy which involves increased taxation to offset the effect of increased government expenditures. It must also have a monetary policy which prevents civilians from adding fuel to the inflation. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on Can Control of Money Stop Today's Inflation? where Lester Chandler, economist, Princeton University, and formerly with the Joint Congressional Committee on the Economic Report, Meyer Kestenbaum, president of Hart, Schaffner, and chairman of the Research and Policy Committee of the Committee for Economic Development, and Milton Friedman, economist of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and reprints an important and informative statement on measures which could now be taken to stop inflation. Single copies are ten cents in coin. Address the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Last Sunday, the roundtable completed its 20th continuous year on the air. In celebration of this occasion, a special anniversary booklet has been prepared, reprinting excerpts from all the important roundtables in which Chancellor Robert M. Hutchins has participated. You and your friends will want copies of this special anniversary pamphlet so that you may read these statements by Chancellor Hutchins. Individual copies are five cents each. Send 15 cents to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, and receive your copy of the anniversary booklet and of today's discussion of how inflation can be stopped. Or with each year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet, a copy of the anniversary roundtable will be sent to you free. Send $3 to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Now stay tuned for the American Forum of the Air on NBC. Last one day, at Buy From the Air on NBCup claiming it's 10 we found out that you will do time for your country for learningGIOURIOTA. And because there are some important pieces, that we don't wonder about it, are no big news. Another conversation with you drew the letter from the mardisation and where the annuctions travel and the initial interconnections. After you've asked this question of your plans, you'll be Klarin Jordan Beat said that your free will be expected. You and i'm a friendly alternative manifest. Don't even ask Alex threw nothing new water for you to buy their rent,