Well, greetings everybody from your neighborhood P.A.L. Youth Center. Today, in a special Christmas Eve show, the P.A.L. Junior Chorus brings you a musical Christmas card from the Police Athletic League. Well, what do you say, gang? You ready? Yes! Well, all right. Let's get rolling then with the story of that irresistible little character, Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. The Red-Nosed Reindeer The Red-Nosed Reindeer Shout it out with glee Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer You've got a history I'm Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer I have a very shiny nose And if you ever saw it, you would even say it glows All of the other reindeer The Red-Nosed Reindeer Used to laugh and call me names We never let poor Rudolph join in any reindeer games Then one froggy Christmas Eve, Santeri came to say Rudolph, with your nose so bright, won't you hide my sleight tonight? Then how the reindeer loved me As I shouted out with glee Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer You've got a history Yeah! Well, that was swell, kids. The irrepressible Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer. And now, stepping out of the chorus is young Francis Notaro. Francis is going to sing that well-known Appalachian folk song, I wonder as I wonder. I wonder as I wonder out under the sky Oh, Jesus, the Savior, did come forth to die For poor and free people like you and like I I wonder as I wonder out under the sky When Mary birthed Jesus was in a cow's stall With wise men and farmers and shepherds and all But high from God's heaven all stars light did fall And the promise of ages if mine did recall If Jesus had wanted for any we think A star in the sky or a bird on the wing Or all of God's angels in heaven for to sing He surely could have been He surely could have been Cause he was a king I wonder as I wonder out under the sky How Jesus, the Savior, did come forth to die I wonder as I wonder as I wonder as I wonder Well, that was very nice indeed, Francis. That was Francis Notaro singing a well-known Appalachian folk song, I wonder as I wonder. Now back to the entire chorus again, the P.A.L. chorus that is, with one of the best loved Christmas songs ever written Featuring the lovely voice of Miss Helen Ferguson, it's Adeste Fidelis, come all ye faithful Joyful and triumphant O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem O come ye, O come ye to Bethlehem O come ye, O come ye, O come ye, O heaven All of angels sing with exultation, sing on ye senses from heaven above. Glory to God in the highest, O come where us are dying, rise the light. Thank you very much, Helen Ferguson, and of course all you youngsters in the PAL chorus for that wonderful singing of Adeste Fidelis. You know, friends, tonight, in every home in the country, there will be thrown open the doors to a wonderful visitor. Concerning this visitor, Howard Coleman has a special warning he wants to give to all the kids in our audience. All right, Howard. Oh, you better watch out, you better not cry, you better not pout, I'm telling you why. Santa Claus is coming to town. He's making a list and checking it twice, he's gonna find out who's naughty or nice. Santa Claus is coming to town. He sees you when you're sleeping, he knows when you're awake. He knows if you've been better, good, so be good for goodness sake. Oh, you better watch out, you better not cry, you better not pout, I'm telling you why. Santa Claus is coming to town. Santa Claus is coming to town. Santa Claus is coming to town. Santa Claus is coming to town. And Kelly here does, we're coloring cool, elephants, boats, and kitty carts too. Santa Claus is coming to town. Santa Claus is coming to town. The kids and girls in Portland will have a jubilee. They're gonna build a toilet and an ornament a Christmas tree. So you better watch out, you better not cry, you better not pout, I'm telling you why. Santa Claus is coming to town. Santa Claus is coming to town. Yeah! Well, that was right. Okay, Howard Coleman. I'm sure everyone will take that advice quite seriously. But, say, aren't you a little bit late? Well, anyway, here's one of our more serious-minded youngsters. It's Joe McGuire. And Joe sings that ageist and most beautiful Christmas carol, It Came Upon a Midnight Clear. It came upon a midnight clear, The glorious song of old, From angels bending near the earth, To touch their harps of gold. Peace on the earth, goodwill to man, From heaven's all gracious King. The world in solemn stillness slay, To hear the angels sing. Still through the cloven skies they come, With peaceful wings unfurl, And still their heavenly music flows, O'er all the weary world. Above its sad and lowly plains, They bend on hovering wings, And evermore its babble sounds, The blessed angels sing. Oh, yeah, beneath lights crushing load, Both farms are bending low, For tile along the climbing way, With painful steps and snow. Look now for blood and golden eyes, Come swiftly on the wing, Oh, rest beside the weary road, And hear the angels sing. Hooray! That was Joe McGuire with the ageless carol, It came upon a midnight clear. Now here once more is the entire P.A.L. chorus And Helen Ferguson, With a song that has been sung at Christmas time All over the world for more than a hundred years. It's Silent Night. Silent night Hooray! Holy night Hooray! Holy night Hooray! Now the joyful beg your Rugby And child Hooray! And world And joy filled Hooray! Golden eye Happy Your Silent night, holy night Glories stream from heaven afar Heavenly hosts sing Alleluia Christ the Savior is born Christ the Savior is born Silent night, holy night Well, it looks like that just about concludes our Christmas Eve visit with the kids of the P.A.L. But before we go, I'd like to take this opportunity of extending you a sincere wish for a very happy holiday season on behalf of Deputy Police Commissioner James B. Nolan, the youngsters, and the entire staff of the Police Athletic League. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System And, finally, we have a great holiday season We have a great holiday season And, finally, we've improved so much apparently we've always been celebrating This is a event, well, since we just climbed up What we were having a holiday season We rocked up як eater And then, finally, we rocked down We rocked up余 suffering We rocked up, grassed up, grassed up Just the squid On the sandy street We rocked up as your そして Good way We rocked up as your stories You're drawn by as little You're drawn by as little We rocked up as little May day
