Hello folks, this is Bing Crosby asking you not to forget the annual amputee baseball game at the Polar Grounds this year to help our amputee veterans. Ed Sullivan is chairman and you're assured of a whacking good time out at Coogan's Bluff. Call the National Amputation Foundation at Watkins 47664 and your tickets will be mailed to you. That's Watkins 47664. This is Bob Considine urging you to attend the Amputee War Veterans vs. Broadway Hollywood All-Stars Baseball game at the Polar Grounds Wednesday night July 19th. See for yourself that amputees are able to work. Buy tickets at the Giants offices 100 West 42nd Street or phone the National Amputation Foundation Watkins 47664. This is Fanny Hurst urging you to attend the baseball game between amputee war veterans of the National Amputation Foundation and Broadway Hollywood All-Stars at the Polo Grounds Wednesday night July 19th. This game is to prove that amputees are physically able to work. So do order your tickets now by telephoning Watkins 47664. Thank you. Thank you. Friends, this is Ham Fisher urging you on behalf of Joe Palooka and myself to attend the The Amputation Foundation and the Amputation Foundation. This game is to prove that amputees are physically able to work. So do order your tickets now by telephoning Watkins 47664. Thank you. Friends, this is Ham Fisher urging you on behalf of Joe Palooka and myself to attend the baseball game between amputee war veterans of the National Amputation Foundation and Broadway Hollywood All-Stars at the Polo Grounds Wednesday night July 19th. This game is to prove that amputees are physically able to work. So do order your tickets now by phoning Watkins 47664. Thanks very much. Friends, this is Buddy Rogers urging you to attend the baseball game between amputee war veterans of the National Amputation Foundation and Broadway Hollywood All-Stars at the Polo Grounds. This game is to prove that amputees are physically able to work. So please order your tickets now by phoning Watkins 47664. This is Guy Lombardo asking you to buy tickets now for the baseball game between the National Amputation Foundation's amputee veterans and the National Amputation Foundation. National Amputation Foundation's Amputation Foundation's Amputation Veterans vs. Broadway Hollywood All-Stars at the Polo Grounds Wednesday night July 19th. Phone Watkins 47664 or go to the Giants ticket offices 100 West 42nd Street for tickets. This is Bill Stern urging you to attend the Amputation War Veterans against the Broadway Hollywood All-Stars on a baseball game at the Polo Grounds on Wednesday night the 19th of July. See for yourself that amputees are able to work. Buy tickets at the Giants office New York Giant office 100 West 42nd Street or phone the National Amputation Foundation Watkins 47664. You are
