The signing of the Egyptian-Israeli General Armistice Agreement is a momentous event in the history of Palestine and in the relations between Israel and the Arab states. I think it is not excessive to say that this agreement, which puts an end to hostilities between Egypt and Israel, is only the first of a series of agreements with the Arab states which will ensure the early return of peace to Palestine and the Near East. The negotiations which led to this agreement have been moderately long and inevitably arduous, but vital issues of national security for both parties were at stake, and these could be satisfactorily resolved only after full understanding and careful deliberation. On the whole, it may be said that the negotiations were outstanding for the restraint and dignity manifested throughout by both delegations, even when the most delicate matters were under consideration. The agreement now signed is an agreement which springs from and belongs to the parties. It requires no ratification and goes into effect immediately. Nor does it require approval by any third party, including the United Nations. It is an agreement, however, which is in direct compliance with the request of the Security Council in its resolution of the 16th of November, 1948. I feel certain that the Security Council will receive word of it with the greatest satisfaction. In my view, this is a very fair and honorable agreement. In it, both parties are taken as equals. It affords very great safeguards for the security of both. It incorporates in Article I a declaration which is very much akin to a non-aggression pact. It provides for a substantial withdrawal and reduction of the armed forces of both sides. It virtually eliminates any possibility of future armed conflict between the two. There is no doubt in my mind that this agreement will pave the way for the early and peaceful settlement of all outstanding differences between Egypt and Israel. Once the war phase of the Palestine dispute has been dissipated by means of armistice agreements, the concentration will be on the peaceful settlement of all outstanding questions, political, territorial, and economic, between Israel and her Arab neighbors. The Conciliation Commission, established by the General Assembly in its resolution of the 11th of December, 1948, has already begun this last phase of the task of bringing peace to Palestine. As a representative of the United Nations, I am happy that the intensive effort which the United Nations has devoted toward achieving peace in Palestine has thus borne positive and constructive fruit. In the interest of peace and in the interest of the peoples of the Near East who have suffered from a tragic and unnecessary war, I am highly gratified that these negotiations have succeeded and that for the first time in the long history of the Palestine dispute, Arab and Jewish representatives have met, negotiated, and signed a formal agreement. You have just heard a statement by Dr. Ralph J. Punch following the signing of an armistice agreement early this morning at war.
