The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. How can we combat musical illiteracy? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes tastes and trends in music. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the factors that determine the kind of music we like and the kind we get. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Leonard Keller, Director of the Metropolitan School of Music in Chicago, Louis G. Lemaire, President of the American Music Conference, Fabian Levitsky, Conductor of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, and Dorothy Shea, popular radio and TV star and Columbia recording artist. In recognition of National Music Week, we discuss the interesting question, how can we combat musical illiteracy? Keller, what do you mean by musical illiteracy? To what extent is musical literacy a matter of taste and appreciation, would you say? We acquire a taste and appreciation of music such, in the same way people acquire a taste for certain foods. It becomes a habit when you eat certain foods to either like or dislike them, to get an appreciation of them. By becoming familiar with these foods, you have an appreciation or an evaluation. In the same way, we can evaluate music. By becoming familiar with music in one or all or many of its phases, by having a knowledge of one or all or many of these phases, we become musically literate. The person who was never subjected to music, if that were possible, in any form or shape or sound, would be a musical illiterate. Since almost every human being comes in contact with music in one of its many phases, there, of course, results the problem that literacy is to a degree they have an appreciation of one form of music or another. And the question is, to what extent can we increase the degree of appreciation and taste to include the great treasury of music historically and internationally? Well, now, are you saying that some knowledge or understanding of music is necessary to establish musical literacy, Keller? Is it more than a matter of peace? To have a reaction to music and to appreciate music, to go to a symphony concert conducted by my colleague sitting next to me, Fabian Savitsky, one would not have to have a technical knowledge. Some friends of mine enjoy concerts who have no knowledge whatsoever, I think, better than some of my friends who have a great deal of knowledge. They come with a pure, open mind, willing to love the performance. Those people need no technical knowledge. Do you agree with that, Dr. Savitsky? Naturally. I would say that I appreciate and like better audience which come to my concert and listen open-mindedly than to people who come just to criticize. Those people come specially to hear the music. Well, do you think you have to have technical knowledge about music to establish real appreciation? Not at all. How do you feel about that, Miss Shea? I don't think you have to have technical knowledge. I certainly have it myself and I'm sure that I enjoy every kind of music. There's no music that I don't enjoy. Do you want people in your audiences listening to your hillbilly music to have a technical understanding of music? No, that would be the death of me. Because when I'm singing or trying to entertain people and especially in a supper club, you're certainly not trying to raise their standard of living or teach them anything. If anything, I'm trying to teach them to relax. Although I don't think of it as trying to teach. It's just that I'm trying to entertain. And if they knew all the technical flaws in my work, which are necessarily there, because when you have so many things to think about, for instance, the lyrics have to be funny. They have to be presented in a way that they will be funny. And you have to think of your gown and your makeup, your hair, the band and everything else. You're not thinking of technicalities. You're thinking of the general picture. What kind of music does one have to appreciate in order to be called literate, Le Maire? Well, one appreciates all music. A knowledge of music, a familiarity with it, the ability to express oneself through music and the ability to understand the message of the composer and the message of the artist or the orchestra which is performing it. Those are the qualities which comprise literacy. Do you make any distinction between good music and bad music, Le Maire? No, I don't make any distinction between them because I don't think there is such a division. I think all music is good. I think we too frequently confuse the appraisal of the performance as being good or bad music rather than the quality of the music. Music is intended to bring a message to the listener. It's an expression that the artist or the composer wanted to deliver and therefore it must be good. I think that requires some clarification. I agree that there is room for all types of music, for example, folk music, dance music, descriptive music. However, there is an evaluation of music other than the performance. We all agree that a bad performance of the literature or repertoire is bad, but certainly there is a distinction between good and bad music. Not every piece that was written by a bad composer, written badly, could be good. I say that there is good music and bad music. And to describe which is good, which is bad, is very difficult. But the music which live today and going to live for generations to come until eternity is good music. Music which die natural dead is a bad music. I might add to that that I agree that it is very difficult during the era to distinguish which is the good music and the bad. witness the fact that most of the great composers who have lived, I think you will agree with me, were severely criticized during their periods as being crazy, radical, definitely wrong, will not live, etc. Most of those people have lived and the platitudinous composers have died. You think that any music is bad because of its effect, Doctor? No. Some of the music has been composed badly. Some of the music has been written badly and weren't acceptable to the ear of people and don't accept it to the generation in which it has been composed. This music won't live and stop there when it was produced. Naturally, great composers of the world, Bach, Beethoven, Beethoven, Schumann, Schubert, Brahms, and so on, and so on, and so on. Not all music of these great composers is also great. Some of them are also mediocre. They aren't talking about the quality of music, they're only talking about whether or not certain compositions have proved to be mortal or immortal. Well, I think you all are considering more of the classical music, and of course, naturally, I'm going to probably all see the things, think of my field because that's the only thing I know anything about, but if you could see some of the stuff I get, you'd believe me, there's bad music. People send things, there's not even the correct number of bars, and the lyrics are, well, what I call stretching for a rhyme, you know, and it's very badly written music, you just can't even look at it. That isn't even music. No, it isn't, but it's put forth ass music. Are you willing to say, La Mer, that an appreciation of, let's say, bebop, good bebop, is enough to establish musical literacy? Definitely. Can I ask, what does it mean, bebop? Don't ask me, doctor. Who can answer me that question? Well, we had an answer here that an appreciation of such a thing as bebop, and you better tell the doctor, Mr. Keller, what bebop is. I know what boogie-woogie means, but I don't know what bebop means. Bebop is a new word, I think. For what? For boogie-woogie or jazz or jive, it's just a current expression. There isn't a great difference between those types of music, it's just... Certain reason? A colloquial expression. Well, in boogie-woogie, of course. Would you like to go on with that, Michelle? I'm sorry, no. I think you probably know more about it. No, I just... Please do. My experience with boogie-woogie or bebop is strictly just from having heard it. I know nothing about playing it, but it seems like in boogie-woogie and bebop there's a great difference. In the first place, bebop never has a melody, as far as I can determine. That's what I don't like about it. What do you have? Reason? No, well, I'm not sure what they have. You know what? They play... You know, you've heard it. They play flattered fifths and things that sound like discords to me. But, of course, the musicians themselves and some people who listen seem to know that it gives some sort of message. Well, so if it gives a message, if it gives some sort of a lift to somebody, to me, it's good, as Mr. LeMayor says. I mean, it's not good to me, but somebody like me... But isn't it perfectly conceivable that it might have the wrong kind of a lift, actually a degrading effect? Oh, no. How could it? After all, you can't have a degrading effect by listening to something unless you are in... It depends on your surroundings and your attitude and what you're thinking. Le Marybop is a form of popular music which many of the younger generation employ to express their attitude toward life and things in general. When those same persons go on through the cycle of life, their interest in music will progress beyond the bebop stage to different forms of music. Not good music, but different forms of music. You are absolutely right. And I noticed this thing within the last 15 years. Those children who, 14, 15, 16, 17 years of age, who go and listen to Boogie Woogie or Bebop or anything else. I cannot say any other way. They are in a stage of development. They come in 20, 22, 23, they go to musical comedy to do popular songs and at 30 or 32 years of age, today, they are my audience. That's right. That's right. They come into my country. They have grown musically. Therefore, the start of their growth could not be bad. It had to be good. Naturally. I have one very interesting experience. One of the greatest universities in the Middle West, I was playing Tchaikovsky, Romeo, and Juliet. And after the concert, boys, enormously big boys, came to my room and told me how wonderful of you to play that Moonlight and something and song or whatever it is. Moonlight and roses. Moonlight and roses, yes. And one said to me, tell me please, when did Tchaikovsky make that arrangement? His recent arrangement? I just look at him and I say, no, Tchaikovsky composed that thing, but Moonlight and roses were arranged from the Tchaikovsky. I didn't know that. How interesting. Well, I should say that you people, Miss Shea and gentlemen, are reasonably liberal in defining musical literacy or musical illiteracy. We've been talking about taste and appreciation as a factor. Mr. Keller has made quite a point about knowledge and understanding of music as a factor entering into literacy. How about participation and performance? Does that help, Keller? You mean... You think the person who plays a musical instrument, who sings, who participates, who is something more than a passive reactor, is likely to be a keener student of music. That's very possible. It is my hope that more people in the future will have a contact, a personal contact with music other than just listening. I'm a great advocate of music as an avocation. I hope that many people will learn something about instrument to play simply, if you will, but to play something or to sing. I think the answer to that question is definitely yes. Dr. Hans Rosenwald, the dean of Chicago Musical College, recently gave a series of 12 lectures on music appreciation, and at the close of the lectures, he said, you can learn music without participating in performance of music, but you will learn ten times as rapidly if you do learn to play a musical instrument. Do you agree with that, Dr. Savitsky? I agree with that, but at the same time, there is a danger. Therefore, a regular listener, then he become a critic. Mm-hmm. Then he become an analyst, a musical analyst. When he sit in the audience, and if he play violin, cello, or other instrument, he says, how do violins play that passage? He's no more listening to the music. He's analyzing how it's played and criticized. He's using the knowledge that he has acquired, and that's always good. Instead, but instead of... We've got to keep these maestros on their toes, you know. Yes. I was going to say that learning one instrument and having that as your only interest could be a form of illiteracy to me because you're illiterate about every other form. You're keeping just into this one little channel. Well, in answer to Dr. Savitsky, I'm afraid that's a generality. Everyone who would get a cursory knowledge of an instrument does not become a hostile critic and loses appreciation. That is a question of personality and individuality. There are certain people who always feel that way, but in my opinion, the majority of people coming in direct contact with music through a personal acquisition of technical knowledge would not necessarily become the obnoxious critic type. Well, I have, as a performer, I have many instances to feel that. We have musical students coming to our concerts, and what they do, they don't listen to the music as a whole. They're criticizing and analyze whether it is done good or whether it is done bad. And this is, this could be corrected if the teachers or the instructors will tell them to go to the concert only with, not analytical mind, not critical mind, but the mind, open mind, listen to the music and try to learn more without any criticism. Well, I have no objection to an honest, analytical mind. I think that analysis is good for the mind and good for the soul. It's a combination, I think. I have no objection to students going analytically to concerts as long as they do not shut out their true emotional responses to it. A combination of two would be the ideal factor, I believe. Well, apparently, as Keller put it at the outset, this matter of musical literacy is a question of degree. Apparently, taste and appreciation, understanding of music, and personal competence in music are all factors that need to be considered. But let me ask you this $64 question, Dr. Savitsky. Why are you concerned about music anyway? Why is music important? Because you, that's not a $64 question. That's an easy one for you. No, no. It is more expensive than $64. Believe me. Why? Because music, is the beginning and the end in our life. Because we start with music and we end with music. And music go eternally forward. While it is intangible, while it is you cannot hold like a hot dog or a piece of paper, it remains with you for all your life. It remains with your children and children after their children. and it is more tangible than anything else in the world. The empires, the big buildings, the pyramids himself, and the countries fallen. Music still remains there and going to stay with us forever. And it has enormous tangibility. Nothing can surpass music. That's why music is important. Well, the Lord has put in the heart and the soul of each of us an insatiable thirst for music. We need music to help us through the vicissitudes, the hard parts of our life, the periods of enjoyment. There is nothing can satisfy that appetite for music except music. It is insatiable, it is perennial, it is eternal. Therefore, if we would give each person an opportunity to become a choir, acquire a knowledge of music, we would be serving one of their very fundamental requirements in this life. You think all people are capable of acquiring a knowledge of music? There is nobody who is incapable. You think this thing is as universal as nature? Oh, yes. You go out in the jungles, you go into the most primitive type of existence on earth today, you find the natives have their form of music. Every archaeological expedition which has dug up ancient ruins has found evidence of music in those ruins. All peoples at all times of their existence participate in music. In sound. In sound. They certainly have appreciation, but they don't necessarily have knowledge. No, I should say not too few have knowledge. I mean, they don't need knowledge to have appreciation. Do you think that musical literacy as we are defining it and discussing it here is increasing in America, Dr. Switsky? Very much so. Enormously. And I think that you have some data about it. How many orchestras we have and so on. Well, yes. There's a lot of evidence to answer that, Dean McBurney. You have over 200 symphony orchestras in the United States today. Local orchestras exist in many cities of population as small as 25,000. The attendance of public performances of music exceeds the attendance at sports events in this country. That's not generally known. There are over 35,000 bands and orchestras in our high schools and hundreds more in our elementary schools in this country compared to practically none 30 years ago. Small communities today have the opportunity to see and hear performances of great singers, pianists, and other artists. That's a new development. There's a shortage of qualified teachers of music. In practically every school in every city in this country, there are more students than there are qualified teachers to teach. The sales of phonograph records is greater today than ever before. And people in all walks of life in all parts of the country turn to music on their radios and their television sets as a pleasant source of enjoyment. That's very nice what you said, Mr. Lamer. Because when you read baseball accounts and see that 56,000 people attend the baseball game and the manager tells you, you see how popular it is and a symphony concert can only draw 3,500 or 2,000 people. But we cannot compete with the baseball or with the football or any kind of other athletic entertainment. But in a whole, we are doing much and more for this world than any athletic will do. Because athletics or the people who are interested are taking from us everything what we have. Our rhythm and our synchronization and our method of presenting the thing. Athlete should be a musician in his heart to play the game. If he is not, if he has no rhythm, he cannot play any kind of a game. So they are coming from us, too. Don't you think the interest in music which you evidence, Mr. Lemaire, is primarily, though, an interest in popular music? Oh, in all classes. You take your concert out here in Grant Park, they fill them in. 50,000 to 100,000 persons come out there to hear the finest of singers in the performance in the open air there. The Chicagoland Music Festival puts in over 100,000 people in attendance there. all forms of music are played there. Great artists appear. But that's just a drop in the bucket compared to the people hearing Dorothy Shea sing her hillbilly music and other Dorothy Sheas. Don't you think so, Keller? Well, I think we are all agreed that in the past 25 years, more people have become familiar with music and their appreciation and taste has increased. Yet, I agree with you that the problem is still vast. And it must be approaching... You're not making a problem out of Miss Shea, now. No, not a problem. Nice problem. I believe that the majority of music offered the public today is popular music. I don't think there's any argument about that. I think the sales of records will show that popular and folk music far exceed the classical music. The attendance at theaters, musical comedies, motion picture houses, and so forth far exceed the concert hall. The performances over the radio and television of popular and folk music or country music or hillbilly music far exceeds that of classical music. I would venture a guess that 90% of the music offered to 90% of the people is popular music. Now, does that disturb you at all? It does disturb me because I think there's too great of an emphasis on one phase of music. That phase of music offers a phase or a particular stimuli to these people, which is not the entire story. I would hope for a greater balance in the world of music. Well, apparently that doesn't disturb Mr. LeMare. Not at all, not at all. Give them time. They'll grow into the better forms of music. Naturally. But I would suggest if we could arrange this kind of thing for once. For a whole week, we play the boogie-boogie, we play the, what do you say, be-bop? Be-bop. Or other kind of popular stuff. A whole week and nothing else. Just one week of nothing else by this kind of music. And let's see what's going to happen to this world. We're going to have millions and millions of letters asking for another music. That would be a test. What do you think has been the effect, doctor, of radio and television on music? Oh, tremendous. Just, just, tremendous. As a matter of fact, in 1927, I guess it was, I was the first one who made a broadcast over the radio from Eolian Company in New York with my Philadelphia Symphonietta. That was the first orchestra on the radio in 1927 in February, I think. And since that time, now look how many symphony concerts we have, how many opera performances from Metropolitan, and people listening. You can be assured that from two to four on Saturday afternoon, Metropolitan Opera, people say, no, I don't want to listen to anything else, I don't want to go anywhere, no tease, I'm going to listen to Metropolitan Opera. It is tremendous achievement. And look at those two organizations who are trying to organize the ready-made audience for symphony orchestra, for concert, I mean civic, and community. This is a blessing for an artist today. They are doing a remarkable job. You don't need to go and sell your tickets or ask Chamber of Commerce or other thing to sell tickets. You come to town, it is a ready-made audience for you. Now, if you're working in the interest of musical literacy, to use the term of our broadcast, of improving taste and appreciation, a better understanding of music, and more participation and performance in music, how would you go about it? In short, how would you combat musical illiteracy? I think there are many ways, and while I appreciate Dr. Savisky's last remarks, I think that the field is so vast for improvement, particularly in the concert field. I object to the exclusivity of small groups of concert management who have highly commercialized concerts. I would like to see more concerts in smaller communities by young American artists. And what would you say, Mr. Lemaire? Well, I'd remove the mysticism regarding and surrounding music. I'd regard music as the common property of all people. I'd put less emphasis on ability to perform music and more emphasis on knowledge of music. And as a starter, I would extend to all children in school, during the earliest years in school, the opportunity to learn music during regular school hours. Well, thank you, Miss Shea and gentlemen. I think your analysis of musical illiteracy and ways of combating it, and I might add your own enthusiasm for music, should give our listeners better insight into the meaning of this music week we've been talking about. Thank you, Miss Shea and gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How Can We Combat Musical Illiteracy. A copy of this broadcast can be secured by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Your copy will include a list of articles and books about the subject of music. You will want to have this list as a handy study guide. A reviewing stand subscription cost $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Leonard Keller, Louis G. Lemaire, Dorothy Shea, and Fabian Savitsky. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand presents a debate on the question, Do We Want the Welfare State? Our guests will be Alfred P. Hockey, Economic Consultant to General Motors and Mayor of Park Ridge, Illinois, and Maynard Krieger, Associate Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Do We Want the Welfare State? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Most human rightsunder.
