Doesn't matter. Gentlemen, for the fiscal year 51 and 52, I am sure that with your full cooperation, our club can give full support to the national organization in its program supporting the maintenance of an adequate merchant marine. Ordinarily at this time, it has been the custom in the past at these luncheons to introduce the guests at the head table individually. I'm going to dispense with this custom at these luncheons as it consumes a considerable amount of time. I'm sure that our friends at the head table will not mind if I just say that we are, as always, happy to greet them and have them with us. I'm sure that most of the guests here know the folks at the head table, and if you don't, look at the seating list before you which tells you who they are. Recently, I ran across a little article in the Reader's Digest, which I'm going to read to you because I think it is appropriate to this occasion and all other luncheons of the propeller club. The article is entitled Contrary Wise, and I quote, I don't care whether it's a business association, a labor union, a political party, or a church, and they might have added a propeller club luncheon. All are guilty of the sin of talking to themselves. Democrats attend Democratic meetings. Republicans turn out for Republican rallies. Union members go to their meetings, and the business people attend theirs. They all usually invite and applaud speakers they already agree with, and the speakers feel gratified because they evoke hearty applause. But nobody has had his opinions challenged nor his beliefs questioned. I think this applies particularly to the propeller club, and I hope that members of the club will try to bring as their guests to these luncheons in the future at least one person who is not connected with the maritime industry so that we may spread the gospel of the American merchant marine to those who are not so familiar with it. It now gives me great pleasure to introduce our guest of honor. I am sure most of you know him well. He is one of the outstanding young officials of the city of New York with a world of experience and background which qualifies him particularly well for the position which he now holds. On January 2nd of last year, he was appointed Commissioner of Marine and Aviation of the city of New York, the greatest port in the world. I am sure that you have all read the history of this young man's career in the announcement of this luncheon. It is indeed a privilege and a great honor to have him with us today, and I am sure he will have a message of interest to all of us. Gentlemen, our guest of honor, the Honorable Edward F. Cavanaugh, Jr., Commissioner of Marine and Aviation of the city of New York. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Hicks, honored guests, members of the armed forces, distinguished officials, and members of the shipping industry. Gentlemen, I would feel the ingrate if I did not take a moment to express my sincere appreciation to the officers and members of the propeller club for extending the invitation to me to be here today. I am quite sensible of your many pressing obligations and the time limitations of a luncheon meeting, and so I plan to be quite brief in telling you what we are doing in the Department of Marine and Aviation and in making a few other pertinent remarks about our port. The primary objective, in fact, the first objective of the propeller club is to promote further and aid the national maritime in the interests of the economic welfare and the national welfare of this country. The second objective is to aid worthy and justifiable inland waterway, river, and port improvements. The high position the second objective takes in the charter of your organization indicates quite clearly the importance, the vital importance, of port improvement. Each of you here has a real and vital stake in the condition of this port. Your present city administration under Mayor Impeletere is aware of and has taken a vital interest in the condition and the future of this port. Mayor Impeletere has said time and time again that his foremost purpose will be to see that this port maintains its position as the leading port in the world. With that policy set at such a top level, we in the department have been busily engaged each day forging ahead on our $58 million port improvement program. Our plan has been twofold. First, to continue on schedule the work of rehabilitation, modernization, fireproofing, and new construction. And second, to weld more firmly the essential bond of cooperation and understanding that must exist between the city and the shipping industry. In a little over 21 months, we have seen underway or completed more than $21 million worth of work on our city piers. This pace is a tribute to the several hundred unheard of people in the Department of Marine and Aviation who are working around the clock at excessive overtime with interrupted vacations and at less than satisfactory salaries to see that this port is developed in accordance with the plan and in accordance consistent with the highest engineering and architectural standards. Time will not permit me to describe our plan or our work in detail. But suffice to say that at this time, our fire prevention program is almost completed. We are aware that that program will not give this port or any port perfect security. But it is the first time that such a program has been undertaken in any port in the world on such a comprehensive and broad scale. And when it is completed, we shall have, for the first time, some measure of protection against the devastating losses of peer fires. In rehabilitation, we have committed funds and contracts underway in an amount of about $10 million. So far, this work has given us more than a score of peers that are without parallel in any port in the world. By the nature of its scope and the work that must go into it, our modernization and new construction program has proceeded more slowly. However, I feel that by the end of 1952 or certainly early in 1953, we shall have completed two new peers, one of which shall be the new Pier 57, which will take its place in the Chelsea Group. It would be a pleasure to tell you about that pier in its details, but it's too long. But I will say that I'm sure 25 years from today, it will be said of that pier that it is the finest pier that has ever been built. The natural characteristics and facilities that have made this port the greatest port in the world have at the same time made all elements of the shipping industry very vital segments of our municipal life. More than one out of every 10 people in this great metropolis owes his livelihood directly or indirectly to the shipping industry. And so with that in mind, we in the department, as the city agency in daily contact and liaison with you and the industry, offer our fullest measure of assistance and cooperation. I here pledge it to you again today. We ask your assistance, your understanding, and your cooperation. And in return, you are assured that our door will be open 24 hours a day to discuss or aid in any matters that mean the betterment of this port. The Mayor's Joint Committee on Port Industry will soon complete its deliberations and submit its report to the Mayor. We await that report with a great deal of interest because it represents the fruit of the labors of a great many important men in your industry and in our official life. And we assure that the experience and labors of these men will mean we will have a plan that will at long last fulfill the full requirements of our port. When the plan is effectuated, I am sure that for the first time we will have a new era in city and port industry relations. Considering all that, it is quite disheartening to me from time to time when we hear people present various aspects of our port through unofficial sources that hold it up to ridicule or are destructively critical and intentionally for purposes of their own malign the work that has been done. Too frequently this reckless and irresponsible practice is the sin of those who have the most to lose and should know better. This port is not perfect. We have no illusions about it. As it has its assets, it has its liabilities. But it is and it is today the busiest and the greatest port in the world. It is the finest natural harbor anywhere in the world. It has a large anchorage just within a matter of a mile of hundreds of piers. Its harbor is only a stone's throat to the open sea and the sea lanes of the world. Its steamship service is without parallel. It offers the finest ships and the most sailings, greater frequency of sailings than any port in the world. It has the ship repair facilities, the fuel facilities. It has railroad contacts with every point in the United States and Canada and Mexico. It has the largest railroad yard in any port in the world. Its lighterage fleet, its tugboat fleet, is without compare anywhere. Its equipment, its cranes, its heavy lifts, all is here in abundance to do any job that we're called upon to do. Its truck transportation is excellent. It is the hub of the financial world. Every large banking house in the world has its representative here and indeed it is the headquarters of the greatest banking houses in the world. It has more than 500 freight forwarders and customs brokers just a stone's throw from our waterfront. As warehouse and storage facilities, it is the principal headquarters of the largest marine operators. Last but not least, New York itself provides and constitutes a tremendous market for the consumption of goods that may come to us from any other port or from any part of the world. I hesitate to raise the issue of competition and when I mention it I certainly don't mean that we can rest on our oars nor do we intend to. But in the last year for which reports were available, the year 1950, New York has outstripped its nearest competitor in tonnage by more than two and a half to one and in the dollar value of its port business by more than seven to one. To recapitulate then and sum up, our rehabilitation program and certain policy changes that we shall make the high level in the department indicate to me that during the year 1952 we shall have complete occupancy of all our peers. We shall have two new peers as I've indicated a little earlier. Our fire prevention program will have been completed. Our modernization program will have made tremendous strides. Added to all this the plans of other city agencies will go forward and we will broadcast to the nation if not the world the virtues of this harbor and we shall bring business into this harbor and into this port. I urge each of you to consider most carefully and strike back at those who fail to consider what they say in a destructively critical and derogatory fashion about this port. It is usually for their own purpose and with their own motive. We will throw down the gauntlet and we will raise the issue with anyone who intends to continue destructive criticism about this port. We welcome the facts and we welcome constructive criticism and recommendation but we shall not tolerate anything that can trifle with the livelihood of millions of our people and can in a few words do more harm to our port than we can overcome and remedy by the expenditure of millions of dollars in port promotion and rehabilitation. Boost our port know the true facts about it assist us in improving it and if need be shout its merits from the peertops and I'm sure when we meet here again which I hope will be in the not too distant future we will all be able to measure the tremendous gain we have made in this port thank you thank you Mr. Commissioner for a most constructive speech thank you thank you we have some overview of the various sites and what means to hear