Ladies and gentlemen, from the grand ballroom of the Commodore Hotel, your city station brings you the highlights in the second day's business in this 1952 convention of the American Federation of Labor. During the next 90 minutes, you will hear addresses to the convention by Averill Harriman, Secretary of Labor Tobin, and Oscar Ewing. Now to introduce the speakers, here is the president of the American Federation of Labor, William Green. The convention, please be in honor. We have with us an outstanding American and a distinguished speaker. And I'm happy beyond measure in that I'm privileged to present him to you for the delivery of an address this morning. He visited with us in days gone by. And I was always pleased to have him visit with us and bring his message to the officers and delegates in attendance at the convention. But because of developments which have taken place within the last few months, I am increasingly pleased to present this great American to you for the delivery of his address. And I know that, like me, every one of you, every one of you have learned to admire him as a thoroughgoing, broad-minded, liberal American who holds many of the principles of labor in high regard and esteem. I think I nominated him for secretary of state when he addressed the convention of the American Federation of Labor some few years ago. And while I haven't asked his permission, I'm going to take advantage of this opportunity and nominate him for secretary of state of the United States of America. He would make a great secretary of state to charge his duty in a way that would challenge our admiration. And now I take great pleasure in presenting to you our friend, honorable Gabriel Palamon, who will address you on this occasion. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. President Green and my friends of the A.R. Havelle, it's mighty nice to be with you here this morning, and it's good to hear the kind things that President Green has just said about us. me. He's known me for 20 years or more. We've worked closely together. I have great admiration for him, and it does me good to hear what he has just said. I think he knows some things about me, which he hasn't fully developed today, but when you've been in government for a dozen years on end, and more than that before, you get plenty of cracks so that once in a while to hear something nice, I wouldn't want to suggest to President Green that he change his introduction. I feel very much at home here this morning for a great many reasons. I know that you don't expect me to be inspirational at this time of the morning. I've never learned to be, and therefore perhaps I'll talk quite informally about the things which are very much in my mind at this time. But I feel at home because I know and have seen that this organization has been alert to the dangers that our country has been facing since the end of the war, and know what steps we have to take here at home, not only to rid ourselves of that communist menace, but also to carry our country forward to a greater and better life here in this country. Now, you were ahead of our government in many ways. You went out without waiting. I remember six years ago, I was concerned about the problems here in the United States when I came back from Russia, communist subversion, within our life, and I found that you were actively at work in routing it out. And you didn't need any advice from the Johnny-come-latelys, who now are absorbing that field for their own political advantage. And I'll have something more to say about Senator Joseph McCarthy a little bit later on. And then I went to Europe that spring in 1946. And I found that you were already at work in finding out what the communist subversion was doing in Europe, and through your own organization. We're already at work trying to help free labor rid themselves of the infiltration of the communists. And you've been at work ever since. And that was six years ago. Now, I can't mention the names of all the men I've worked with in the, in, among your ranks, the men in Europe, and here. But I do want to say that I'm mighty proud to have George Harrison, Dave Dubinsky, and Charlie McGowan bring me to this Rostum this morning. They're men that I've worked with, men that I respect, and men that have done great things for not only the labor movement, but for our country as a whole. Of course, it's natural that I, that I mention George's names first. I don't know whether that was the right order in protocol. But George and I have been railroad men together for a long time. And then, during the, in recent months, George showed a, a certain, um, a certain kind of good judgment. We were working together on the same team, uh, a while back, which ended in Chicago. We weren't fully successful, but we certainly did have an influence on, for good in the Democratic Party and on the platform. And I hope, George, uh, you agree that, that the work we did together did have an impact for the right kind of things. And we did nominate a, a, a great man as our candidate of the Democratic Party for the presidency. Adelaide Stevenson. I'm glad to be here again with, with, uh, with, with George Meany, because he and I worked together in 1947 and developed the basic report, which has been the guiding, the guiding influence on the development of our policies, uh, uh, in, in Europe. And George and I learned a lot at that time in the analysis that we made of, of, of conditions in, in Europe. And the report that we made at that time, uh, has been of great value in developing American policies. Now you have been part of the development of our government policies. And you are, there's no group in this country that has stood more forthrightly back of the things that you believed in and back of your government's policies, not only in the development of them, in carrying them through the Congress, but also in supporting them. And I want to thank you men for not only, uh, those that you gave to me to help me in Europe in carrying out the program, but also in the sacrifices that you've made in, in releasing those men. And so I'm grateful, among other things, to be able to say thanks for your help. And as an American, I'm proud of the achievements of, of the, of the AFFL in understanding the issues that faced our country and going to work to see that they are, that those principles are carried out. Now, four years ago, four years ago, you kindly invited me to address your convention. And you picked it a little late in the season. I don't know why, but it was after November, just after election day. And at that time, I said to you, I come to rejoice with you in the election in which you played so large a part. Liberalism is again on the ascendancy, and let's keep it there. Well, now that was four years ago, and we have another election coming up. And we hear from the Republican camp, loud assertions that it's time for a change. They seem to have had enough of liberalism, and we know the kind of a change that they want. A change to reaction. And a change of men of reaction to carry out that policy. Now, they have been rather cautious to admit that fact. And they've put up a thin veneer in the form of a candidate to conceal it. But the other morning, there was a little breakfast here up on Morningside Drive, and things are beginning to come out in the open. Taft tells us that he is not going to divert from any of the policies which he has been following in the last 14 years. And he isn't going to let down any of the people who have been fighting for him for those policies. And so it comes out in the open. And I want to say to you men that as far as I'm concerned, I have yet to find a basic policy in which I agree with Senator Taft. I disagree with him on practically every issue, foreign and domestic. And that's not just Taft-Hartley bad and pernicious as Taft-Hartley is. But we see the standard bearer caught in this position, making a campaign on Me Too generalities and catchwords. and it's coming close to a campaign based on smear without any facts back of it. Now you and I are just, all of us are just, are just shocked by the corruption of people that got into our public service and it's going to be routed out. But any thought that the general can do it better than, than, than, than Governor Stevenson has no validity whatsoever. Or anybody thinks that, uh, Truman is not trying, uh, to get rid of it today has no basis for validity. But he begins to talk about a general smear. Now, and there is one word which he seems to like, which he's repeating over and over again. And he opened his dictionary the other day. And he read us what the definition of that word was. And that word is smear. I'm glad he read us the definition of what he thinks smear is. Smear, he said, means a confused, inharmonious, disagreeable mixture of things. A medley, a hodgepodge. Hence a situation resulting from blundering, from misunderstandings, from a state of confusion, embarrassment, a muddle, a botch. Now, I agree that that vividly describes the situation that exists today. I agree there is a mess, and that mess is the Republican Party. He tries to put that word on, on the Democratic Party. The party that has been responsible for, during the last 20 years in advance, in the life of our country, social and economic. And he can't pin mess on, on the achievements of our country during the past 20 years. And it is on the basis of those achievements that we must move forward. Now, I say, what better way to describe the conglomeration of ideas and mixture of men in the Republican path? What better way to describe the situation of the General's followers, and in fact, the situation of the General himself? Now, let's look at the muddle the General gets into when he talks about foreign policy. I pick on foreign policy, because he said more about foreign policy. Whenever he's talked about domestic policy, he's been so confused that we don't know where he stands on those issues yet. But as we see, as we look at this muddle, we see emerging a confused and embarrassed, not General Eisenhower, but candidate Eisenhower. He's trying to satisfy all of his followers. The General still endorses the policies of the present administration, but at the same time, candidate Eisenhower condemns them. He tries to commit his party to a program of collective security. And everybody knows, and the General himself knows, that in the last few years, three quarters of the Republican senators have voted against or to cripple key measures to build collective security. Candidate Eisenhower would have us believe that the free world would be stronger if his party had been in party power during that time. My answer to that is the same as I gave you in Houston two years ago. Some of you may remember that. It created some disturbance at that time. I pointed out that the Kremlin was opposing the Marshall Plan, because it was rolling back communist penetration in Western Europe, and was also opposing the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, because it was creating real strength and unity among the free nations of the North Atlantic community. I pointed out that certain powerful Republican leaders had voted to cripple those measures, and that if the Congress had adopted those positions, and here's where it created a disturbance at that time, communist objectives would thereby have been furthered. Now that was two years ago, and the situation hasn't got any better. And the same men have consistently voted the same way, and are still talking that way. And if you looked at what the senator said after he had met candidate Eisenhower on Morningside Drive, he said that he had a disagreement with the general on the question of foreign policy. It was a question of degree. Well, it is a question of degree. It is a question of whether we are going to take after, look after the security of our country or whether we are not. We can't have our security through halfway measures, and we can't have it the Taft way. And we find the candidate Eisenhower saying that we can have our security, increase our armament, balance the budget, and reduce taxes. And what kind of talk is that? I say to you that anybody who tells you that you can reduce taxes and still have your security, our security today, is either grossly ignorant or is falsifying the fact. Now I do believe that, as Governor Stevenson has said the other day, that if we stick firmly to what we're doing and build our strength and the strength of the free world, in a couple of years we can look forward to living without fear, having our security, and at the same time be able to cut back these terrific expenditures, which are essential today to protect the very life of our country. Now there are other ways which I won't go through today in which there is confusion in foreign policy. But I want to ask, how can a party that is itself filled with contradictions and inconsistencies ever hope, ever hope to bring unity to the people of the free world? And that unity is our major objective, and that unity is what the Kremlin wants to break up. Now the candidate claims that his fight, that his party will fight against discriminations, against economic inequalities, against poverty, against insecurity, against social ills that hamper and handicap any of our people. Now the candidate I read in the morning paper says that won't get anywhere with Governor Stevenson's humor. Now, I ask you men, how anyone can take that statement seriously. And if it wasn't, if the facts were not so serious, if the facts were not so serious back of that statement, why, it would have humor in it. But where has the general been for the last 20 years? Doesn't he remember that it was FDR who pulled our country out of the tragic mess brought on by the Republican Party? Doesn't he know that the record of his party for 20 years has been one of stubborn opposition in the American people's actions to the constructive measures that have brought the American people the highest standard of living in our history? Programs which were put forward and carried through by our two great presidents, Franklin D. Roosevelt. And it's Harry S. Trump. And it's that progress that we Americans want to keep moving forward. Now, can the general persuade us that he has such command of his forces? Is he so used to issuing commands that he thinks everybody will obey him? Does he think that he can now order his party, these men who have been in opposition, now to reverse face and march in the opposite direction? I say that is a farce for him to say that. Now, candidate Eisenhower, it seems to me, is so confused by the present muddle of his party that he's getting his history botched up, too. He says, through his speeches, runs the theme that the troubles of the world are due to the faults of the present administration. Most of us know, and the general himself knows, that the root of the trouble in this world has been the destruction of World War II, followed by the ruthless aggression of the Kremlin. But there's one aspect of his campaign, Oritre, that I cannot let go answered. And that is the bold implication that he and his other, the other leaders of his party would have been so far-sighted that they had never had any illusions about Soviet aggression. And that if America had only been in their hands, if they could have directed the world, the world would have been a safer place to be today. But let's get that record straight. It was in November 1945 that General Eisenhower testified before a committee of the Congress. He was asked what he thought about Russia as a potential aggressor. And this was his answer. Russia has not the slightest thing to gain by a struggle with the United States. There is no one thing, I believe, that guides the policy of Russia more today than to keep friendship with the United States. And that is after he had been dealing. After he'd been dealing with the Russians for over six months. And now he says that he knows how to deal with the Russians. He said that yesterday in one of his whistle-stop speeches. Now I am not condemning the General for his hopes. Many honorable Americans shared these hopes. But I find it hard to swallow candidate Eisenhower's current pretensions that he had gifts of unusual foresight. The candidate now says that the administration allowed America to become weak. Not to let its strength go away. Break down its strength and become weak. Does he now forget that General Eisenhower had a hand in demobilization? And that he said in 1946, and I quote from him, Frankly, I don't think mobilization was too fast. Does he forget that his fellow Republicans in Congress were clamoring for even faster demobilization and charging the administration with all sorts of underhanded motives in not demobilization? Demobilizing fast enough. And there is another piece of literature the candidate is confusing. He talks of millions of men, women, and children in Eastern Europe whom he says have been delivered into slavery. Delivered by home. He implies by the present administration. The General knows better than that. As Commander-in-Chief of the Allied Forces in the last war, he knows that at the end of the war, the Red Army was in occupation of all of Eastern Europe. And that Stalin took advantage of this occupation to break his agreements with us. Those agreements were to hold free elections. And instead, Stalin installed by force his puppets. And the General knows full well that there is nothing effective America could have done to stop this tragedy. Unless we had been prepared to rebuild our forces in Europe and those of our Western allies after the defeat of Japan and drive the Red Army back to its frontiers. I have yet to hear General Eisenhower or any Republican in responsible position suggest such action. Now, the General can't rewrite history just to suit the purposes of candidate Eisenhower. He calls for skillful, consistent use of the power of truth. And yet he has gone out of his way to endorse and support a man whom General Eisenhower knows, and we know, has skillfully and consistently abused the truth. And that's Senator Joseph McCarthy. Now, that's not just a question of difference of opinion. There can be honorable differences of opinion. But when a man like McCarthy sponsors totalitarian methods of guilt by smear and guilt by association, breaking down all of the human rights which we believe in so deeply in our society, it isn't a question of issue. It's a question of, it isn't a question of a difference of opinion. It's a basic issue. In fact, it is the basic issue which is now the current battle and struggle in the world between communism and the free countries. Basic concept that the dignity of the individual must be conceived, must be protected, and that the individual must be protected against abuse and has a right to fair trial. Now, there is no better example of McCarthy's contempt for truth than in his denunciation of America's great soldier statesman and Eisenhower's friend and mentor, General George C. Marshall. McCarthy called Marshall the key figure in a conspiracy so immense and so infamous, so black as to dwarf any previous venture in the history of man. And he's endorsed McCarthy. Now, McCarthy was joined in this attack by Senator William Jenner, who smeared General Marshall as a front man for traitors in a living lie. And yet candidate Eisenhower went to Indianapolis to shake Jenner's hand and have Jenner introduce him, to him not alone to the people of Indiana, but on radio to the people of the United States. The Republican candidate calls for decency in Washington, and yet he calls for the reelection of these two men to bring with him. I ask what kind of decency is this. The Republican Party, the Democratic Party, is conducting this campaign on the basis of a serious discussion of the issues. And that's what I wish to do now very briefly. There are sober and serious problems ahead, and they deserve to be discussed in a way which will clarify our thinking and not confuse it. And that is true especially when they are late. To our national security. And I hope someday we can get back to what Senator Van Berg said, a non-partisan approach to our foreign policies. But today we cannot do it. I find it impossible to divorce, because there are such fundamental differences between us, and we cannot compromise our national security. Or I find it impossible to divorce foreign policy from domestic policy. They are so independent that they are, in fact, almost inseparable. I'll give you one example, and it's an important one. We must have an expanding social and economic life in our country to achieve our objectives of adorable peace with freedom in the world. We are, in fact, we are, in fact, we are, in fact, a terrifying responsibility. We have only 10% of the population of the free world. And yet our total output is more than all of the rest of the 90% put together. It is absolutely essential that we give a helping hand to those people around the world to help increase their productivity so that they can stand some form of a, look forward to some kind of a decent life. But at the present time, what happens here at home has a most vital effect for good or ill on the rest of the world. You remember the brief recession that we had in 1949, from which we recovered quickly. But it had most disturbing consequences in other countries. While our total gross national product dropped only 3.5%, at that same time, the imports from some countries dropped as much as 40%. And there were grave social and economic almost disaster that occurred. It was only because our recession lasted a short time that we did not have real upheavals. Now, should we let our economy fall into a furious depression, and entirely aside from the tragedy of it here at home, the whole free world would be in mortal danger. Now, you all know Stalin's strategy of world conquest is partly based on the communist doctrine that the American economy is unstable and will collapse again into a major depression, exposing country after country to internal revolt, led by their communist fifth columns. He does not believe that free men can so order their affairs as to maintain a stable economy. How well we manage our economic affairs here at home is, in the final analysis, one of the greatest decisive factors in the world's struggle. Now, we have in recent years showed that we can build and maintain an expanding American economy and American life. As a result, we have the highest output in our history, from the factory and the farm. And even with the heavy defense expenditures, we have been able to develop the highest standard of living in our history. And that's after taxes and taking into account higher prices. Now, the Republicans would have us believe we're on the verge of bankruptcy. We're not on the verge of bankruptcy. We are expanding our life. We're giving a better opportunity to more people in our country. And we are increasing and improving the living conditions of all of our people. And incidentally, we're doing it in a way that Roosevelt set out for us to do, which is to build our economic life on the basis of the lower incomes. And the last 20 years, it shows that the lower incomes have gone ahead twice as fast as those in the upper half. And that's the way it should be. And that principle should continue. Because then there is an endless amount of production that is needed from the factory and the farm when people can begin to enjoy a decent life. I want to say another word, if I may. It seems to be another battle cry of the Republican Party. And Senator Taft, with his pop gun, shot it off again on Morningside Drive. And it was in the preamble of the Republican platform. And that is this question that they claim. But the issue today is between socialism and freedom. And I say, let's hammer that word socialism right down, the Republicans. And let us understand. Let's ask them to explain to us what they mean with freedom. Now, in Chicago, what did they do? They drug out Hoover. And what picture did that bring to the minds of the American people? What kind of freedoms? Freedom to sell apples. And all the other types of freedoms that we had in the early 30s. Are those the Republican freedoms? Well, I know that you men agree that we have a different kind of freedom. We have the kind of freedom that Roosevelt and Truman have been standing for. And it is clear that there is more freedom today for more people than ever in our history. And it's been done in the American way. Now, we can't let that kind of thing go unanswered. But let's analyze what they mean. They talk about it's socialism for the government to plan. Well, now, what is our federal government? Our federal government represents a community of 156 million people. Now, I am for our local communities doing everything they can do. It's within the American tradition, from the earliest settlers, to work as a community. And we should work as a local community. And we should work among local groups and private groups as far as is possible and through states. But we cannot be afraid, and I'm not afraid, that our community of 156 million people should not work together for the welfare of all of the people of our country. And that isn't socialism. And don't let us be afraid of what we are doing because the Republicans try to put a label on that. It is within the true American tradition. Now, what are we doing? We're looking forward to the medical needs of our people, to the educational needs, and to the economic needs, the needs for housing, and so forth. And, by the way, our Republican candidate said he doesn't think anything of socialized medicine. Well, I don't believe in socialized medicine. But here is the General Eisner, who's lived ever since he went into West Point under socialized medicine. Now, as I say, I don't believe in socialized medicine for the people, for the United States, and I don't believe in the British system. I've seen it operate. But I do know that it is the American tradition to see that all of our people get decent medical care. And that's the problem ahead of us, and we don't want to shy away from that. We've got to make progress in that direction. And as I tell you, it isn't socialism to see that all of our kids get a chance to get educated. That's one of the most fundamental of the American traditions. And if a local community can't do it, let's do it in the community of 156 million people. And let's remember that there's no dictatorship in that federal government of ours, and let's be afraid of it. That you've got a president that the American people elect, and we've got a Congress that the American people elect. And if you've ever tried to get through legislation in Congress, you know that it is a difficult job for the administration to get legislation through Congress that in any way has anybody's opposition in this country, let alone the opposition of most of our people. Now I say that this expanding economy is absolutely essential. We can't stand still. We can't stand still. We either go forward or back. We need stability, and therefore we must move forward. And you men here know that we can have expanding production and productivity and an improvement in the condition in the ranks of labor and on the farms. Now that doesn't happen by accident. The federal government must take an interest in it through minimum wages, the floor that is essential, and through the protection of the rights of labor to organize and deal collectively. Now we've got to elect a Congress that will get rid of the Taft-Hartley law. And enact decent legislation that protects labor and industry management and also the public. And that can be done. It's done in a spirit of fairness and cooperation and not done in a spirit of vindictiveness, as was the spirit of the Taft-Hartley enactment. But let's quit talking about getting that law repealed. There's only one way that law will be repealed. And that is if the working people of this country and their families get out and vote, not just for the presidency, but for the senators and the congressmen who will carry through not only decent labor legislation, but decent progressive legislation on all of the fronts that are necessary. Now that doesn't happen just by passing resolutions. Passing resolutions and I hope that there'll be proper resolutions coming out of this convention. It's not for me to say. But what I do ask is that we all go to work this time. President Truman carried the campaign largely on his back with some help last time. But this time it's got to be a team operation. All of you men and women bringing to the men and the families what is at stake in this election, both at home and abroad. And that can be done and that and if that is done there can be no doubt as to the outcome that we will have a congress that will act for the people. And that we will have a president that can lead us in the right direction. Now if we act on the policies which have been proven successful over the last 20 years, and if we act with boldness and imagination, it is within our capacity to add tremendously to our national output in real terms over the next 8 or 10 years. It is well within our capacity to add 100 billion dollars. And if we do that, we can carry heavy defense expenditures if the world tensions make it necessary for us to do so and carry on our responsibilities in the world. And still, in that period, bring about an increase of 30% in the standard of living of our people. And that is worth fighting for. And that is worth working together to accomplish. We are not going to do it in any other way than through the democratic principles. I want to talk again about this business of socialism. I don't think we can talk about it too much. Let's air it. Let's not let any of these words scare us. Now they say that it is socialism for the government to plan for power needs, for the steel requirements, for the raw material requirements of our industry, for the amount of fertilizer that are needed. Well, I believe in government doing a job that private enterprise either can't or won't do. And unless we have the power developments, unless we have the raw materials, unless we have the fertilizer, unless we have the other things that the industry and farmers need, we're going to be throttled. Now the Republicans call what we're doing now, which is just to look forward to the needs of our country and act where it's necessary to act, socialism. In fact, it has given more opportunities to business and employment than ever before. But what is the alternative they propose? To turn back planning to business and private bankers. And we know that piecemeal planning won't do anymore. And we know that narrow planning of business won't do anymore. It will throttle our economy. They'll plan for an economy of scarcity because that's the way business people look upon the responsibilities they have for the solvency of their companies and the profit of their companies. I'm not criticizing them because I'm dealing with it soberly. But we cannot let planning go back to piecemeal planning of business and of bankers. We must have in Washington the direction in which our country goes. If we do that, we will, as I say, give greater opportunity not only to business but to labor, employment, increase employment, and to our farmers. And due to this planning that has been taking place, and I use planning with quotes, there are more people that own their own farms. There are more family-sized farms than ever before. And it isn't only the improvement in the ranks among the working people, but it is improvement all over our country. There are fewer forgotten men today, as Roosevelt used to call it. Now, an expanding economy at home, an expanding economy in the free world is necessary, not only for the well-being of free people, but also to support the necessary military expenditures. But an expanding economy in the free world is also necessary to increase the imports of raw materials from other free peoples that we need here at home. We cannot have an expanding economy unless we have an expanding supply. And that is an additional reason why we must intensify the .4 program. And yet it is a fact that the majority of the Republican congressmen would have us cut that program back. And nothing could be more short-sighted or dangerous than to leave these people helpless in misery, a prey to communist subversion. I don't have to talk this way to you men because you've had your own representatives out there. And I want to say that the men that you've had out there have done great work in making, in helping the people of the underdeveloped areas not only understand the sympathetic attitude of the American people towards them, but also help them organize and help them deal with their, to get rid of the communist subversion. And again, I want to say I thank you for what you're doing because private people can do in many cases more than our government can and at least can give essential support to what they are doing. So I do not have to tell you how important this work among the underdeveloped areas is. But I do. But I do know that there are a lot of Republicans that's on the record. They're the ones that cut the appropriations for India, beat their breasts about the tragic events in China, and then beat their breasts. And voted against the relatively very small sums which are necessary to help India carry forward her struggle for freedom and democracy. And I say those men behind, belong home, they don't belong in Washington. And I ask you men to look at the record and carry on here at home what you're doing abroad and keep those men at home and elect men who understand as you do what is at stake. Now we are building a defensive strength in the free world, not only our own but around, but helping others who want to do the same. And we're building a system of defense alliances in the Atlantic and in the Pacific. Now the great majority of our people have magnificently supported these unprecedented efforts. And what is a fact, and most American people must understand, that the people of other countries have been ready and willing to support common efforts for our mutual security. Now here again, Stalin has made another great miscalculation. We are disproving another doctrine of communism, that the free nations cannot maintain unity. We have shown that free nations can work together and stay united. But we must make that unity permanent and solid. Now since the end of the war, the Kremlin has been making its first great bid for world conquerors. This threat has been met and rolled back in many parts of the world. The Kremlin plan to take over Western Europe through internal subversion has been thwarted and Western Europe is gaining increasing strength. Now checked in Western Europe, the Kremlin increased its pressure in the East. And then Stalin unleashed open aggression in Korea. He expected an easy victory. He thought he would discredit the United Nations as an instrument of collective security, just as the Japanese warlords discredited the League of Nations a generation ago. He thought he could then bring about the collapse of Southeast Asia. And it is clear that that's what his plan was. Instead, the communist forces have been held back. And what's more, this military aggression has alerted the free world to rearm. Now I honestly believe that the gallantry in Korea of our men and those of the other United Nations has saved the world from going down the road to another worldwide and more terrible disaster. Now Stalin is the man who stands defeated in Korea. And let's get people to understand that. It's Stalin that doesn't know how to get out and end this reckless adventure. It was based on such a mis- mis- mis- miscalculation. To get out of it without loss of face. Now we must stand firm in Korea. There are two ideas that come from the Republican ranks. The MacArthur idea that we should expand the war and end it that way. But he's never told us how he would end it. And then there are others who have claimed that we should withdraw and make the sacrifice of our men in vain. There's just one thing to do. And that is to stand firm with the other members of the United Nations. And then we will see an end. And then we will be able to deal with other situations in the world. Because the Kremlin will know that we mean what we say and will stick to it. And that's not an easy thing to explain. And it is not pleasant to have to face up to disagreeable things in these days. But the facts are that we cannot see a happy future ahead unless we deal with the terrible things that face us today. Now although there are many grave problems ahead, the Free Nations are gaining the initiative in many parts of the world. And I believe the Kremlin has been badly shaken by these miscalculations that I have explained. Now there is a tendency for us to see our own difficulties. But let's look at the other side of it. All is not well in the Communist camp. There is a limit even to the ability of dictators to exploit their people and to use them as cannon fodder in slave labor. I know that from my experience in Russia during the war. There was no love for the Communist Party then. And there can be less today. Discontent is a chronic condition in all Communist countries. The endless purges go on in a vain attempt to find loyal henchmen. Now their difficulties were between countries behind the Iron Curtain. And we should not be misled by the reports from Moscow that all is well between Russia and Communist China. Now we can only guess what may be going on at this conference. But I personally think that the Chinese are putting great pleasure on the Kremlin for more arms and larger quantities of industrial equipment vitally needed by China. Now China is an impoverished country. I'll give you just one figure. The per capita income of the Chinese is only about 2.5% of ours. The needs of China for expansion and development are enormous, both in industry, transportation and farming. Now I vividly remember a conversation that I had with Stalin sometime in 1944. We were discussing China and the future of China. And he told me that China's needs for equipment would be enormous after the war. And these could only be supplied by the United States. The Soviet Union, he said, with its limited capacity, could not do so. And yet now China, Communist China, is cut off from us and the other industrial nations. And Stalin himself today is faced with this problem. And it's going to cause increasing difficulties. And although China is an addition of strength in population, there is a weakness as well on the economic side. But as the unity and strength of the free nations build up, there can be no doubt that pressures behind the Iron Curtain will increase. And then I believe that the Kremlin system of inhumane and unnatural slavery is bound to disintegrate. And we must always remember this. We must be on alert to seize each advantage, quick to adjust our policies to the changing situation. Now some people seem to think, and we read about it from what people say in the paper or hear it on television and radio, that Stalin will stubbornly follow through on a set course just as Hitler blindly did in Mancob. Now we know that is a complete misunderstanding of Soviet philosophy and methods. The communists adapt themselves to changing conditions. They talk about strategic retreat. And they're going to be forced, as we grow stronger, to change their policies. And when you begin to change, why then is the opportunity to take advantage on our part of the situation. And then it may be that we can see the day with the disintegration behind the Iron Curtain that these people who have been enslaved, who pray every night for their liberation, will in fact have an opportunity to regain their freedom. But I say to you, men and women, that we must continue to have that as our objective, but not build up any false hopes. And we must pray with them for the day when we can be strong enough so that we can begin to deal with the world situation on our terms. Now, no one can foretell the future, but I have some deep convictions about it. We must build our strength for peace with ever the objective of avoiding, preventing a war. But that must be done in a way to gain strength and to strengthen freedom. Now, if we are persistent and vigorous, if we recognize that our tremendous responsibility is also a tremendous opportunity, it is possible to prevent another worldwide struggle. Now, in conclusion, I want to say that another deep conviction is that the future is in our hands, in this generation of Americans, we can not only control our own destiny, but we can in fact shape the destiny of the world. Now, this is no time to change for reaction. This is a time for progress. We need to marshal all of our finest qualities of determination, consistency, understanding, courage, and particularly faith. Faith in ourselves. Faith in our free institutions. And basically, faith. Faith in mankind. Faith in other peoples. Because it is only faith that can give men the qualities of leadership that we need. Now, we must have inspiration and leadership. We must give this inspiration and leadership to free men everywhere. And that means that we must have forward-looking policies here at home, and imaginative leadership in our country. And I say to you men and women here today, that is why I am deeply convinced that we are at a critical moment, and that is why we must elect as president Adelaide Stevenson. Thank you. Thank you. Now in your name and in your behalf, I want to thank Mr. Harriman for his visit with us this morning and for this most impressive address which he delivered. We appreciate it more than words can express. Now chair recognizes the local chairman for some important announcements. Mr. Chairman and delegates, there's been quite a misunderstanding relative to the convention dinner of tomorrow evening. I'd like to make an announcement that at 2 o'clock tomorrow afternoon, immediately outside by the booth, tickets will be available to all delegates. I say each and every delegate, particularly the visiting delegates. I'd like to call your attention of the baseball game at the polo grounds at 1.30 this afternoon. You take the 6th Avenue subway, four blocks west on 42nd Street. The game will start at 1.30. Immediately after the ball game, buses will be available at 6 o'clock tonight outside of the hotel to bring you to a visit of our city and particularly visiting the Seaman's new institute. The seamen of the AFA Bell have recently invested a million dollars and it'd be just too bad if you didn't visit and have dinner with them tonight. Thank you. Chair now recognizes Secretary of Treasury Meany, who will read to you a message sent to you by the President of the United States. Secretary Meany. This message is addressed to President Green and signed by the President of the United States. Dear Mr. Green, this is the last time it will be my privilege as President of the United States to send a message to the Convention of the American Federation of Labor. I wish I could speak to you and to the delegates in person and tell you face to face some of the things that are in my heart and mind as I near the end of my administration. However, my work is just as heavy as it ever was. In fact, I think I have been busier since I stated my decision not to run again than I was before. Under these circumstances, I know you will forgive me for not being with you in New York today. As the end of my term draws near, I have been thinking back over the struggles and accomplishments of the past seven years. The American Federation of Labor has been a staunch partner in the programs we have worked for since I became President. I am proud of the advances we have made at home and the efforts we have carried on throughout the world to bring about a real peace, to create the kind of world in which men and women everywhere can live free and hopeful lives. Labor has helped at every step of the way. Representatives of organized labor not only hold positions of trust in the executive departments and in the defense agencies, but they are helping to make and carry out our policies of international cooperation. The leaders of organized labor have made a great contribution to the success of such programs as the Economic Cooperation Administration and the Mutual Security Administration. Their participation has earned the gratitude of our nation and the respect of labor in many foreign lands. I am sure, moreover, that our Point Four program cannot succeed without the skills, the re-zeal and the vision of the labor representatives who are now taking part in our technical assistance projects in undeveloped areas. The part that American labor is playing in our international affairs is an inspiration to less fortunate working men and women in many countries. The status of American labor today spells hope in lands where the right to organize, the right to bargain with employers, and the right to achieve better conditions are ignored or brutally suppressed. In spite of these facts, in spite of the vital importance of labor to our foreign policy, we have witnessed in this country over the last seven years a determined assault against the rights of organized labor. There is little doubt in my mind that a definite plot was hatched at the close of the war to smash or at least to cripple our trade union movement in a period of post-war reaction. This conspiracy was developed by a little group of politicians working with the representatives of our most reactionary employers. These men thought that history would repeat itself and that they could do after World War II what had been done after the First World War when our trade unions were set upon by the so-called open shop movement using the anti-labor devices of spies, finks, blacklists, and yellow dog contracts. To accomplish this, it was necessary first to strip labor of the rights which had been protected by federal legislation. The first step in this conspiracy was, therefore, the Taft-Hartley Act. As Representative Hartley's own book makes clear, the Taft-Hartley Act was conceived of only as the first step. It was followed by the repeal of most of the New Deal legislation. It was to be followed by the repeal of most of the New Deal legislation. The Republican leaders of the 80th Congress lent themselves to this shameful conspiracy against the common welfare and rammed the Taft-Hartley law through over my veto. They proceeded also to cut down Social Security protection and to attack the wage and our law. Then they waited, postponing further attacks until after what they assumed would be a Republican victory in November of 1948. In the campaign of that year, I was able to put the facts before the people and they responded as I knew they would. They gave their answer to this attack upon the rights of labor and upon the welfare and prosperity of the average man. In the 81st Congress, where the Democratic majority was substantial, I had enough support to secure the passage of laws which improved and strengthened our national housing program, our Social Security program, and our wage and our law. There were almost but not quite enough liberal Democrats to secure the repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act. While we did not succeed in that respect, the general record of the 81st Congress was heartening. In the 82nd Congress, however, where the Democratic majority was reduced to a narrow margin, the assault on labor was renewed. The most important part of the battle in the 82nd Congress was waged over inflation controls. Time and again, the special interests, abetted by the Republican leaders, tried to repeal and destroy price controls and rent controls, which are so important not only to labor, but also to every person who lives on a moderate salary or a fixed income. These assaults had the effect of weakening our controls, but they were not able to overthrow and destroy them completely. On the credit side, we also got some improvement in our Social Security laws, in spite of Republican opposition. As my period of office draws to its conclusion, I take the considerable satisfaction in the fights we have won and in the gains we have made. The cause of the average citizen has not been successful all along the line. We have suffered certain losses, but by and large, we have beaten back the main attacks and we have made real progress. Wages are good, employment is high, and in spite of prices and taxes, most of our people are enjoying a standard of living that is better than it ever was in the past. I do not know what things will be like in the future, but I am sure that they will be determined largely by the results of the election this year. Some of the special interests are already grinding their axes for a fresh attack on labor in the event of a Republican victory. I do not know whether you read the Wall Street Journal, but I have some indications, I have seen some indications in it lately that plans are afoot in Wall Street to make the Taft-Hartley law even more oppressive and unfair than it is at present. Not all Republicans are possessed by a hostility to labor, but it appears that the Republican candidate has now made his peace with the author of the Taft-Hartley law. Apparently, his conduct will not be out of line with the Republican platform, which, in my opinion, is the most anti-labor platform they have submitted to the country in at least 16 years. Labor is important in this country because it is one of the major groups that goes to make up our national strength and well-being. Business and agriculture are equally important. Over the last 20 years, we have developed programs fed to these three great groups which have provided an increasing national income for the benefit of every American citizen. There is still a lot to do. There are still people in this country who suffer under poor living conditions and poor housing. There are still people who do not have a chance for a decent education. Their proper medical care is still beyond the reach of too many of our people. Too many also face discrimination because of race, creed, or color. These are conditions which must be changed. They are conditions that can be changed and that will be changed if we continue in the course of progress which we have been following over the last 20 years. I regard the coming election as crucial, not only to the future of organized labor and the prosperity of the average man in our country, but also for our chances of world peace and the continuance of our world leadership. That is why I am going to go around the country campaigning for the election of Governor Stevenson and Senator Sparkman and for a real democratic Congress. I am sure that the American Federation of Labor, which is meeting in its 71st convention under your chairmanship, fully understands what is at stake in this election. I am sure that organized labor will continue to work in the future as it has in the past for the steady improvement of the lot of the average man in this country and the continued welfare of our whole nation. New social and economic advances and better still, a surer prospect of peace will be our reward. Very sincerely, yours signed, Harry S. Truman. Thank you. And now we're going to enjoy a pleasure that I know you have all anticipated ever since the call for this convention was issued. It would seem that our convention had failed if the Secretary of Labor did not be present at a session and bring to us the inspiring message of which he is capable. We hold him in high regard and high esteem. He's a great Secretary of Labor. He has measured up to a high standard of excellence. And I'm proud indeed to present to you Honorable Morris Tobin, Secretary of Labor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Here, hold it. Hurry up. Are you planning to go? Oh, yes. President Green, Secretary George Meany, and the great international advisor to President Harry S. Truman, Averill Harriman, and delegates to this 71st Annual Convention of the American Federation of Labor. I am no newcomer to conventions of the American Federation of Labor. I have been attending them for many years. I am delighted that I had the opportunity of listening to the Averill Harriman and the wonderful talk and informative talk that he gave to you this morning. And I would remind you that he was one of the first Americans to recognize the dangers in the post-war period and our dealings with Soviet Russia because it was in early 1944 that he wired the President of the United States and the Secretary of State telling them that it would be most difficult to get along with dictatorial Soviet Russia in the post-war period. Yesterday you heard a great labor leader one of the greatest in our times your own President Bill Green. Tomorrow you will hear from a great military commander and on Monday you will hear from the next President of the United States. This is my sixth visit to a convention of the American Federation of Labor and I've been here so often I wouldn't blame Bill Green if he issued me a charter and demanded that I pay up my back per capita and if he does I can tell you the price will be well worthwhile because I never have enjoyed attending conventions of any type of character better than attending the conventions of the American Federation of Labor. Now I'm going to be very frank with you and I come here without any pretense or evasion to talk to you about an important event that impends on the fifth day of November. Almost everyone in this hall knows me. You all know what I stand for and I think I can talk to you straight from the shoulder as a Democrat by conviction without affecting any Olympian detachment or false impartiality. I don't feel that it's necessary because my party during the past 20 years has made a living document of the Declaration of Independence and has made our private enterprise system stronger than it ever was before and one of the great props under strengthening that private enterprise system has been rendering a social and an economic justice to the millions of American working men and women of this nation. I consider the election a more important issue for the workers you represent and for all Americans than any other issue that can come before this convention and that's what I want to talk to you about. It would be hypocritical for me to attempt to talk about anything else in this particular season. There was a time when some people believed that elections were not a proper subject for a meeting of trade unionists but the depression of the 1930s brought that notion to its deathbed and I believe at that time it was buried for all time when the Republican 80th Congress passed the Taft-Hartley law over President Truman's veto in 1947. And I might say that I noticed in this morning's New York Times that General Eisenhower in his speeches across northern Indiana and the northern section of the state of Illinois had great praise to extend to the 80th Republican Congress the only time the party of the opposition has been in control of our legislative branch in the last 20 years. And I'm sure that the delegates to this convention do not look back upon the 80th Republican Congress with any feeling of satisfaction or feeling of happiness. I think that you radically disagree with the statements that have been made by General Eisenhower in his tour on yesterday. It ought to be clear to every trade unionist by this time that the only way to get rid of the Taft-Hartley law is to elect a president and a Congress that are pledged to do the job. Certainly, you can't get rid of it by electing the candidates of a party which praises the law in its platform and further pledges to retain it. I believe the Republicans when they say in their platform that they want the Taft-Hartley law to be retained. And I ask you to believe the Democrats and their candidate Governor Stevenson when they pledge themselves to remove that law and put a fair one in its place. Give Stevenson a strong Democratic majority in Congress and positively the job will be done. There have been efforts in some circles to cast doubt on the sincerity of the Democratic Party when it pledges itself to get rid of the Taft-Hartley Act. It is pointed out that the Democrats made that pledge four years ago and the law is still on the statute books. Well, let's take a look at the record as Al Smith used to say years ago. The most important roll call test on the Taft-Hartley in the Senate after the Democratic victory in the elections of 1948 was the vote on the Lucas proposal. That proposal would have cleared the way for a fair substitute for the Taft-Hartley law. In this major Taft-Hartley test in the Senate, a large majority of the Democrats, 38 in number, voted for repeal of the law. But only six Republicans would go along with them and one of them was the great Senator Morse from the state of Oregon who had a faithful pronouncement to make on yesterday. and one of them voted for the Democrats. Thirty-two Republicans voted no. On the affirmative side, 38 Democrats to six Republicans, a vote of almost six and a half to one. The amendment lost by only two votes. If only one more liberal Democrat had been elected for that session in place of one old party-line Republican, the vote would have been tied, and the great vice president of the United States, a lifetime friend of Labor, would have cast the one vote that would have resulted in the repeal of the Taft-Hartley law in 1949. Now let's look at the House. One of the most important roll call tests there was the vote on substituting the Wood Bill for a bill proposed by another great American in the person of the late Congressman John Leszczynski of the state of Michigan. The Wood Bill was just about as bad as Taft-Hartley, and the men who supported it did so to block repeal of the law. A vote for the Wood Bill was tantamount to a vote for Taft-Hartley. Again, on this test, a strong majority of the Democrats cast 170 votes on the site of repeal. But in the whole nation out of 48 states, only 22 Republicans could be mustered to do the same. 149 Republicans cast their votes against repeal. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the record. It shows that in the major tests on the Taft-Hartley law, the Democrats voted overwhelmingly in favor of repealing it, both in the Senate and the House. And the Republicans, both in the Senate and House, voted overwhelmingly to keep it on the statute books. I think I know something about this matter of repealing the Taft-Hartley law because I was in the thick of the fight. And I tell you that anyone who says the efforts of this administration, President Truman in particular, to put through that repeal are not telling you the truth. President Truman was wholehearted, he was vigorous, in his attempts to repeal that law. The reason Taft-Hartley is still on the statute books is because there have been too many Republicans and not enough good Democrats in the Congress of the United States. I know we're going to correct that this November. And I promise you that a Democratic Congress, loyal to Adley Stevenson and John Sparkman, a great friend of organized labor, and the platform of the Democratic Party, will repeal that law and pass a new one that's fair to management, that's fair to labor, and fair to the public, and that's all the trade unionists of this country want. A law that's not pitched against them, just a fair one to give them equal opportunity with management in their dealings for the benefit of the workers of this country. There are some people who still say that this Taft-Hartley issue is only a matter for political oratory without any real meaning for American workers. I want to tell you that it is a matter of life or death for the American trade union movement, and I use those words advisedly. In the five years before the passage of the Taft-Hartley law, the American labor force grew nearly a million, but trade union membership grew by five million. In other words, for everyone entering the labor force, there were five members who entered trade unions. The unions were growing faster than the labor force. They were gaining ground. In the five years since the passage of the Taft-Hartley law, the labor force grew by nearly four and a half million, but trade union membership grew by only 800,000, and this 800,000 has been fully accounted for since Korea occurred in June of 1950. instead of any progress between the enactment of the Taft-Hartley law and in June of 1950, there was actually a decline in the membership of trade unions in the United States of America. There have been shifts of workers from one union to another and shifts of unions from one federation to another, but the total growth of the labor movement in these last five years, when you consider the increase in population has been almost negligible. Now, what does this mean? It means that the ranks of the unorganized under Taft-Hartley are growing faster than the ranks of the organized. After 20 years of the fastest growth in its history, the American labor movement has slowed down in its tracks. The truth is, the trade union movement is actually losing ground on the basis of population or on the basis of employees in the workforce. The labor force, on the one hand, is going to keep growing at the rate of about three quarters of a million a year. And unless the unions can keep pace with it, they are going to constitute a smaller and a smaller part of our population and become less and less representative of the American workers. That's why I say that this Taft-Hartley issue is a matter in life and death not only for the American trade union movement, but for the whole private enterprise economy of our country. Because one of the great props under the economy has been the great strength that was built in our trade union movement as a result of the great impetus given to it by Labor's Magna Carta, the Wagner Act, which was enacted in 1935. Now that the major industrial groups are already in the labor movement, the organization of new workers has become increasingly difficult. It is hard enough to organize them under any conditions. It is virtually impossible to organize them in new fields in an atmosphere of Taft-Hartleyism. And that atmosphere cannot be changed by altering a semicolon or a word or a sentence in the Taft-Hartley law. As long as the law remains, it will be a symbol of hostility to trade union movements. And all the amendments cannot change the symbolism and the atmosphere of the Taft-Hartley law. As long as the names of Taft and Hartley remain associated with our national labor policy, the minority of anti-union employers in America will find in that policy a sanction for their efforts to destroy existing trade unions or to prevent the establishment of new ones in areas and in fields and for the benefit of workers who need it. We've got to wipe the law out altogether and make a fresh new start. And we can do it along the lines that were suggested by Governor Adley Stevenson in his great Labor Day speech at Detroit. The situation I have described today regarding the slowdown and the growth of the American labor movement is a challenge to every trade union in the United States. It will have to be met in the factories, on building construction and building sites, in the mines, in the mills, and the offices all over the country. But it will also have to be met in the voting booths on next November the 5th. General Eisenhower, the candidate of the Republican Party, is coming here to speak to you tomorrow. Up to this moment, I believe that the general has shown remarkable wisdom in his decision to reject the important planks of the Republican Party platform and in the main, accept in general terms the planks of the Democratic platform instead. They are better planks and I'm glad the general is wise enough to see it. He has held to the Democratic planks on foreign policy during his campaign. He has accepted the Democratic farm plank. He has taken over the Democratic stand on Social Security. And I'm afraid that he's almost going to be a Mexican general, a man leading without an army to follow him because we know the army's record from past history. Now a week ago, I would have thought the general might come here today or tomorrow and take over the Democratic plank on labor policy and Taft-Hartley as well. But the other morning, he had a little breakfast with Senator Taft. And I think that maybe the general has now changed his mind. I hope I am wrong. I hope General Eisenhower will have the greatness to get behind the positive, constructive labor policy which has already been advocated by Adley Stevenson and by the Democratic Party platform and take the Taft-Hartley issue out of the realm of politics and get America and the whole trade union movement back on the road to a sound labor policy in this nation. Seems to me that the general will have to decide pretty soon where he wants to turn for his labor advice. He can turn to either Senator Taft or to former Congressman Hartley who didn't agree that Taft-Hartley was strong enough. And you will remember that the Hartley Act was far more repressive and you will agree not only did Hartley fight for that in the House, he enacted it in the House. And it was as a result of conference that we got the modified form to Taft-Hartley which is bad enough and his right hand bar as floor leader in that great fight was the Republican vice presidential candidate Mr. Nixon and I would like to ask him publicly whether now he believes that Taft-Hartley is strong enough or he wants to go back to the old Hartley law. I would like to contrast Nixon's record with the great record of John Sparkman who sustained the President's veto of the Taft-Hartley Act in 1947. Thank you. Now we can either turn to Senator Taft for his advice or to the men and women who sit across the bargaining table representing the workers of America or to a great basic American in the person of Senator Wayne Morse but I'm inclined to think that the advice will come from Senator Taft. Senator Taft has undoubtedly told the General that the Taft-Hartley Act is good for the workers but the men at the bargaining table and the men who work for a living and who have to deal with this law every day in their workplaces all over the country will tell him that it is an evil and oppressive statute that should be wiped out and replaced with a fair one. The General will simply have to make up his mind whom he wants to listen to. If he listens to Senator Taft and Congressman Hartley now we can be sure that's who we would listen to if he were ever elected President of the United States. Now I might point out something else. There are many people in the trade union movement who do not appreciate the great time bomb that is involved in the Taft-Hartley. Let America reach five million unemployed and then you will see the real power of the act. Speak to textile workers and the leaders of the textile workers industry. The one segment of America's economy that has felt depression on several occasions since the termination of the war and really the only segment. And they will tell you that under Taft-Hartley it is an impossibility to organize the unorganized. And the truth of the matter is that there are less than 300,000 organized textile workers in America out of a total of a million. And if the Taft-Hartley have not been written I predict to you that the same as the most of the rest of industry there would be near a million textile workers organized in America and the disparity that exists between low and high wages instead of being the few cents of 1947 would not be the 20 to 25 cents that exists today. General Eisenhower has been away from the United States for a long time. He has had to depend very heavily upon the advice of those who have been here on the scene. And most of that advice has come from Republicans who seem to be getting him into hot water all of the time. The general made a very serious blunder just the other day when he showed himself to be alarmed over some preliminary figures that were published a few weeks ago by the Department of Labor. Those figures showed that Americans on the average paid out somewhat more in 1950 than they took in. The general thought that showed a serious weakness in America's prosperity. The trouble with the Republican Party is that it doesn't recognize prosperity when it sees it just as it wasn't able to recognize depression back in 1929. When the fighting broke out in Korea the American people rushed out to buy refrigerators and television sets and automobiles and a dozen other things that they thought would be in short supply in the months ahead. And they bought those things out of their regular earnings, out of savings and on credit. The Republicans seemed to think that the credit buying was a bad thing. I wonder how many retail merchants who sold those items would agree with them. That credit buying in 1950 showed not that the American economy was weak but that the American economy was strong. Americans bought on credit in 1950 because their credit was good. They bought because they had confidence in their jobs and confidence in their wages and they knew that they could pay off the debts as they came due. And that credit was extended to them by stores and banks and lending agencies who had faith in the American economy and who knew that the people could pay their debts. And they have paid them. And there should be no mistake about that. If the general speechwriters would take the trouble to look at the figures, they would find out what happened after the six-month period of free buying. In the first six months of 1952, for example, the American people were able to save 7% of their income. And I would like to point out that for the year 1951, let's take 29, the greatest Republican year ever, the American people saved $3.7 billion. In 1951, last year, the American people saved five times as much are a total of $17 billion. If this is depression, if this indicates that there is not prosperity for the American worker, I think that the economists advising the Republican National Committee and the general had better take another look. I never heard of the American people stockpiling up on television sets and refrigerators and automobiles during a depression, whether it is on credit or not on credit. And I never heard of storekeepers selling so much merchandise on credit during a depression. I think that the general ought to poll the department stores, the automobile manufacturers, and many who are supporting him in error when they should be on the Democratic side, whether or not they agree with his economic conclusions. If there is one task that the Republicans are doomed to fail at, though they shout from the housetops all over America, it is the task of convincing the American people that they are not prosperous. Now the Republicans know that the American people are earning more and working more and living better than any other people in the entire history of civilization. They know that that is proved not only by the statistics, but by the evidence in almost every American home. The people listen to the Republicans tell them how badly off they are on the very radios and television sets they purchased under Democratic prosperity. The Republicans know that the average wage in manufacturing is now $67 instead of the $17 of 1932. And that actually that purchasing power is almost doubled as compared with that period in real dollars of the moment. They know that there are 62 million jobs instead of 38 million. They know that unemployment is down to bedrock bottom or a million and a half instead of 12 million. The Republicans know these things and so they try to tell the people that taxes and the high cost of living have made them worthless. Well, let's look at that for a moment. The income of the average American after the increase in income taxes, after the increase in the cost of living, and after the increase in Social Security payments, after all these things that are deducted, will buy 90% more than it did in 1932 and more than 40% more than in the great boasted year of Republican prosperity, 1929, and they can't get away from those honest, basic statistical figures. And if inflation has made the purchasing power of Americans only 50% higher instead of 100% higher, the Republicans ought to tell the people who's to blame for it. They ought to point out who's scuttled price controls, and they ought to confess that they are the ones who try to wreck our stabilization program in the current defense emergency. I think the American people are smart enough to see these things, even though the Republicans don't think that they are. I know that the trade unions are. They will pay less attention to political promises and fence-straddling speeches and more attention to the voting records of the two parties in the Congress of the United States. and this is a great job the American Federation of Labor has been doing now for a period of seven, better than 70 years, making the records of public officials known to their membership and to the public. And now, before they put any faith in General Eisenhower's talk about a house cleaning in Washington, they are going to want to know how much house cleaning General Eisenhower has done in the Republican Party. Many years ago, Sam Gompers taught the American labor movement that its role in elections was to reward friends and to punish enemies. And he taught them that the way to identify the friends and the enemies was to look at the record and to look at the party platform. I want to read you one of my favorite quotations from Samuel Gompers. Gompers was a champion of non-partisanship. He believed the labor movement should tie itself to issues. But on the issues and on the record, Gompers always ended up in the Democratic camp. Almost always. Here is what he said. Anyone who will doubt the sincerity of the non-partisanship policy which I have endeavored to pursue may compare the platform declarations of the Democrat and Republican parties and judge for himself whether I was not justified as a labor man and as a forward-looking citizen in casting my vote for a candidate nominated upon a Democratic platform. That in recent years, he went on, more Democratic candidates have been favorably disposed toward labor and freedom is not the fault of my associates or myself. End of quote. from Bill Green's great predecessor, the late Sam Gompers. That is the kind of non-partisanship that I hope the free trade unions will practice this November. The record and the platforms are down in black and white. Let us only study them and I have no doubt about the results. These issues affect the well-being of your members and of all Americans and they are the ones that should be talked about at union meetings and every other kind of meeting all over America. I want to congratulate your organization on the great, great progress that it is making and on the service that it continues to render to the working men and women of this country of ours and definitely the great contribution they are making to the country as a whole. All of these factors are great blessings to America and have contributed to the great strength that we enjoy today that enables us to be the leaders of the free world not only with lip service but with actual practical service. And I might say that in the rendering of that service and in that foreign policy, the president of the United States and the State Department has had no loyal, more loyal supporters than the members of the trade union movement of America. I'm proud to be able to come here as Secretary of Labor and address as fine a group of Americans as can be found in this nation, loyal and patriotic and a group that I know are going to continue to support the kind of a foreign policy that will eventually end the days of communism in the world and the kind of a domestic policy that will make our private enterprise system stronger than it has ever been before. Thank you. And the next speaker Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now as we come in these latter days, six weeks away from that fateful day of November the 5th, we have a right to look at some of the great changes that have occurred in the last 20 years. Changes that have made possible the great strength that America enjoys in its economy today. And it makes the enterprise system stronger than it has ever been before. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Leave your nehmat speaker to thank you for a good time. I'd like you to answer all these other details. Thank you. Please. Thank you. Thank you. Next speaker. Well, you've expressed your appreciation of the visit of the distinguished Secretary of Labor better than I could express it in any way, shape, or form. You showed by your action that you appreciated the address he delivered, that you are grateful to him for coming to New York, attending this session of the convention, and delivering his message. We thank him from the bottom of our heart for his visit to this session of our convention. Thank you. The chair recognizes the member of the Council, Mother Doherty, member of the Executive Council, for a statement. Thank you. Mr. President delegates, there will be a meeting of the Committee on Organization. Immediately following the recess of this session, it will be held in front of the rostrum in this auditorium. And if all members are present, it will be the only meeting of the Committee on Organization. He herself Royalty in eine sorte of outreach. We'll be right back. with the Way, Kinsley Teachers, James Laundry Workers, Washburn Automobile Workers, Thomb Firefighters, Moriarty Typographical, Atkins Masters Mates and Pilots, Greenberg Ladies Garment Workers, Clark Railroad Signalman, Whiney Grain Millers, A. Philip Randolph Sleeping Car Porters, Durian Glove Workers. Immediately following adjournment of this morning's session in front of the Rostrum Committee on Organization. And now we have another most capable speaker and a friend of labor, and particularly the American Federation of Labor. He has been serving under difficult circumstances and a high and important governmental position. He is the Federal Security Administrator. He's dealing with problems that affect the well-being and the happiness and the future of the working men and their WEM families throughout the nation. Without further words, I take great pleasure in presenting to you Oscar Ewing, who is the representative of the Federal Security Administration. President Green, leaders of the great American Federation of Labor, Secretary Tobin, Mr. Harriman, distinguished guests. President Green, leaders of the episode, lose the human rights to chnh ausgeiges un pir registrained care:say, but pray in your matter to all those.'" President Green, leaders of the coded multis ah k MenuHg audiencen anne, east competencies by the growing man in the district of National Governance One. President Green, leaders of the great section, reflect the fullidency of the administration during the location on American no as a secularizedantic attack. Chapter six nearly draft nationalization in the building and our understanding Mad,ihin9th, evenquisitions on earth. Because he does enjoy Governor Stevenson's humor very much. Because the governor has pointed out so vividly the general's gymnastics in trying to perform difficult feats. As Governor Stevenson said, he was trying to stand on the Republican platform, but you couldn't stand on a bushel of eels. Also that he was trying to hitchhike on the Democratic platform. Of course, it doesn't seem to me that Governor Dewey is altogether living up to General Eisenhower's admonition about not having any humor in politics because yesterday he referred to this meeting as a Democratic clambake. Well, I suppose the thing that accounts for General Eisenhower's lack of appreciation of any humor is due to the fact that he apparently has now ceased to be a captive of Governor Dewey and has become a captive of Senator Taft. And God knows being a captive of Senator Taft is enough to take the humor out of anybody. I'm truly grateful to you for again asking me to address another annual convention of the American Federation of Labor. This is an honor I deeply appreciate. But I appreciate it more this year because there's something that I particularly want to say to the men and women of this great organization. I particularly want to compliment your leaders and membership for the outstanding contributions you've made to an evolutionary process of momentous consequence to mankind. Let me etch briefly the historical background of the picture I want to paint. Our 20th century, of course, had its roots in the 19th century. In the 19th century, government played a relatively small part in the economy of the nation and the lives of its citizens. But in that century, there was a development of tremendous importance. Our laws encouraged the formation of corporations. This enabled many different persons to pool their capital in a single enterprise. In the course of time, more and more of these enterprises assumed a gigantic size. This was highly profitable to the owners. Many of them became enormously rich. But for the worker, this development proved disastrous. The lone worker was helpless in attempting to bargain with these giant enterprises. The result was that he had to take what the employer offered. Long hours, low wages, unsanitary working conditions. If the worker was the victim of an industrial accident, well, that was just too bad. He just went into the disc car. Another human being, ground beneath the wheel of misfortune. When he became too old to work, he was turned out to live as best he could. Now it was a myth the employer offered. Long hours, low wages, unsanitary working conditions. If the worker was the victim of an industrial accident, well, that was just too bad. He just went into the disc car. Another human being, ground beneath the wheel of misfortune. When he became too old to work, he was turned out to live as best he could. Now it was amid these conditions that the American Federation of Labor was born. The great Samuel Gompers was your inspiring leader in those days. And his monumental work has been carried on by your beloved leaders of today. William Green, George Meany, and the heads of your great international unions. Gompers and his associates were pioneers. They awakened the individual worker to a realization that he must join with his fellow workers if he was to get equitable treatment in the nation's economy. In the early days, the going was hard. Every attempt to unionize was bitterly fought. Union leaders were the victims of scurrilous epithets and, too often, of physical violence. But gradually, what was once a voice crying in the wilderness began to be heard. More and more men of conscience and goodwill became convinced of the justice of your cause. Politically, you became a force. Theodore Roosevelt, Woodrow Wilson, and the elder La Follette enlisted in the battle, and the first two decades of the 20th century saw vast improvements in the lot of the working man. During the 1920s, not much progress was made. The Harding, Coolidge, and Hoover governments of those days served the financial interests with utmost fidelity. The emphasis was on profits and economic stability. The money-getters and the traders were in the saddle, and they rode the country hard. The wages of workers were held down as much as possible. Farm prices were also kept low. All of this gradually dried up the purchasing power of millions of our people. They did not have the money with which to buy the output of our factories. And the economic collapse of 1929 became inevitable. Most of us remember only too well the awful consequences of that catastrophe. Millions of men out of work, trampling streets, looking for jobs that were non-existent, going home at the end of the day, despondent and discouraged. We remember farmers faced with foreclosure, unable to sell their crops. We remember lifetime savings wiped out by bank failures, thousands of homes lost because their owners could not pay the mortgage. We remember the bleak outlook for youth, roaming the country, thumbing rides, hopping freight trains, sleeping in Hoover villages. We remember when thousands of war-scarred veterans of World War I went to Washington to exercise their constitutional right of petition. They merely asked their government to help them in their hour of adversity. And we remember how President Hoover ordered the United States Army to disperse those hungry veterans. And how the Army carried out that order with bayonets and tear bombs under the able direction of a general named Douglas MacArthur, gallantly aided by a major named Dwight D. Eisenhower. Dark as those days were, the officers of the American Federation of Labor kept their heads and gave their membership magnificent leadership. They resisted the siren voices of fascism, communism, and socialism. They steered a course for freedom under our American way of life. Communism was abhorrent to your leaders. They had seen it abolish the freedom of the Russian workers who, released from the thralldom of the Tsars, had become enslaved by a new tyranny far more terrible than the one from which they had escaped. Your leaders ruthlessly weeded out every taint of communism from your membership. And today, your unions are as American as apple pie. At no time did your leaders or your membership succumb to any blandishments of fascism. The cruel injustices which fascism perpetrated on labor did nothing but arouse the deep antagonism of the American worker against Hitler and Mussolini. But most of all, I think America owes its greatest debt of gratitude to the leadership of the American Federation of Labor for resisting the enticements of socialism. And, parenthetically, I cannot help but think that our British friends will rue the day that they ever set out on the socialist road. Socialism means the ownership and operation of an industry by the state. In Britain, transportation and coal mining have already been nationalized. But nationalization of an industry inevitably destroys or hopelessly cripples labor's ability to bargain on anything like even terms with employers. Labor's ultimate strength is its right to strike. If the government owns and operates an industry, then a strike in that industry is a strike against the government. And no government can tolerate that. The workers may be faced by a law making it a crime to strike. And even if there is no such law, the workers are bound to lose the strike because the government can exercise too many pressures with which it can defeat the workers. In my judgment, no greater calamity can ever come to labor than to have the government become your employer and cease to be anything more than the guardian of the public interest in labor disputes. Now, all of this has been clear to the clear-eyed leaders of the American Federation of Labor. For this, your unions and your membership and all America owes a great debt of gratitude. It has enabled the American Federation of Labor to play a role of outstanding importance in developing our American way of life. What is this American way of life that we hear talked about so much? Well, to me, it is quite simple. In America, we have evolved a system in which business is run by private managers who make the day-to-day operating decisions with government's role limited to curbing injustices and establishing floors to protect the economic interests of essential groups, thereby sustaining the entire economy. Now, there are many examples of this. When the operation of a business becomes monopolistic, it runs afoul of the antitrust laws. This does not mean that government is trying to operate the business, but merely that the managers are forbidden to do certain things that are harmful to the public. In the field of public utilities, the government leaves private management to operate the business and only sees to it that rates are reasonable. In the same way, our fair trade laws do no more than outlaw certain unfair business practices. One of the most remarkable facts in American history is that when the Great Depression came in 1929, very few Americans ever gave serious thought to the substitution of a new type of political or economic system, such as socialism, communism, or fascism, in place of our American system. Many things were done in those days to repair the American system, but practically no one wanted to replace it with another, and least of all, the leaders of the American Federation of Labor. Even the repairs to the American system that resulted from the Great Depression still left the widest latitude to the operators of business. There was merely a conscious shift in the theory of government aid. Hoover had his ideas. He had established the Reconstruction Finance Corporation to lend government money to the banks, the railroads, and the insurance companies. Hoover thought that the only way to help our sick economy was to help those at the top of the economic heap. Hoover customers without leaving members, the allies, and then LIVLs seen the premire air to take ailer. Which was highly sagged down, and thusius a masterpiece of nuclear andalan fuer, grew up to bigger frontier air trotzdem. This was always anew, that liqu has assumed the raisins the  novel-like. These rumors of terminal classes, and  Kurpok Matthews, to the ruins of Manavich. to the operation of our American economy. Of course, emergency measures were taken at first, but the pattern of permanent program consisted of a series of floors. Minimum wages, price supports for farmers, retirement insurance for the aged, unemployment compensation for those out of work. Above these floors, there remained complete freedom of action. The multitude of decisions that must be made from day to day were still left to the private managers. Minimum wages for workers has been a veritable godsend to millions of Americans. Minimum wages have also played an important part in making the American system work by sustaining the purchasing power of so many of our people. Today, the minimum wage is 75 cents an hour. This means $30 for a 40-hour week or $1,560 a year. No one can support a family on such a wage as that, and it must be raised. But in all justice, the American system must do more for labor than just give it minimum wages. The skills and crafts of our workmen entitle them to pay, that is, commensurate with what they contribute to our American economy. Justice to a multitude of crafts and trades requires countless day-to-day decisions. This is a task that no government is equipped to perform. These decisions must be made by labor and management in wage negotiations across the bargaining table. The Great Depression showed only too vividly that labor was in no position to bargain on a basis of equality with its giant corporate employers. So it was necessary to strengthen labor organizations. To accomplish this, the Wagner Labor Relations Act was passed to remove the legal roadblocks that prevented unions from functioning effectively in protecting workers' rights. No single piece of legislation has made a greater contribution to the development of the American system than the Wagner Labor Relations Act. That act enabled the unions of your great organization to secure a fair wage for workers. These fair wages, in turn, vastly increased the purchasing power of millions of Americans and thereby greatly improved our whole economy. I know there are short-sighted, selfish men who simply do not understand all this. These are the men who supported the iniquitous Taft-Hartley law in the 80th Congress and who today oppose its repeal. And I only pray that labor will uphold the hands of their friends who want to repeal this law. Repeal it, not merely because of its injustice to labor, but also because of the harm it does to our free American system. If the American system is to continue to function successfully, wages must be kept abreast of the cost of living. Wages must be high enough to enable the working people of America to buy more than the mere bare necessities of life. They should earn enough to be able to buy refrigerators and electric washing machines. They should be able to buy television sets and occasionally take their wives to the theater and their children to ballparks. They should be able to live in decent homes and educate their children in accordance with each child's talents. All this is simple justice, but actually it is also better for business. It stimulates and increases production. It is an essential part of the American system. Minimum wages and strong unions for the workers, retirement insurance for the aged, unemployment compensation for those who are out of work, public assistance for the needy aged, the needy blind, the needy children, needy disabled persons. All these have wrought miracles in America and have made our American system the envy of the world. How well all this has worked can be shown by one single example. In America, there was no major depression following World War II. And this is the only instance in all history where a great power has been involved in a major war without suffering a serious depression afterwards. The depressions following great wars have inevitably started with falling prices in agriculture. During a war, agricultural production is greatly increased. With the war's end, prices go down. Dumping ensues and prices collapse. From there on, the psychology of fear takes over. With the farmers' purchasing power seriously crippled, the price collapse spreads to the manufactured goods that the farmer ordinarily buys. soon the whole economy is prostrating. And this is exactly what happened after World War I. Farm prices dropped 50% in 12 months. That was the beginning of what finally ended in the complete collapse of our economy in 1929. That collapse turned our farms into wastelands and our silent factories into mute evidence of economic devastation. Now, this did not happen after World War II. In the years after 1932, democratic administrations had established price supports for the principal agricultural products. The mere existence of these price supports prevented panic selling. In many instances, prices never even reached support levels. Instead of the drop of farm prices of 50% in 12 months, as happened after World War I, agricultural prices only dropped 25% in 24 months after World War II. support prices put a floor of security under our farmers. Support prices gave them courage to produce and participate in our economy of abundance with assurance that they would not go bankrupt trying to feed us. Now, all this, minimum wages, strong unions, price supports, and so forth, help contribute to our American system, to the development of which the American Federation of Labor has contributed so mightily. You have refused to accept communism, fascism, or socialism. We are all confident that it is far better for everyone, and for laborers, especially, if business is operated by private managers with government intervention limited to curbing excesses of private power and establishing floors for essential groups. This leaves vital day-to-day decision-making powers in the hands of managers who are infinitely more capable of making them than any government official. Thus, the American system leaves virtually the whole of our economy open to the free play of competitive forces. This results in an efficiency, a flexibility, and an adventurousness that government ownership would jeopardize and without the tyranny that government operation would invite. And so, let me again congratulate the American Federation of Labor on its outstanding contribution to the development of the greatest and freest economy the world has ever known. This economy could not have achieved its unbelievable success without your invaluable help. Of course, we all know that our American system is still not perfect. Many improvements and repairs must still be made. but I know we can count on the unfailing hope of the help of the American Federation of Labor in the work that must still be done. And may I now add a personal note. Whether I'm a public official or a private citizen, I shall stand shoulder to shoulder with you in your efforts to make our American system work better. None of us want a new system. We have measured what we have against all the other systems. And we know that ours is infinitely the best. We will merely work to improve what we have. And each wheel set right, each flying belt adjusted, is a move forward to a more perfect America. And to this we pledge ourselves. applause I thank Mr. Ewing on your behalf for his visit with us this morning and for this very highly educational and inspiring address which he delivered. I assure you that everyone here appreciates your presence and the address that you delivered. You have just heard the second session of the 71st Annual Convention of the American Federation of Labor here in the Grand Ballroom of the Commodore Hotel. The principal speakers at this session were Averill Harriman, Secretary of Labor Maurice Tobin, and the Federal Security Administrator Oscar Ewing. Our next convention broadcast will feature an address by the Republican presidential nominee Dwight D. Eisenhower tomorrow morning at 11. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.