Good afternoon. From the Bar Association Meeting Hall in Manhattan, your city station brings you this special symposium broadcast on how to stem the increase in family breakups. Participating in the discussion are Attorney Reginald Heber Smith, Managing Partner of Hale & Dorr Boston, Author and Leading Authority on Domestic Relations, a Vice President of the American Bar Association and Director of the Survey of the Legal Profession in America, Mrs. National Counsel of Jewish Women, Judge Michael F. Walsh, Justice of the Supreme Court, 2nd Judicial District, Brooklyn, New York, and Henry C. Wenzel, Justice, Supreme Court, Appellate Division, 2nd Department. Acting as moderator will be Milton L. Grossman, Chairman of the New York State Bar Association Committee on Domestic Relations. To open proceedings, here is Weston Vernon, Jr., President of the New York State Bar Association. Ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege to welcome you to this symposium on domestic relations. I sincerely trust that the words that are heard here today lead to a continuation of these meetings in other years and lead to definitive action and the cooperation of this association in every way toward minimizing, if not eliminating, some of the problems that you're going to hear about. Again, let me give you our earnest welcome. Thank you. Fellow members of the Bar and ladies and gentlemen, we're meeting this afternoon to discuss a matter of paramount importance to all of the people of the state of New York. The subject, the role of the Bar in preventing family breakups, is a subject which is obviously important to those who are threatened with a dissolution of their family unit. It is also important to those who are happily married because all of us in different ways are affected when a family disintegrates. In many cases, there is a direct financial cost to all citizens because of the additional welfare costs. These costs result when the wife and children become public charges. The separation of father and mother with its attendant publicity, both by word of mouth and by the press, usually means traumatic psychological effects on the children. In later years, these effects appear as maladjustments in the personality development of the children. These maladjustments, too, in later years, result in a financial cost to all of us. These are matters of money merely, which in a sense are truly of minor importance, compared with the tremendous toll taken in human happiness when a husband and wife cannot live together happily. It may surprise some of you to know that as long as 75 years ago, the lawyers of this country were concerned about this problem. Periodically, lawyers and judges have given this matter their attention and some progress has been made. Unfortunately, our state has not been as conspicuous in this field as it has in other fields of social progress. It is the hope of the committee which I head that today's discussion will prove fruitful. To bring this subject to you, we have four distinguished individuals. Each speaker will make an initial presentation of 15 minutes, after which there will be a general discussion. First, we will hear from each of our speakers. They will then have a chance to comment on what has been said. Following that, we will have questions from the audience. I'm sorry to have to tell you that Judge David W. Peck, who was to have been one of our speakers, is unable to be with us because of reasons of health. He sends his apologies. In looking for a representative of the trial courts, we felt it would be a good thing to have a man with a wide and varied background and experience. Such a man we have in Judge Michael F. Walsh. He is at present the Senior Justice of the Appellate Term of the Kings County Supreme Court. He received his education at St. James Academy, Columbia, and Fordham Universities. He was in private practice for over 20 years and also lectured at Columbia University. During the First World War, he was an ensign in the U.S. Navy. He has held positions as Trustee of the Brooklyn Public Library, Commissioner of the Port of New York Authority, United States Attorney, and he was Secretary of State of the State of New York. He is a Vice President of the Industrial Home for the Blind, a member of the National Executive Committee of the National Catholic Community Service, and he is a member of the governing boards of numerous other organizations. For six years, he was the Supreme Director of the Order of the Knights of Columbus, and in 1944, he was appointed a Knight of St. Gregory the Great by Pope Pius. He holds an honorary degree of Doctor of Laws from four institutions of higher learning. It's a privilege to present Judge Michael F. Walsh. Mr. Chairman, my distinguished members of this symposium, ladies and gentlemen, first may I briefly commend the Committee on Domestic Relations of the New York State Bar Association for arranging this symposium, which involves, in my humble judgment, one of the most important problems confronting the United States of America. Without hesitation, I say the broken home is America's challenge. I would like to thank Mr. Grossman and his committee for the compliment they pay me in inviting me to participate. As you might gather from the introduction, I shall present one of the most unpopular sides of this question, but I'm going to ask you to bear with me. Among the people where hyperbole and gross exaggeration fills most forms of the written and spoken word, superlatives frequently lose their meaning. However, we who respect and follow the determinations of our courts of last resort are always impressed by their conservative but forceful statements. In 1887, Justice Field, delivering the opinion of the United States Supreme Court in Maynard v. Hill, described marriage as creating the most important relation in life, as having more to do with the morals and civilization of a people than any other institution. In the last 18 months, our Court of Appeals has cited that quotation at least three times. In those recent cases, our distinguished Court of Last Resort also said, it would serve no purpose to repeat here and now what this court and many another court has said as to marriage being more than a personal relation between a man and woman, as to its being an instrument involving the highest interests of society, as to its control by law based upon principles of public policy affecting the welfare of the people of the state. The court continues, we repeat the language of Bishop on marriage and divorce. In that quote, in that contract of marriage, which forms the gateway to the status of marriage, the parties take each other for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, to cherish each other in sickness and in health. Consequently, a mistake, whether resulting from accident or in general from fraudulent practices in respect to the character, fortune, health, or the like, does not render void what has been done. Again, the Court said, our law, however, does not regard marriage lightly and such contracts may not be abrogated as other contracts at the will of the parties themselves merely because they do not get along or because they have made a mistake. Although marriage in this state is regarded as a civil contract and it is of a peculiar character and subject to peculiar principles, there are in effect three parties to every marriage, the man, the woman, and the state. And again, it certainly does differ from ordinary common law contracts by reason of its subject matter and the supervision which the state exercises over the marriage relation which the contract institutes. In some respects, it is sui generis. And finally, despite the complacent attitude toward marriage found in many quarters today, its importance to the state, the nation, and civilization cannot be overemphasized. I certainly assume we can agree on these statements on the nature and the importance of marriage and the family. In all of them, our Court of Appeals was unanimous. We might also agree that in all the days of history, there has never been more urgent need for concerted action and a united front against the current vicious onslaughts that threaten to destroy civilization. Assuming the importance of the family and marriage which is its foundation, we must realize that these institutions are being subjected to deadly attacks. The most vicious are divorce, mock annulments, birth control, abortion, juvenile delinquency, lack of parental responsibility, the gradual drifting from the family heart, all of which add up to a powerful force to destroy the family, the foundation, and heart of society. There is much which the bar can do to prevent family breakups. The lawyer can, if he wishes, assume a most heroic and effective role in helping to save civilization. The most serious cause of family breakups is ignorance of or denial of or indifference toward the true purposes and essentials of marriage. To meet this cause of marriage failure, a member of the bar must first educate himself and then help to educate others. I shall discuss this more fully later. The bar might also consider these helpful activities as parts of their program. Explore the causes of family breakups and endeavor to remove them or reduce them. Promote premarital instruction courses such as Cana conferences and others. Effect honest and rigid enforcement of laws preserving the marriage bond. Strive to eliminate perjury, collusion, phony matrimonial arrangements and thereby clean our own house and raise our moral standards. Strengthen and supplement the separation laws allowing as far as possible the same benefits in separation for support and determination of property rights as may now be obtained in divorce or annulment but without dissolution of the bond, declaration of nullity or right of remarriage. Restrict with realism the right of remarriage. The state should be represented in every matrimonial action. Cooperate and collaborate with and foster social and other agencies to prevent marriage failures and family breakups and promote reconciliations before judicial processes are invoked. Work to prevent other states from assuming to legislate and adjudicate on marital troubles of New York citizens. Advocate improved housing, working, and health conditions. Promote the American Family Institute or some agency similar to it as advocated by Professor Zimmerman of Harvard. And finally, sponsor and promote legislation where necessary to carry out the foregoing. A program to carry out some or all of these suggestions will have little effect unless the bar recognizes the dignity and the true purposes and essentials of marriage. There is no statute in this state which specifies these purposes and essential properties of marriage. You will search in vain through the domestic relations law and the Civil Practice Act which contain practically all of the statutory matrimonial law in the books for a direct statement. Yet implicit in the provisions of the domestic relations law and the Civil Practice Act is the assumption that marriage has certain purposes and definite ends and that marriage has certain essential qualities, properties. This has been clarified by our decisional law where there is unanimity of opinion to the effect that the ends of marriage are the proper procreation and education of children and the mutual love and helpfulness of the married couple and that the essential properties of conjugal society are the unity of the matrimonial bond, one husband and one wife and the permanence of the bond for the lives of the spouse. These purposes and properties have never been questioned. The highest courts in New York and in almost every state of the nation have made them the law of the land. Our courts have not originated these ends and properties of marriage. They have merely stated what marriage is and has been historically and traditionally and what civilized people have always considered it to be. They have decided that monogamous marriage has been the rule of western civilization. Our legislature in an effort to preserve the traditional monogamous marriage has enacted statutes to sustain the above purposes and properties of marriage. A marriage may be declared a nullity of a spouse fraudulently misrepresented that he or she would properly cohabit to carry out the primary end of marriage the proper procreation of children. Laws have been enacted to compel parents to educate their children. The penal laws punishing bigamy and which are supposed to punish adultery have for their object the preservation of the unity and permanence of the matrimonial bond. The law which declares incestuous marriages and those contracted by a person whose former spouse is living to be void was enacted to preserve the unity and permanence of the marriage bond. I shall pass over for the present the divorce statutes. What is the source of this traditional monogamous marriage whose existence and acceptation may be traced through the Judea Christian civilization to the dawn of history? Philosophy is the science of first causes. What is the first cause of marriage? Who designed it and made its basic laws? Who gave it its purposes and properties? How was it first determined that there should be only one husband and one wife and that the union should endure during the lifetime of the spouses until death do them part? The person or power who made man and woman complementary and implanted in them the yearning for a partner of the opposite sex made the laws of marriage. That person or power was the creator of man, the God of all of us, the first cause, the designer of the family, the author of its purposes and properties and the rules under which it was to prosper and endure. And here I know I come face to face with a conflict in philosophies of life on the outcome of which depends the future of this nation. In his inaugural address last Tuesday, President Dwight D. Eisenhower said, Science seems ready to confer upon us as its final gift the power to erase human life from this planet. At such a time in history, we who are free must proclaim anew our faith. This faith is the abiding creed of our fathers. It is our faith in the deathless dignity of man governed by eternal moral and natural law. This faith defines our full view of life. It establishes beyond debate those gifts of the creator that are man's inalienable rights and that makes all men equal in his sight. Very regretfully, since the days of our fore, since the days when our forefathers proclaimed, proclaimed their faith in God as the author of man's inalienable rights, there has grown a tendency which has in our day almost reached its conclusion and its culmination to disregard God and to ignore or deny his eternal moral and natural laws. In no other phase of our existence is that clearer than in our treatment of marriage and the family. from the time when New York became a province of England down to the time of its becoming a state, there were four divorces and these were granted by Governor Lovelace one in 1670 and three in 1672. The power to grant divorces was transferred from the legislature to the Court of Chancery in 1787, the preamble of which recited that it was thought, quote, more advisable for the legislature to make some general provision in such cases than to afford relief to individuals upon their partial representations without a just and constitutional trial of the facts. By civil, man-made law, we put the divorce statute on our books. Other states followed suit. While originally, divorce in this state was authorized only on the ground of defendants' adultery, it is now authorized on other grounds. And the grounds have been so multiplied in other states and the administration of matrimonial laws so lacks here and elsewhere that we now have, for all practical purposes, divorce by consent. From the few scattered divorces of colonial times, we reached the appalling situation in 1946 when 610,000 divorces were recorded in the National Office of Vital Statistics in Washington. We have drifted a long way from the eternal moral and natural laws to which President Eisenhower would ask us to renew our faith. In the common law, there was no divorce. After 166 years of trial in this state, we can safely say that divorce as a remedy for matrimonial unhappiness and to preserve the institution of matrimony and to prevent family breakup has been a dismal failure. It has failed because it is fundamentally wrong. It is contrary to the natural law which is the divine law. The small good that it may have served for the innocent victim of unfortunate marriage becomes insignificant compared with the damage it has made possible to the institution of the family. If we are going to prevent family breakups, let us eliminate one of the greatest causes which is ignorance of or denial of or indifference toward the true purposes and essentials of marriage. If we would perform a patriotic and constructive service to America's most valuable asset, its 37 million families, let us restore to those homes their God-given dignity and remove from their doors the menace of destruction and chaos, the lack of security which is the ever-present threat of divorce and particularly easy divorce. Thank you, Judge Walsh. The daughter of a lawyer and the wife of a lawyer, Catherine M. Engel is president of the National Council of Jewish Women, an organization of some 100,000 members. She's a graduate of Smith College and the first recipient of an honorary Master of Arts degree for Jewish achievement from that institution. A listing of her achievements in the field of civic service would consume all of the time that's been allotted to her for her presentation. When I invited Mrs. Engel to take part in this program, she pleaded a lack of expert knowledge of the subject to be covered. I told her it was specifically because of her ignorance that she was qualified to be one of our speakers, that it was her ignorance which would permit her to approach the subject without preconceived notions and would permit her intellect to work with a fresh approach. I'm happy to introduce Mrs. Irving M. Engel. Mr. Grossman, Mr. Vernon, Judge Walsh, Judge Wenzel, Mr. Smith, members of the New York State Bar Association. Nothing is more devastating than to come suddenly face to face with one's abysmal ignorance. Twice in the last few weeks, I have been placed in that very unhappy position. Recently, my husband and I built a little antisocial retreat in the country. I went out in the woods to gather some greens for a vase in my husband's study. The pine branches, which I gathered, though lovely, needed something else, and I was delighted to find some charming white berries. At first, I thought they were mistletoe, then decided against that, and I knew they were not bayberry. The vase was filled, and it was most pleasant to look at. For four weeks, we enjoyed the floral effect, despite the fact that my husband suffered a mysterious infection during that period. Imagine my consternation when a friend informed us that the berries were none other than those of poison ivy. Ignorance is not always bliss. And then came the phone call from your chairman in Rochester, inviting me to serve on this distinguished panel. And although the daughter of and the wife of the lawyers, the knowledge of Blackstone has passed me by. I knew of the quotation from Helen Hunt Jackson that no amount of Blackstone can give such an idea of law as a month in prison. Unfortunately, I did not have the time to attempt such a method of rapid education before today's conference. I tried to beg off from this assignment, but your chairman reassured me in this persuasive fashion you have heard already this afternoon. And as the one layman on the panel, otherwise made up of experts, I was not supposed to have any specialized knowledge of the subject. I was not to do any research. I found that my unique qualification, as he has already told you, was ignorance. And in discussing this subject, I can only bring you my experience as a volunteer in an organization that is concerned with a broad field of human welfare and the needs of human beings. I think that there is a general tendency for those of us who have not been close to a situation to be impatient with the progress which has already been made, since they have not had to participate in the hard, the often frustrating struggles which resulted in the great strides which have already taken place. And in all sincerity, I urge your forbearance of my discussing matters today, which you as an organization and which you as individuals may long have considered, and of my suggesting solutions, which in numerous instances may already have been accomplished, or on the other hand, found to be unfeasible. The role of the bar in the prevention of family breakups immediate leads to the obvious thought that the family can no longer be expected to struggle on its own and meet all of its requirements in our tense, insecure world of the atomic era. It is equally obvious that everything that strengthens family life tends in turn to prevent its ultimate weakening, deterioration, and finally its breakup. The community has a tremendous concern and interest in the preservation of wholesome family life. We must therefore look to the factors which contribute toward making the family thrive as a happy, satisfied, healthy, and socially constructive group. To help guarantee this, our country as a whole and in each community needs a good economic climate, as well as adequate housing, education, recreation, and medical care for all, regardless of race, color, or creed, or ability to pay. We must become increasingly able to provide services, both public and private, to help ameliorate the number one health problem in this country and the root of so many of the difficulties, mental illness. We need adequate preventive psychiatry as well as treatment for the mentally ill. In too many instances, disorders, gradually developing physical or emotional disorders, are permitted to get progressively worse until they are chronic, often dislocating the entire life of a family. Individuals, and hence frequently the entire family structure, are permitted to deteriorate until it is often too late. This happens to both rich and poor. Comparatively short treatment might have rectified the situation if caught in time. New methods of rehabilitation and treatment, if available and utilized, have proven that it is possible to help physical and mental conditions which only a few years ago were thought of as totally disabling their victims. Just let us consider the impact on family life resulting from inadequate housing. When families live in one or two room apartments, the tensions from lack of privacy can result only in a desire to get away from each other. Here in New York City, thousands of families live under such crowded conditions. One could discuss endlessly the havoc brought upon families by the lack of such basic essentials as are necessary for full and wholesome family life. There has been much research into the causes of family breakups and there is still a long way to go in finding and identifying the causes. To the best of my knowledge, all recognized studies emphasize the complexity of the problem and the fact that no one cause alone takes exclusive precedence and that no single profession has all the answers. This vital problem is of concern to judges, lawyers, legislators, economists, doctors, psychiatrists, educators, clergymen, social workers, recreation leaders, housing experts and laypersons. It will take the best brains and efforts of each group and the combined thinking, study and concerted action of all to solve the questions inherent in the prevention of family breakups. And in spite of the great distance we still have to go in discovering new and more precise facts, many of us, both lay and professional, make meager use of the vast knowledge already developed. Too often we either fail to utilize fully the many resources which are available to us when persons who could benefit from these facilities come to our attention or else we do not participate actively toward bringing about the improvements we already know are needed. You have asked me to tell you what I think you can do to help and may I give you the premise with which I start. As I speak to you today I look upon you in several ways. Long before you became members of the bar, in fact, from the moment you were born you were members of a family and members of the community. Therefore, I believe each of you as an intelligent and responsible citizen has a concern in and a responsibility for working toward the improvement of conditions which make for family stability. Although a comparatively small number of you engage in practice that actually involves divorce cases, this concern is one that transcends specific professional responsibility. And so as citizens, as members of a long-honored profession and as a group associated together in an organization, I believe that you have a double responsibility. You need to work individually and together as well as to join forces with representatives of the lay community and all interested and allied professions. Respectfully, I offer the following suggestions. I think it is essential you become acquainted with and contribute to information already known with respect to the causes of family breakdown and methods of prevention. There are national organizations whose purposes include the discovering of facts about this crucial subject and disseminating knowledge which has been gained over years of research and the combined experience of all professions. Such organizations welcome the active participation and the contribution which members of the bar can make to cite just one with no intention of slighting the others. I mention the National Council on Family Relations. There are frequently local counterparts of these organizations in your communities. I believe you must learn about the conditions, the resources and the facilities which lead toward the strengthening or weakening of family life in your own community, your state and your country as a whole. For instance, with respect to your own community, how much do you know about your schools, the recreation facilities for the family as a whole, the housing conditions and whether adequate medical and psychological care is available to all? Are supplementary services available such as family counseling services, child welfare agencies and special programs to serve the greatly increasing number of older persons? You should know that many of these services are no longer restricted to those of low economic groups but are often available to all on a free basis set in accordance with the family's or individual's income. In almost every community, there is a council of social agencies sometimes known under other names such as the Welfare Council. This is a vitally important and helpful organization. It usually serves as a clearing house, a social planning group and an information center for all matters concerning the welfare, health and education resources in the community. Usually all recognized organizations, agencies and institutions are members of this central council. These councils have a fund of information on all aspects of the many services, public and private, which exist in your community and they can tell you where such information can be secured with respect to resources in other parts of the state or country. You should lend your special knowledge to assist groups in the allied professional fields as well as lay organizations in preparing legislative bills, local, state and national, which have the strengthening of family life as their objectives. But you must also give not only your support but advice and strategy and techniques to ensure the passage of these bills when they are presented in the various legislative bodies. You should urge and support the establishment or expansion of professionally staffed and adequately financed premarital and family counseling services. You should urge the inclusion of marriage and family life courses in high schools and colleges in order to help prepare our youth for their future responsibilities. You should explore the advisability of including courses in modern welfare and psychiatric thinking in the curriculum of law students. You should urge and support the establishment of legal aid organizations and low-cost legal services in all communities where they do not exist. No member of our population should be denied legal help and protection to which they have a right because of the accident of residence. You should study and evaluate the methods and results of the best juvenile and domestic relations courts where the emphasis is on finding the roots of the trouble and treatment instead of an emphasis on guilt and punishment. Ideally, courts should be staffed not only with specially qualified judges but should also have trained specialists including psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, teachers, and psychiatric social workers. They should be allowed to operate in surroundings and atmospheres which tend to reduce fear and tension. Modern courts of this type need to be established everywhere. Even where there has been a beginning, few have sufficient funds for the adequate staff and quarters they need. It is vitally important for the bar to do everything possible to extend the number and improve the quality of these courts. And finally, with respect to divorce, a great deal needs to be accomplished. I shall not dwell on whether divorces are necessary. They are a reality and I must state it is my firm conviction that after every possible alternative has been explored and no solution has been found, to force a family to remain together is neither humane nor socially desirable. It seems to me that the bar has a responsibility to re-examine the whole legal procedure and atmosphere surrounding the present handling of divorce cases as well as the laws themselves. In the juvenile and domestic relations fields, special modernized courts have been set up which are neither criminal nor quasi- criminal in their nature. Consideration should be given to the advisability of extending the jurisdiction of such courts to include the important subject of divorce, which is frequently both a sociological and a psychological problem. These courts should be supplied with all of the resources which are essential to explore and to trace the causes before divorces are granted, similar to the resources now available in our best juvenile and domestic relations courts. We're not already initiated by progressive judges, formal panels of clergymen, doctors, psychiatrists, social workers, and so forth, should be established before whom hearings must be held for counseling, guidance, and a considered recommendation before a final decree can be granted. It is my belief that you must work for the establishment of uniform divorce laws, laws with uniformity of grounds for the reasons of separation, and in the residence of the parties concerned. These laws must be in tune with our modern way of life, rather than that which applied when existing laws were formulated. They must protect the security of the family with realism and justice, but with full cognizance of the integrity of the individual. Laws must be adjusted to permit divorce on the basis of the real causes, rather than on illogical and sometimes spurious legal grounds to which so many people must testify today. Because of the vital importance of a healthy family life to the preservation of our institutions, the bar, as well as all other elements in our population, should devote itself to the solution of this complex problem. WNYC, the voice of New York City. Thank you very much, Mrs. Engel. In the preparation of this symposium, no name was mentioned so frequently as a must as Reginald Heber Smith. This is understandable when one realizes his long and close association with attempts to look at our matrimonial laws with hard, realistic looks. Reginald Heber Smith is a graduate of Harvard Law School. He is a practicing lawyer and the managing partner of Hale and Dorr of Boston. He was the first chairman of the American Bar Association Committee on Marriage and Divorce Laws and is the author of numerous articles on legal subjects. He is the vice president of the National Legal Aid Association and presently holds a very important position, that of the director of the survey of the legal profession for the American Bar Association. I'm proud to present Mr. Reginald Heber Smith. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, while we're here discussing this problem, there's a commission in London under Act of Parliament discussing the same problem. and last week, an eminent solicitor said this to him, the ideal marriage guidance counselor should be a combination of doctor, minister, lawyer, man of the world with the patience of Job, wisdom of Solomon, and the skin of a rhinoceros. Now, my only qualification to be here is that I was admitted to the Massachusetts Bar in 1914. And maybe that isn't much, because some people have a very low opinion of lawyers. Last month, a widow went into the office of the Boston Legal Aid Society and asked them to probate a will. And as it is public, I can read you a couple of sentences. I, Paul B. Garrett, state that I personally drew up this document in Chicago. The prime purpose and simplicity of this document is to keep it free from any ambiguous phrases or legal snares and loopholes in order that its contents and bequests can never, that's capitalized, be attacked in any court. This clause in all respects particularly applies to my ex-wives. To my first ex-wife, Daisy, one dollar. To my second ex-wife, Alice, one dollar. To my third ex-wife, Frances, one dollar. To my fourth ex-wife, Grace, one dollar. And now to my dear wife, Angela, all the rest of my poverty. Well, that at least brings us to the subject of domestic relations. There are two things I'd like to make plain at the start. There are men and women of other faiths who disagree with me. I have the highest respect for them. They may be right. I may be wrong. I shall simply talk to you as I think a lawyer should talk in a meeting of lawyers, frankly, according to what seems to him to be the truth. The second is the, uh, what are my value premises? Now, I used to think that was an esoteric term. It didn't mean much of anything. Until I found that in Harold Lasky's book on communism, he quoted sentences from my book on justice and the poor to prove the theory of Karl Marx that American law is a class weapon. And I suddenly realized that what the value premise does is it lets the speaker tell the audience what his real purpose is. Is it intended to build something up or is it intended to destroy something? My value premises in this field are these. First, American substantive law is remarkably fair and honest. Divorce laws are the great exception. Two, our administration of justice is remarkably fair and honest. Again, divorce proceedings are the great exception. Three, our judges as a whole constitute the most able, upright, and conscientious class of public servants in the country. In divorce cases, we prohibit them from being effective. Four, the best reason for marriage is that a man and a woman truly love one another. Five, the ideal of marriage is a partnership throughout life and thereafter. Six, there are hundreds of thousands of cases where human beings have failed to attain these ideals. Seven, the law must deal with such cases. Eight, in dealing with these cases, the law must be at its best and not at its worst. Now, I never tried to think this through, being just an average busy practicing lawyer, until, as your chairman said, I was sent down to the White House Conference on Family Life in 1948 to represent the American Bar Association. And when I studied it, I tried to do what Roscoe Pound taught us to do in his books on sociological jurisprudence. If you find that a system of law generally healthy is showing signs of disease at some point, trace back to the premise. And check that. There are two analogies that will occur to, at least all the men in this room. The ladies are too young, but most of the men will remember these two. One is workman's compensation. Now, the old law of master and servant required the injured servant to prove fault on the part of his employer, and even then he'd be thrown out of court if he was guilty of contributory negligence or the fellow servant had contributed to it. That resulted in so much social injustice that we threw it all out the window. We threw the doctrine of liability for fault out and put in its place the premise of insurance. The second analogy, the rent control. The Anglo-Saxon law for hundreds of years said that the contract between landlord and tenant is a private contract and nothing else. And after World War I, rent control laws were held constitutional, first by the New York Court of Appeals. I think it was Julius Henry Cohen who argued that great case, and that was affirmed in the Supreme Court of the United States. You see, a new premise was brought in, namely, that the home where people live is so important that it is more than a private contract, than the state has an affirmative interest. For that reason, I ventured to submit a paper to the White House conference, in which I said as follows. We need a fresh start based entirely upon an entirely new premise. The new premise would place the emphasis of the law on prevention rather than on punishment. It would seek the true facts which bring husband and wife to the brink of divorce instead of dealing with legalistic causes. The administration of justice would, therefore, enlist all the social resources of the community in its search for the true fact. The interest of the state in the home would no longer be a fruitless fiction, as it is today, but would instead become a manifest fact. Now, you may say that sounds all right, but specifically, what would you do? Well, specifically, these are the things I would ask you to consider. One, base jurisdiction for divorce on actual residence. I mean, the place where you can go out and find out what kind of a home it is. Are they bringing the kids up well? That is where the people really live and throw the metaphysical concept of domicile out the window. Even the Supreme Court of the United States admits it doesn't know what domicile means. Very likely the New York judges do, but not the Supreme Court of the United States. Two, abolish collusion, except when it relates to manufactured evidence. Encourage truth. Do not penalize it. Three, give up the legal notion that one party must be 100% white and the other all black. Give it up because it is not true. Four, furnish the judges in domestic relations courts with investigators, social workers, psychiatrists, and other assistants, just as we do in our best juvenile courts. Five, before any divorce petition can be filed and made public, require the complainant, complainant, that's usually the wife, to talk in private with the judge. Authorize the judge to talk with the husband, and if he wishes to do so, with both. Now, most persons with whom I have talked say that has an appeal to them, but does that mean divorce by consent? And now the answer to that question is a most emphatic no. As Judge Walsh has truly said to you from this platform, we have divorce by consent now, and we all admit that's rotten speech. My plan, if you will consider it, proposes to put the judge in a position where there can't be a divorce by consent such as we have now. If it's to be a divorce at all, it will be for reasons such as Mrs. Engel has suggested, namely that everything else has been tried and there didn't seem to be any other solution. The judge would always be there, and that is really the kernel of my suggestion, and therefore it does not mean divorce by consent. When your chairman asked me to speak, he said, what do you do in your own office? Well, I guess what I do is just about what all lawyers do. When a person comes in, it looks like a divorce case, you just wish she hadn't come in. You know the law on one hand and the canons of ethics on the other, and you've got to walk this knife edge. And if you ever tell the truth, you know you'll be in trouble on one side or the other. And about all I do is I've worked out a technique. I know the first question will come to me in five words, and I've discovered an answer which is in five words. The woman will say to me, the woman who's my client, should I get a divorce? Five simple words. And I always say, only God can answer that. And then we begin to discuss the practical things. I try to convince her that divorce is no panacea. And if her husband isn't the donors, well, she isn't Venus either. You know, a Dutch uncle talk. Generally, she'll stay in that for a while, and then you can see her start to wind up. And then it's the lawyer's duty to sit there and take it. He's male, and he represents everything that's wrong. Well, after an hour or two of that, therapy has taken place. The woman is beginning to feel a lot better. And then she will agree to talk to you, say a week hence or a month hence or something. You've slowed it down, and there's a chance to save that situation. I have saved many. All the lawyers that I know have. And my proposition is that what we, without any authority, can do, the judges of our courts, who have dignity and authority, if properly equipped, could certainly do infinitely better. Now, I have spoken to you from the experience of a Massachusetts lawyer. I do not know and do not pretend to know conditions in New York. I have read this remarkable article by Richard H. Wells in the Cornell Law Quarterly called, New York, the poor man's Reno. And if what he says in there has any substantial truth, why then you have some trouble in New York, and in that event, perhaps what I've tried to suggest to you is worth your consideration. Thank you very much, Mr. Smith. And now, no discussion of this sort could be complete without the views of an appellate judge who, in the semi-ivory tower of the appellate division, is not faced directly with the contending litigants, but can fix an objective, unjaundiced, dispassionate eye on the claims of the conflicting parties. Such surroundings are conducive to calm reflection and wise contemplation, and they produce men who are calm, wise, and reflective. Henry G. Wenzel is a judge of the appellate division, second department. He is a graduate of the Brooklyn Law School, and this year, he is rounding out 29 years of service to his fellow men on the bench. He has long been interested in the problems of family living, and today, he will give us the benefit of his thinking on this most important subject. I'm proud to present Judge Henry G. Wenzel. Mr. moderator, fellow members of this panel, my visual and unseen audience, I become slightly worried while I was sitting here. I didn't know until the day before yesterday in the afternoon that I would speak here. The reason that I was called upon was because Judge Peck could not be here. Someone said that I was a pinch hitter. I deny that. A pinch hitter is called when they think they can get somebody to do better than the man who was ordinarily up in the back. I'm sure Judge Peck could do a better job than I could. I'm just a substitute, not a pinch hitter. I felt a little bit concerned because I thought perhaps I had taken too literally the announced subject of this program. I didn't have any time to make much inquiry. I did call up Judge Walsh to get some idea what it was all about. But I took literally the statement that this meeting, this discussion was to consider what the bar could do in regard to this very serious situation. And when I thought of the bar, I thought of the lawyer in his office and I thought of the lawyer in the courtroom. I didn't think at all of the judge in the pallet division. We handle questions of law. Those are not the important questions in matrimonial cases. Their human regulations are involved. You've got to come in contact with the people whose problems are before you. We cannot gather from the cold pages of record what it's brought about. the breakup in this particular home. I was very much interested and very much impressed by the first two speakers. I hope what I have said will not be considered in criticism. They were both of them very instructive and showed that a great deal of time and thought had been spent on them. But I think generally the remarks could have been aggressive. generally to the citizenry of this country and more appropriate to lead our legislators rather than the members of the bar. I think Mr. Smith, as a practicing lawyer, brought us a little closer to the subject. If I had thought that the subject matter would be along the lines as indicated by the first two speakers and again I say this is not in certain criticism, I should have prepared a more formal talk. I might have tried to spend a little more time on it. What I'm about to say was dictated to a stenographer yesterday off my chest and I corrected it as I sat here and edited it just before this meeting. 30 years ago, when I was a young practicing lawyer, the office with which I was then associated was interested in a divorce case in which one of the offices of a corporation it represented was the defendant. During the trial of the case, Margaret Moore's marshal of the evening world came into the courtroom and inquired of me with regard to some procedural matter involved in the trial. The case had attracted considerable public attention and she had been sent by her paper to gather material for a special article. While we were speaking, a recess was called in the trial and she and I went into the corridor. There she undertook to interview me with regard to marriage and the growing divorce rate, matters of which I had no greater knowledge than most young lawyers. However, as a young lawyer, I was not ready to admit that I did not know everything about anything. To my surprise, the next day, the evening world contained an article embellished by one of the staff cartoonists setting forth the novel thesis which had been advanced by me in a not too serious vein, that the idea of marriage as a partnership was as antiquated as conducting a business in the same form, and that the legal conception of marriage should be more along corporate lines. To be brief, the husband and wife should both be officers of the marriage corporation, each with his or her power set forth in a charter, that there should be a board of directors of at least three, consisting of the husband, the wife, and the family lawyer, which was to pass upon questions on which there was not unanimity of opinion. Or the third director might be the family doctor or a priest, or there might be a board of five, including all of them. I shall not develop this revolutionary theme any further at this time, but you will notice that here I had a place for a lawyer as an arbiter or umpire in family disagreements, as he so often is. It is to be regretted that young couples do not consult lawyers before marriage, as was not unusual in some European countries before the wars. If this seems coldly unromantic, I might point out that the incidence of divorce was much lower in those countries than it was here. It was Samuel Johnson who said, quote, marriages would be as happy, if not more so, if they were all made by the Lord Chancellor, close quote. But that can never happen here. Thank goodness. We'll do our own picking and choosing. I do not believe that many people realize that it is the ethical duty of a lawyer, consulted at a moment of matrimonial crisis, to attempt to effectuate a reconciliation between the parties. Nor do they realize how often lawyers accept this challenge and how frequently they are successful in convincing their clients that they do not want a divorce after all. It is not an easy task when a man or woman consults a lawyer about the dissolution of his or her marriage. He or she is in a highly emotional state. Weepy, brokenhearted, but always hopping mad. They have rooted upon their wrongs, real or imagined, for a long time, and have come to a point where they feel they just cannot take it anymore. This is the end. How long will it take, she asked the lawyer, before she can rid herself of this inexpressible monster? When the lawyer attempts to quiet his client and to reason with him or her, and dares to hint that the fault may not lie entirely on one side, amazement is followed by indignation, sometimes the charge that the lawyer has already been seen by the other side. Knowledge of the law is of no great help under such circumstances. It takes the utmost in diplomacy and the expert use of applied psychology to bring his client to a state of mind where a meeting between the parties may be arranged. If the lawyer is not too well known to the client, it may be impossible for him to reach a point where he may offer his friendship rather than his legal services. Under such circumstances, a lawyer should attempt to determine who most closely has his client's confidence. Frequently a priest, minister, or rabbi, may establish a contact that the lawyer could not hope to make. Sometimes a family doctor has a great deal of influence, as well as a personal intimate knowledge of the parties which may be most helpful. Or again, it may be a close friend or relative. Such a catalyst must sometimes be called upon in an attempt to resolve the party's differences. Once a conference has been arranged. A great many marriages go on the rocks because of the emotional immaturity of one or both of the parties at the time of the marriage. This is the age of glamour. Even couples of an age, when they should know better, enter into this most important phase of their lives without a practical thought in their heads. When a man and a woman are in love, there exists necessarily and happily an aura of magic romantic attraction. But there should be something more. Many cases come into our matrimonial parts because there was nothing more. I do not say that all such marriages are doomed to failure. A surprising number of them are apparently successful. If such a marriage survives the first five years and then apparently runs upon the rocks, there's usually some hope for it. Under such circumstances, a lawyer might well refuse the case unless the particular facts there disclosed make it apparent that the parties are obviously mismated. Though a retainer is refused, a good balling out gratuitously may sometimes be of help. There are occasions where it appears that the trouble between the parties has its origin in the family of one or perhaps both of them. There are unfortunately only too many cases of too much mother-in-law or sometimes too much father-in-law. In such cases, of course, a lawyer has a most difficult task and his appeal must be to the offending parties. In spite of the thousands of divorces, annulments, and separations that are decreed in our courts every year, there are a substantial number of cases where the interjection of the judge before or during the trial has brought about a happy ending and a reunited family. Council will find that our judges are always ready and eager on request, or even without it, to take a couple into chambers and attempt to reconcile them rather than proceed with the trial of a divorce case. The happiest time for such an attempt is before the trial, for the reason that during the progress of the trial, the parties are likely to testify to matters for which the other side will never forgive them. A lawyer's difficulty in an attempted rescue is that clients do not always tell him the entire truth. Sometimes because it is not entirely complementary to them, or at other times because their client just fails to recognize it. It frequently requires much experience and real wisdom to diagnose the underlying causes that have brought about the break, a wisdom and experience not to be found, and even keen and brilliant young students of the law. Under such circumstances, it would probably be the better part of wisdom to refer the client to an older and sager member of the profession. Unhappily, I find no branch of litigation that comes before our courts, where the personal feelings of opposing counsel become more deeply involved. It is, of course, difficult for any man to sit unmoved by a woman's tears. These, in the recital of her wrongs, real or fancied, awake the chivalry in a young lawyer. His opponent, on the other hand, has had created in him, by a recital of the husband's wrongs, a deep sympathy for his poor abused brother, ma'am. Thus, instead of being helpful counselors in these cases, the attorneys frequently add fuel to the flames and make it impossible to bring about an amicable settlement of the couple's differences. In those cases, counsel come into the courtroom, as battling knights rather than as wise counselors. This is most unfortunate, for what such couples need most is the advice of cool heads. Deep emotion does not generate sober thought and just conclusions. Counsel in these matters should always remain a dispassionate advisor and advocate. I have in this discussion thus far not considered the result upon children of the tragedy of the broken home. Fortunately, the mother instinct in woman is probably the most dominant one, and there are a few cases indeed where an appeal to a mother on the basis of her child or children's best interest is not most effective. An attorney consulted in a matrimonial squabble in which children are involved, should I believe, first consider the welfare of those innocent victims. I am afraid that there are only too many men who feel that if they support their children, that is, furnish the money to feed and clothe them, that they have performed their full duty. An appeal to such men on the basis of their children's welfare will be of no avail unless counsel can convince them that their sphere in the family group is more than that of stud and meal ticket. It might be well to point out to such men that a large percentage of our juvenile delinquents, of which we hear so much today, is the product of broken homes. I can understand because I have so often seen the hate and ill will that can develop between two people who once fancied that they were deeply in love. But I could never understand how a mother and a father could use their children to vent their spite upon each other. And in my experience, they frequently do. I conceive that it is the duty of the lawyer for both parties to see that this does not happen. Custody proceedings are a headache to every judge before whom they come. His principal interest must, of course, in every instance, be the welfare of the infant children and not the selfish or vindictive desire of the parent. Here again, the lawyers can be of great help to the court in impressing upon their clients that they should not, because of selfish pride or excessive anger, further punish their children or hazard their future as a result of the tragedy of which they were unwilling victims. Of course, an attorney's ability to help in these cases is limited by his client's willingness to let him do so. As I have previously pointed out, when the lawyer is consulted, the client has arrived at a state of mind which is not willing to listen to reason or even recognize obvious facts. For this reason, I should say that in these instances at least, an attorney should not be too zealous or expeditious in the institution and prosecution of court action. He should allow time for a cooling off period, after which his counsel may be considered with more patience by his client. It has been my experience that most attorneys have a realization of the gravity of such matters and have recognized their duty when they were confronted with these problems. They have done much good work and, I am sure, will continue to use their best efforts in this most important phase of human relations. I thank you. Judge Wenzel, thank you for that calm, wise, and reflective talk. Thank you. Allow Mrs. Engel to ask the first question of any of the panel members. And you may use the microphones on your tables. They are all working. I should like to ask of Judge Wenzel this question. And it's a very, very, shall I say, disrespectful question. What makes Judge Wenzel believe that a judge, unless having a real knowledge of psychological, psychiatric reasons, is the competent person to give advice? I could imagine the most thoroughly competent judge in this country giving the most unsound advice simply because of a lack of ignorance on basic premises. And I can spell some of them later. Well, Judge, you'll have to justify yourself. I don't feel that I have to justify myself because it's a problem that I hadn't even considered. I didn't make the statement that the judge was the man most qualified or best qualified to make those determinations. I will say this, however, that for 16 years I sat in matrimonial parts. And in that time I should say that I have tried from 10,000 to 20,000 cases, probably more. Matrimonial cases, I mean. I also know and have met and have had to testify before me psychologists and psychiatrists. I have a fairly good idea of mental illnesses. I don't attempt to qualify as one who should be permitted to diagnose or prescribe for such illnesses. But these things are so very apparent in some of the cases that it doesn't require an expert. I don't quarrel with your statement that it would be wise. I am inclined to agree with you in all these cases that where necessary or where it appears wise or where the actions of the party are such as to indicate it, that a psychiatrist should be called in. Thank you, Judge Wenzel. Now, I think it's only fair to give you a chance to strike back. Do you have any questions? I have no questions. Judge Walsh, do you have any questions? It's not often that I get a chance to ask a pellet division judge a question. Fire away. Judge Wenzel, who was one of my confreres on the trial bench, moved up to the Court of Appeals of pellet division. Maybe we're talking about things that might happen. Pellet division some years ago. But I don't think Judge realizes something. Judge realizes something. Judge realizes something. Judge realizes something. Judge realizes something. Judge realizes something. Judge realizes something. Judging down the trial bench. And I'm just wondering whether or not Judge Wenzel realizes that 90% of all matrimonial cases in Kings County are undefended. You don't get any chance to talk to the litigants or even to the lawyers. Well, I think I realize that. I don't know what the proportion of growth has been, Judge Walsh. But I know that I sat in undefended matrimonial term, part five, isn't it? For many years. And we turned out 30 undefended divorces a day at least for five days in a week and four weeks in a month. You can figure that out yourself. I don't know what you can do under such circumstances. Is it your idea that a psychologist or psychiatrist should be called in on each of these undefended divorce cases? No, that's not my idea. I don't think that we ought to permit undefended divorce cases the way we do today. We owe it to the community to do something about them to prevent undefended divorce cases. When I was in that famous Special 5, which we call the sewer part, I signed 600 orders in the beginning of a month for undefended divorce or annulment cases. 600. 600. 600. Then we went through the formality of a hearing to get the sufficient perjury. And then they would come back to us and we would sign them like rubber stamps. One referee hearing one of those cases in his report said to an attorney one day, Counselor, don't you realize you've already taken 10 minutes on this case? We've got to do something more than just talk to the litigants. We don't get a chance to talk to them. And most of the lawyers, I say, and it's a reflection on the bar, most of the men who handle matrimonial cases over on our part are interested in getting the alimony and counsel fee first. And they've said so much about the opponent and the opponent's client by that time that reconciliation is almost impossible. Are there any other questions from the panel? Mr. Smith, do you have any questions or comments? If I may, I would like to ask Judge Watts this question. I've already paid my tribute to judges. And therefore, I'm sure that Judge Watts knows I speak respectfully. I gathered from the tenor of Judge Watts' excellent paper that what he would really like to do, if he could, would be to persuade the American people to repeal all the divorce laws. And I have no particular quarrel with that. In the event that the American people at least temporarily refuse to repeal all the divorce laws, does he think that there is any merit in my suggestion of a new premise and a fresh start? I have no expectation at all that the American people will repeal the divorce laws in my lifetime or in the lifetime of my children. I think they must, by this time, have come to a realization that divorce as a method of preserving matrimonial happiness has not been successful. I certainly believe that there should be some other method tried to preserve marriages. But I might say this, and I was going to ask my friend here, Mrs. Engel, something about it. I do not believe in any effort to make people live together when they can't live together. It's not practical, it's not wise, it's not fair, it's not just. But every effort ought to be made to save the matrimonial bond before dissolution of it. And I think a great deal can be accomplished without absolute dissolution, by supplementing separation, where you hold out a chance in the future of reconciliation. And that's not impossible. In Chicago, they've tried Divorces Anonymous along the line of Alcoholics Anonymous. They've been very successful, eventually, in saving the marriage. I know some cases myself where people have been separated many years and have come back. But break that bond, it's finished. Mrs. Engel, do you care to comment on that? Well, I have been agreeing a great deal with Judge Walsh. In fact, we whispered before we realized we were on the air, and then we stopped whispering. It does seem that it is perfectly possible, with a tremendous long-range program, to cut down in large percentage the number of homes either broken or on the verge of breaking. But I cannot go along, Judge Walsh. I will give you every cooling-off period. I will give you everything necessary to be absolutely certain. But then I feel that, I believe it was said, that marriages are made in heaven. They're consummated on earth. There must come, in some few instances, cases, where the person should have the right to have a new chance, a more thoughtful chance at matrimony, the chance of bringing up healthy children, and that's where we differ. Well, I'm not going to press the difference. I'll sum it up this way, granting you your right to a position. You fall in love with a personality. You marry a character, but you must live with a disposition. Very well put, Judge Walsh. Are there any other questions or comments from the members of the panel? Then, we will now have the questions from the audience. I would request you to indicate which speaker your question is addressed to by raising one, two, three, or four fingers. The one finger indicating our first speaker, Judge Walsh. Two fingers indicating Mrs. Engel. Three fingers indicating Mr. Smith. And four fingers indicating Judge Wenzel. And won't you please tell us your name and what you do? Question addressed to Judge Wenzel. I am Jeff Bill Jordan. I'm an attorney and I'm a member of the New York State Legislature. I believe in passing that Judge Wenzel made reference to the legislature. And I would like to ask Judge Wenzel what, if any, specific suggestions he would have to make to the legislature for the improvement of the present situation regarding matrimonial actions. The question is, what specific recommendations can Judge Wenzel make to the legislature with regard to matrimonial matters? I have not a single suggestion at this time. As I told you, I only knew of this meeting for possibly 24 hours. I mentioned the legislature because if any changes are going to be made, they must find their inception in the legislature. There must be an amendment of the present laws. And the first two speakers, it seems to me, directed their attention to our present divorce laws, their shortcomings, and the possibility of their amendment, and so forth. And for that reason, I said that I thought their remarks might more properly be addressed, first to the citizenry as a whole, because when we come right down to it, this is a matter of the morals of the people and the time, and then to the legislature, because if there are going to be any changes, that's where they'll have to be made. Not courts. We don't make the law. We can't change things. We interpret the law, and we enforce it as we find it on the statute. Thank you, Judge Wenzel. Yes, sir? My name is Richard A. Swell, and I'm an attorney. I have a question for Judge Walsh. There's a question for Judge Walsh. Judge Walsh, in your statement, you indicated that we have a pretty rotten situation here in the state of New York, something I think in which we all agree is something that none of us are very proud of. You also indicated that you didn't expect that in your lifetime, or the lifetime of your children, to seek divorce and pass out of the American picture, and certainly to pass off the statute books of New York State. And assuming that for a period of considerable time ahead of us, we're still going to have divorce laws in New York State, don't you think that we should, at this time, ask the legislature to step in with a commission or some other instrumentality to come in and clean the situation up, get rid of the sewer parts of King's County and New York County and other counties throughout the state, and really relieve the stench that exists in some of our matrimonial parts? The question, may I repeat the question for the benefit of the radio audience? The question is that since we're going to have divorce laws with us for the foreseeable future, should there not be a commission established by our legislature to do away with the stench and all the rest of it that is now in existence with regard to our divorce laws? Have I stated that correctly, Judge Walsh? There is too much involved in that question to say yes or no. Should a commission be appointed? In the course of my remarks, I named 11 things that I thought ought to be done, and I wound up by saying, sponsor and promote legislation where necessary to carry out the forego. That was my 12th number. Therefore, I'm in favor of studies. But I'm not in favor of a study by any group that will disregard what the Court of Appeals of our state and what the unanimous opinion of the highest courts in the country is as to what marriage is. If you're going to make any improvements in marriage, you've got to know what marriage is. If marriage is merely a matter of personal contract, individual taste without regard to the four parties to the contract, as far as I'm concerned, the man, the woman, the state, and God. And unless somebody is going to start with that basis, then I'm not in favor of any commission. If you will get a commission that will really study marriage, study the causes for the failures, make some constructive suggestions, I'd be in favor of them. Thank you, Judge Walsh. Question of Judge Walsh, Melody and Maria. My name is William O'Connor. I am the director of the Constitution of the Constitution, the Supreme Court Association, the State of Walsh. I'd like to answer my question, dear Lord. You spoke of the suicide system of health, especially to have a part of life. I think every lawyer, as well as a leader, of that system, and especially to be a foreign entity, and a foreign entity, don't you think there's more, that war, that it was high time that we had a uniform divorce law in this empire state. But this state recognized that marriage to the bank, must be treated as our national government to treat the bank. The question is, Judge Walsh, shouldn't there be a uniform divorce law in the state of New York to be treated in the same way as the federal courts treat bankruptcy law? Our law in the state of New York now is uniform as far as matrimonial actions is concerned. It applies throughout the entire state. No, I would never treat the institution of marriage as I would treat dollars and cents. Never. The question is directly as we all recognize the bank of the law and the city, but we have all the and the ambitions of the social media that we are going to study as a family of the country. There does come a time when there is nothing else available to the prospect of all. If you are going to save children of that matter, and perhaps permit those spouses to go on to the right place and not to gather in the sections, at that point, what do we do to alleviate the civil self-in-special bond? The third thing we do is what we continue for the state recognize the need for a uniform or law. Well, that's a big, long question, but let me go back at it. First of all, I don't know what you mean by a uniform divorce law in New York State. Well, if you are a citizen, you know that the Mrs. Gordon's bill has been before the legislature. The National Televitation of the Women's Attorney is also responsible for the uniform divorce law throughout the 48th century. Mr. Smith has been nationally known for words that he's done for the consumption of the uniform divorce law. New York, however, the U.S. Department of Justice, has refused to recognize both the need for this law or to put it through on legislative books. To my knowledge, this law has been, not as law, but as resolutions, going to be sent the time and time against to the Assembly and to other people and jurors of similar character prestige. Mr. Saita, may I interrupt and ask you to place your question because these microphones do not pick up what you are saying. So may we have your question? Well, the question just asks Judge Walsh to tell us whether he does not feel that uniform divorce law who have all or hate to say will alleviate the feelings and the situations created by a person undefended to divorce tax. Yes. Now, the question is, Judge Walsh, do you think that a uniform divorce law for all of the 48 states will do away with the present perjury and all that goes with that? No, because we first of all must agree on what the uniform divorce law is going to be. Is Arkansas going to accept any part of our divorce law? In Arkansas, you have, if you are a resident, eight weeks you can get a divorce. It's easier to abolish divorce than it is to get a uniform law on divorce. Is Nevada going to give up its business? Back in 1930, they set up divorce laws all along the Mexican border to attract the divorce business down there. Are these states who have the divorce business today going to give it up by some, we'd say, moderate divorce law as compared with the extreme law of New York or the very easy law of Nevada or Florida? we can't get a, we can't get a uniform divorce law and we in New York are not presented with a uniform divorce law that we could accept. Do we have a question for any of the other speakers? Lady over there. But as far as comedians I just want to ask yourselves toective toodact you so there's about the idea not any other maybe so I Yeah that it says The question is, doesn't a person who has been a party to an action dissolving his marriage carry the same characteristics into a subsequent marriage? Mrs. Engel? I believe that there are certain factors which would carry over. I believe also that they could be changed under the right climate of living. Possibly changed by the very fact there has been this ugly proceeding in a lifetime. And I do not think that just because a person is going to marry again that they're going to be all made over and fresh and new. Of course they're not. But I feel that there is sometimes a hope that there could be a marriage that would be a fruitful marriage and produce wholesome life. I think it's such aI mean, you cannot begin to analyze all of the many factors that come into this unhealthy situation. A question for Judge Wenzel? Judge Wenzel. Would you give us your name? My name is Elizabeth Mott and I am a friend. And I do agree with the complaint by Judge Walsh that there should be three marital educations in the purpose of marriage. And do you believe that the state should require instruction in the purpose, meaning, and importance of marriage? And that each should be selected who are specially qualified and praying for that purpose. May I interrupt to say that? I didn't say that. Well, I'm adding that's similar to the educational requirement of destroying patriotism and citizenship. I think that a good husband or a good wife would be a better paid job. The question is, Judge Wenzel, do you feel that courses in premarital education should be given by qualified persons in the educational system? My answer to that, as the question is put, is no. I believe there should be an education. Good wives and good husbands get it at home. I think it's another attempt of parents to avoid their obvious duties. That's one of our troubles today. Too many parents want their children to be taught everything, even the things which it is their duty to instruct them in, by our schools. Our schools have a sufficient burden. I have very strong opinions on it. I don't think that that is the function of a school or a school teacher. I think it's the function of a mother. Thank you. Mr. Gosselin, may I go into that? Yes, certainly. Because I also made the recommendation, I believe if in some states you have to secure a certificate of blood, though I noticed the other day that is being questioned again in the state of New York, before securing a marriage license, and that many people, young people, go to a family doctor for advice of the body. It seems to me that advice of the mind and the whole spiritual meaning of marriage is something that is so important before marriage. And I must say to Judge Wenzel, we seem to be debating a little bit, when you think of the number of broken homes and the appalling story of what has happened to children, I haven't that much confidence in all mothers. I think some can do it, but this beautiful mother spirit sometimes can get very misdirected. Thank you, Mrs. Engel. A question for... Do we have a question for Mr. Smith? Question back there? Yes. For Mr. Smith? My name is Mr. O'err, O'err, lawyer. Smith, I understand that it is recommended that a trust in the relations court handling the family problem. That social agency is calling to assist. Would the recommendation carry with it, an abolition of the group of hearsay, possibly an abolition of the cross-the-dabination, the question is, if the subject of divorce is handled by the domestic relations court, does that carry with it the fact that there will be no cross-examination or that hearsay evidence will be admitted? Mr. Smith? I think, sir, I'm not qualified to answer that question. If I identify you properly, you used to be with the New York Legal Aid Society. You know more about it than I do, and I would accept your judgment on it. Thank you. A question for Mrs. Engel. My name is Edmund B. Butler. I'm a lawyer in New York. You referred to bringing all of the social assets of the community to bear it. I gather from that that you would be in favor of something as a public defender of the marriage. And if so, where do you think it ought to be? And isn't it true that all of the person under the instances which you refer to where you can't do anything about it, all of the person who has to do to get a marriage and divorce under those circumstances is just simply to be sufficiently thick and obstinate so as not to cooperate? The question addressed to Mrs. Engel is, would it be possible under the plan that she mentioned for a person who refuses to cooperate and is obstinate, would it not be easier for him or her to get a divorce? Yes. Am I correct? I accept that. Thank you. Mrs. Engel? Well, I didn't quite catch a part of the question about the marriage defender, you said, sir? That's why I say that he abridged my question. Yes. To say you were going to bring the social forces to bear it. How are you going to set that up? Would you set it up by some official agency which would defend the marriage? Oh. So that as has been suggested, you'd have to, before you could bring an action, you'd have to exhaust all of the possibilities of reconciliation. Well, I may not be getting this quite straight, but it seems to me that if some of the layman suggestions I've offered have been implemented, and I know some of them have, I know what came out of the White House conference, you would have a certain background and material to work from. When you get up into this final, the ultimate, the focus of the family breakdown, the divorce, I am suggesting, and I believe Mr. Smith made the same suggestion, that the judge, if I recall, had to work with the persons coming up for divorce. First the wife, if the wife for the defendant, then or the husband. I do not see how one person alone can do that. I would like to see a panel such as, and I'm going to use the example of the, what I call obscene and indecent exposure of public misery on the radio, where they give advice to people in torment. It proves to me, sir, that there has been a need for people to get some advice, not through the media of a radio, because that is wrong, but the most competent panel which keeps working. Then it's going to be a question of, I said, a considered recommendation from this panel to the judge, and then it must be in the decision of the judge to decide. Now, does that answer it? May I continue? Yes, Mr. Butler. It doesn't part, but we're now at the point where the panel or whatever instrumentality, I refer to it as a defender of the bond. Yes. That where they are unsuccessful, and you say that under those circumstances, you party should be able to dissolve the marriage. Now, am I to gather from that that you would change the present grounds of divorce so that at that particular point, the marriage would become dissolved on something other than at the present time on the adultery of the parties, or one party? Or are we going to have some other grounds of divorce at that particular moment, which would appear to be, from what I understand, that if they can't be reconciled, they should be dissolved? Well, sir, I think I get it now. It seems to me you have a series of recommendations. None of them can take place simultaneously. And so, until we get grounds for divorce, which are based on truth, not a catch-all such as has been given in divorce, mental cruelty, that to me was a sop to catch up things, you would have to have a big... My beginning is in the community itself and the people using the resources. Then this type of panel, this defender of the bond, I don't care what it's called, and eventually getting divorce laws, which have a sense of uniformity. And when one catches up with the other is something I couldn't tell. I think at the present time, this type of panel could be used under our present, or what I call archaic laws, of course. Thank you, Mrs. Engel. Before we take another question, I'd like to bring up for discussion in your consideration a matter which I mentioned in my introduction. And this is the subject of publicity, both the lurid and the factual in matrimonial actions. I realize that this is getting into a rather ticklish aspect, perhaps, of freedom of the press. But I wonder if the press has given much thought to the question of which is more important, giving the public the news that John Jones and Mary Jones have made a mess of their married life with all the juicy reasons for the breakup, or the effects of such publicity on the innocent children of the parties. Now, we're not without some precedent in this matter. In the city of Rochester, where I practice law, the daily newspapers, of their own volition, do not print stories of the matrimonial actions which are tried in the courts in Rochester. It may very well be that it's this lack of publicity which has resulted in lawyers from New York and other communities in referring matrimonial matters to me. I'm inclined to think that is a very important reason. But it seems to me that in this regard, Rochester is to be commended. If this is so, and you agree with me, should we not attempt to show the newspapers elsewhere in our state that by refraining from giving publicity to family breakups that they'll be doing a public service? Now, before I came down, I got in touch with the editors of the two papers, and I asked them for the reasons for their policy. First, I said, how long have you maintained such a policy? And I was told that, in the words of one of the men, I have been here since 1911, he said, and it was an established policy at that time. How far beyond that it goes, I can't say. But at least since 1911, they have followed that policy. And I asked them the reasons, and both of the editors gave me reasons which were practically identical, and they were these. They said that publishing, that in their opinion, publishing stories of divorce, and separation, does not serve the public interest. That it's of interest only to those who are most intimately concerned with it, and that is, of course, the two parties. They said that they don't believe in printing scandal for scandal's own sake. And one of them said to me, for example, while I make that statement to you, let me qualify it by this illustration. That should we hear of a scandal in the city administration, or in the police department, or in something that affects the public, we would print it, and print all of it, and as much information about it as we could get. So they're not opposed to printing things that may be disagreeable, but they are opposed to printing disagreeable things that have no public interest. They said, too, that they didn't like the effects that such stories of marital discord would have on the younger readers of the newspaper. And finally, that they didn't think it was in the public interest to subject the children of the parties to the harmful effects which this publicity would undoubtedly have in their schools and among their friends. Now, with that, I ask you this question. Do you think that this is a matter which should be carried out, or a matter in which we should attempt to do something throughout the state? I've told you that the newspapers of their own volition don't print it there. Yes, sir? Question for... Oh, yes. Would you tell us your name? I'm a solid woman attorney and I've also sent her nine years in the platform of Madison Rochelle. I wonder if you've given thought to the other side of that very question. That is the very risk of having their names dragged through the press and the instance of their marriage relationship dragged through the headlines has, in many, many cases, acted as the deterrent against hasty divorce. It's made these people stop and think before they drag themselves and their children through the press and through the courts. And as against that, of course, we still have the rule which gives the presiding judge discretion to seal a record where he thinks the details are such that in the public interest they should be sealed. I think that on the whole life has found the press that the press have viewed good discretion in those matters. Here and there, of course, one or two papers have been singled out with special criticism. I don't think that in itself is sufficient to justify closing the columns of the press for that which is news if people have failed in as serious a matter as family life. Well, may I comment on what you've said by making very clear that in the first place we have no right to seal the news columns of any newspaper. We do have a right to point out to the paper a method which we think will be serving the public interest. We cannot tell them, we should not be able to tell the newspapers what to print. We can point out to them the advantages and disadvantages and leave it to their good judgment whether our arguments have any validity. Now we'll have some more questions. Question for Judge Walsh? I have been in this situation for 23 years with two children. One is Irene and my brother is 22. Would you tell me that you're all free one or more important of being taken or five of our children? He has invaded his responsibility for 23 years. Like this, I think, and kept the situation for me and my children. My son is a Marine and I write to him every night and day but I don't talk to her because I don't have a reason. Well, I don't make from my husband if he is sick talking what you do to me like my son and my daughter. All right, thank you. I think we've got your question. I think we have your question. Judge Walsh, what is more important, the presence of the father or his support for the family? No question about it. There's no substitute for the father if he's an intelligent human being, God-fearing human being. There's no substitute for the father. Thank you, Judge Walsh. A question for... Yes? Yes? Won't you tell us who you are? I'm Judge Anne Anne Cross. Of course, it gives the backwash who pursues and only as the court to raise the city for the family crime and call it by the jury. I feel that the state father would be congratulated for this panel. I'd like to make that statement. The very fact that lawyers are ready to discuss this on other levels than merely juridical or legislative or legalistic is a great battle. Judge Walsh seems to have a dread of presenting this problem in its entirety to a legislative body lest they fail to recognize the God-fearing aspect of family living. I am certain that our legislature could be trusted with the preservation of our home through any law that they would enact. But this discussion here and the participation makes me feel that I would like to cause the attention of this panel and to your committee and to your committee to the state bar the problem that we of the city bar and I'm a member of a committee known as the committee for the improvement of family law of which Mr. Richard Wells who unfortunately happened as chairman and Judge Dudley Fisher of the Domestic Relations Court is also a member. We have recognized some of these things we discussed here today and recognize that the law family law in the state of New York is so in such a state of confusion and that its administration is such a stent in the mouth of decent people that reflects upon judges and lawyers alike. And we have for two years been struggling to get a review a study of the laws affecting the family the study of the family law not merely divorce because we all recognize that divorce is merely one part of this complex and confused situation Miss Gordon Janet Hill Gordon has been the correctest legislator that has now in the two years or so in the third four years consecutively introduced a bill that is as innocuous as a bill can be as far as any specific legislation is concerned requesting a study of this entire situation in order that we may one take advantage of some of the philosophic concepts that are recognized or they would not have been discussed so easily by practically every member of this panel and the dangers that are in here so well stated by a member of the bar committed to the legal aid the hearsay aspect I know that in the court that we are now running in the city of New York if we didn't do it on consent everything we do there would be ruled out as irrelevant immaterial and hearsay and yet they're the only vital factors that sometimes bring them together may I therefore commend as a general question to all of the members of the panel are they approved to trusting the New York state legislature with creation of a commission to study if they are not opposed to the court will they back Janet Gordon she's going to reintroduce the bill and back the bar of the city of New York which I am sure is a guy fearing organization to get results this year and perhaps we may find the techniques that we need to meet the needs of the day as every one of you I will put your question I will put your question to the members of the panel I don't feel that it is fair to ask them at this time to commit themselves to any action I will ask them if they are in favor of the bill as introduced by Mrs. Gordon Judge Wenzel can you answer that question yes I am I think there should be such committee Mr. Smith I have no right to speak about the New York legislature but I would like to say to Mrs. Gordon if she will come up to the Massachusetts legislature they will pass anything that she has Mrs. Engel I can only say I do not know the details of the bill and I shall make it a point to study this bill but the concept that has been advocated I am heartily in accord with and Judge Walsh I will quote from the bar association which sponsored the bill a few years ago this is my reason for opposition it is very limited a report of the bar association said well it may be 1947 or later I don't know don't you ever change your mind Mr. Paul let's just have the answer by Judge Walsh the real evils are those which destroy marriages with these we are not here concerned they present problems of economics morals ethics and human relations which must be left to sociology any legislative study which will leave out those important factors of marriage breakup should not be sponsored all right do you have a question Mrs. Gordon I have uh just to Judge Walsh well just a minute I wonder if we can have some questions for some of the other members first we don't want to overwork Judge Walsh and take advantage of his good nature are there any are there any questions to anyone else if not then we'll we'll have to let Judge Walsh be questioned a question for for whom for all of the judges all right what is your question I'm sorry I don't no I don't understand your question I'm sorry you have been listening to a New York State Bar Association symposium on how to stem the increase in family breakups members of the discussion group have been Judge Michael F. Walsh Mrs. Irving M. Engel Attorney Reginald Heber Smith and Judge Henry G. Wenzel your moderator has been Milton L. Grossman Chairman of the New York State Bar Association Committee on Domestic Relations this symposium broadcast has come to you direct from the Bar Association meeting hall through the facilities of your city station as a public service feature following station identification we'll return you to our studios in downtown Manhattan for the recorded program music from the theater already in progress on WNYC FM this is WNYC New York City's own station Mitra roof being through the door to the person who has come to ved in