Mr. Drew Pearson, ladies and gentlemen, and children, all right, lovely children. In the name of this generous and friendly people of New York, I offer a sincere welcome to the Friendship Food Train. It is most appropriate that this train with its cargo of life-sustaining food should end its transcontinental journey in this capital city of the world, the home of the United Nations. No nation, no people in all the world have so consistently shown their desire to alleviate the sufferings of their fellow humans and so consistently demonstrated their anxiety to live in neighborliness and goodwill. And, well, this should be. For we are the people of the world. This nation, with its astounding agricultural bounty, with its unsurpassed industrial capacity, with its unmatched Constitution and Bill of Rights, was founded, developed, and brought to world leadership by the peoples from every corner of the globe and of every racial and religious origin. And they have proven what the delegates to the United Nations and their great experiment are today attempting to attain. Permanent peace and friendly understanding between the peoples of all the nations. History is sprinkled with incidents wherein the American people have spontaneously stretched a helping hand to those in need. This friendship food train, in its journey across our vast American continent, was filled voluntarily with food. The American people are sending to the hungry in France and Italy. This is the kind of a spiritual gesture which certainly must bring pleasure to the beneficent Providence to whom all of us are children and equal in his sight. The food in this train is a material symbol of the desire of our people to relieve the hunger and suffering of our fellow human beings in Italy and France. I wish to express the heartfelt appreciation of the people of this city to those whose labors made the coordination of this voluntary effort possible and to express my particular appreciation to the children of our city for their unselfish participation. That means that you're good children. You know that, don't you? All right. That's right. I'm sure that the people of this nation join with me in extending thanks to Harry Warner, National Chairman of the National Friendship Food Train Committee, to his colleagues Charles P. Scuris, West Coast Chairman, and George Scuris, a member of the National Friendship Food Train Committee in New York, and their associates in the motion picture industry who have handled the management of this train all the way across the continent. I also want to voice our appreciation for the generous cooperation of our railroads, including our own New York Central and Pennsylvania, who provided free transportation for this precious cargo and rearranged their schedules to bring the shipment to New York so that it could reach Europe in time for the holidays. And last, but by no means least, our thanks to Drew Pearson, whose fertile mind and sympathetic heart conceived the idea of the Friendship Food Train. How about a little applause for Mr. Pearson, huh? All right? Okay. Thank you. Now, I call on the people of the city of New York to join their countrymen in loading this train with the food of mercy. I ask them, in the name of our world-famous generosity, to greet this train with the gifts of friendship. And in closing, I desire formally to convey this cornucopia and its contents to the United States representative, to the United Nations, whom I have the honor now to present to you children someone that I know you will love to meet, Ambassador, Senator Warren Austin. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whelan, Mayor of Dwyer, Consul General Chancel of France, Consul General Nardi of Italy, and especially these American boys and girls. This meeting and all the many meetings along the trail of the friendship food train can certainly be called peacemongering by combining words and actions that friendship train has done in a dramatic way exactly what the General Assembly in a recent unanimously adopted resolution requested all members of the United Nations to do. This is one of the most appropriate steps, to use a phrase from that resolution, to promote friendly relations among nations, and to encourage the dissemination of all information designed to give expression to the undoubted desires of all peoples for peace. And the grandest thing about the friendship food train is the fact that it represents the free and unfettered initiative of our people. I congratulate Mr. Drew Pearson on proposing and promoting this brotherly expression. Students of a free society have acted on their own, not waiting for deliberation by their government on the emergency and the long-range programs. every citizen who has participated in the generous act of filling several hundred boxcars with food and disseminating information about the needs of people in Europe have helped to give a warm-hearted interpretation to our foreign policy. By this act of sending supplies to Europe, they are doing more than shipping food. They are saying in deeds that animating the American foreign policy expressed through the United Nations and in the capitals of the world are understanding, sympathy, and goodwill. These gifts of food coming directly from the communities of the United States are intended not only to meet needs of thousands of hungry people, but to give courage and hope to millions. This train carries a message directly from the American people to all the people of Europe, bidding them have confidence in our determination to work for them, with them for recovery and peace. The friendship train arrives in New York, home of the United Nations, in the closing weeks of the General Assembly. It brings a message of hope and confidence to the delegations before they leave for their homeland. Every American who participated in this enterprise in goodwill can feel that he has made a contribution to peace. He has said something by his deeds which will be understood and believed by my colleagues in the United Nations. He has expressed the spirit of the American people and their desire for friendship. The hundreds of thousands of carloads of food which have gone through this port of New York since the war were no less characterized by the spirit of friendship. But the cars in the friendship food train have brought the personal touch and the individual sense of responsibility to bear on the process of helping people to help themselves. The future, thousands of carloads that will follow as a result of people acting through government will give further exercise to the spirit which has animated this special friendship food train. The man that had the vision and the great heart that conceived this project the friendship train Mr. Drew Pearson Mayor O'Dwyer fellow peacemonger Senator Austin ladies and gentlemen and kids I want to thank you Mayor O'Dwyer on behalf of all of us who have been riding a freight train for 11 days for this most heartwarming reception. We appreciate it more than we can tell you. I also should add that riding a freight train for 11 days is not bad at all when you are collecting food from the friends of America for our friends in Europe. It was a great stirring reception we received from the little villages to the big cities all along the way and it just made our hearts feel more than we could ever tell you. I merely want to bring you a business report this morning on your project and mine the friendship train. this train as you know which began with merely an idea and a few box cards of food in Los Angeles rolled up into four different sections two in the New York Central and two in the Pennsylvania and Henry Kaiser the special conductor on the New York Central had a bet with me I was on the Pennsylvania branch as to who would bring the most cars into New York City. He bet me a Kaiser car and I bet him a Buick. I don't know where I'll get the Buick. At any rate I don't know yet who's won but I came in on the Pennsylvania with 121 cars I haven't got quite the number of Mr. Mr. Kaiser's train but if he counts the New York City contribution which is very considerable about 30 or 40 cars I'm afraid he's going to win. At any rate I predict that we will have a total including your contribution to New York City of about 270 cars. And I might also tell you that that lowers my average considerably below 82% because when we started from Los Angeles I only predicted 160. I also want to let you in on the secret. The railroads who were kind enough to carry this train free we told them we'd have 160 cars when we got to New York City and we've been worried for several days for fear we would have to pay the extra freight as we promised them to do above between 160 and about 250. And that's a considerable bill. I was worried particularly as I saw these number of cars grow and then I found that the railroads were playing a little joke on us. They were going out and encouraging people along the line in their cities to load up more cars and I got more and more worried until finally I discovered that the railroads part of their joke was that they planned to pay for the extra cars regardless of our previous agreement and I want to thank them. I also want to report to you that the Italian and French embassies in Washington have been very cooperative in working out a plan in France and Italy that we shall have two friendship trains on the other side so that this food can be loaded up and taken through France and Italy and the people over there can see it and will have an idea that it comes from the hearts of the American people. Some of the newsreels are already being taken over to Europe to be shown in the theaters over there and already I think you know that Premier Bigas Bobby of Italy has sent his thanks for the splendid charming ideas he described it of the friendship train. I thought you also might be interested in a few of the things that happened with us along the trip you might be interested in knowing that not one penny of government money has been spent it's all come from just the American people. Not one government official has been aboard the train except for a State Department official who broadcast every night through the voice of America to the people of Europe to tell them the story of the train. This has been by and for the American people and it's been magnificent to see the teamwork along the way. First of all there was Harry Warner whose motion picture firm has been kicked around by the governments of Europe but he decided that the people of Europe were much more important than what the governments had done to him and he believed in the policy of turning the other cheek and did a magnificent job in organizing the National Friendship Train Committee. And then there were not merely the railroads and the big companies who did a fine job but their employees. The railroad workers under Pennsylvania contributed about almost three car loads of flour. On the New York Central, the Union Pacific, other railroads, they not only contributed but some of them volunteered to haul the train without salary. There were the Steelworkers Union in Pittsburgh gave us a car load of evaporated milk. The Farmers Union in St. Paul a car load of Seminole flour for making spaghetti. The Musicians Union along the way gave us fine bands. There were big towns and little towns. I don't know whether you've ever heard of the town of Burley, Idaho. I never had before but the Elks Lodge in Burley, Idaho gave us one car load of wheat. I never heard of Kaysville, Utah but the Mormon Church in Kaysville gave us one car load of seed wheat and in Kemmerer, Wyoming, a little town of 3,500 about 85 miles away from the main line of the train the church women up there, five churches got together and collected 10,000 pounds of macaroni. I didn't know there was that much macaroni in Wyoming and they trucked it down to the main line of the train to make sure that it got aboard and Sydney, Nebraska a little town of 4,000 we hadn't planned to stop the train there but they insisted on it and when we got there they said we had a great wheat crop this year and we have two carlers of wheat for you we wanted to share with our neighbors it was 10 o'clock at night the snow was on the ground but they were standing in the bitter cold waiting for us. Well it's been that way all along the line little people big people small towns big towns and as I got off the train in New York just an hour ago a gentleman stepped up to me and handed me an envelope it's from the mayor of Secaucus in Hudson County New Jersey and in it is a check he said he couldn't get to the train in time to load up a car but he wanted to hand me this check for $2,800 well that's just a little town that wanted to do its part the little town of Roosevelt New Jersey it only has 200 people in it but they sent over to Trenton New Jersey yesterday 3,500 bushels of wheat New Jersey wheat I didn't know they grew wheat in New Jersey and when I asked some of your friends right in New York here Generoso Pope I told him that some people out in Idaho had some extra food they wanted to send but they couldn't pay the freight down to the main line of the train well he said we can't grow wheat in the pavements of Manhattan but I want to pay that freight bill and he sent me a large check fortunately we didn't have to use it because the railroads insisted on paying it instead so we'll use that check of his for food well this has been well that's just been American teamwork and I think behind it has been the feeling by millions of Americans that for the first time they could do something about their foreign policy prior to this they've had to sit at home lead foreign policy to ambassadors there wasn't much they could do but now they realize that food is a means of building up friends and keeping the peace and if we can build friends and make the people of Europe realize that we are their friends as I know we are then atom bombs and guns and battleships won't be so very important in the future food today I think is more important and certainly more constructive so this token of friendship has arrived in New York City and we appreciate your very warm welcome more than I can tell you this train as it has arrived here I think is about two miles long but there will be no way of measuring what it contains in faith hope friendship for the people of Europe trying to make their difficult post-war democracy live thank you well oh Mr. Mayor before I forget it I predict that New York City will do better than any other city in the country as far as food is concerned we have just received a cable from the foreign minister of France Mr. Bidot reading as follows as the friendship train arrives in New York I want you to thank the organizers of this manifestation which confirms the generous fidelity of the American people towards its old and constant ally the people of France in thanking our American friends for their most generous initiative please assure them of my personal sympathies and convey to them the feelings of friendship and gratitude of the government and the nation Mr. Mayor it's a great privilege for me to present at this time Consul General Chantel of France who will accept the gift of food for his country Mr. Mayor it's a great honor for me to ask Consul General of France in New York to represent His Excellency the Ambassador of France in the United States who at the last moment has been unable to come due to a grave indisposition and has asked me to convey to you his regrets and not being able to accept in person in the name of France the generous gift that the friendship train has gathered throughout the United States it's only a few days Mr. Mayor since I had the honor to be your guest at the City Hall of New York with the sailors of the French cruiser George Legg and that you evoke before us in moving terms the cultural and pacific mission of the French cruiser entrusting to the City of New York with one of the most precious and rare treasures of the French heart today we are together again in this same hall again to evoke a great work for peace for humanity and international cooperation the friendship train which had just crossed the American continent is now going to sail across the Atlantic and bring relief to so much suffering and distress it is not symbolic of the most moving and touching gesture that a new continent could have towards the whole continent and particularly towards France the France which for centuries was one of the richest nations of the world and contributed so much to the spiritual and intellectual as well as the scientific development of humanity became twice in less than half a century the bulk work and first victim of aggression in this implacable struggle to defend the democratic principle of liberty and humanity one of the treasures known to France and the United States France has lost nearly three millions of her sons and has seen a large part of her cities her force and industry destroyed it is important that the world does not forget her mournings and sacrifices likewise France shall never forget the generous nation who came to her aid in the hours of grief and who today still hold out a fraternal hand toward her is this not the most comforting example of international aid and cooperation the nations who suffer less give their support to those who have been hardest hit by the dreadful scourge of war in order to enable them to regain their class in the human community of nations this welcome made by the people of the United States with a friendship which surpasses its generosity and dignity is more significant than all the decisions made by the government it's a gesture which went directly to the heart of all the French people the trucks loaded with the cargo brought to France by the friendship train will distribute it along the same roads over which the victorious American armies rode two years ago and the French people will see with emotion that the JIs back in their own country did not forget them united in war the democratic nation must stay united to build and safeguard peace the head to Europe promised by the Marshall Plan and for which the friendship train seems to be the foreigner will reach its full meaning only if those to receive and those who give understand that the American effort will be an indispensable contribution of the general nation to the equilibrium of the world this food not only will save from hunger and death the children so anxiously affected but it will prove to an uneasy Europe that she is not being abandoned by the great country which has not suffered on its soil from the horror of the war of liberation France is working with all her strength at her reconstruction and to achieve this end sooner she is enlisting the confidence and generosity of her friends in the name of France I want to thank the organizers of this great manifestation of French-American friendship and in particular Mr. Drew Pearson who had this generous idea from the bottom of my heart I thank all those who have given and all who have contributed to such a success and I thank you Mr. Mayor and with you the whole city of New York for your magnificent share in it and for the healthy welcome you have given us today the mass bands of the police fire sanitation will play the French national anthem of great witnesses and we are THE END THE END THE END THE END Madame Katjani, a charming and delightful wife of the Italian Ambassador to the United States, would like to deliver a personal message from His Excellency the Ambassador. Thank you very much. I am so sorry that I received the telegram from my husband while I was on the train. I took this wonderful friendship train in Chicago, and for five days and four nights I was on it. I am so sorry that my English is so poor, and I can't describe what I saw. I saw the real, the true American people. I thought I knew it before, but I only knew a part of it. Now I hope I knew it all, and it's simply marvelous. A great and wonderful people. I thank these people for myself, my husband, and all the Italians. And thank you to all the Italians that I have found in the most strange, curious and lost cities, and in the villages, which are something wonderful. My husband sent this telegram, very sorry not to be able to attend the ceremony. Please present my excuses to Mayor O'Dwyer, and I do. Thank you. Then our Consul General, Dr. Nardi, will talk to you better than I will be able to do. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies, gentlemen, I am very honored to be present here as Italian Consul General in New York at this ceremony sponsored by the city of New York to welcome the friendship train. In the past few days, this train has triumphantly crossed the American continent on a trip which has been rarely equaled for the nobility of its purpose. No other undertaking better than this one owed to the genial inspiration of Mr. Drew Pearson could have offered a more unanimous and spontaneous token of the solidarity of the American people for two countries like Italy and France, which are faced with a particularly trying winter due to the consequences and disorders of the war and the extremely scarce harvest of last summer. There is something about this train which reminds me of the marathons of ancient Greece. From the Pacific to the Atlantic coast, it has passed on a burning torch of human solidarity from state to state, from city to city. With the most significant ceremony before the statue, which has become almost a universal symbol of liberty, prior to transmitting it across the sea, the last to welcome this flaming torch has been this great metropolity, where many hundreds of thousands of Italians have found hospitality, work and prosperity. Although it is not for me to officially interpret the sentiments of American citizens, be they even of Italian origin, I am confident that all Italian-Americans of New York are inwardly rejoicing on this occasion, and I deeply feel and wholeheartedly share their joy and their pride. They have given, with their generous contribution, further proof of loyalty towards America and affection for their country of origin, and not only of their affection, but also of their faith. The Italian people, despite privations and hardships which they have been enduring for many years, despite the scarcity of natural resources, have tackled the task of reconstruction, which these conditions have rendered extremely difficult and arduous. This work, which has been and will be facilitated by the encouragement and assistance of the government and of the people of the United States, will be continued with the courage and tenacity of a people who refuse to succumb, of a people who are ready, willing and able to work and contribute to the harmony and peace of Europe and of the whole world. In the name of Italian government and of the Italian people and of the Italian children, I am pleased to express my profound gratitude to all those who have contributed towards this noble endeavor, to the authorities, the organizations, the individual citizens, and to you, Mr. Mayor, who have promoted this significant ceremony on behalf of the City of New York. I am certain that the Italian people will fully understand the value, not only material but spiritual, of this manifestation of humanity and friendship so enthusiastically given by the American nation. It will not be lost, but will further strengthen the many bonds already linking our two countries. I was deeply moved to read the greeting which the train of friendship has carried throughout the country. Viva Italia! Let me now anticipate the greeting of the Italian people. Viva America! We shall conclude the ceremonies by first having the mass bands play the Italian national anthem. LONELooo THE END THE END THE END THE END As a final word, may I, in the name of his honor of the mayor, thank all those in the city departments that have cooperated in connection with Friendship Train, also the supervisors and directors and the public and propel schools, as well as the boys and girl scouts and the various nationals that have participated in this meeting. Thank you very much. Thank you. This magnificent ceremony in front of City Hall today, in the presence of the mayor of the city of New York and the distinguished committee for sponsoring and carrying through the activities of the Friendship Train, was demonstrated by the turnout here today, particularly by the schoolchildren, the orderly procedure, and above all the magnificent music which I'm trying to talk against of the mass bands of our city, the police department, the fire department, and the department of sanitation. Always tactful, each leader took one of the separate anthems. The police department band leader played the Star Spangled Banner, the fire department band, Honorary Battalion Chief Georgia F. Briegel, played the French anthem, and Mr. Celebrate of the Department of Sanitation led the mass bands for the Italian anthem. A very important factor of this ceremony here today is the fact itself that the Armed Forces Radio are carrying this program for national and international broadcast purposes, and for that reason, not only has the audience here, but the entire will and has been able to listen in to America's friendship and the expression of that friendship to all the world from City Hall, New York. And now we return to the studios.