This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beat. Warren Austin, permanent U.S. delegate to the United Nations, said one time, because America's responsibility must equal its power to exercise responsibility, it is especially necessary that the American people understand what they want the United Nations to accomplish. That's what we want to talk about. Once again, the National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the American Association for the United Nations, presents Clark M. Eichelberger, director of the American Association for the United Nations, in another thought-provoking transcribed discussion of vital issues confronting the UN. Mr. Eichelberger. It has become the tradition of the American people to observe United Nations Week. This year, from October 19th to the 25th, all over the country, men and women, students, through their own organizations and special meetings, will give serious thought to the ideals of the United Nations, the problems confronting it, and the role of the United States. October 24th, which is observed throughout the world as the United Nations' birthday, falls within United Nations Week. Many in my audience will remember that United Nations Week began in the fall of 1946, when the Association, in cooperation with the National Broadcasting Company and the National Educational Association, called upon the country to devote the first week of the General Assembly, the first on American shores, to making the delegates feel welcome. Many of these delegates came from war-ravaged countries. They wondered what their welcome would be like in this country. Well, the country gave them a great welcome. And so, the first United Nations Week was so successful that it has become a tradition. Almost a hundred national organizations will cooperate with us in the observance this year. Each year, the Association selects a distinguished leader, usually from American industry, to be chairman of United Nations Week. The chairman this year is Mr. Thomas J. Hargrave, chairman of the board of directors of the Eastman Kodak Company. I'm delighted to learn that Mr. Hargrave was born in the Middle West. After a distinguished combat record in the First World War, for which he was given the Distinguished Service Cross for Extraordinary Heroism, Mr. Hargrave engaged in practice of law, later becoming president of the Eastman Kodak Company. He is a member of the board of directors of the National Association of Manufacturers, a member of the United States Associates of the International Chamber of Commerce, and a trustee of the University of Rochester. He is a graduate of Harvard Law School. And so, Mr. Hargrave, I should like to ask you to tell us in your own words your reasons for accepting the chairmanship of United Nations Week. We Americans are united in our desire for peace. We want a peace that will be just and lasting, one that will be fair to all nations and all peoples. In order to achieve that kind of peace, we must be willing to devote our full energies and our most determined efforts. Like most Americans, I believe that the best, if not the only hope we have today, to get the kind of peace we want lies in the United Nations. It is the only official world meeting place at which nations and their statesmen, as well as people from all walks of life, can join in group discussion. There, through the exchange of views and the pooling of ideas, reason has a chance to prevail and agreements a chance to be reached. Peace is harder to win than war. People will make unlimited sacrifices in war because they know that sometime the fighting will cease. But the struggle for peace is a constant and eternal one. New problems arise. New ideas challenges. To create a stable world, there must be continuous meetings and cooperation between nations and the application of common sense to their conflicting problems. The United Nations affords that opportunity. Nothing else does. It is easy to become impatient with certain endless debates at the United Nations council tables. I share the feeling of many Americans that the wheels of the United Nations grind far too slowly. Sometimes I, too, have been tempted to regard the United Nations as a mere debating society, a forum for propaganda purposes, unable to settle anything. But I refuse to give up hope. I have accepted the post of National Chairman for United Nations Week and am organizing the Business and Industry Committee to serve with me for this purpose. Since accepting this job, I have received a great many enthusiastic letters about the United Nations. I have also received some expressing disapproval, expressing a willingness, if not a desire, to let it die. The reasons in general are that it just won't work. When asked to suggest a better plan to bring about world peace, however, there has been little response. It seems almost incredible to me that anyone in these times should seek to scuttle the United Nations without at least offering something to take its place. I am reminded of the famous cartoon of the First World War, drawn by Bruce Bairn's father, showing two British Tommies, Bill and Alf, sitting in a shell hole, seeking protection during a barrage. One was apparently griping at the amount of protection afforded, and the other replied, well, if you knows of a better old, go to it. The few better olds for world protection, favored by some, do not satisfy me, and I doubt if they would you. Some suggest, but I hope not seriously, the Monroe Doctrine concept of the Western Hemispheres going it alone. Truly no man in public life today would care to defend such a policy of complete isolationism. Certainly that policy did not keep us out of wars. Others have suggested strong military alliances, the balance of power idea. This has been tried repeatedly throughout the history of the world, a history dotted with wars. Such alliances existed in 1914 and 1939, but they also did not prevent two world wars. We may for the time being need some form of military alliance within the spirit of the United Nations Charter as a protective expedient, but in my opinion, such an alliance should never be a substitute for the United Nations, the only organization we have ever had, created by all nations for coping with issues that might lead to world conflict. I have tried to understand the problems of the United Nations in terms of my own business experience. Over the years, I have attended many conferences of businessmen. Frequently, we have sat together for hours and sometimes days trying to find a mutually acceptable answer to a knotty business problem. we have certainly not always succeeded. Despite the best of intentions and efforts, we have frequently had to contend with partial answers or half measures. However, I have come to realize that a conference that arrives at a final solution of a problem, desirable as that is, is not the only successful conference. There is much success, I believe, if those taking part get to know one another better, if each comes to understand what the other fellow believes, and most important of all, if each makes some headway in realizing why each of the other fellows thinks his position is the right one. If in our business meetings we so often encounter real hurdles, why is it surprising that the United Nations, confronting greater tensions and obstacles on a worldwide scale, does not succeed more quickly and more often than it does. As a matter of fact, one reason why I feel that the United Nations is a real and living organization is the very fact that its efforts do reflect the East-West conflict and the Cold War. Certainly the United Nations would be nothing more than a camouflage if its debates and discussions were to conceal the critical world tensions rather than to reveal them openly and bring them into proper focus. With all its problems, the United Nations has had some notable successes. Without the United Nations, could we have avoided all-out war in Indonesia, in the Balkans, in Palestine, and in Kashmir? Without the United Nations, could such effective steps have been taken on an international scale against disease, ignorance, and poverty? I doubt it. Those successes alone should give us reassurance and hope. The United Nations is young. It has not accomplished all that we expected. On the other hand, it certainly has not failed. In my opinion, we should give the United Nations every chance in the world to succeed. It may be our last chance. In our program of United Nations Week, we shall, without partisanship, devote ourselves to discussion of the fundamental issues of peace and war and renew our support of the efforts of the United Nations to resolve those problems. We shall do so because we believe that in the council chambers of the United Nations, and only there, can the people of the world come together to take common council, to exchange ideas, and through better understanding to work for international peace and security. Only there, can the people of the world really unite on the principles of truth, equality, and freedom. We shall need spiritual guidance. We shall need patience, tolerance, and faith. This time, the world must win the peace. We appreciate your message, Mr. Hargrave, and under your leadership, we shall endeavor to make the observance of United Nations Week this year the most successful observance we have had. By successful, I mean several things. I mean the seriousness and earnestness of the discussion, the information imparted, and the number of individuals and groups participating, and in their renewed determination to do our part to make the United Nations succeed. Yes, as you say, we shall need to ask for spiritual guidance. We shall need patience, tolerance, and faith. And I hope that our observance will give us these qualities in great abundance. As you say, this time the world must win the peace. And now for some housekeeping details on United Nations Week observances. Later this summer, or I suppose quite a number of times this summer, I shall make announcements of the various events of United Nations Week, which we shall be scheduling from here. But the important thing now is for each person listening to this program to start planning for local United Nations Week observance. Your luncheon club, your lodge, your chamber of commerce, your trades and labor council, your women's club, your church group, your forum. All should want United Nations Week programs. I just can't imagine that there is anybody listening to this program who does not belong to some national organization, some church, that has not endorsed the ideals of the United Nations. We cannot exercise our responsibility to the United Nations unless we are well-informed citizens. Will you make it your responsibility to see that the people in your circle of acquaintance learn some new fact about the United Nations during United Nations Week? Will you see that whatever organization you belong to has a special meeting to discuss the major problems now being debated in the United Nations? Think what it would mean if every group that met during the week of October 19th to the 25th devoted its meeting to such a discussion. Will you make it your responsibility to see that all the organizations you belong to have such meetings? That means that you must first inform yourself we cannot possibly send out enough national speakers to cover thousands of audiences. Many times a speaker must be found locally. Many times you must make the speech. We have speakers' notes and various other types of literature, some of it brief and easy to read which we can make available to you. The United Nations General Assembly will be meeting during United Nations Week. We will have the major items on its agenda analyzed in such a way that they can be the subject of your meeting. Furthermore, we will have a printed booklet that's now ready suggesting many other things you can do for a successful observance in your community. I want to stress particularly the fact that the General Assembly will be meeting during United Nations Week and the problems before the Assembly and the interest which the United States has in them will be one of the subjects of our discussion. All of these things will be available to you if you will write to me at 45 East 65th Street, New York, 21 New York. Mr. Hargrave, thank you for being with us. Thank you, Mr. Eichelberger and Mr. Hargrave. The National Broadcasting Company in cooperation with the American Association for the United Nations has brought you another transcribed broadcast in its series The UN is My Beat with Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger calls to our attention the events and problems of the United Nations. Whenever possible, he brings before our microphone the men and women who are making history in the world today. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN is My Beat. If you would like to know more about the American Association for the United Nations, write to The UN is My Beat, the National Broadcasting Company, Radio City, New York. This program came to you from our Radio City studios. This is NBC, the National Broadcasting Company. Thank you. Thank you.