The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand compares Christianity and Communism. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the basic differences between Christianity and Communism and the methods of dealing with them. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Harold E. Fye, Managing Editor of the Christian Century, Kermit Eby, Professor of Social Science in the University of Chicago, and Frank M. McKibben, Professor of Religious Education in the Garrett Biblical Institute. This discussion is an outgrowth of an analysis of Christianity and Communism by the faculty of the Garrett Biblical Institute. McKibben, tell us just a bit about this study and why it was undertaken. Well, Dean, with the struggle between Communism and Christianity and between Communism and Democracy being more sharply drawn across the continents, we considered it highly important that the contrasting philosophy and practices of these two schools of thought should be more clearly stated. There's an immense amount of criticism of Communism, some of it more emotional than intelligent. There's not enough constructive treatment of the issues, setting forth whatever there is of good in Communism, and comparing Communism point by point with what Christianity has to say and offer. We do not claim any particular authority to speak on these matters, but we feel that as teachers, training leaders for church and society, we should take our stand. This is what we've done. Well, now, what are the basic differences between Christianity and Communism as you see them, McKibben? Take a minute or two to tell us how they differ in philosophy and ideology. Well, gentlemen, I think before entering the discussion, we ought to get some definitions clearly in mind. By Christianity, we mean not only that way of faith and life which we find in Jesus Christ, but also the significance of this in and for society today. By Communism, we mean not only the theory proposed by Marx and his followers, but the expression of this in the Soviet Union and the Communist parties around the world in their policies and practices. Now, we admit that these two ways have some points in common. Communism asserts the equality of all men irrespective of race or color. From the beginning, Christianity has asserted that God has made of one blood all men to dwell on the face of the earth. Communism is concerned with economic welfare and the accessibility of good. Christianity the same. Well, now, McKibben, accepting those definitions, and I take it we do, gentlemen. That's right. Go ahead with the differences between Christianity and Communism in philosophy and ideology. Well, you take, for instance, the criticisms of the existing social order. Communism condemns private ownership of property, inequalities in opportunity and power resulting from capitalism. It condemns the emphasis upon individualism and unrestrained self-expression. It condemns middle-class bourgeois morality in family and marriage. Now, in contrast, Christianity, we feel, condemns selfish use of power, private or public, holding it all property as a trust from God. It condemns concentration of power in state or any other agency which endangers individual liberty. It condemns depersonalizing the individual through control of large impersonal organizations of the state. Now, you take in the matter of the meaning of life. Communism teaches that religion is a product of fear and fantasy, the opiate of the people, a capitalistic control device. It holds that all significant values are socially derived. It teaches the complete subordination of individuals to the communistic system and maintains that the only fellowship to be sought is among those holding the communistic philosophy. Christianity, on the other hand, believes that an all-righteous, all-loving God is the source of man's existence and his deliverance from evil. The good life is to be achieved through responsible obedience to God's will. Christianity holds that the true, full meaning of life can be seen not only through the processes of history, but also in God's purposes as they are fulfilled in individual and social living. Now, that's McKibben's statement. Fye, do you accept that comparison? Well, isn't the essence of the difference between Christianity and communism that communism teaches that a man can be saved by food, clothes, houses, and other economic welfare measures, whereas Christianity teaches that these are entirely secondary, that salvation consists in a particular conception of God as love and power and then behaving as though we believe that we're true. What's your view on this, E.B.? Well, I think I'm sort of in between. I accept the fact that the communists believe that salvation comes through economic revolution. At the same time, I've always taken the position of being critical of the church because it doesn't understand how necessary these matters of food, clothing, and shelter are to great numbers of millions of people. And I would emphasize something that Mr. Fye didn't. It isn't only the communist emphasis and the economic which appeals, it's the fundamental communist emphasis, particularly in Asia, on the equality of races and the inequality of people. And I'm one who believes that the issue of Christianity and communism will not be decided by the intellectuals even here this morning, that will be decided in relation to what the masses of the peoples of the world believe communism offers or Christianity offers in contrast with communism. I'm sort of an in-between pragmatist. Well, you would agree, however, that we must get our thinking straight and have an adequate philosophy upon which to base any program of action. I certainly would. And I think that the whole preservation of our democratic concept are dependent upon that faith and that philosophy. But I want to translate that philosophy into program and into the kind of things that people understand in their day-by-day experiences. Wouldn't you add to the concept of equality, which is today proving so attractive to millions as they look toward communism, the concept equally important in Christian and democratic societies of liberty and of respect for the individual? There isn't any question that we need to emphasize liberty and the respect for the individual. But now let's spell out exactly what I mean. In every experience that I've had, both in labor and in travel, the fundamental challenge to American Christian values was the treatment of the Negro. Now, I think that Christianity demands that we deal with the specific problem of brotherhood as radically as anything that communism assumes. And at the same time, we preserve liberty for both our Negro and white brethren in the process. But it is a specific. Brotherhood is not an abstraction here. But that is all true. But when your communist says he is for freedom and equality, he means a classless society made possible by the elimination of all but one class. It seems to me that's fundamentally different from the direction in which Christianity would go in the matter of equality. Well, I would accept that it's fundamentally different in the Marxist assumption of the classless society. But as I often have dreamed about the kingdom of God, I think it would approximate a classless society in terms of the achievement of a common brotherhood within that framework. However, with an entirely different way of achieving it and with a different philosophy in the process. Well, I'd agree with that. There's a difference. There's a difference not of the ultimate objective of brotherhood and a classless society, but the means of realizing it. The communist technique is clearly defined as the class war, the destruction of opponents of the so-called proletariat, is it not? Well, now before we discuss the tactics or methods of the communist spy, I'd like to ask whether atheism is inherent in communism. Or is communism a secular creed which may or may not embrace Christianity? Well, our statement says very emphatically that communism is atheistic and that communism taken both in its ideology and its practice cannot embrace Christianity. In other words, it's not possible to be a communist and a Christian. And not a true communist and a true Christian at the same time. Do you agree with that, Fyre? I would agree with that 100%. Well, again, I suppose I'm the middle of the road, or I would agree with it intellectually, but I would like to point out that I've always taken the position that communism is not the antichrist, not the ultimate evil. It's a heresy, and it succeeds with people because it exploits certain things that are inherent in our Judaic Christian position. I mean, the concept of equality and justice and so on, and that it has root causes. Now, having said that, I will put on the footnote. I think that modern Stalinism, with its emphasis on statism, is the antithesis of everything Christianity stands for. Now, why can Christianity live with capitalism, as it does, and communism reject it? How about that? Fyre? Well, it seems to me that Christianity is, as a religious faith, is something that goes far deeper than any political system. It got its start under a dictatorship. It has survived under all kinds of government, and I believe it will survive under communism. But that doesn't mean that the two are the same, or that the basic tension between Christianity and communism can ever be resolved. I don't think it can for an individual, and I don't believe it can in a social order. But communism... Excuse me, go ahead. Mr. Fyre, do you mean that there is an inevitable conflict? I mean, in what sense? You say it cannot be... That frightens me a little, you see? Well, I think it's an inevitable conflict in the sense of the directions of the two things being opposite. I do not think it means an inevitable war between the two systems. The Christian maintains his position in other than violent ways, and in my opinion, he maintains them best when he doesn't espouse violent ways. But he can't hold down his flag. He's got to recognize a thing for what it is. Communism says that salvation comes through economic welfare, and promoted by the state. The Christian says that salvation is a far more revolutionary, if you please, thing than that. Let me ask my question another way. What does communism say to capitalism, and what does Christianity say to capitalism, E.B.? Well, if I were answering that, I would say that communism says unqualifiedly that capitalism is evil, and that there's no compromise with the capitalistic system. Christianity, as I understand it, is critical of all systems. And the only point that I would put on, I wish institutional Christianity were a little more critical of contemporary capitalism, and I'd like to ask my gentleman what position Christianity takes on capitalism. Well, I think that it's partly accident that Christianity has grown up on the Western continent in connection with capitalism. I agree that Christianity should not be identified with any political system or economic system. I think it is getting increasingly critical of the capitalistic society in which it finds itself. Neither do I think we should identify Christianity with Western capitalistic democracy. There are social democracies in Europe that would protest that very vigorously. Well, you gentlemen are getting yourself in the very interesting position of saying that Christianity is the antithesis of communism, and it doesn't get along very well with capitalism. Where does that leave you in a practical way? Well, it means that, as has been said, we are critical of any form of government or a political economy which does not fit into the basic principles of Christianity. I personally feel there are some aspects of capitalism that Christianity can accept. There are many other practices which it is already condemning and trying to change. I would like to ask Mr. Fayet what the semi-official position of Protestantism was on capitalism and communism. I believe at Amsterdam or not? At the Amsterdam Assembly of the World Council of Churches held just a year ago, the point made by Dr. McKibben was explicitly written out. There was a criticism of laissez-faire capitalism, the word being used only once, but the word capitalism many times, in terms of the fact that it exposed people to vast social catastrophes like mass unemployment and war, in the fact that it had developed a practical kind of materialism in people, and one or two other points. On the other hand, its criticism of communism went even deeper. It challenged communism as a way of salvation, and therefore threw itself squarely opposed to it. It challenged also the methods of the historic lie and all the other methods of ruthlessness in dealing with individuals, which communism practiced. But it's rather significant that both in Wall Street and in the Kremlin, this statement of Amsterdam wasn't liked too well. Wasn't that good? Well, now, we've been considering here the ideological differences between Christianity and communism. How do they differ in tactics, E.B.? And I think that will shed light on the question we've just been discussing, the relation to capitalism. How do communism and Christianity differ in tactics, in the methods they employ? I'm going to give this statement rather slowly, because I'm a little bit afraid of it myself, Mr. Chairman. The communist Stalinist believes in an inevitable conflict between capitalism and communism. War and violent revolution, he believes, are inherent in the capitalist economic system. Communism, he further insists, will triumph in violent revolution, and subsequently there will be achieved a dictatorship of the socialist proletariat and the ushering in of an era of peace and economic justice. Violence, the Stalinist believes, is inevitable and is to be taken advantage of to achieve the ends of history as he conceives them. The Christian, Democrat, small d, in turn believes the good life can be achieved nonviolently through the democratic process as expressed in the rule of the majority through the use of the ballot. Furthermore, democracy at its best encourages and protects the right of minorities due to dissent with majority opinion. The Christian does not believe in liquidating his opponents as class enemies. He believes he can achieve his end through education and persuasion. The Stalinists, I have experienced, use rules of democratic procedure to gain his political ends and then tends to violate them to stay in power. The true Democrat, small d, believes there is ethical content in democratic rules. Fundamentally, Stalinists argue that the end justifies the means. Christians deny such an assumption. Truth is to be respected, say Christians, for its own sake. Likewise, life because it is sacred. Tactically, the communist Stalinist accepts the necessity of the historic lie and the liquidation through terror of the deviationist who disagrees with him. There are other tactical differences, but these suffice to indicate the Stalinist as no mean opponent and the Democrat to challenge him must have a better program, a clearer faith, and equal willingness to translate his program and faith into practice. Well, now, I like that, E.D., but I'd like to ask you what it means now in terms of dealing with a group of ruthless, aggressive communists, say, in a political party, or in a labor union who are trying to get control. Well, I would answer that as concisely as I can. I am one who believes that democracy is never going to be either achieved or maintained by resolution. I think that in a trade union movement, if you're going to meet a disciplined minority, you must be willing to do the following. One, care enough to come to the meeting. Two, understand Robert's rules of order. Three, operate according to these rules. Stay late if necessary. And, above all, to have a program which is more meaningful. I think that the reason the communists were defeated in the auto workers was exactly because of an understanding of these facts. Well, now, supposing, though, the matters got to a pretty bad situation. You say, use education and persuasion. Supposing communists get strong enough to use violence, what would you as a Christian do in such a situation? It's a terrific question. It's doubly terrific because I happen to belong to a pacifist church. And I tried to resolve it when fascism came on the historic scene. And I resolved it as follows, that you would operate as long as you could by peace and persuasion, but then you had to operate through the accepted police powers. And if necessary, you had to use the police powers of the state to recognize society to protect the right of minorities to express themselves. Or, if you want it bluntly, I never would capitulate to communist violence. Isn't it true that India has got something to teach us? It has lately won its independence by resistance, determined, prolonged, very sacrificial resistance. thousands and thousands of people in prison against what they thought to be wrong. And yet, here is a nation of 300 millions of people or more which has its freedom today without having achieved it through war. Isn't there something to be learned in that, in, or from that experience in the labor movement and in our society generally? Well, not having a panacea for national action, what would be our attitude toward the communist program in China? How is the United States, if it's going to act as a Christian nation, how is it going to influence the course of affairs in China? I shouldn't answer that. I think Mr. Fy will, because he knows that part of the world better than I, but I would express a judgment. My judgment in regard to China has been consistently this, that there was inherent in the Christian tradition, particularly on its emphasis on racial brotherhood and on its emphasis on economic justice, possibilities to serve the Chinese need through the missionary system. And I think that missionary system means that it has to come off the hill, it has to live with the people, and it has to make extremely specific its ideals on race and on economic justice. I agree and would like to add that in my opinion, the revolution in China is not basically a communist revolution, it is a Christian revolution, the result of a century and a half of Christian missionary activity, which created a divine disaffection in the Chinese people against an ancient system which regarded human life as cheap as dirt. And now the communists have moved in and have seized control of the direction of that. I don't believe that they can continue to control it, and it seems to me that the very methods of brotherly sharing, of taking care of people's health, of trying to lift their intelligence through education, and of trying to preach an end of life that makes life significant and sacred can be immensely important in the future. Harold, Mr. Fy, I mean, exactly at this point is where I was so happy that I was invited on this program. I mean, for this reason, I think that contemporary Christianity has to be more radical for better reasons. It does not dare confuse its ends and means. Now, what do I mean? I remember being in Japan in 1933. There, the missionaries were teaching the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, and we had an exclusion act. We affronted a whole people. We had the exclusion act. We have. And I would like to believe that America can regain its dynamic on the basis of this Christian emphasis and can meet the challenge of race and can meet the challenge of justice in the economic sense and also to maintain freedom. And I think there, because we haven't driven on and because of our fears, we've lost out to communism. Well, now, you gentlemen have identified the democratic process, the democratic method, as the tactic of Christianity. Am I right in that? Yes. If that's the case, applying that principle, how should Christianity deal with communism? Now, we've been touching on that in several areas. We've talked about some of the labor power struggles. We've mentioned China. But how are you going to communicate with these communists anyway? Do we have or can we create any basis for understanding? How can we get at them? We already are communicating in many, many countries, particularly where the Christian missionary movement is in existence around the world. The communications with the people, including the communists, are continuous. But I think we've got to perhaps be wiser in trying to develop other methods of communication and to make the voice of America the voice of peace, the voice of promise, of help, of hope for people. I like to think of the President's 0.4 program of developing underdeveloped countries as something in that direction. I believe that we ought to make it clear that American democracy stands for an equitable distribution of land, including a redistribution where that's necessary, for the development of cooperatives and every other method by means of which people, by their own efforts, can improve their condition. We are not opposed to an equality of opportunity in economic welfare. Indeed, I think that idea is basically Christian at the outset. But more than that, we stand for a conception of the human person as free under God, not by a right given by the state, but by his very nature. Now, what's the role of the Church in that program? Well, I think the role of the Church is to keep up the kind of work that Faye has mentioned. I think it's a matter of going on record time and time again in expressions of confidence, goodwill, hope, and practical action. There's two things that I would like to stress at this moment. I'd like to pick up what Mr. Faye said and go beyond the political and the economic. I think I'm going to express at this time a rather naive statement, but I'm one who believes that Russians and communists are born human beings. They're born human beings just as basically and fundamentally as Americans are. And I've never found any evidence in my contact with Russians that Russian babies are born flying that hammer and sickle or that American babies are born figuring compound interest. And I always get disturbed when we talk about the people behind the Iron Curtain and the people on this side of the Iron Curtain because I think when we do that we fall into the trap and we forget that Russians have fallen in love, get married, have babies, and all the rest. Well, let's go one step further. We say that democracy or Christianity uses education, persuasion, and reconciliation. I think a fundamental point in Christianity is love. Love for your fellow men. I think we've got to love Russians enough to see the good in them, disbelieve the bad, try to cooperate with them, and help them save themselves. Now, I can go along with most of what you gentlemen have said here today, but I'd like to go back to an earlier point. It would seem to me that this discussion of tactics, of the methods of Christianity as opposed to the methods of communism would suggest to you that the Christian method and the Christian tactic would work infinitely better in the kind of capitalistic society we know in the Western world than it ever conceivably could in a communistic society. Now, do you agree with me on that or don't you? No, I don't agree. The reason I don't agree is that I don't think Christianity is dependent upon any economic system. I'm not saying that it's dependent on any economic system. I'm suggesting that it will work better in one than it will in the other. What do you say to that? I'm not at all sure that it will, although I, my impulse is to say yes. I don't see how you can say anything else. Over and over again you have seen the Christian faith exploding and tearing apart dictatorships and those But you men are going to have this Christian faith working out here in a vacuum. No, we're not. No, sir. No, no. Look, I want to answer that real quickly. It's not going to work in a vacuum. We believe that everybody who has a Christian faith works through voluntary organizations. Those voluntary organizations are community organizations, labor organizations, and political organizations, and he takes his Christian values into society through a voluntaristic organization. And not one word of that is inconsistent with capitalism as I understand it. Well, I think there are fundamental points of disagreement between capitalism that we found it expressed in our Western democracy and... No question about that at all, Mr. McKibbin. No, I think it is up to the Church to engage in a program of redressing wrong, extending human liberty, working for the welfare of all people. And my understanding is that's exactly what the Church is setting herself to do by various measures. I would like to gratefully acknowledge my conviction that the freedom permitted the individual under capitalism is a way in which Christianity can work and that we ought to recognize that freedom and hail it as the precious and Christian thing that it is. Well, gentlemen, I think this gives us the basic differences between Christianity and communism and some suggestions for a Christian program of action. Copies of the analysis of Christianity and communism by the faculty of Garrett Biblical Institute may be secured by writing to the reviewing stand. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand transcribed discussion Christianity and communism. This subject is only one of many contemporary problems analyzed each week by experts appearing on the reviewing stand. Why not send now four printed copies of these broadcasts with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Kermit Eby, former director of research and education for the CIO, now professor of social science at the University of Chicago, Harold Fye, managing editor of the Christian Century, and Frank McKibben, professor of religious education at Garrett Biblical Institute. Next week, when students all over the nation are heading for our great colleges and universities, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, who should go to college? Our guest will be Paul C. Green, director of the Student Counseling Bureau at the Chicago Undergraduate Division of the University of Illinois, Lyle M. Spencer, president of Science Research Associates, and Paul A. Witte, professor of education at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen then. The Northwestern University reviewing standards broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you.