Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, what makes a good boss? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the qualities and characteristics which make up executive and administrative ability. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Mac T. Henderson, consulting psychologist with Rohr, Hibbler, and Rep. Logal, psychological consultants to management. James C. Worthy, employer relations manager with Sears Roebuck and Company. And Albert C. Van Dusen, associate professor of psychology and administrative assistant to the president at Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, how should we look at this question, what makes a good boss? Should we look at it from the standpoint of the people who work for the boss, Worthy, or from the standpoint of the corporation or the business that employs its executive? I think you've got to look at it from both standpoints. You've got to look at it from the standpoint of the people to whom the boss reports because they expect him to be responsible for carrying out certain assignments. And you've got to look at it from the standpoint of the people who report to the boss himself because they see the boss and what he does in quite a different role, quite a different perspective than does the boss's boss. Are these really two different points of view, I wonder? In other words, can a man be a good boss from the standpoint of management, Henderson, and a poor one from the standpoint of the employees? Well, I think ideally, when we ask ourselves the question, what makes a good boss, the employee looks for the same characteristics that the employer looks for in the boss man. Maybe, though, McBurney, for a limited period of time, the employees might be looking for something different than the employer is looking for in a given boss. But certainly over any period of time, I think that both groups would be looking for essentially the same types of qualities in the man. And what would they be looking for, Van Dusen? What makes a good boss? Well, for me, a good boss is one that knows what ought to be done, a fellow who can communicate fairly effectively with his employees so that they understand what's supposed to be done. And a boss is a good one when he can help his employees taste personal satisfactions as they together try to accomplish the goals of their organization. Worthy? I'd like to emphasize one of the points that Van Dusen just made, the importance of the boss knowing his job. In the management literature of the last few years, there's been a great deal of discussion, a great deal of emphasis on the importance of what's commonly termed good human relations skills. Well, those skills are certainly important, and I hope that in our discussion this morning we'll have a great deal more to say about them. But I think that we must never lose sight of the fact that first and foremost the boss has to know his job. He has to know how to accomplish the task that he's set up to accomplish, whether it's running a store or running a factory or running a department, whatever it may be. He must have the technical skills and the technical know-how to accomplish that job. Why are you inclined to emphasize that, Worthy? For one thing, because in so much of the literature that point has been de-emphasized in favor of the so-called human relations side of the manager's job. But the other reason is that the first requirement of a boss is that he must have the respect of the people who are reporting to him. He must have the confidence of those people, and unless he knows his job, unless he knows how to accomplish what he's responsible for accomplishing, he simply can't have the necessary respect of his people. I should like to raise the question, Worthy. Does he gain this respect and this confidence through his technical know-how? Not entirely through it. Other things are necessary in addition to technical know-how. But unless he has the technical know-how, no matter what his so-called human relations abilities are, he's not going to be able to get the confidence of his people. But isn't it also possible, Worthy, for a person who has the technical know-how to lose the respect and confidence of his people? That's certainly true, particularly if he doesn't have these other social skills that we've been talking about. Well, I think that the technical know-how is frequently overdone. For me, an individual who is in a supervisory capacity, by definition, he's supervising people as well as things. And that implies that he must be flexible enough to be sensitive to the variety of needs and desires of a lot of different people, as well as having the technical know-how of a given job. Do you think there's danger, Henderson, that too much specialized technical knowledge might make a person really less effective as an executive? I think that's a real possibility. I think that the man who has a high technical skill and relies upon that for his supervision is a person who can very well lose the confidence and respect of his people. I would settle more for the person who has a minimum amount of technical skill, but has a superior amount of leadership skill. Well, I would say that the important factor there is not whether the supervisor has too much technical knowledge or too little technical knowledge. I think the important thing is the way in which he uses it. Now, conceivably, a very highly technically skilled supervisor, in part because of his high technical skill, will tend to involve himself too much in things which he should be delegating to his subordinates. He may try to do too much of the job himself. But where that happens, I think that happens not so much because of the high technical ability that the man has, but because of certain temperamental factors that makes it difficult for him to delegate. Well, I agree, Worthy, that it's how the man utilizes not only his technical knowledge, but his attitudes toward people. But I also feel that it's quite possible for a person who does not have much technical knowledge to provide real leadership to a group of technicians. I would say that the higher the level of supervision, the broader the flexibility in the boss's attitudes should be. It seems to me that the higher up the echelon of supervision that you go, that it implies that the boss man has to know a greater variety of things, and it's impossible for him to be an expert in all phases of many businesses, and he has to depend upon the effectiveness of his relationships with many people. In other words, you're saying, Van Dusen, that the conductor of the orchestra cannot also play first fiddle. Well, I don't think he can. Well, now, in relation to the emphasis that you're giving the discussion here, Worthy, you made the point that technical skill is important. Does it follow from that, in your opinion, that the boss ought to come up through the ranks? He ought to be a man who has experienced these different jobs? Well, I think it's very difficult to generalize on that. I think that coming up through the ranks certainly has a number of advantages in this respect. For one thing, if a man starts at the bottom and moves up through a series of levels, he's likely to have a much better knowledge of the technical processes of the department or the organization. He'll have a much better appreciation of where his work and his department fits into the general scheme of things. He'll have a background that'll make it much easier for him to exercise the responsibilities of the boss. On the other hand, I don't think that you can say that that's the only way to get to be a boss, because we have many examples in industry of people who come up by other means. Haven't we many examples worthy of a person who has come through the ranks and has sampled all of the various jobs in the department? and is therefore quite technically familiar with all of the aspects of the technical workings, but who fails when he's placed in the position of leadership? Yes, you have many examples of that, but... Why is that is the real question. Well, I think it's probably due, Henderson, too, the differences in the temperamental makeups of people, how they have learned to respond to different situations. They may be quite adequate supervisors at a lower level, and when they find that they're having to face many different departments, they're no longer competent. In other words, I think the job description for a high-level supervisor is not necessarily the same as that at a lower level. Well, Van Dusen, it seems to me that what we need to settle for here is the right kind of a person rather than his technical knowledges, because the right kind of a person will provide the cohering type of leadership which will bring the group along. And I think any time we try to generalize on this thing, we drift into exceptions. I think we could all cite examples of people who have been placed in the leadership of sales positions who have had no previous experience in sales and who have been very successful. I think one of the reasons it's difficult to generalize is that, to a large extent, it depends on the individual situation, by which I mean the individual company, the individual department, the traditions, the policies of the organization, and so on. In my own particular company, we have a long-established tradition of promotion from within. Under those circumstances, if we should try to bring in a man in an important position from outside the organization, he would have real difficulty in establishing himself. Well, now, Henderson seems to be suggesting here, and Van Dusen as well, that there is such a thing as managerial skill or executive ability apart from technical knowledge of the job or apart from general personal competence. Am I right in that? Is there such a thing as managerial skill? You're right as far as I'm concerned. Before we leave this question of promotion within the ranks, I do not want to leave the impression that people in the ranks should not have consideration for promotion into leadership positions. I think there's a place we should look, and if they are the right kind of person in terms of the skills needed for management, they should be given preference. But I also feel that the first consideration ought to be to look for the skills of management, and I think they can be rather quickly or easily identified. All right. Picking up what you've just said, Henderson, it seems to me that one of the important qualifications for a good boss is knowing who in his organization has possibilities for being developed for higher responsibilities, either for his own position or for some other position of responsibility in the organization. Tying this in with your question, Mike Burney, of the managerial skills, I'd say that one of the skills that a good manager has is recognizing the necessity of building up an organization with him so that there are responsible subordinates that are capable of moving up in the organization. And how does a boss go about doing that? Well, I think that one of the things is that he should arrive at the stage where he's not afraid of having very capable men serving with him. As a matter of fact, the bosses that seem to get ahead are those that are quite comfortable having young men, bright young men around them and women, who in some respects are much better than they in some aspects of their work. Of course, personally, I'd be inclined to underline that. I think one of the first marks of administrative skill is the capacity and the desire to associate yourself with really competent people, and some of them may be better than you are, but you shouldn't be afraid of them. Well, I should think also, McBurney, that one of the first things... And pardon me, once you've got those people, you ought to be willing to delegate responsibilities to them. Yes, that's very true, but we don't get those people unless the man in charge recognizes a need for those people. He's got to make up his mind as to what his department needs, and one of his needs is to have capable people who can go beyond the positions they're in. And of course, the boss has got to have a company that's willing to provide the salaries that will bring these capable people, too, which is not unimportant. I think you've already pointed out the very peculiar role a boss man is in. He has responsibilities to his subordinates, he has responsibilities to his superiors, and he has responsibilities to people who are on the same level with him. And I think that places him in a three-way role which is not an easy one. Well, what about this business, Henderson, of delegating jobs to subordinates? Well, in my mind, skillful delegation is one of the very important characteristics of a successful boss, one who doesn't cling to responsibilities which rightfully belong to subordinates. A recognition that subordinates can carry the load is an expression of confidence and trust, and I think that has to be done even though we recognize that the subordinate will make mistakes. Why wouldn't a boss delegate? What would motivate him to keep all these things on his own desk? Well, you're looking at me, McBurney. I would guess that as a generalization, and I think it's always tough to generalize about these things, I would say that the fellow doesn't feel too secure. If he's afraid that he may make error in his judgments about the qualifications to those individuals to whom he might delegate, chances are good he'll try to do all the job himself. Of course, I think there's another factor that enters in. I think some executives, administrators are extremely conscientious people who feel very keenly the responsibility that's been placed on their desk, and they're afraid to turn it over to somebody else. They want to keep everything, keep their hands on everything themselves. Don't you think that works out that way sometimes? That's, I'm sure, what Van Dusen had in mind when he emphasized the importance of the boss himself being a man of a considerable degree of self-reliance and self-confidence. If the boss is insecure, if he's not sure of himself and of his position, and if at the same time he's being held responsible by his superiors for the accomplishment of certain things, it's going to be very difficult for him to turn over portions of that responsibility to members of his own organization. But I'd like to get back to a point that was made previously, the importance of developing good people within the organization itself. You simply can't develop good people unless you give those people responsibility. There's been a great deal written and said about this matter of delegation, and all executives will agree that delegation is an important part of an executive's job because the executive can't do the whole job himself. However, there's a considerable degree of misunderstanding as to what delegation consists of, and to too great an extent. A great many executives conceive of their job as that of working out all of the processes in greatest detail, working out all of the instructions down to the minutest point, and then simply calling in their subordinates and turning over those instructions for them to carry out. To my mind, that's not true delegation. True delegation consists in giving people responsibility for working out, within whatever limits may be necessary in the particular organization, the job to be done and the way it's to be done. Well, what you have emphasized there, Worthy, I would say, is another one of these managerial skills. The successful boss is one who not only allows participation on the part of the employees, but encourages their participation in working out solutions to problems that they are eventually going to have to carry out themselves, and not simply the matter, as you suggested, of the boss man working out all the details and just instructing them to carry the ball. What kind of a person should this boss be? Should he be a friendly, cordial individual, Henderson? The stereotype of the boss often is a pretty rough, gruff sort of a person. How do you feel about that? And very often the stereotype is the Hale fellow well met. Yes, that's true too. Now, it seems to me that neither one is an essential requirement. I think that in my judgment, a certain amount of friendliness is necessary. But to me, what is more important is how accessible he is to his people and what kind of consideration does he give them when he is with them. Are you saying that he ought to keep his door open so people can come in, that he ought to mingle with the people who work for him? I certainly feel that he should have his door open, but that word, open doors, leads us into many misconceptions. There are lots of executives who tell their people a door is open. But nobody goes in. But nobody goes in because of the treatment they get when they arrive. So that it has to be more than a merely verbal expression to the people that his door is open. When we look into some of these examples of where the door is physically open, but no one cares to go in, sometimes we find that the characteristic behavior of the boss is when he has a visitor from among the employee rank that the boss does all the talking and very little listening. Well, it doesn't take many such experiences to rather discourage the employee. I think Van Dusen has pointed up another essential quality of a good boss, one who has a skill in listening. I would say that that is one of the hardest skills to develop, too, because it takes some work to listen effectively. Especially for a person who enjoys talking. You still haven't answered my question. Where do you try your hand of it? Do you want a rough, gruff sort of boss? Is he the kind of person you're looking for? I don't think you can generalize on that. I think the important thing is what kind of an individual the boss is. Now, for certain bosses, may have a rough, gruff kind of exterior. Other bosses may have a hail fellow well-met kind of exterior. The important thing is the interpretation which the employees and the organization put on that kind of behavior. We've seen, particularly in some of the studies that we've made, bosses who, on the surface, are pretty strong, rough sorts of characters. And at the same time, those people have a very high degree of loyalty from the members of their organization. On the other hand, we've seen the hail fellow well-met kind of person, the fellow who's all sweetness and light that the people really don't have confidence in. The important thing is the experience of the people with the boss and what they have learned to expect from him in terms of fair treatment, in terms of consideration, and what they have learned, how they have learned to interpret his behavior. Don't you think the boss's secretary is a pretty important individual in accomplishing these relations that we're talking about? I'd like to speak to that point. I'd certainly take my hat off to the good secretary. As a matter of fact, I'd go beyond that. I'd say that any boss who's been a success who doesn't give an awful lot of credit to the people that he has surrounded himself as a dope. Yes, I'd agree with that completely. Are you recommending, then, that each boss have a secretary? If the situation is such that that is desirable, of course. But there are many bosses without secretaries, even though a secretary could be of great assistance in tipping off the boss man to a variety of situations. The secretary can be a very useful person in keeping the boss informed as to the way people are reacting, problems that may be occurring in the organization, and so on, because usually the secretary is in closer touch with the rank and file, particularly the other white-collar workers, stenographic workers, and so on. I think it's very important to give the secretary, as well as the other members of the organization, that they're members of the total team. Quite apart from this team relationship that we've been discussing here for a few minutes, wouldn't you agree that real executive ability consists very largely in the capacity to analyze a situation, to put your finger on the problems, to have an overview of the entire operation? It would seem to me that that would rank very high in selecting a man for an administrative position. I would agree with that completely, with one possible exception. I think many people have the notion that IQ is the determining factor there. By, you mean the intelligence? The intelligence level of the person. I think it would be a pretty important factor. I think it is not an important factor, after a certain point. I have observed many very skillful leaders in high positions who have little more than what we might technically think of as average intelligence. But they have a creativity about them and a skill in assembling the attitudes of the people, the judgments of the people, and together working out a solution that is more satisfactory than one man himself can do. Now, of course, it all depends on what you mean by intelligence. In the studies that we've made, we find a very definite tendency for the average level of intelligence to move up, to become higher as you move to higher levels in the organization. Of course, you find a certain range, sometimes a fairly wide range, at any one level. But nevertheless, there is a clear tendency for people at the higher levels to register higher on IQ tests and so on. But I think that there are kinds of intelligence that aren't measured by the ordinary IQ test. If you conceive of intelligence as ability to adjust, as ability to cut and fit to a situation, as ability to create, if you will, then I think that you've got to admit that the boss, particularly as you move to higher and higher levels, has to be a more intelligent person. Well, isn't part of this skill that we're talking about, the boss's sensitivity to the impact that he has on others that is part of the planning of the organization and solving problems when they arrive? It seems to me, the successful execution of those is dependent upon some insight into the boss's own personality in this arrangement. I'm glad you mentioned that because I feel that the self-critical attitude of the boss is highly important. Self-critical attitude of the sort which enables him to detect the differences in abilities around him and then how to utilize those abilities in terms of the good of the group. Well, in other words, what you're saying is that the boss must know the situation in which he's operating. He must know all of the factors that are at work in that situation. And certainly he himself is one of the most important factors at work in the working situation. And therefore, unless he has some degree of ability to size up himself and what he's doing to the organization, how the organization's reacting to him, he's not going to have a very necessary piece of information in order to accomplish his job. Of course, you may have been emphasizing the importance of adaptability and flexibility. But as an employee, I like a boss that is reasonably decisive and reasonably consistent in his behavior. A man that can make up his mind that doesn't vacillate too much and a person that you know, you know where he stands and he's reasonably consistent in that stand. Well, I should like to point out that adaptability does in no way imply a lack of decisiveness. I think a highly adaptable or flexible person who at the same time can make judgments or can with discretion know when not to make a judgment and when to make a judgment promptly is a good quality. But often those two things don't go together. That's right. Do you have a comment on that, Van Duse? Well, I was just thinking that certainly you can't dilly-dally too long an organization or otherwise the employees are going to lose confidence in the boss man. But I would agree wholeheartedly with Henderson that snap judgments are no particular virtue. Is there any standard formula for being a good boss, Van Duse? I don't think so. As a matter of fact, I think we see examples around us every day that they don't come out of the same mold. Can different people achieve success as executives in quite different ways? Does our discussion add up to that? Oh, very definitely. You see people on the surface with quite different characteristics becoming equally successful. One thing that accounts for that, I believe, is the fact that we have a different lineup of assets, personal assets, and if the skillful supervisor knows how to utilize those well, he will then minimize what deficiencies he may have. How should people get to be bosses worthy? Do you think seniority is an important factor? Do you think age is an important factor? Well, both of those are parts, are factors in the situation. I don't think either of them, however, can be controlling. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is out. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Makes a Good Boss? We want to thank our guests, Mac T. Henderson, consulting psychologist with Rohrer, Hibbler, and Rep. Logal, Chicago, Albert Van Dusen, associate professor of psychology and administrative assistant to the president at Northwestern University, and James C. Worthy, employer relations manager, Sears Roebuck and Company. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, how should we plan for community health? Our guests will be Huntington B. Henry, chairman of the board of St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago, Lawrence A. Kimpton, chancellor of the University of Chicago, Dr. J. Roscoe Miller, president of Northwestern University, and Edward L. Ryerson, chairman of the board of Inland Steel Company. We hope you will be with us next week when we ask, how should we plan for community health? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. American Maximumrage eating