The Canadian concert and the program Dark Horses will not be heard this afternoon. Your city station at this time presents the ceremonies attending the observance of Interfaith Day. And we take you now to Central Park. Good afternoon. From the mall in Central Park, your city station brings you the ceremonies attending the observance of Interfaith Day. Among the guests here and speakers this afternoon are Mayor Vincent R. M. Pelletieri, Senator Irving M. Ives, Fannie Hurst, President of the Interfaith Council, Robert A. Carroll, Dr. William Jansen, and many other dignitaries. The next voice you hear will be that of Emil K. Ellis, Chairman of the Program Committee, who will introduce the speakers and events on this afternoon's program. Mr. Ellis. Ladies and gentlemen, the national anthem sung by Miss Myra Mantle. Ladies and gentlemen, won't you please join me in singing the national anthem? Oh, say can you see Why the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed As the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight On the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming The night's red glare The bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night That a flag was still there O say does that star-spangled The light andúpical O'er the land of the brave Where the wave know Are the world of the brave ú'm o'er the land of the brave O'er the land of the brave Ladies and gentlemen, you may now be... Please remain rising. The invocation will be delivered by Rabbi Louis I. Newman of Temple Roder Sholem. Rabbi Newman. Heavenly Father, Lord of the universe, with gratitude we assemble, heeding thy word. Behold how good and how pleasing it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. We testify here that whatever our origins and whatever our approach to the problems of being, we are nonetheless at one with thee and at one each with the other. Bless thou our families, our country, and all the nations of the earth. For in truth, though peoples at times may stray from thy ways, we have but one Father and one God has made us all. Let peace prevail among the nations and the hearts of all be turned unto thee in amity, avoiding violence and hatred and choosing only brotherhood and peace. Amen. Amen. And now be seated. Dr. Jansen, distinguished guests of honor, ladies and gentlemen, I want to welcome you on the Central Park Mall on the occasion of the celebration of Interfaith Day. The skies may be gray, but it's more than atoned for by the warmth of the spirit of those of you who are present. We have a very excellent program, and I am hopeful that the weather will remain clement enough to have you stay here throughout the entire program. I have the honor of presenting to you the chairman of the board of directors of the Interfaith Movement, the Honorable John A. Ross, Assistant Attorney General, who will in turn introduce the chairman of Interfaith Day, Mr. Ross. A few short years ago, a man was needed to supervise the education and training of the most cosmopolitan school population in the world. The man finally selected has measured up in every way in filling this most arduous job. He is a career man whose life work has been devoted to training children to become useful citizens who believe in and practice the principles of American democracy. It now gives me great pleasure in presenting to you this gentleman, who is our chairman today, your friend and our children's friend, the Honorable William Jansen, City Superintendent of Schools. Fellow Americans, as our boys and girls, the boys of all faiths, fight side by side in Korea, and as the nation is fortifying itself against the possibility of more extended action, it is fitting and proper that we gather here today to reaffirm and give concrete and living expression to those ideals of equality which are inseparable from the spirit of democracy. We are asserting here today our fundamental conviction that we all are brothers under the fatherhood of God. We are seeking to establish the common understandings which will strengthen our mutual appreciation and unify us in our effort to preserve our heritage of freedom. But despite the convictions which have brought us together today, we may be prone to forget that this demonstration of goodwill is not universal, not even here in this land of ours. Let us face reality. We have not, as a nation, in the conduct of our daily lives, acknowledged the freedom and equality of all God's children. Racial and religious discrimination are still poisoning our relations with our fellow men. In spite of this, however, we have no reason to doubt the ultimate outcome of this effort to establish and maintain human dignity and understanding. Great progress has already been made. We are united in this interfaith movement and in similar movements throughout the country in our conviction that we must continue the task of educating young and old to recognize that every man is his brother's keeper. Here, in the city of New York, millions of people of every race and creed are living and working together in peace and security and mutual respect. In our public schools, 895,000 boys and girls and over 38,000 teachers are sharing their talent and goodwill. But we have not completely solved our interracial problems. Of paramount importance is the fact that we are conscious of them and we are working through our schools to eliminate prejudice, to give our pupils experiences in democratic living and to help them to appreciate one another as human beings. Through the interfaith movement and other similar movements, many of our citizens are working with unselfish devotion. Our state anti-discrimination law, legislation forbidding racial or religious discrimination in the admission policies of the colleges and universities of the state, our own city's bias-free civil service system, these are all tangible signs of progress. They are the concrete evidence of the community's determination to translate our ideals into action. But we must not consider the love of our fellow man to be the objective of the schools alone or of legislation or of special groups. This love is the cohesive element of society. It is the proper function of every human heart. It must become one's personal possession, one's pride, one's way of life. It is unfortunately possible to talk tolerance and to be intolerant as it is possible to pay lip service to any ideal. It should be the deeply satisfying duty of every individual to make the love of his fellow man the glowing center of his life. Prejudice is a bitter thing for the prejudiced as well as for the object of his hatred. The individual who learns how to work with his fellow man and to grant him the integrity which he claims for himself is indeed a happy man. Our national strength has been built on ideals which we commonly share and for which Americans have sacrificed their lives. Peoples of various races and religions have sought refuge here and have contributed their efforts to fashion a way of life which can unite us all in brotherhood. Sustained by our faith in God and our unswerving belief in our brotherhood under God, we can look forward to a nobler life shared by all our people so that in our every endeavor whether in war or in peace we can work together in true dignity. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Jansen for that splendid and inspiring address. I would now like to take the opportunity and privilege to present to you one of the nicest things the motion picture industry ever conferred upon America. I want to tell you about the incomparable Gloria Swanson. Miss Swanson recently visited my office and I was so deeply impressed not only with her beauty and her personality but with her humility and when I asked her to come here she very readily accepted. She is really a rare combination of beauty, charm, and artistry an irresistible combination of a beautiful personality. She's the sunrise of Sunset Boulevard. You said too much. The sunrise of Sunset Boulevard, the incomparable first lady of the screen, Gloria Swanson. Oh, no, she's not. Look at the man. Look at the man. All right. Now, you're fine. Now, isn't he nice? Only he said too much and I don't deserve that praise. I'm extremely honored to be here among so many distinguished guests and on such a good day. All right, the sun isn't shining, no, but beyond these clouds the sun is shining and sometimes that's the way life is. We're in a fog or it seems dark but there's always a sun beyond that cloud. I think it says something in Genesis about that. But I won't preach. I only want to say this to you that when we're young, I know, because I was young one, we forget the sacrifices that our mothers and fathers have made for us. And then when we become mothers and fathers, we sometimes forget the sacrifices that our grandparents made for us too. And it goes on and on and sometimes we forget the sacrifices that have been made by our forefathers who came here and gave us such a wonderful country to live in and to live together because they came away from oppression and persecution. And you know, I know too, as you do, that many times we're hurt day in and day out. We find that somebody said something unkind to us and it's awfully hard to love that person and it's so easy to hate. But, if each day we can make a promise to ourselves that no matter what happens, we can love, I think that is our answer to everything. And another thing to remember, but for the grace of God there go I. And I think with these two things that I try to cling to, and I'm a little wiser now than I was when I was younger. This has helped me in my life and I am so blessed and so grateful for all that you've done for me because you have, you know, so many of you out there have known me when and so many of you have helped give me a wonderful life and I want to take this opportunity of thanking you so much. God bless you all. Thank you. Thank you, glorious Gloria, for your wonderful words of encouragement and inspiration. I'm very happy to have you. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege of presenting to you the dynamic president of the Interfaith Movement and Assistant Corporation Counsel who has worked untiringly in the cause of Interfaith, the Honorable Robert A. Carroll. Thank you, Mr. Ellis. Reverend clergy, Mr. Chairman, members of the Interfaith Movement and friends, on this Interfaith Day, I am taking the place of a founder and the past president of this organization whom Almighty God in his divine providence has called to an eternal reward. For many years, our late president gave to Interfaith his untiring efforts and whole-souled devotion. He consecrated himself to the ideals of Interfaith and made them dynamic to the end that all who dwell in this great city of New York would live together in unity, charity, and mutual respect. I know that all of you join with me in the fervent aspiration that the soul of Meyer Jacobs will enjoy internal rest and happiness with the Lord. From the president of the United States, I am happy to convey to the members of Interfaith and you, our friends, the following message. to Robert A. Carroll, president, the Interfaith Movement. The blessings of divine providence have been generously bestowed upon our beloved country. Our greatest blessing is the faith we Americans have in one another. We are a united people of diverse origins. Our united strength enables us to face with confident hope the evil forces that have been unleashed in the world. May those who are meeting to observe Interfaith Day renew their devotion to the principles of tolerance and mutual respect. As we grow in our understanding of these principles, our nation will be stronger in the eyes of man and more worthy in the eyes of God. Signed, Harry S. Truman. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Carroll and President Truman for that inspiring message. At this time, I would like to present to you Eddie Miller who will sing the Lord's Prayer accompanied by Barbara Lee. Thank you. Thank you. Our Father Lord, bestially have rebirth Lond Notes which art in heaven位 Thy kingdom come Thy will be done in earth As it is in the day Then give us this day Our daily bread And forgive us our debts As we forgive our debtors And lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil For thine is the kingdom And the power And the glory Forever And ever Amen Thank you, Eddie Miller. That was perfectly magnificent. Perfectly magnificent. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, I would like to read a message from Governor Dewey. Robert A. Carroll, President of Interfaith Movement. In a nearby New York community, a large sign was erected recently outside one of the Protestant churches. That sign bore a message of greetings from the congregation for the Jewish New Year. I am proud that this took place in New York State. It was a perfect manifestation of the true spirit of Interfaith Day. I am sure I speak for the people of the entire state in expressing my hearty congratulations to those who are engaged in promoting the essentially American ideals of the interfaith movement. Governor Thomas E. Dewey. I now would like to present to you Dr. Channing H. Tobias, who will read a short portion of the scriptures. Dr. Tobias. Thank you. Thank you. As I passed by and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription to the unknown God, whom, therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you, God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands, neither is worship with men's hands, as though he needed anything, seeing he giveth to all life and breath and all things, and hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed and the bounds of their habitation, that they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him and find him, though he be not far from every one of us. For in him, we live and move and have our being. Thank you, Dr. Tobias. I now have the pleasure of presenting to you the famous novelist and humanitarian Fanny Hurst. The ovation you hear is for Acting Mayor Impeletere. I now present to you Fanny Hurst. Mr. Just-Arived Mayor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, and hearty spirits who have ventured into these Arctic regions today, I agree with the predecessor that probably you are here because you are fundamentally interested in the fundamentals that are embedded in this occasion. But whether you just happen to have been passing by or whether strolling for a Sunday afternoon, boy says to gal, let's see what's cooking, I'm glad you're here. And I know that those of you who have arrived thus far feel compensated, particularly since we have mixed these stern facts of life with a spot of glamour in the form of Miss Swanson, and now with the arrival of Mayor Impeletere. Now, embedded in the three syllabic words, which is the meaning of this day, is practically one of the important keys to the meaning of peace. And that's why I want to say to you who are here that I congratulate you upon the perceptions which have brought you here for the considerations that are underway today. Now, I want to discuss with you, and I promise you briefly, interfaith, not in terms of the United Nations or the vast affairs of state which are taking place within our own front yard, so to speak, but I want to talk about interfaith from its source. And ladies and gentlemen, you here in front of me and behind me are the source. You are the source because the source of interfaith is in your hearts, in your souls, in your living rooms, in your kitchens, in your schools. And without the kind of compulsion that you bring to the considerations here today, we might just as well throw up the sponge which you know and I know we don't intend to do. Now, make no mistake about it, prejudice like charity begins in the home. It begins in the kind of homes you create, you tolerate, and you put forward. Now, I live on the very edge of this park. I can almost see my house from here. And as I walked over here through Central Park, lines of people were converging from all parts of the city toward this spot, like the spokes of a wheel, they were coming to this occasion. And it occurred to me, as I saw them, that probably more creeds were represented in these converging spokes than would be comfortable in any city in the world. We are, after all, a great human laboratory. The kind of propaganda that is going on in the homes that I see beyond me at this moment over the skyline of New York is of tremendous importance. I mean the homemade prejudice that is so often generated when they're in the warm environs of the home. parents so unwittingly hurl their children out of the brief paradise of democracy by teaching them prejudice against people who happen to be different than themselves. The words Italian, Negro, Jew, can become hop-toes on the innocent lips of children who inherit ugly pseudonames for Jew, Italian, and Catholic from their parents. And so I urge upon you, you people in front of me who are the keepers of that sacred institution, behold, to bear in mind that you are the breeding ground of everything that is near and dear and important to this country of ours during these crisis times. And I want to express my appreciation to the interfaith organization that is sponsoring this day and I want to say fervently that under its auspices and others, I hope that the need for an interfaith organization will become less and less in our country as interfaith becomes something taken for granted and that we demand in the name of human dignity. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Herson. Thank you, Fannie Hurst. Ladies and gentlemen, the next speaker is one of the stalwart friends of the interfaith movement. For many years, he has occupied an important position in public life in this community. He has been president of our city council. He has been a member of the board of directors of the interfaith movement. In 1948, the interfaith movement conferred the highest honor within its power by presenting to him an award for conspicuous service in the cause of goodwill and understanding between peoples of different faiths, races, and religions. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the great honor to present to you the dynamic acting mayor of the city of New York, Vincent R. Impelituri. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Reverend clergy, Senator Ives, ladies and gentlemen, I am indeed happy to greet you on this fifth annual interfaith day, a day that has become a true and traditional New York holiday. New York holiday. This day is one on which we show the rest of our nation and the world as well, that we New Yorkers, bringing as we do from every nation and every faith, can live peacefully as neighbors as neighbors and as friends and as friends in harmony and in mutual respect. Our achievement in this community is what the United Nations seeks for the world. That achievement has made this city renowned in every nation as a place where men of all origins can live without fear. You who have given your support to the interfaith movement are of that spirit that has given our city that kind of renown. You are the friends of religious freedom and of understanding among men. It has not always been true in our history that men of different faiths have been able or even willing to live without antagonism. Unfortunately, some who came here in the early days to escape oppression were themselves intolerant of people of the other faiths. But as the great tide of immigration from every corner of the world came here to enrich our civilization, our predecessors came to know what religious freedom and interfaith understanding really meant. Men and women passed through the gates of Ellis Island, whose previous lives had been so wretched that merely breathing the air of freedom in America expanded all of their natural feelings of brotherhood and love. First in so many other things, New York City was also the first to feel the effects of this new-found freedom. From here, our people went forth throughout the nation, pioneering not only for land and fortune, but for the minds of others. Our writers, artists, our actors, our musicians, carried the words of goodwill to the entire world. The word was this, Be a peaceful mind and love thy neighbor. On this interfaith day, let each of us come closer to his own religion. Let us, each in his own way, pray for greater understanding among nations, so that the spirit of New York and of you who have strengthened and found the interfaith movement will spread to every shore throughout the world. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor Vincent Impelletari for your eloquent message. I omitted to mention before that we are indebted to Mayor Impelletari for having established interfaith day, for it was with his help that we procured the first proclamation by the mayor of the city of New York, which then was followed by a proclamation from the governor and by state legislative action. Thank you, Mayor Impelletari. I now wish to call upon a very talented soprano from Carl Gian Manate's The Medium, Zelma George, who will sing One World by O'Hara. Thank you. The world feels on a firm foundation Feels on a firm foundation on me What a wondrous fight Freedom's flame alive In a world where more can't be One world feels on love and peace When the moon smiled bright and bright But in hills and plains From birds still green-pulling With their glad, with praise All things God create His great love to scale Now let men and nations Join and join in every way One world feels the world's own way to One world feels the world's own way to The world's own way to One world feels the world's own way to The world's own way to The world's own way to The world's own way to One world feels the world's own way to One world's own way to One world's own way to One world's own way to One world fields of One world недå One world One world One world One world One world I can't hold it I can't hold it I've seen this joint. That was very inspiring. Ladies and gentlemen, the next speaker is a distinguished American, a national figure who is beloved by all who know him. He is a native of New York State, was for many years speaker of the State Assembly, and achieved a national reputation by his espousal of the Anti-Discrimination Bill, which the State of New York adopted and which has been followed as a model throughout the country and by the national government. He has had many legislative achievements and is the senior senator from the State of New York. I have the honor to present to you the respected and very, very distinguished Senator Irving M. Eyles. I hope this doesn't go away. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, As I begin my very brief remarks, I want you to know how deeply I appreciate the privilege of being able to appear on this very inspiring program today. There never has been a time in the life of this free nation or of any other nation when faith was not vital. There never has been a time when it was more needed than it is today. Unhappily, we live in an age when wars are real and rumors of even greater wars sorely trouble us. It is never easy in a time which seems to call for quick physical defense to think about long-term spiritual betterment. Interfaith Day in this great city has come to mean formal recognition that the real fight we fight is a spiritual one and that the true battlefield is the hearts and souls of men. There are weapons, our faith in God, love of our fellow men, and a fervent reaffirmation of our belief in the sacredness of the rights and dignity of the individual. It is a great tribute to this city and to all of you who are here today that every one of us realizes the importance of that battle. It is a great tribute to the noble service of the members of the interfaith movement who, through their dedication and unselfish spirits, have provided the spark for such gatherings as this. Everyone with an abiding faith in God and a love for his fellow men is on our side. There is none among us who would quarrel with these as ideals because they are as much a part of our heritage as is the right of free assembly which makes possible such a meeting as this. The disciples of godlessness never relent in their fiendish labor. Knowing this, hearts dedicated to opposing that godlessness sometimes wonder if they are not crying in a wilderness of indifference among their fellows who agree but do nothing. Let us not delude ourselves. Our job is not an easy one. But we must keep up the struggle in the firm knowledge that it is the day-to-day skirmishes which add up to the final victory. What hope do we hold out to the oppressed peoples of the world? Freedom from famine, disease, and insecurity? These goals are not enough. It does no good when a people throw off the yoke of one oppressor only to replace it with another. It does no good that stomachs are full if churches are nailed shut. To shackle men's spirits is a far crueler tyranny than to shackle their bodies. We must meet preachments of fear with the lesson of faith. We must meet talk of futility with the ideal of hope. We must do these things at the international level. We must do them at the national level. And most important of all, we must do them at the level of our individual lives. All the fine doctrines in the world preached at the national level are meaningless symbols if they are not echoed in the hearts of our nation's citizens. Peace is an active, positive thing. It is more than the absence of war. It is the earnest endeavor of fair-minded people to preserve and protect the rights of individuals everywhere, regardless of race or creed or color or national origin. Peace leaves no room for prejudice or intolerance. In a peace-loving society, there is only room for equality and friendliness as they are understood by a God-fearing and God-loving people. We hear much these days about the development of new weapons, the urgent need for the building up of our armed forces, and the necessity for huge expenditures to increase our total military strength. These things we must do. They are our survival insurance. But the military is not the only front in need of reinforcement. There is need for strengthening the spiritual front, too. Dissension at home, war abroad, and fear everywhere mean that only faith in God can restore order to the chaos of men's emotions. That order cannot be restored too soon. We know what we oppose. We oppose godlessness and all the evils which attend it, whether they appear in the mask of Nazism or fascism or communism. We must be equally sure of what we are for. World defense has catapulted us into a position where indifference means suicide. There is no standing still. We go forward or we perish. Ours is a generation and a nation which history has called to greatness. We stand to offer the world the most enlightened leadership in its history. To do less would be to fail all humanity most miserably. Material help and technical know-how alone will not solve this crisis. What is needed also is great moral and spiritual strength. That strength must be real. Live service to high ideals is not enough. We cannot ask of others more than we ourselves are willing to do. We cannot tell the world down with prejudice and condone it here at home. We cannot tell other nations to refrain from religious persecution while we tolerate organized hate clubs in America. we cannot preach tolerance and allow discrimination in our midst. The eyes of an afferent and fearful world are on the United States. We have the two-fold responsibility of providing leadership and good example. The mirror of world opinion will reflect back to us a faith no more noble than we present to his. We cannot hope to achieve this alone. We need the strength of champions and the humility of saints. But most of all we need the help of almighty God. We must pool our resources of spiritual strength without compromising and surrendering our separate beliefs we must stress especially what is common in our religions and not what is different. groups like the interfaith movement points away. Ceremonies like this are landmarks along the road of brotherhood and peace among men. We know our goal. Faith is our watch word. Hope is our inspiration. Love of our fellow men is our weapon of victory. I thank you. Thank you Senator Ives for that splendid and inspiring address. Ladies and gentlemen at this time I would like to read a message to you which the interfaith movement has requested of one of its stalwart friends active members and recipient of its 1945 award for conspicuous service. The message reads as followed Our constitution bedrocked upon the eternal verity that all men are created equal guarantees to all the precious rights of freedom of speech and freedom of worship. Inspired by them men and women from every land and of every creed, color, and racial strain have come to these shores and have toiled with our native sons and daughters to build here the greatest exemplar of representative democracy. When that democracy was challenged in war its defenders rallied quickly. Black and white, rich and poor, native born and foreign born, Jew and Gentile, Catholic and Protestant, but Americans all, they worked, fought, and died shoulder to shoulder to preserve our country and its ideals. That unity of spirit won for us the victories of war and will win for us the victories of peace. To preserve and protect resolutely our cherished liberties is the solemn duty of every true citizen and of every devout believer in God's word. God's speech is the Interfaith Movement and its noble ideals, Ferdinand Pecora. Mr. Justice Pecora is an honorary chairman of the Interfaith Movement. Thank you, Judge Pecora. And now I have the pleasure of calling upon one of the founders of the Interfaith Movement and its treasurer, Samuel Sokolski, who will read the Interfaith Oath, after which we will hear inspiring short addresses by Justice Edward McCullen and Commissioner Robert H. Thayer. I will discriminate against no man by reason of his faith or creed. I will daily deal with every man in business and social and political relations only on the basis of his true individual worth. I will never try to indict a whole people by reason of derelictions of any individual. I will utter no rumor and no slander against any sect. In my conduct, I will concentrate myself hour by hour and day by day to the achievement and fact of the highest ideals of the dignity of man, human equality, human fellowship, and human brotherhood. Thank you, and I hope you will all contemplate that oath profoundly. I now have the pleasure of presenting to you a very distinguished member of this community, a scholar and a judge, a happy combination of both, who is at present justice of the city court of the city of New York and just recently retired as chairman of the board of directors of the Interfaith Movement, the Honorable Edward McCullough. Judge McCullough. Mr. Cameron Ellis, Reverend members of the clergy, Senator Ives, ladies and gentlemen of our audience, it was with pleasant anticipation that I look forward to these ceremonies of today, for they exemplify the progress which we have made in our humble effort to develop a wakeable plan for the brotherhood of man and the reduction in the hate complex with which this world has suffered for so long a time. I hope to leave with you today some thoughts of what the Interfaith Movement was formed to do and what it still hopes to do. we know we have accomplished much for we have at least made our local community conscious of what may happen to persons who spread hate and bigotry. It is true that much of our success is caused by the fear some people have of reprisals, but with much person the method is justified. In 1947, when I was the chairman of these annual ceremonies, I stated, it is the desire of the Interfaith Movement to guard America and our fellow men against hatred, falsehood, bigotry, and intolerance, for they are the seeds from which sprung the curse of this world's waste war and which, soon again, will toll the end of civilization. That is as true today as it was then. As you probably, or rather most of you know, I am a member of the Roman Catholic faith, and it is from the viewpoint of my church that I approach my relations with my fellow men. So I have brought you a part of the Holy Gospel, read at the Mass on the 12th Sunday after Pentecost, Sunday, August 20th, 1950. It is taken from the Gospel of St. Luke, chapter 10, voices 23 to 37, and is as follows. At this time, Jesus said to his disciples, blessed are the eyes that see what you see. I tell you, there have been many prophets and kings who have longed to see what you see and never saw it. to hear what you hear and never heard it. It happened that once a lawyer rose up trying to put him to the test. Master, he said, what must I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus asked him, what is it that is written in the law? What is thy reading of it? And he answered, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with the love of thy whole heart and thy whole soul and thy whole strength and thy whole mind and thy neighbor as thyself. Thou has answered right, he told him. Do this and thou shalt find life. But he, to prove himself blameless, asked, and who is thy neighbor? Jesus gave him his answer. A man who was on his way down from Jerusalem to Jericho fell in with Robin who stripped him and beat him and went off leading him half dead. And the priest, who chanced to be going down by the same road, saw him there and passed on the other side. And a Levite who came there saw him and also passed on the other side. But a Satan Samaritan who was on his travels saw him and took pity at the sight. He went up to him and bound up his wounds, pouring oil and wine into them. And so mounted him upon his own beast and brought him to an inn where he took care of him. And the next day he took out two pieces of silver, which he gave to the innkeeper and said, take care of him and on my way home I will give thee whatever else is owing to thee for thy pain. Which of course, which of these think is thou proved himself a neighbor to the man who had fallen in with the robbers? And he said, he that showed mercy on him. Then Jesus said, go thy way and do thou likewise. That gospel, my friend, is the story of the good Samaritan who took care of the man wounded by robbers. This parable is obviously intended to urge us to love our neighbor in practical fashion. The two who passed by their neighbor in distress were of the old law. He who helped has the true Christian spirit. It is a good example of Catholic action, which I would suggest you follow. my good friend, Mr. Ellis, the chairman, has just nudged me and said, come on, fella, you're finished. I know it. Thanks. Thank you, Judge McCollum. Because of the lack of air time and out of respect to the distinguished speaker to follow, I did ask Judge McCollum to cooperate. And he had a very splendid address prepared, which I'm sure you would have all enjoyed very much. Thank you for the excellent allegorical study which you did give us, Judge McCollum. I now have the pleasure of calling upon a very distinguished member of the State Commission Against Discrimination who has had a long public career, which has been of great benefit to the people of the city and state of New York. I have the honor to present Commissioner Robert H. Thayer, member of the State Board Against Discrimination. Commissioner Thayer. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, this is an inspiring demonstration of democracy in action. I think we may all be quite certain that the Moscow papers will never report this event this afternoon, because this demonstration is our answer to their propaganda claim that we are a nation divided and a country which thrives on hatred and discrimination. Democracy and brotherhood are synonymous. It is important for us to remember this and also not to forget the circumstances which led to the founding of the interfaith movement 12 years ago. It wasn't so very long ago in 1938 when this city was the particular target for a frenzied barrage of hate propaganda by Hitler and his American cohorts and admirers. The German-American Bund, under the leadership of Fritz Kuhn, who I, as an assistant district attorney under Thomas E. Dewey, had the great pleasure, and a great pleasure it was, of helping descend to jail, were staging hysterical rallies at Madison Square Garden and in other parts of the city to advance bigotry and discord. Hitler and Kuhn knew, as we have since learned, that a nation hating and divided is easy prey for totalitarian conquest. The frenzied bigotry prevalent in 1938 is pointed up by the story of a shopkeeper who placed a sign in his window, which read as follows, I hate the Jews. I am a 100% American. Whereupon a competitive storekeeper, not to be outdone, placed a sign in his window, and this sign read, I hate everybody. I am a better American. It took a war for survival on two major fronts to overcome the horror of of that sort of thinking. On battlefields throughout the world, our soldiers answered hatred by offering the supreme sacrifice of their lives. And on the battlefields at home, the interfaith movement answered hatred with teaching, understanding, and setting an example of brotherhood and goodwill. On the battlefields of Korea today, our soldiers and our magnificent marines are again fighting. going to into the territory. From here as from to the demons here.
