Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In 12 weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation in the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, how can Western Europe be defended against communism? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around economic and military aid to Western Europe. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are George B. Carson, Professor of Modern History at the University of Chicago, Captain Michael Fielding, Political and Military Analyst, and Lecturer on Foreign Affairs, and Joseph M. McDaniel, Jr., Dean of the School of Commerce at Northwestern University, and formerly Assistant Deputy Administrator with ECA. Now, as you know, gentlemen, we are discussing the question, how can Western Europe be defended against communism? Specifically, Fielding, what are we defending Western Europe against? Well, McBurney, we're defending Western Europe against an effort by Soviet Russia as a general overall plan of world conquest to take over Western Europe in a political, military, and economic sense. Do you agree with that, Carson? I would make a few qualifications on it. I believe the necessity is for defense against those measures which the Soviet Union may adopt as national safety measures. I am not as convinced as Fielding is of this overall plan for world conquest, and provided he is not including the defense of Western Europe against certain forms of socialism, against which it is impossible to defend Western Europe. I would agree with Fielding. I think that the important thing is to make sure that we do not permit Russia to impose upon Western Europe her ambitions, which, as Fielding has stated, include military domination, political domination, and economic domination. I would like to qualify that to this extent. I think it's extremely important to recognize that the issue may not necessarily be whether they'll be our form of democracy or the Russian form of democracy. It may be an additional form that we might wish to consider such a socialism in the United Kingdom. Well, now, do you men make any distinction between a defense against communism and a defense against Russian imperialism? Is that what you were getting at, McDaniel? My feeling is that Russian imperialism is the thing we're primarily concerned with. I think in the minds of all people, that is interpreted as being communism. There may be theoretical differences, but I don't think they're of particular importance, since I think most people understand that communism and Russian imperialism are basically the same today. I'd say that Russian imperialism is the weapon, and world conquest is the goal, the ultimate goal. The Russians are using imperialistic principles merely to achieve this basic design of taking over the whole world. What makes you think they're trying to take over the whole world, Captain? Well, I think a study of Russian behavior for the past five or more years very clearly indicates that that is precisely what the Russians are trying to do. I personally cannot understand the completely unrealistic approach to this whole question of Soviet Russia. Those people that still give Russia the benefit of the doubt simply are ignorant of the facts or they refuse to see. Now, are you one of those people, Carson? Obviously, I think he was referring to me. On the contrary, I wouldn't be quite so personal as you very well know. Why, certainly. Present company always accepted. All right, let's go on from there. Now, when you're talking about Russian imperialism, I think you're talking about something concrete that can be defined, measured, and then perhaps refuted. When you use a term like communism without making it specific like that, you're using a catch-all epithet that means anything to everybody. Look here. Soviet communism today is merely an extension of what we've had in Russia for a hundred years. When the Tsarists were in power in Russia, they likewise were imperialistic. But whereas Tsarist Russian imperialism was limited in its goals, communist imperialism knows no limitation whatsoever. Where the Tsars wanted to, I think, take over certain errors around the boundaries of Tsarist Russia as a defensive measure, the Soviet design now goes far beyond merely defensive measures. I think they had this aggression of Soviet Russia is an imperialistic aggression of the wildest limitations. I'm glad you brought up that point of the continuity of imperialism in Russia. Certainly Tsarist Russia was imperialist. Certainly Soviet Russia is imperialist. But in this continuity, I think that the objectives, the limited objectives, also carry over to a certain degree. Otherwise, there are other countries which are imperialistic. The United States is imperialistic. Would you, for that reason, assume that the United States wishes to rule the whole world, as you have assumed that Russia wishes to rule the whole world? I think that the intention in this imperialism is very, very important. Let's say that we are, to some extent, using imperialistic principle in the United States. I don't think you can ever accuse the United States of being imperialistic to the point of wanting to dominate the world in a political or military sense. But you can use that with Russia. You can use that with communist Russia. Do I understand that you all agree that the United States is imperialistic? And if it is, how do you explain our attitude with respect to the Philippines? If we were imperialistic, why didn't we retain the Philippines? Well, look, any large, powerful country achieves its ultimate power through imperialistic principles. I mean, I think we're blinding ourselves when we fail to see that the United States became great, even in our own ballywick. We became great through imperialistic principles. What are these imperialistic principles we're talking about? Taking over those parts of the world that we think we are entitled to or want. Yes, but it can be done not only militarily. It can be done in other ways. It can be done economically, for example. Well, Carson, how limited do you think Russia's objectives are in Western Europe? Do you think she's trying to build up her own defenses? Is that your thought? Well, I'll try to answer that if I make a qualification first. If I give a categorical reply, I can easily be accused of knowing the communist mind so well that I'll subject myself to unpleasantness in this country. I don't know the communist mind that well. I can't say what the leaders of Russia in Moscow are going to do. But it seems to me that no nation is going to start a war which is not worth the price. And for Russia to secure territories much beyond the present boundary of Soviet influence in Europe would require the starting of a war which I do not believe for Russia would be worth the price. I disagree 100%. Good. How can you say, for instance, that the Russians won't do these things when they have already done the very thing you say they won't do when they've done it in China? China certainly is not necessary to Soviet defense any more than Indochina is necessary to Soviet defense. I am not, I suppose, as persuaded as you that China is completely under the military and political authority of Soviet Russia. That may be because of my greater ignorance in Far Eastern affairs. Well, let me say this. It's very hard, as you say, to judge the Soviet mind. But you can judge a man by his acts, just as you can judge a nation by its acts. Now, you contend that you're not convinced that communist China is under Soviet domination. And yet, how do you explain the fact that in every single instance, when Mao Zedong, the red leader in China, has had to decide on questions of policy involving Russian interests or China's interests, he is always plunked for Russia's interests. Well, I'm not going to ask Carson to answer that question. We have a clear difference of opinion here. Let me ask this. May I break in just a moment? Because I think it's very important we talk about the acquisition of additional territories through military action. I think it's very important that we remember that Russia has devised a technique, the technique of the fifth column, if you wish to call it such. And it's perfectly conceivable that she could take over a country without the necessity of resort to Russian arms. For example, I think that we were very close to Russian domination in Italy back in 1948. I think that could have conceivably been achieved without a single Russian troop entering that specific country. So I think the extension of that particular type of technique has to be looked upon also as a quasi-military operation. I object to this sentiment that the fifth column alone would have been adequate and that that has been demonstrated. It seems to me that in cases where the Russian influence has been extended, with the addition of fifth column assistance, Red Army units were available or were actually present before success was achieved, with the possible exception of China. And there you have such a far-going, thorough-going social and economic revolution in progress anyhow that it wasn't necessary to introduce Red Army troops perhaps. I agree with McDaniel. Now in 1948, at the time that the Marshall Plan went into execution, France and Italy were on the verge of going communist, and there were no Russian armies adjacent to those two countries as a threat. They were on the verge of going communist, and had it not been, for the prompt application of the Marshall Plan principle of economic aid to eliminate those conditions of economic instability which were playing so dangerous into Russia's hands. I think France and Italy would have gone communist. What you mean is they were on the point of forming governments in which the communist party would, of those countries, would be in control. At that point they never quite achieved. Though there were governments in which the communist party participated, even in France. Now, assuming that they had formed those governments, it's another thing to say from that point on they would have been wholly under the control of Russia. When it was not possible, if it continued to be impossible, for Russia to put Red Army units there, if necessary, to ensure that they always selected, as your Chinese leader did, the Russian interest as against somebody else's, if it was contrary to their own interest. Carson, have you any doubt, actually, in your mind, that the communist parties in whatever country, have you any doubt they are under Moscow domination? Do you really doubt that the American communist party is not under Moscow domination? Does not take its orders from Moscow? I do still doubt that a government in France, which had the communist party in it, would necessarily always have elected Russian interest if it was detrimental to French interest in establishing policy. Yes. Communist parties that have taken over in any country have always, have always followed a line of Russian interest. Communist parties have not taken over in any country, except where Russia could present a military power factor. China, China, China, China. They could do it there if needed. Yes. You would say that was true in the case of Yugoslavia. Were there Russian troops occupying the country at the time, Mr. Tito still adhered to the Moscow... They were in a position to do it if necessary. Well, then, Albania, which is on the other side of Yugoslavia, that's a little farther away, you would still say that they were in a position to do it in Albania. Yes, I think Carlson is right to the extent that anywhere in the Balkans, the Russians were in a position to bring military pressure to France. And we moved to Trieste, and how far is it from Trieste into Italy? It's a matter of degree. Well, now, we've noted this marked difference of opinion here on Russian objectives. Fielding and building your case, you've made frequent references to the Far East, to China. How is the defense of Western Europe related to our defense in Asia, anyway? Well, Jim, nothing happens in the world today, whether it's in Europe or the Far East, or in Korea, for that matter. That is important, except in its relation to the basic strategic position of the West vis-à-vis Soviet Russia in a global struggle for supremacy. In other words, the minute you start trying to solve the situation in bits and pieces, talking about our chances in Western Europe, or our chances in Korea, or our chances in China, you get away from the basic thought that in order to defeat the Soviet design, we've got to defeat it in a global sense. We can no more win this struggle against Soviet Russia by winning it in Western Europe, losing it in Asia, or vice versa, any more than we could have won the last war by defeating Germany and losing to Japan. Suppose you admitted the global importance. Would you say, however, that Western Europe is probably our immediate and first interest? Western Europe is the most important of six strategic areas surrounding the Soviet-dominated land mass of Eurasia. And these six strategic areas, in addition to Western Europe, are the Mediterranean area, the Middle Eastern area, the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent, Southeast Asia, and the Western Pacific. And we must win in all six areas to win at all. But would we be in agreement that if we tried to set them up in a series of priorities, Western Europe would occupy... I would say that Western Europe today does not occupy any greater priority, for instance, than does Southeast Asia or the Western Pacific. I think Western Europe does occupy a prior position because I do not believe there is any likelihood in the long range of being able to hold the others if Western Europe is lost because it's in that base that we have the most assistance from the population's concern, from the country's concern. Certainly that cooperation would be needed in any of the strategic areas that Fielding mentioned. But in Western Europe, there is economic, social, tradition, cooperation of longstanding, which makes that a better area to get cooperation, and it's also a major strategic one. I think it should be held at all costs. I agree that Western Europe, of these six strategic positions that I've mentioned, Western Europe is the most important. But I say that we cannot ignore... But then we do agree that. No. We cannot ignore the others 100%, for instance, in favor of Western Europe. If we were to lose Southeast Asia, if we were to lose the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent, if we were to lose out in the Western Pacific, then winning the struggle in Western Europe would not win us the struggle. I think winning the struggle in Western Europe would enable us to continue the struggle and possibly recover in one or more of the other areas. I do not believe any one of the other areas offers the same advantage. I don't think once Soviet Russia has taken over an area that you can ever recover it. But you believe that if we retain Western Europe, our chances of protecting the East would be enhanced as a result of its great economic and productive facilities in them. Well, now, Captain, how are you going to defend all these strategic areas you're talking about? Well, in order to defend these strategic areas, I'm talking about the six strategic areas which surround the Soviet-dominated landmass, we've got to understand first that the Russian design must be defeated in its two major phases. The ideological, in which our democratic concept is struggling against Russia's communist concept, using communism in its broadest sense, and secondly, the second phase of military... Broadest and meaningless sense. Well, broadest and meaningless sense. You're being academic again, you see. Quick, don't let him say that. Why not? I am academic. Well, exactly. So you see, the charge sticks. The cap fits. But the second phase, which is a very important phase, is a military phase in which the Russians are bringing pressure against the democratic position, military pressure, mind you, directly or indirectly, in these six strategic areas, which are vital military bases that we need to evade defeat in the Third World War. They're bringing this pressure to bear against us in advance of a shooting war as a means of driving us away from these vital strategic bases in advance of a shooting war so that eventually they could face us with the accomplished fact of saying, look, you are no longer able to evade defeat or defeat us in a Third World War, so why even try to fight us? Just hand over your wallets and we'd have to almost. There is one point, however, I'd like to raise and that is this. Do I understand that there are only two possible roads to follow, either American democracy or Soviet communism. Is it conceivable that there may also be an additional road to follow? Yes, of course. Are we going to force the people of the Orient to make a decision between these two extremes or are we going to give them the opportunity of possibly finding some other method? If you force that kind of decision, you're going to lose. Yes, but you see, here's a point that I think is vitally important and that is that there is an attempt on the path of certain interested quarters to becloud the issue on socialism. Now, there are various degrees of socialism just as there are various degrees of communism, let's say, and democracy. Now, to confuse socialism with communism, I think, is a tremendous disservice to most people because, obviously, the basic difference between socialism as practiced, let's say, in Western Europe, in some countries of Western Europe, in countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Norway, and so forth, and Britain, in those countries, socialism differs from communism in that, while the economic situation in those countries is fully controlled, the individual in those countries still has the political right, exactly the same right as we and the democracies have, to throw out the system any time they want. In other words, while they lose, perhaps, that economic freedom, they still retain their political freedom. And as long as they retain their political freedom, you cannot confuse it with communism. All I'm arguing for is that we recognize the substance and aren't confused by the form. What I mean by that precisely is this, that I sometimes fear that in setting this up, saying that it must be this or it must be that, we may fail to recognize that some countries in their development may not be at a stage where they could accept all of our system of democracy. It may take some time for them to develop into the sort of forms that we use in the United States. Well, I think that's a recognition that most of our leaders are coming to. And I think it's an important one. It's very important. If we try, if we try to ram our concept of what might be termed American democracy down their throats, they're not going to swallow it. Now, I don't think that's an academic distinction, in other words. On the contrary, I think it's a very factual distinction. I draw the distinction between a system in which a man's political rights plus his economic rights are taken away from 100% as against a system where his economic rights are controlled. But he has the political right to throw out the system anytime he wants. Well, let's talk about our specific program in Western Europe. How far should we go with economic aid, McDaniel? I think we should go so far that when we leave Europe, we are convinced that Europe is in the position to carry forward on its own. Now, by that, I mean precisely this. Although the present law, the Marshall Plan law, terminates our assistance in 1952, I hope by 1952 that she will be sufficiently viable from an economic point of view that she will be able to carry on from there under her own steam. However, if by that time she was still in need of certain extraordinary assistance, I think the United States should continue to assist her. I agree with you 100% on that because, as I said before, the Russian design must be defeated in its two phases of the ideological plus the military. Now, in the ideological, I think the Marshall Plan has very definitely shown that where you have conditions of economic instability, starvation, political chaos, and so forth, that the individual in that country absorbs his political point of view through his stomach. A man who doesn't know where his next meal is coming from isn't going to be particularly interested in the abstractions of political freedom, but he is going to be very dynamically interested in the promise of a plate of soup. So, our Marshall Plan principle is serving to show that we can build this preference for the idea, that is, the idea of democracy versus communism, by elevating these conditions of starvation slightly, just slightly, to a point where we do assure a man, wait a minute, we do assure a man where his next meal is coming from, that's the first phase. The second phase is to stop this military aggression on the part of Soviet Russia, and that we've got to do through military measures, because an aggressor, no matter what you say, an aggressor knows only one argument, and that is the argument of force, and we've got to meet force with force. I am interested in men having a free, effective choice, and I don't believe necessitous people have that free choice. Therefore, I think one of the great things that the Marshall Plan has done is to extend to those people that opportunity of making a free choice, and I think if they are not necessitous people, the chances of their choosing the democratic way are greater than if they are, as you say, looking for a bowl of soup. We're quite agreed on the advantages of the Marshall Plan and economic assistance, and I'm very glad that Fielding brought up his nice point about a man frequently taking his politics, depending on the state of his stomach. or its emptiness. Now, I think that is sufficiently general a principle that it can be applied elsewhere than in Western Europe. I think it applies also in Eastern Europe, and that if our program for the economic recovery of Europe in the end leads to a resumption of East-West trade and an improvement in the economic position of Russia, there will be a much greater chance of choices of political policy there as well as in Western Europe. I think that it was necessary in the first instant to bring back the productive facilities of Western Europe before you could have any substantial volume of trade. Agreed, but then that should not be the ultimate objective, the final. Then I think if the studies of the Economic Commission for Europe in Geneva, those studies indicate as recovery occurred in Western Europe, the level of trade between Eastern and Western Europe increased. My point is simply that in order to get what you're interested in, a substantial volume, it is necessary to bring back into production Western Europe. And one of the major factors that impeded the increase in trade between Eastern and Western Europe was not any decision made on the part of Western Europe, but was a decision made by the Eastern European countries. McDaniel, would you advocate this rehabilitation of Western Europe even if we had no threat from Russia? Absolutely, I would advocate it. Even though there were no threat from Russia, I would still believe that the United States should assist Western Europe in rehabilitating herself. I certainly would too, but what I was trying to get at was this, that once that job has been accomplished, I should certainly not support any policy that then tried to say we are going to draw a rigid line and not permit this Western Europe, which is now more stable economically than it was, to offer any assistance or to participate in any project that would result in a corresponding raising of the economic level in Eastern Europe because that would benefit Russia. If the policy develops to that point, I should certainly oppose it. Yes, but there is no such policy at the present time. There is no effort on the part of us, for instance, to lay down any hard and fast rule of that kind. A continuing program to build up the military defenses of Western Europe with the idea of making that area equal in force to Russia so that it could, if necessary, attack or in other ways bring military pressure on Russia in the end, logically implies that kind of division. Carson, you are, you are opposed. You are opposed as I see it to the building up of a comparable force in the free world to challenge Soviet Russia's aggression. Military aggression. That is probably your deduction from my statement that I do not subscribe to your idea that Russia is bent willy-nilly on world conquest. In other words, you blind yourself to the fact that it isn't any question, it isn't anymore a question of intention, it's a question of act on her part. She's done it. She's doing it now. I'm trying not to blind myself to anything, and one of the things I'm trying not to blind myself to is the realities of the political, international position of Soviet Russia. I can turn that the only way that we're going to stop Soviet military expansion into the still-free areas is to set up in those areas a comparable force, military force, which will give Russia a second thought when she's tempted to strike. Now, do you mean by a comparable military force sending American troops into the... No, no, of course not. I say building up in these six strategic areas the fighting men in those areas, and there's plenty, there are millions of fighting men. In other words, you're not going to send American men into these areas? Not unless they're absolutely needed. Do you think they're needed in Western Europe? Yes, they are needed in Western Europe. In fact, we've already committed ourselves to send in between five and ten divisions. The reason they need it is because both the French and the Germans say they will not arm without those men. And, Fuling, would you agree with this, that we want to build up Western Europe economically, and at the same time we want to assist it in building up militarily in order that we have the two prongs to our force? Giving Western Europe a hope that it can defend itself. And I contend that if you are to create a force in Western Germany sufficient to stop Russia, that's the surest way to provoke an attack which is not coming now because it isn't necessary. If you put a force in that vacuum, giving them a reason for acting, either East Germans a reason for acting, as Koreans did, or Russia behind them, What do you mean, as Koreans did? Now, wait a minute. Look, if we were going to sit back and shiver in our boots every time we had to take action and say, is this going to provoke Soviet Russia, God help us. That's a calculated risk we've got to take. I'm not shivering in my boots at all. I'm merely indicating that the surest way to provoke it now rather than five or ten years from now is to do that. But I don't believe that that rests with us. I think the Russians have already acted in a whole series of countries, and I don't believe that the re-arming of Western Germany is going to make them act any sooner or any later than they have decided to. I don't think so either. Thank you, gentlemen. We'll close on this controversial note. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, How Can Western Europe Be Defended Against Communism? This is the last in a series of Reviewing Stand broadcasts about American foreign policy. The first two programs dealt with Korea and Russia's foreign policy. Copies of all three in this interesting series can be obtained for 30 cents, single copies 10 cents. Just write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Why not start your subscription with copies of these broadcasts? One dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were George B. Carson, Captain Michael Fielding, and Joseph M. McDaniel Jr. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand asks the question, who should be drafted? Our guests will be Major General Louis B. Hershey, Director of Selective Service, Kenneth E. Olson, Dean of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University, Charles H. Percy, President of the Bell and Howell Company, and Charles C. Rawls, Commander-in-Chief of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, who should be drafted? Thank you again, gentlemen. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Marshall Kent. This is your network for election returns, the Mutual Broadcasting System.
