and of assuring for the poor the same high type of medical care available to our wealthiest citizens. With his help and guidance, considerable progress towards this end has already been made. In addition to the James Ewing and the Francis Delafield hospitals, construction is now underway on several other important projects, among them the 2,000-bed chronic disease hospital on Welfare Island and another 500-bed tuberculosis hospital in Brooklyn. Important and urgent, as are many other demands for public improvements in this city, I know that his honor, the mayor, will give none of them preference over hospital needs of our people. He's now leading a fight for a passage of a $150 million bond issue, and if approved, this will assuredly go a long way towards the fulfillment of his dream for outstanding medical care for all. I have the pleasure now, ladies and gentlemen, presenting to you the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Dr. Bernicke, Mr. Coombe, Dr. Rhodes, Mr. Kettering, Mr. Sloan, reverend and distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and especially to you who are not here but who are listening in to this broadcast. To you, these names must have meant for many a long day a leadership in the things for which we have come together this afternoon. We're here at First Avenue between 67 and 68 Memorial Hospital. The name of the Memorial Hospital registers with every citizen who is familiar with the ravages of cancer. The name of Dr. Rhodes is quickly getting to be recognized by the entire citizenship of the city and throughout the nation and the world the foes of Leader ISD. The oil of America has muchSCPEF, System High which will come to be purchased for many more. Ha опыт, November. The Dakota gospel is noted by the American International MCT disgrace-based health, Hear, Wisconsin, West CNP after-but physically-лив and performance and quality-lAnn Cindy and gleaming Laening here as the latitude of snowy,zu Cooking Tourism. So that men and women, children and children... Jastmodern, yet unborn, may be the beneficiary of what he has done. This afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I merely come here as the mayor of the city. I step humbly to this platform in the presence of the great ones who have really made today a possibility. I have in my mind, I can almost see it through the windows of City Hall. Thousands and hundreds of thousands and perhaps millions who were destined to face the darkness of this dread disease were it not for the light that has already been shown upon it and were it not for the light that we pray for this afternoon that will still further brighten the obscurity that surrounds it that will bring hope into homes that will bring happiness where desperation was that will make life a healthier and a happier place without the fear of this dread disease. this afternoon I see over here on my right a stone with the name the figure is 1948 chiseled on it and I'm looking into the day when 2048 comes around and to those who will be then here may the good God inspire those who are going to take over and may they bring that assurance of health to the thousands and millions that will have come and gone on this earth between now and then. there is of course a problem that always confronts a large city it is a problem of city management of housekeeping you have to think of your police department of your fire department of your transportation and a thousand and one services that become essential especially in a city like ours wherein we have 8 million human beings crowded into a space of 365 square miles take our crowded subways in the morning we must transport to work between the hours of 7.30 and 9 o'clock one and a half million people between 4.30 and 6 we must take that same million and a half people to their homes that calls ladies and gentlemen for crowding no one needs research to know that where that condition exists there is bound to be a health problem and consequently with all the agencies to give service to our people we must recognize one as an outstanding agency one that has to do with prevention and one that has to do with cure when that dread hour comes and the harm has been done and of all the things that plague us and nothing plagues us more than something dangerous that we don't understand cancer is a dread thing this city was not prepared and is still not prepared to do as much as it should for 8 million people today we have in our public hospitals just 250 beds for cancer patients thanks to the gentlemen here today and to many others we have now in delafield and here in james ewing a proposal to have at least 675 additional beds and more will come you might say if this is so serious why haven't you done something about it the answer is simple from january 1946 when we took over the costs of construction have gone up for schools for improvements generally 145 percent we have a certain amount of money fixed by statute we just must make up our minds that that's all the money we have to work with and there are cries and needs in other departments and we just have to do the best we can however in the field of hospitals there is an unusual situation and last year I went to the governor and the legislature and I asked them that since we could not under the law borrow any more than we have been borrowing for a hospital program and that the needs are so great and that we are so ill prepared to meet those needs that the legislature permit us to borrow 150 million dollars outside of our debt limits that will be earmarked for a hospital program that will in a great part meet our needs this calls for the passage of a proposition by two separate legislatures one has gone through last year next one will be next year and in 1949 next November you and every person who can vote in this whole state will have to vote upon the proposition as to whether or not we may have the 150 million dollars for hospitals in this city I shall ask for it and talk to you again to all of you to you who are here to those who are listening in and to those that I can reach between now and then and beg of you to take seriously the conditions that exist here the needs that exist the obligation in a well run civilized city to provide hospitalization for those needs that will depend upon whether or not we get permission to borrow 150 million dollars if we do then on January the 1st 1950 the administration that takes over after next year will have 150 million dollars for a hospital program however that is not for today I merely bring it up because it is within the subject to this institution that will not only treat but will train persons persons in the most up to date methods of investigation and treatment this James Ewing that I am honored to help to dedicate today may God be with it and with everyone in it thank you thank you very much Mr. Mayor we am ist un