Should I start over again? On behalf of the Board of Directors of the William Hodson Community Center, I want to welcome all of you here this evening and tell you how encouraging it is to see a wonderful audience of this size here because you are interested in our senior citizens. Eight years ago when a small group of workers from the Department of Welfare under the leadership of Harry Levine realized that the aged were the forgotten people of our community, they established the Hodson Center. Soon after, a board of directors from the community at large was appointed to help them. The Welfare Department and the Board have cooperated closely ever since to help solve the problems as they have arisen. This newly organized center was to be a meeting place where those who were lonely could make new friends and those who had interests and skills could continue to be active and useful. Our center, then an innovation, has grown until today there are more than 800 members and subsequently many other day centered centers patterned on it have been open throughout the country. Our meeting tonight has been arranged to stimulate interest in work being done with, for, and by the aged in our community. We wish to thank the sponsoring agencies who have contributed to making the evening a success. They represent a cross-section of the services now available to the older people of the Bronx. These agencies are the Baptist home, the Bronx house, Bronx TB and Health Association, Bronx Welfare Council, Catholic Charities Family Service, Central Bureau for Care of Jewish Aged, Hebrew home for aged, Francis Chevia home, home and hospital of daughters of Jacob, Kingsbridge home for the aged and infirm Hebrews, Methodist Church home for ages, Protestant council of New York City, St. Patrick's home, Workman's Circle, YM and YWHA of the Bronx. We also wish to thank the members of our committee on arrangements headed by Mrs. Paul S. Maderer for their generous help and their efforts toward making this evening possible. Most of all, we thank Mrs. Charles Wigelman, the ex-president and now the chairman of the board of directors of Hodson Center for her tireless efforts in behalf of the Center and her active part in arranging this meeting. Tonight, our speakers are going to tell you of the various ways that the Bronx has attempted to meet the needs and interests of its citizens in their later years. And Mrs. Roosevelt will discuss the role of the senior citizen in the community. First, I want to introduce to you our host, the director of the Taft Youth and Adult Center, who has done so much toward providing educational opportunities for the community through his work here at Taft. We are most grateful to him for the use of this auditorium and for his participation in our program, Mr. Sidney Silverman. Mrs. Tishman, honored guests and ladies and gentlemen, I thought I might ask you to join me in reading a postcard. And I think the writer of the card would not object because I think postcards are intended for general consumption. This is what she writes. She says, Dear children, I feel fine. I am having a wonderful trip. We are stopping in Lisbon Monday. Love, Mother. A very simple and ordinary card. And yet there's a story behind it. Because this card was written by a lady 70 years of age. I guess she's a member of our senior community. She is also taking one of her long ambitious trips, a trip to Israel. And so you see she is on her way. But perhaps even more thrilling than the fact that a 70-year-old is taking her first trip to Lisbon, is the fact that this lady started to learn how to read and write English just two years ago, at her 68th birthday. And you know when people say you can't teach old dogs new tricks, I think it's right for dogs, but not for humans. And so this lady wrote this card. And of course there's a greater thrill than all of that. This lady happens to be my mother. And she is taking her trips. I cite this story not only because she's my mother. I cite it because she represents a type of philosophy which if all of us possessed, there would be no need for a senior month because we would know the older folks of our community are integrated and assimilated and a part of us. And I could dare say that I suspect that there are many of us who with time improve just as certain liquors are advertised to improve. And I think any of you heard the statement by Bertrand Russell at his 80th birthday? Or the great Supreme Court Justice Holmes and the little quip that Max Lerner put into his column yesterday about seeing that chick young lady express the hope that he were only 70 years of age? I think your attitude, the attitude of the person who grows older, and only grows older in the number of years of experience and opportunities, those of us associated with education, and in particularly those of us associated with the Taft Center, have expressed the idea that there are no such thing as an old person. We believe that the person may mix and meet with all persons of all ages. You and I know there are many old folks 20 years of age and 30 years of age. We all know that this integration may have taken place not only physically, but in many instances mentally, because they haven't given themselves the opportunity to continue to grow and to continue to age. And so our philosophy at the school has been to invite the older folk, and I'm using that older folk only in quotation marks, because I don't believe that person exists. To invite that person as an adult, with our 18-year-old students, our 20s, our 30s, and yes, our one student who is 93 years of age. I should say he's 93 years young. He feels that way. He lives that way. He thinks that way. What is your preparation? People always ask that for the twilight age. There is no twilight age. Your preparation for life in the future is based upon the things you do today, your interests today, your activities today, your alertness today, your awareness of the world around you. And you will never be a burden to yourself, to your family, to your relatives, or to your friends. And so my one message is a very simple one. Live the life of growth and awareness. You prepare for tomorrow by what you do today. Your happiness, your joys, will be fulfilled based upon your aspirations of this day. You are never too old to learn. You are never too young to start for tomorrow. And so may I ask all of you not to think of old age as starting with a particular birthday, but I ask you to think of life as one continuous process, whereby tomorrow you will be richer and more intelligent and happier because of the things you do today. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Sarkis. Our next speaker is well known to this audience. He himself is a Bronx resident. As former head worker of Bronx House, he has played an important role in the development of recreation programs in the community and is one of those persons who was largely responsible for the creation of the Hudson Center. He is now consultant on camps and settlements for the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. We are fortunate in having someone with us so well informed about recreation centers and vacation services for the older person. Mr. Granum Berger. Madam Chairman, distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Silverman may not be getting older, but I am. And I feel it and I'm making all kinds of adjustments as a consequence. And there's a reality about growing older that I think that a lot of us will have to recognize, and particularly those who have been so devoted to the whole cause of recreation for the aged and those who have been associated particularly with the William Hudson Center. I think particular acclaim ought to be given tonight to the first president who is here and gracing our audience, Mrs. William, Mrs. Charles Riegelman, who I remember discussing with her some eight or nine years ago the possible need for recreation for the aged. And with her usual skepticism, she wondered what social workers would be thinking up next. But I don't know anyone who has seized an idea and promulgated it as widely, and when I say widely, I don't only mean in New York City, certainly not the Bronx, but promulgated it in such form that this original recreational project for the aged in the Bronx up on Tremont Avenue and Third Avenue has blossomed forth into a national movement. And I think that if any of you are familiar with the press, which you might read with any regularity, you will know that this has even stretched forth into all other countries of the world. Some three years ago when I had occasion to spend a summer in Germany on a child care mission and talking to a great many of the German social workers, I was pleased to find that they had already heard of some of the things which were being done in America. And they asked me particularly about this little recreational center situated in the middle of the Bronx, the William Hudson Center, because they too were concerned with its own development. But what is this whole business of recreation for the aged anyway? What are we trying to do? Is it something new or something radically different than that which we knew for older people before? I might say that really we're trying to do three things. One is that we're trying to make the older person, and I don't mind even using the word older person. I think all of us know our place and our station in life. We know that we are putting on years, and we know that we have to somehow or other in our society somehow or other judge persons and people by the age which they certainly enjoy. And of course, our celebration of the very distinguished people who have attained old age is an evidence that we associated with some of the true and abiding values of life. But one of the things that we have found in recent years is that older people have a tendency to somehow or other lay off, to get slothful, to even get lazy. It's not because it's characteristic of the older person by any manner of means. It's something which we, perhaps the children of some of these older people, have foisted upon them. We want to see that grandma takes it easy. We want to see that the growing mother and father in the family somehow or other are relieved of very useful responsibilities. I remember with what difficulty I had with my older brothers and sisters some years ago when my father was past 75 and they felt that he had reached a period of life when he ought to retire from his business trying to convince them in the light of all the knowledge that we have about the need for keeping people alert and vigorous and active that he must continue with his business, that he must continue to collect that monthly rent from one of these small houses which he owned in an obscure little small town, that he must continue to go regularly to the synagogue on the Sabbath even though it involved a walk of well over a mile. And it was this which kept him alive for many more years than he otherwise might have enjoyed. And I say this that we must keep them active because there is still a feeling that we retire into a period of leisure. And as a matter of fact that we ought to make provision for individuals for increasingly earlier retirement. Dr. Thomas Perrin, the former Surgeon General of the United States in writing an article in this, I think it's this very week or month's Collier magazine, talks about this whole business of retiring people at 65. As though someone had magically picked out this period, this year of 65 out of a hat. He attributes it to Bismarck, the old German, back in the 1860s and 70s who was trying to introduce some social reforms. The... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... The year 65, however, doesn't fit in with modern concepts of older age individuals, largely because many people are just beginning to reach their peak of usefulness. And of course, we know that statistically they still have about 10% of their life, if you want to take it on a cold-blooded statistical average, still to live. And Perrin in this article quotes an interesting mathematical puzzle that was posed to him by an industrialist who said, what would have happened if we had retired Methuselah at the age of 810 when he still had about 159 more years to live? And he roughly computed that if we had paid him a pension of $100 a month for the next 159 odd years that it would have cost us about $184,000. You can see that that might be a very easy way to bankrupt our nation if people continue to live with that degree of longevity. Now what I'm trying to say is that we're trying to find through these recreational centers some more useful way of permitting older people to make their contribution, their continued contribution to the community so that they will feel that they are needed and that they are wanted and that they are important. And of course this is one of the things that the recreation center tries to do. It tries to find all kinds of devious ways of motivating the behavior of many people who are already beginning to show resistance to doing things largely because society has decided that they ought to be put on the shelf. What is the second thing that we're trying to do in our recreational centers for the aging? We're trying to reintroduce a modicum of companionship. The older person has reached a stage in life where very often his wife or the husband have passed away. Very likely their children have also moved because of the rapid mobility of our nation where children no longer feel the continuing responsibility of remaining in their original household they move away so that he's again friendless. His contemporaries have very likely according to statistics have also passed to the great beyond. The result is that he's left very often alone. How frequently did we hear in the early days of the William Hudson Center as we talked to these older people when they came in to be interviewed and as we tried to find activities for them and fit them into various kinds of groups they very told us that they were dying of loneliness. And I would only like to reaffirm that this is nothing which is new essentially in our society. This is something which has been as old almost as time itself. The other day I was reading a poem written by a Chinese philosopher back in 845 of the present era some 1200 odd years ago and certainly that's long enough for us to use it as a basis for comparing ourselves with modern times. All writers pride themselves in their research when they find out that the Chinese took much better care of their older people than we do. Well maybe that is so but let me read to you this very brief poem written by Po Chui in 845 and see what he says. We are growing old together you and I let us ask ourselves what is age like? The dull eye is close ere night comes the idle head is still uncombed at noon propped on a staff sometimes they walk abroad or all day sitting with closed doors one dares not look in the mirrors polished face one cannot read small letter books deeper and deeper one's love of old friends fewer and fewer one's dealings with young men one thing only the pleasure of idle talk is great as ever when you and I meet that's significant because one of the things which I have been telling in my classes to those who are going into the field of social work or particularly those who are going into work with the aged is that they must be prepared to listen and to talk to older people because this is one of the symbolic evidences of their loneliness and their withdrawal from human companionship and so in our community centers we create a wide variety of groups small groups activity groups and a wide variety of activity groups large mass organizations opportunities for individual consultation one with the other and of course the worker always present or the volunteer because there have been a host of volunteers recruited for this particular service who are brought close to these people to provide them with the kind of association and companionship which they so badly need furthermore our studies that have been made of older people have shown that older folks stay younger and more truly alive very often when they remain in their own homes than anywhere else I'm not ruling out the values of large scale institutions for the agent and all the other multitudinous devices which we have found for older people but basically they stay alive and they stay younger and they're more vigorous and they have a great feeling of independence when they can maintain their own existence and one of the things which the community center has done has provided essentially a daytime opportunity for these older people to go to and commingle I remember with what fear they approached the William Hudson Center back in 1943 when it was first started we didn't have such an outpouring as this to our first call for the program which we were beginning to develop there was a score or two and they came to look and to question and many of them were very fearful but today 800 hardy souls are registered in that institution enough to fill up this entire auditorium and of course more and more of these agencies are being created almost every day furthermore we ask ourselves very frequently why put a lot of people in these old age institutions they're very costly to begin with and of course we couldn't build them fast enough even if we needed them but do we ever subject them to the kind of test which one of the recent writers of a book you and your aging parents Edith Stern asks that every child who is planning to put and put is the very word that I want to use put their parents in an old age home the test that they ought to put to these institutions what does the home provide in the way of entertainment and occupation are there parties may residents have guests are women encouraged to do needle work and other handicraft is there a workshop for men is there any kind of self-government organization for the residents is there a glee club and a band in short is there a consistent deliberate program for stimulating residents to remain interested and alive without such a program aging residents all too easily sink back into the mere waiting to die this ladies and gentlemen is really the test of any good day community center this is the test of any good vacation camp which we have begun to set up in various parts of our country so that we older people might enjoy the benefit of year-round programming just as the normal middle-class and upper-class communities of the society of which we're a part however busy work in itself is no panacea for the agent too frequently we run into these programs try to find something for everyone to do without due recourse to the needs of each particular person and this requires study and skill and a great deal of patience on the part of the professional and the volunteer staff because older folks despite the fact that they may learn a great many new tricks by and large learn and continue the experiences of which they were an early part the only thing is they have now opportunities to enrich them and to expand them and to make them useful finally of course we're interested in providing the older folks with a great deal more status one of the things which we learn over and over again in talking to the older people is that they feel that they're not wanted at all that they have no place in our society that the opportunities which were given to them in their earlier years for leadership despite the fact that we have very prominent names associated with the operation of our society here and abroad and elsewhere nonetheless for the average older person the opportunities for leadership are denied him but in these small groups in these small centers when a person can become a chairman a secretary the subcommittee chairman of a very small committee be given a job which makes him important in the eyes of his own contemporaries gives him a feeling that he is making a contribution every day we raise his self-esteem we make him feel that he is truly and significantly a part of our community these are the great contributions which these day recreation centers and the recreation centers which are being established in camps and the recreation centers which are hopefully going to be extended into the very homes for the aged and in every walk of our society these are the things that we want to do for them we want to activize them and make them feel that they are being useful we want to give them the kind of companionship that they so badly need in the years when many of their companions are going and we also want to give them the kind of status which every person in this civilization ought to enjoy I think that is the reason why so many of us have thrown ourselves heart and soul into these recreation and vacation services for the aging thank you thank you thank you very much mr. burger commissioner mccarthy you need no introduction to any new york audience interested in the problem of the welfare of the aged your leadership has stimulated and encouraged the community to sponsor and support the existing centers in new york and even as recently as yesterday a new center has been opened to serve a neighborhood where there has long been a great need at east 109th street in east highland we are happy and honored to have you with us to tell us how a public agency serves the older person commissioner mccarthy i do a good deal of thinking and reading and talking about these problems of the aged and in a great many places one of the most heartening things that has come to my attention in recent times is an article that appeared within the last month or so by a specialist a medical specialist in the field of geriatrics and problems of medical problems of the aging and one of his points was that people over 40 years of age shouldn't take any exercise and that suits me fine because for a long time i've been a devotee of the dictum of president hutchins of the university of chicago who said that he attributed his fine physical condition to the fact that whenever the impulse to violent exercise came over him he went and lay down until it passed nobody can get me up in front of a microphone before an audience of this size and not expect me to talk about the general functions of the welfare department because i think people of the city of new york need to know more about it before i get through i'll have something to say about the way the welfare department a public agency serves the older or senior citizens of our community but before i get to that i have to talk about the welfare department generally and what its philosophy is and what its task is and what it's trying to do in the first place most people have some kind of a misconception about the department i say most people because the misconceptions range on the part of one segment of our population from the idea that we are throwing away public money indiscriminately and distributing largesse without much care as to where it lands and without much regard to the merit of those who receive it and on the other hand we have some who think that we are grinding down the faces of the poor and that we are niggardly in our distribution of the public funds to those who are in need well as is true in most human relationships and situations the truth lies somewhere between those two extremes but i think that you should know that we are serving at the present time nearly 300,000 people in the city of new york nearly 300,000 people receiving public assistance and that sounds like a lot of people and you wonder in this time of full employment perhaps why we still have that many people who are in need but it's a very simple answer and i can give it to you in two minutes as to why we still have as many as that first place we have 145,000 children under 16 years of age who are in need because they are deprived of parental support by the death desertion incapacity mental or physical of the breadwinner in the family 145,000 children we have over 60,000 aged citizens over 65 years of age the average age of whom is 70 years of age we have 20,000 permanently and totally disabled this is a big city my friends 8 million people and those figures are not out of line at all they are not disproportionate the total number of people receiving assistance in this city is 3.8% of the population of the city which is exactly the national average I think that's pretty good for a city which has as complex problems as we have now one of the reasons I think it's pretty good and I like to say think that the department is entitled to some credit for this is because of the philosophy the department uses in approaching the problem of providing public assistance we do not conceive of our job as simply to acquire a certain sum of money from the city from the state and from the federal government put it into a pot and then pass it out that is not our job our job has a deep social basis and motivation we want every person on the relief rolls today all 300,000 of them to be happier and self-sustaining self-supporting insofar as they possibly can as far as the 145,000 children are concerned it is our objective that the kind of life that they lead in this community while they are in need of assistance will be such as to provide them with the physical and the mental equipment so that when they do become of working age they will become fine, decent, productive citizens which all children should have the chance to be as regards the agent it seems to me that our task is to help those who can work longer to be kept on longer it seems to me that the welfare administrator has the responsibility of calling the attention of employers to their hiring practices and to say as Mr. Berger has said that there is no such thing as an automatic age at which retirement ought to be compulsory but that it relates to the individual capacities of the worker and if he can be productive he ought to be allowed to continue to produce we have many many areas in which we can keep people from becoming dependent we have it for example 10,000 10,000 people on our relief rolls who are there because they are either active or arrested TB cases or TB contacts now those 10,000 people if we had found a cure for tuberculosis or if we had done the things that we know helped to prevent tuberculosis in the last 20 years if we had provided better housing because we know that improper and crowded housing produces tuberculosis we would have 10,000 productive people instead of 10,000 people who cannot work because of their health condition at the present time and who have to be taken care of through the welfare department many many areas in which a welfare department welfare administrators have the responsibility of fighting against the things that produce dependency and within our own scope we have the job of fighting to restore people to self-support as quickly as possible through finding them jobs through encouraging them through rehabilitating them through providing them with all the medical service including psychiatric service which is so necessary in many cases to bring them back to the useful kind of work which they ought to be and do want to do now as far as the agent are concerned because we have adopted in this country a policy of early retirement and because at the same time we have not provided the social machinery to occupy and use occupy the time and use the energies of our older people and their accumulated wisdom and their interest in the community because of that we have thousands upon thousands of people who are weary and dreary and lonely unhappy and who deteriorate mentally and physically and who eventually in many instances become a charge upon the public a permanent long-range charge upon the public financially because they need institutional care and other kinds of care now we are interested in saving money that's one way of saving money is to keep people out of the institutions and one thing we do know when we talk about these day centers such as Hodson and Surevich and the new East Harlem Center and the Council Center and all the other centers throughout this city of ours where we have done this great pioneering job one thing we do know and we can prove at this time is that the number of people who deteriorate physically declines when they have the opportunity to participate in a lively way in these center activities and that as far as referral to mental hospitals is concerned it practically disappears entirely because we are substituting useful pleasant happy lively activities for the loneliness which they knew before now that means that we want to if we want to really solve this problem of unhappiness among our senior citizens if we want to produce a happier life for all of us I think that it is not only up to the welfare department but up to all of us to get behind this vast movement which is getting up to the boiling point I have never felt myself more enthusiastically a part of an exciting movement in all my 20 years in the welfare field than I do this minute because of the tremendous enthusiasm that is being shown all over this city and all over this country for the development of these aged centers I think that the demonstration here tonight of your presence is an example of your interest now the welfare department has a lot of allies it has allies in the person of the wonderful men and women who have joined together in the private groups on boards of directors such as the Hudson Board and who are in active partnership with the public agency the public agency couldn't do the job without those wonderful people who are supporting this movement the public agency couldn't do the job without the mayor's committee on the problems of the aging we have sitting in the audience tonight the chairman of the mayor's committee on the problems of the aging that committee made up of some of the top civic minded experts in the city in the various fields of housing and of employment and of health medical care all research all of the things that we need to do in order to bring about this better living for all of us as we grow older Mr. Hilliard my predecessor now executive director of the welfare and health council is the chairman of that committee for the aging and the ambitious projects which have been undertaken by that committee it seemed to me bid fair to guarantee that this boiling that we see with respect to the development of better facilities for the aging will continue and expand with these allies with your support with the support of the mayor who yesterday made a fine speech and pledged himself to the continuation of the expansion of these programs it seems to me that we can't fail and that we will go forward and that we will provide not only for those who are now old but for ourselves I always say that I'm putting in my application for either Surovich or Hudson depending on my address at the time for ten years from now thank you thank you very much Mr. McCarthy your enthusiasm always is a great inspiration to all of us Mrs. Sigmund Pollitzer is the senior member of our board of directors I take great pleasure in introducing her to you so that she may extend a hearty welcome and our hearty thanks to Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt from all of us here tonight Mrs. Collins if you don't hear me please tell me and I can speak louder maybe you all know the story of the old lady whose small grandsons said to her Grandma you're very very old and she said no dear I'm not old but come to think of it I've been young a great many years and I too have been young a great many years so many more years than any member of my fellow members on the board of directors of the William Hodson community center and it is for that reason as our president has already told you that I have been given the greatest honor that can be bestowed upon any plain citizen the honor of introducing the most honored lady in this land and I dare say in many lands but if my guess is right the honor and esteem in which she is held mean less to Mrs. Roosevelt than the deep and warm affection an affection that is the response to her own dedication to her fellow men of every climate race nationality religion whatever their station the lowly and the high born the humble and the mighty of all ages but tonight she will speak to us and we are very grateful to her for coming among her many many demands and duties to speak to us on the role of the senior citizen in the community Mrs. Roosevelt I present Mrs. Roosevelt the contemporary of the young the middle-aged and the old in spirit and in sympathy Mrs. Roosevelt Mrs. Pollitzer Madam Chair and the distinguished guest ladies and gentlemen I think that probably I began to prepare to be old rather younger than most of the people here because I can remember when one of my children looked at me a great many years ago when he was a little boy and he said who is older you or granny so evidently evidently in the eyes of the young it doesn't really mean a great deal whether you are old or whether you are young and I think perhaps the greatest thing that can come to us as we grow older is not really to care very much whether we are old or not just to be free to have interest in anything that really does interest us because one of the advantages of growing old is that you don't have to be interested in things that don't interest you anymore you can actually be interested in what you really like to do and everybody is very kind and lets you do what you like to do I think probably one of the nicest things that happens to us as we grow older is that we are not quite so concerned about telling people about ourselves so we have plenty of time to listen to other people tell us about themselves and that is one of the great things for the young I find that I have more young friends today than I have friends among my own contemporaries at least I see more young people and I think that the real attraction probably is that I have learned to listen and I have time to listen and that is one of the joys of growing older that you do have time to learn more about other people and in doing that you may learn not only about those who are closely around you but you may learn about people in far parts of the world I know I got a great deal I get a great deal of amusement out of the letters that come to me now from every part of the world and the most extraordinary things that I am supposed to be able to answer and I consider that that is a tribute to age because you certainly would have to have a long experience and a great deal of wide opportunity for learning about other things and other people if you were going to answer some of the questions that come into me just today I had a letter from a youngish woman I imagine who said that she had heard that in Sweden they had some kind of organization which arranged for young boys and girls young men and young women who didn't happen to know a great many of the opposite sex to come and meet people and get to know them and that this was all arranged in a very pleasant way and I thought about coming up here tonight and I thought well perhaps instead of trying to find places where older people can meet and talk with each other and find new occupations and recreation perhaps these young people really should have attention so I was working in the United Nations in the Human Rights Commission today and I went over to the Swedish delegate and I said tell me do you in Sweden have any kind of centers where young people who come into a city or a new city can go and meet other young people that you really arrange to bring people that you know about and you look into their backgrounds and you try and make them meet people they will like and she looked at me and she said no I don't think we have anything like that except our adult education centers there they can meet each other I didn't think my young woman meant that at all so I decided that wouldn't do for an answer to her case but quite seriously I think the role of the older person in our country and in all the countries of the world today is one of great opportunity particularly if you preserve your interest in what is going on in the world I think that's very important I know that I have been fortunate because in our family the older members of the family have always been people that the rest of us when we were young wanted very much to go and see and to talk to I remember one of my father's older sisters who was practically completely deaf she had a little because they didn't have as good hearing aids as we have a little sort of a box that always sat on the table in front of her attached to her ear she was completely crippled with rheumatism so that she was put in a chair in the morning and she sat there till somebody moved her she used to come down she always looked lovely she always had a smile and I don't think there was one of us when we were younger who wouldn't gladly travel all day to spend a few hours talking with that particular aunt she had a very keen mind she read a great deal she read the newspapers she could always talk to us about the things that we were interested in and she often knew more about them than we knew and her judgment her advice was so much better than that of our contemporaries and better than anything else she would listen to everything we wanted to say I think that those opportunities to be with older people are things which many young people as they grow older will treasure beyond anything else and today of course older people have so many opportunities to do things both in their own home circles and in their community circles goals because most of us as we grow older have learned patience and we've learned a word I rather hate but I can't think of any other at the moment we've learned tolerance we've learned to look at people much more kindly than we used to look at them and there is a tremendous need in the world today for and in the United States today particularly for the example of kindliness of ability to take human beings no matter what their differences may seem to be and value them as a human being and if you've lived a good many years that's a great deal easier to do than when you're young and full of prejudices and have violent likes and dislikes it's much easier as you grow older to really live the kind of a life that helps our democracy we can still most of us take a more active part than we think we can take in shaping the kind of a world kind of a nation that we live in because the qualities that are needed to make a democracy work are many of them brought to maturity in older people and so many many of the generation that today thinks of itself as being too old to really do active service of any kind can actually in living their daily lives do as big a job to make our country the kind of country that the rest of the world is hoping we will be as the younger people can possibly do because all over the world today people are watching the United States they ask you everywhere how do you treat your minorities how about the discrimination against minorities that we hear of in the United States they ask you is what we have read as having happened in the United States is that what you actually mean by democracy is that democracy and you have to say so often oh no that isn't democracy that's one of our failures but we're moving forward we're doing better in our democracy democracy and we'll tell you what are the things that have improved each year but I think probably the best influence in any community to make the community the kind of community that will be the example that we need to have and to broadcast through the world is the influence of the older citizens the people who really have learned what the true values of life are who have learned to really look at people and think of them as human beings and as having dignity I remember a year or so ago when I went on a trip to the Scandinavian countries I was very much impressed by what they were doing there for some of their young people and I went to one project which had been built for their aging people they had their own apartments but to my surprise there were a great many young people in the area particularly children children and I questioned the lady with me and I said what does this mean I thought this was built for the older people and she said oh yes but we in our country believe that it is important for our young people to have the influence of our older citizens so we never build a project just for the older people it is always a project where at least half the citizens are younger people and I thought that was a very nice way of putting it that it was built for the older people but the younger ones were allowed to be there because it would be of advantage to them to have this influence and then of course if you have that much expected of you you must live up to what is expected of you and if we really are looking in this generation to our older people to set the tone of our communities and I think we do look to them for that then we older people you and I have a great responsibility I know that I feel very often that I like to say that I've shed my responsibilities and I tell my children that I take no responsibility for the bringing up of their children that that is their responsibility but nevertheless I can't get away from the fact that the way we older people live and think and feel has an enormous influence not only on the next generation but on the generation below that I have now 18 grandchildren and two great grandchildren and I find I get on very well with them I don't feel really very much older even than my grandchildren and we really do a great many things quite cheerfully together perhaps I don't do them as well as they do them or as quickly as they do them but nevertheless we both seem to enjoy doing them but I think there is on all of us who are older the responsibility of setting the values for younger people and that depends so largely on what our own interests are and on whether we realize how much we can still do by keeping ourselves alert and busy by keeping ourselves well informed by reading by taking an interest in everything in the community that we can be of some use in helping times the older people can actually smooth the way for situations in a community that might turn to being very disagreeable if just the older people instead of adding to trouble will try to see that making trouble never gives you any satisfaction in the long run that trying to make for good feeling trying to make your community a happy place to live in is really the role of the older citizen and the happier we can be in ourselves in our spirit the happier we will be able to make our families our friends and our communities and what our communities are is desperately important today to the whole world because the United States is watched by the world and every single happy community every single community that has respect for all its people that has no discrimination that has high standards of friendliness every one of those communities is building a United States that can be of value to the world as a whole church people of people who ifenda happens from vendors they would ha than people they would come and in to this person ofaval Thank you very, very much, Mrs. Rosemarie, for being with us tonight. We've learned a great many things that will be useful to us in our work, I'm sure. You have heard our speakers describe the various aspects of work with the aged and the programs which are available in our community. It now gives me great pleasure to have you hear some of the Bronx senior citizens themselves express their points of view about leisure cannot be worthwhile. Miss Gertrude Landau, our director, will lead the discussion. Her work at Hodson Center needs no words of praise from me to those of you who know her. And for those of you who do not, may I say there is no one as respected by her co-workers or as beloved by everyone connected with Hodson Center as Gertrude Landau. Gertrude Landau and her panel. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mel? Yeah, well, I'm on the brakes. We're trapped. We'll get all my brakes ready first. On the floor. On the far end, we have Mr. Fred Edwards, Mrs. Susan Ford, Mrs. Clara Wormser, Mr. Ben Gold, Mr. Adolf Lechner. Mr. Edwards, suppose we start with you. The question of the night is, leisure, can it be worthwhile? Well, I looked up the word leisure in the dictionary, and the definition there was that leisure is freedom from work. Well, freedom is good. We'll start again. Yes. I looked up the word freedom, and I found out that the word meant freedom from work. Well, all freedom is good. And freedom from work and worry is something that will make life worthwhile and beautiful. after losing my job and living in a furnished room, which is no picnic, when you're on a very meager wage and friends have faded, I heard about Hudson Center. I soon got acquainted there with many fine people who are getting more mental and physical good from these associations than pills or brooding in a small room all day. Trained social workers are a large, in a large way, responsible for this, and their work can't be too highly praised. Sometimes people need to make friends and find interest. We have occupational therapy, dramatics, games, and pastimes like singing and dancing, poetry, etc. And the more confidence we get in each other, the more tolerance and respect we have for each other. I'd like to mention that this center has a lady's auxiliary that believe in the good rule that it is better to give than receive and act upon it and I know they are deeply appreciated by the other members. So in my opinion, leisure can be and is worthwhile. Thank you, Mr. Edwards. As a woman, you probably have another point of view. Suppose we hear your answer to the question, leisure, can it be worthwhile? Well, yes. I think that leisure can be worthwhile. when I couldn't run my boarding house any longer because I wasn't strong enough. I saw that... Mrs. Ford will have to... I broke down. I moved to the Bronx. At first, I was a little afraid of living in a strange neighborhood, but a woman always has some occupation, even keeping her place clean, but that wasn't enough. So I found the center. There, I found that you are never too old to learn. I go to English classes, I'm in the music group, I do sewing, I'm in dramatics, and I'm always ready to help any of the members that needs me. So I find if you keep occupied, only there's no such thing as old age. Only I wish more people, the older people of my race, would make use of these centers. Thank you, Mrs. Ford. Mrs. Wormza, you live at a home for the ages, and at a home, it is just as important to use your time in a worthwhile way. Would you tell us how you spend your time? Glad to. I'm a resident of Kingsbridge House, as a unit of the Home for the Agents and Infirm Hebrews, at 100 West Kingsbridge Road. When people live in a home, they too need the use of their time in a worthwhile manner. I find that living together has made people more congenial. Our home provides plenty of opportunities for one to be useful. There are various types of interest in the home, such as recreation, our home club, and executive meetings, movies, bingo, library, glee club, and choir. Occupational therapy, which includes art and crafts, where things are made for the benefit of the home. Our slogan is ABC. Always be cheerful. I find old age beautiful. Thank you, Mr. Jones. Our next senior citizen is a gentleman who's been very active in the community. And I think we might learn some ways in which he has been able to make his time worthwhile. Mr. Gold, please, can it be worthwhile? I retired about two years before the World War. And the first thing I'd done, I took my checkerboard and I went to the park. And there, I met quite a number of people, and I asked them whether they could play checkers. And one said yes, and he started to play checkers. And from that day on, the park began to grow with more people and more checkers. Matter of fact, there was no room for people to sit down because the benzes were occupied with checker players. So I asked the park department to put up some checker papers, which they did. And then I happened to meet a lot of congregations, and they didn't know. I asked them, what do they do to pass their time away? They said they didn't know what to do. I said, how about organizing a social club? And they said, go right ahead. And I started organizing a social club. Started to teach them to dance. Everybody was happy. Everybody enjoyed themselves very nicely. Then I went to the Tremont Center. I told them what I would like to do. And they grant me the space of their hall. And I started organizing an elderly group, which is called the Golden Social Club. And there we meet, and there I teach them to dance. We meet there every Tuesday, and everybody enjoys themselves very, very nice. But you cannot dance all the time. So what do I do for daytime? I joined up on the civil defense. And there I'm kept busy between dancing instruction and civil defense. I'm occupied. Matter of fact, I have no more time for myself. So now I can say this. People who are doing nothing, there is room for everybody to do something for your humanity and also for your country. So please join up for civil defense. That's very important. Everybody can help to protect our freedom, our liberty, and if we'll do that, we will have our freedom and our liberty. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Johnson. Our next senior citizen is a member of the William Hudson Community Center, who I'm sure will be able to answer the question, leisure, can it be worthwhile? Ladies and gentlemen, I was once a very old man. When I had to quit working, I was sick and miserable. It's my luck that I met someone who told me by the William Hudson Center. I began making friends. Now I have more friends than I ever had in all my life. All my life I had to, I was busy, working, making a living, raising a family. Now I'm all free of all of that. Now I began to be healthy and I threw my cane away. Then I realized that I can be very useful to other people in our community. I was in the restaurant business all my life. So I took over to the Center Cafeteria and run it as my own business. I don't invest any money on it. So I'm very, very happy and thanks to our noble women's subsidiary for making my life worth it. And I wish all of you to come up and visit us and see what means you get there. Thank you. Our senior citizens have told us whether they're living in furnished rooms, apartments, or in homes for the ages, that it is necessary to use your time in worthwhile ways and that these senior citizens have made use of the community's facilities. I'm sure that if there are opportunities provided that more older people will find many ways in which to make their leisure worthwhile. Thank you. See you, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This way. Be careful. Don't pull. We can go down this way. I'm not going down this way. I'll go down to the solstret Hoe 501-0. Thank you. Well, it's my one. But and I'm beyond the. Coach subscribe that looks like that. Here everybody takes care about it. Wait a minute. All I have to drop back. Here I'm going down. Or, I'm just going down this way. OK. Thank you.