The New York City Fire Department presents its official orders of the day and instructions to Fire Department Auxiliary Members. On Tuesday night of this week, the Auxiliary Corps, Battalion Council Delegates from Manhattan, the Bronx and Richmond, were present at the meeting and headquarters at 87 Lafayette Street. One of the delegates proposed that certain auxiliaries be trained as key men to step in and take authority where an emergency prevents a regular fireman from being present. Such a proposal meets with strong departmental approval. The daily refresher drill of one hour's duration provides for such training. When the instruction period for all Auxiliary Corps members performing their voluntary tour of duty was established, it was referred to in the supplementary orders as follows. The purpose of such drill is to provide members with the additional training needed to properly perform the duties that will be required of them in an emergency, and also to qualify as instructors, as many members as possible, who, in an actual emergency, will be able to command other auxiliary groups having only the basic training. Members are informed that when complete minutes of these meetings are prepared, highlights will be released for their information. It has already been proposed and decided to allow more time in announcing these meetings so that ample prior discussion of ideas may be carried on at company and battalion meetings. Although the deadline for complying with local law number 25 has passed, applications covering all types of buildings are still being accepted in the local firehouses. Corps members who have previously contributed their assistance in advising the public on requirements of this air raid protection law are congratulated for their splendid work, but are cautioned that there are still stragglers who need assistance. Last night, Auxiliary Corps members from the 7th and 9th Battalions held an exhibition of new OCD films which showed, among other things, the new type incendiary bomb, work of the rescue squads, and a stirring and vivid film titled Gas Attack. The showing took place at the Hudson Guild Hall, 436 West 27th Street, Manhattan. In the same place on March 16th at 8 o'clock, the performance will be repeated, this time for the members of the 8th Battalion, which, like the 7th and 9th, is also in the 3rd Division. Those members who are included in the invitation should not fail to attend. They will put in an evening which is both educational and entertaining. We mention, without comment, a Rome broadcast of yesterday which warns that big new German bombers soon will be, quote, most unwelcome visitors to American cities, unquote. The broadcast described the new Henkel 177 as a four-engine plane that can carry more than a six-ton bomb load and, without difficulty, reach New York, bomb the city, and return to base. Comment still reaches the department from outside sources on the splendid work done by auxiliaries at the recent four-alarm fire in a Brooklyn lumber yard. Although credit was given on this broadcast within a few hours after the fire had been darkened down, time was too short in which to obtain complete details of the fire. We give them now. The signal, 572430, was first transmitted in Brooklyn at 5.28 p.m. It was followed almost immediately by the box itself. The location, a lumber yard at Avenue H and East 35th Street. A second, third, and fourth alarm followed. The fire had taken hold. With the temperature below zero, bitter, slashing winds had whipped the fire over a large area and all hands were hard-pressed. It was in the evening and many auxiliaries had reported with the apparatus. As they rolled in with their respective companies, they were put to work. They did so with spirit and efficiency and without confusion. Auxiliary captains and lieutenants were employed to keep their own groups and units together. Orders were carried out swiftly, accurately. Hand lines were stretched from apparatus to the fire area. Lines were stretched into deck pipes and play pipes. Gasoline and safety cans was brought from the fuel wagons to pumpers operating in the fire area. Red helmets were everywhere. Rolled-up lengths were carried from distant apparatus and prepared by the use of proper knots for firemen to haul over adjacent roofs. Cables were stretched for the searchlight and floodlights moved into position. Members were posted to watch for flying brands. As the dead, bitter cold penetrated to the bones, auxiliaries relieved regular firemen on the deck pipes and backed up the lines wherever needed. They assisted the Red Cross canteen to distribute coffee. And as firemen and some of their own members were knocked out by smoke or exposure, they assisted them to hospitals. At one time during the fire, it was necessary to stretch two more lines to cover exposed positions. All companies were already engaged. Auxiliaries were called upon and responded by rounding up and stretching more than 20 lengths of hose. In all, it was a job well done and richly deserves the praise not only of the official department, but of every fireman who shivered and froze at the fire itself. There will be no broadcast over the weekend, but members are urged to listen to the mayor's talk over this station on Sunday at 1 p.m. Be on the alert for a surprise air raid drill over the weekend. These orders by direction of Patrick Walsh, fire commissioner and chief of department, John J. McCarthy, assistant chief of department in command. That completes the official orders of the day and instructions to volunteer auxiliary members by the New York City Fire Department. Remember, civilian defense is you. Thank you.