Coming up. And they'll find a lot of people get up here, and they'll call them. And they're the capital, and I'll get some money. And then in this budget, you gave them $14 million, and it is $800 million in capital money. Now, that's money. They may say, well, you didn't give us enough for the other money, but it's money. They'll get $14 million, which probably is one of the biggest amounts they ever got. It's worse. Come on. Come on. Come on. Good speech you made last night. Thank you, man. Thank you. It's worse, yeah. All right. How is it worse? Yeah. I mean, it's fever. I haven't had yesterday. It's stuff from full of oreo. Why? It's terrible. That's a terrible thing. I've had it. I'd like to repeat my name. All right. I'm going to repeat. Ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding with the public hearings on this budget today, I would like to give you a brief analysis of what it contains. I believe that this is very necessary and important in order that the speakers who will be heard should clearly see where the bulk of the city's money is to be spent next year and what would have to be done to other vital services if their requests for added funds are to be adopted. I cannot emphasize these points too much and too often. Many proponents of additional appropriations do not realize that the funds to finance them must come from within the proposed allotments in the budget. Therefore, an increase in one area must be accompanied by a decrease in other areas. In front of the rostrum are two charts which, in summary form, present a picture of how the money in our city budget is to be spent. Let us begin with the chart on your left. You will notice that it shows that the total to be spent in the 1953-1954 budget is $1,528,000,000. Of this sum, $307,500,000 is to be obtained from federal and state aid as well as from other miscellaneous sources. That leaves $1,220,500,000 of city funds to be spent. Of this sum, we are required by law to include $455.5 million for the following fixed items. These cannot be reduced because they are mandatory. Debt service. That is for interest and redemption of bonds issued to build new schools, hospitals, and other public improvements. For interest and pension contributions for city employees, $123,500,000. For expenses of the mandatory courts, $14,500,000. For judgments and claims and tax deficiencies, $36,000,000. After deducting these must items, there is left a total of approximately $765,000,000. This is the total sum the city can use and proposes to spend for operating all the 90 different city activities. How do we intend to spend this $765,000,000 next year? The second shot, which appears on your right in front of this room, shows this very clearly. There you will notice that out of the $765,000,000,000, 86%, or $657,000,000,000, is to be spent for only, and listen to that carefully, only eight activities. Schools and colleges, $186,500,000,000, $186,500,000,000, welfare, $46,500,000,000, hospitals, health, institutional care, including voluntary hospitals, $147,500,000,000, police, $97,000,000, fire, $57,000,000, sanitation, $59,500,000,000, recreation, $34,000,000, water supply system, $29,000,000,000, now just think of it, 86% for only eight activities. These eight activities embrace the very areas in which everyone is seeking to spend more money, not less. That leaves only $108,000,000, for the almost 80 other city activities, which include such vital services as our docks, ferries, bridges, streets, legal agencies, district attorneys, the lower courts, correctional institutions, and so on. It is just simple arithmetic for those who are demanding further cuts in this budget to see that the bulk of these cuts must come from the most vital areas, since almost all of the money to be spent is allocated to the eight activities indicated on this chart. For those who are demanding that more money be spent for these vital activities, it is obvious that the money to finance such additional appropriations can come only from the $108,000,000,000, which is to be spent for the 80 other city activities. Substantial cuts in these activities will be difficult, since the sum now allowed is practically a rock-bottom figure to maintain these services, which are so necessary to round out our city operations. I have taken these few minutes to present these facts to you in the hope that you will have a better understanding of the city's financial picture, as well as the problems this board is faced with in determining whether your request, however valid it may be, can be favorably considered. I cannot emphasize too strongly that the funds for any addition which you are seeking to make to this budget must be obtained from the items shown on the chart to your right. It cannot be obtained from the items in the chart shown on your left, since they are mandatory and cannot be reduced. Now, I'd like to point out, and I hope that some of you ladies and gentlemen listened in last night, but I went on radio and television to give the people of the city of New York an honest explanation of this budget. As it stands now, there just is, for instance, no money in it at all for pay increases. But I told the people of the city of New York last night what I propose to do about it and what this Board of Estimates intends to do about it. I intend to lead the fight to Albany. That's the place for you to make your fight. That's the source of all of our trouble. I'll be at the special session of the legislature fighting for your welfare just as I did at the last legislative session. I hope you'll have the interest and the courage to join me there. You and all the other individuals that are interested in pay raises, better schools, parks, increased health and hospital services. If all of you special pleaders would be as willing to make your complaints in Albany as you are to bring them down here, we would be in a far happier condition at this time. Tell the governor and your legislators what you think about this kind of starvation budget. Dr. Clausen. Oh, pardon me. Before you speak, Doctor. If I may, I'd like to make an announcement on behalf of the president of the council. He is for the second day confined to his home, ill with a virus infection and running of fever and regrets that he's not able to be here. Dr. Clausen. Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimate. The Board of Education submitted a budget estimate for the year 1953-54 in the amount of $279 million, an increase of approximately $29 million over the allowance for the current year. This was a realistic budget, not a dream budget. We took into consideration not the maximum needs of the school system, but the reasonable needs. The executive budget indicates a reduction of $17 million from our request and shows an increase of $11,600,000 over the current year's allowance. Now, Mr. Mayor, I would be remiss in my duty as a citizen and a taxpayer if I did not take into consideration the financial plight of the City of New York. I am fully aware, too, of the increased needs of all of the other agencies of the City. However, as President of the Board of Education, I must point out the needs of the children, the youth, and the adults who attend our schools and who require additional facilities and the implementation of our present activities. Just to illustrate with one example, the number of non-English speaking children on our registers. 6,000 more since the opening of school last September. Certainly, if we must have that added amount of children on our rolls, we must have implementation and the expansion of our services to care for them. I urgently request you, Mr. Mayor and your colleagues on the Board of Estimate, that should you find additional ways and means of raising income for this year, that you consider very, very seriously the allocation of additional monies for the school system. We have asked our Chief Executive, Dr. Janssen, and his top aides at headquarters to make a real study of these budget requests. Dr. Janssen is here and he will go into more detail than I shall do. And if I have your permission, I should like to give the additional time to Dr. Janssen. Thank you. Dr. Janssen? Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimate, may I say, parenthetically, that Mr. Leonard, Superintendent of Plant Operations and members of his staff, will be here all day in case there are questions about repairs to specific schools. Of course, we have some 800 buildings and it may not be possible for Mr. Leonard to answer in every particular case, but he will do his best to give you the information in case it is needed in connection with one of the subsequent speakers. I want at the outset to emphasize what Mr. Clausen said, that the Board of Education and I feel we have a duty to the public to point out the needs of the school system and also the fact that the budget that was submitted was a realistic budget. We must bear in mind the fact that the school system on the elementary level was growing at least 25,000 children next year. A word about the budget that appears on page 11 of the Mayor's message, the budget which I think, Mr. Mayor, you referred to as the one that would result in a ghost town. I believe, gentlemen, that every member of the Board of Estimates has full intentions not to let that budget become a reality. If that budget were to become a reality, we would have to drop 3,000 teachers. HIP would be wiped out, which is equivalent to a salary cut for all city employees. And I really believe that... You know that that's merely an alternative budget that I felt I was obligated to present to the people of the City of New York merely to demonstrate what that would mean in our city services. Yes. But so that you won't spend too much time on that at this particular time, I want to indicate to you that the Board of Estimate, by a vote of 11 to 5, has not gone along with this alternative procedure. Well, Mr. Mayor, I have finished what I was going to say about that budget because I really feel that this Board will do all in its power to make that budget an impossible budget. I'd like to have you go on, Doctor. I'd like to have you go on for the benefit of the public and for this Board as to what it would mean to the school system in the event this Board did go on to that alternative budget. Well, if we went on to that alternative budget, it would first of all require the dropping of 3,000 teachers. It would reduce the repairs by another 3 million. It would wipe out HIP. It would, in a number of other ways, hurt the school system so desperately that I believe that it just is impossible for us to contemplate it. It would reduce still further the playgrounds. It would reduce still further the, some of the evening activities. It would reduce supplies in a number of respects and reduce still further the staff and the Bureau of Maintenance. But I don't believe that, I just can't believe that that budget will be the one on which the city has to run next year. Now, I'd like to say a few words about the way the budget is set up. Uh, the Board of Education notes that in the cost of public education, the debt service is always included. Now, we have no objection to the including of the debt service, provided it is only the debt service of the public schools and not higher education as well. But we note that in no other city department is the debt service set up as part of the costs of that department. Uh, and the same with light and power. Again, we have no objection to showing the cost of light and power for the school system. But it isn't set up for any other city department. And again, we think that the true cost of all city departments should be set up in a way so that debt service and light and power should be shown in all places and not just as part of the cost of education. Uh, and the same with the pensions. The cost of the entire teachers' retirement system is charged against the Board of Education. But a part of that, probably at least two million of that, is pensions for the colleges. And therefore, we don't think that should be set up as a charge against the Board of Education. Uh, and the same with the budget. Now, as to the budget itself, I'm going to mention some of the items that may be overlooked by other speakers, uh, today. First, there is an eight million capital budget fund. We understand, the Board of Education understands, that that eight million of capital funds is not to be taken from our building construction fund. And is to be an additional eight million of capital funds. We regret exceedingly that at the last minute, the $50,000 for the programming division was eliminated. At one time, when we had a discussion on the budget, that was still in. But you know, the management survey stressed that the expenditure of $50,000 for the programming division was one of the most worthwhile expenditures that, uh, could be made. And we hope that money can be found to restore it. And also, the relatively small amount for the Bureau of Fiscal Affairs. On the matter of the teachers, in addition to the general regret that there had to be such cuts, I want to make a special plea for allowing us the, and it isn't really money, but the principle of putting the shop teachers on the eight period day. We are told by the state education department people that our state aid for shops will be cut next year because the shops are not staffed all day by shop teachers. And I believe that I can put the shop teachers on the eight period day, giving them the 10% extra without adding to the cost of the budget. We had hoped that this year might see the end of the temporary employment of teachers because of the up and down of the high school register. And we are still hopeful that a change can be made there. As to the $2 million cut, which was not specialized, we ask first that the delay, that there be a delay at least till October, uh, for the time that the Board of Education report those cuts. We still are hopeful that they won't have to be made. But if the situation is such, then at least we should be given until October. The reason being that registration these days is a little bit difficult to predict. Last year, uh, our Bureau of Statistics underestimated the register by, uh, quite a bit. That was the first time there had been, uh, so great a difference. Now, because of the trend of people in and out of the city, it is difficult to predict with too great accuracy the exact register. And therefore, we should like to ask that the time that the Board of Education has for reporting those cuts, if they have to be made, be delayed until October. I think that this points to a need for a restudy of the sources of revenue. We do know that neighboring communities tax themselves to a far greater degree for their schools. There are communities around New York City which tax themselves over 2% merely for the schools. While, as you know, your tax here has been only 2 or will be 2.25% for everything. But there are communities that are willing to tax themselves even more than 2% just for education. The red book of the management survey has just been issued. And in that book, there are a number of recommendations for possible sources of revenue. And I believe that these should be considered carefully. Now, there's one possibility that I would like to mention. And that is the fact that $2.5 million is deducted from our state appropriation to amortize $40 million worth of school bonds. As I understand it, the city's borrowing is well within the 10% limit at the moment. And for this year, I would like to have the board give consideration to putting these school bonds into the general 10% quota and not deducting that money from our state aid. The state law said it was permissive but not mandatory. And in the report of the Moore Commission on page 17, the Moore Commission definitely questions the advisability of having taken that state aid away from us to amortize the bonds. I think this year it can be financed within the 10%. Now, looking ahead a little bit on the possibility of additional funds, and this is perhaps long-term, although I think it needn't be so long-term, there is a sound principle of the state and the federal government to give special aid for special situations. The federal government gives special aid for unusual increase in population due to a federal activity. Only last week, the legislature of New York passed a bill and it was signed into law giving some million and a half of money, mostly to several communities in Nassau County because of unusual increase in registration. What counties were that in? Nassau. Oh. That makes a big difference. It does. Now, in that connection, we have a county, Queens County, which has grown 32,000 children in its elementary schools in four years. And I think that we have a duty to sit down with the state officials and say that we too have a special need because of the unusual growth in parts of our city. Now, the management survey gives us support to another matter where I think we have a unique problem and where I think that there is an obligation on the part of the state and the federal government possibly to assist us. We have the problem in New York City of the Spanish-speaking child. We have at least 20,000 children in our public schools who can't speak English to the degree that they can make normal progress in the work. We want to help those children. We feel that just as soon as they can conquer the English language, they will be able to progress as well as anybody else in our schools. But that costs money. And the management survey says that New York City is entitled to at least $4 million because we in New York City have a unique situation of the tremendous influx of foreign language speaking, mostly Spanish. And I think here we have a very just claim that should be made for an increase in our state aid. Now, of course, if any increase in state aid involves an increase in state income tax, we have the question which I think the Board of Estimates should study as to the relative advantage of a local income tax, so to speak, against a state income tax where we don't get back all we put in. Now, if the state recognizes our unique need in this problem of the foreign language speaking child, I think that we ought to get back all that we put in. I make these recommendations, Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimates, because I think we have a responsibility in trying to work with you in trying to find new sources of revenue. And the Board of Education has a committee that is studying the question of state aid and federal aid. And it will, I know, be glad to help you in bringing to your attention possibilities. And we'll fight with you for a fair appropriation for our schools. Thank you. Hey, Doctor. A minute ago you said something about getting the $2.5 million more for yourself by throwing the $40 million into the debt-incurring power. At least some of it, Mr. Well, do you know how much our balance is on the debt-incurring power? Well, I was told that it was considerably below. That is, the bonds there for which construction has not yet been started. If you deduct those, there's quite a bit of balance. If you charge off what you got here, you got a very small balance. And if you want to throw the $40 million in there, you'll have our capital budget, the capital reserve, in a very, very precarious condition. But it still would be within the 10 percent, wouldn't it, Mr. Joseph? Well, what do you want us to do? Leave ourselves without anything? Well, I thought— You know, that was the money that we lost $2.5 million from our general fund to enable you to have another $40 million construction. You remember that, don't you, Doctor? Yes. But— We can't take that $40 million and charge it against our debt-incurring power. I would never permit it as a controller because we're down the rock bottom now. Well, Mr. Joseph, I think that you still have enough leeway to put it in for this year, haven't you? All the departments outside of education. And, uh, demands are being made there for construction funds, too, and capital funds. Well, I meant for the capital budget that is now—has now been approved. You can't do that, Doctor. No sound businessman. His wildest imagination would, uh, even consider that. Well, uh, we can—we can discuss that another time. Well, this is a good time to tell you how we stand. Well, I—I have a feeling, and I— It would be very nice if the state gave you the $40 million for construction. Well, that— That's— Or make good some of the funds that they're making available to NASA and so forth. That's nothing unusual to take down NASA. Well, we're going to try to help get us from New York, too. You know, the last time we got an increase in allotment of education, we—we were just fortunate, uh, individuals who—who rode in on the crest of a victory in Westchester. Westchester made a fight, and they got it. And because they got it, we, of necessity, came into that. That was the only reason we got a few dollars more. No, I think, uh, Mr. Joseph, on the last $10 million, we were in on that. But I'd like to discuss these other things with you at another time. Don't—don't discuss capital budget with me, because I've been battling about that for years. Dr. Jansen. Yes, Mr. Cashmore. I think you brought out some very important points as the corporate cost of operation, the Board of Education in the city of New York, against the other cities throughout the state. You brought out a point here about Nassau County. I was very happy to hear you say here this morning, we have 20,000 children that have difficulty with the English language. They don't have that, in my opinion, in Syracuse, Rochester, or any of the other cities or counties that we have here. And I wish you would stress, because we have the newspapers here today, the exceptional costs that we're put to, because of the relocation problem and selection of school sites, which I don't believe they have in these cities or even in the counties, which naturally cost our taxpayer more money. I'd like you to bring that point out so as when we go to Albany, I'd like you to have these on the record. Well, Mr. Cashmore, what you just mentioned, though, is part of the capital budget, is it not? The cost of sites. That's true. It's money. And it is involved in this capital budget problem, which the controller says is... But it's money, Doctor, and that's why we need money, and we need all the help we can get from the state, and these are the things that the people do understand. And if we can drive it home to the governor and his group, I think it may be very impressive. Well, on that, we'd be glad to help with that, because we do have facts and figures. Mr. Cashmore, I don't like to disagree with you. We don't need any help from the state. We want to get what we're entitled to. Well, you can call it whatever you want, but all I want is more money from the state. Well, I'll... Dr. Jansen, I want to make it clear that this board has tried to allocate just as much as possible to education. For instance, on this chart, which reflects an increase of approximately $13 million in tax levy monies, considering the needs of education, this board in this budget is allocating $8 million of that total, or 61%, to education. We're aware of that, Mr. Mayor, and that was one of the reasons why I brought in the point of the possibility of seeking new sources of revenue. Thank you. Is Dr. Buell Gallagher here? Dr. Gallagher is not here. I think it's a small college. Well, although it's out of order, higher education comes afterwards. I thought that, in view of the fact that you informed me that you had to get back to your college, I thought I'd call you out of order. I would appreciate that, sir. As you know, Mr. Mayor... Dr. Theobald of Queens College, President of Queens College. I'm speaking as chairman of the Administrative Council, Mr. Mayor, speaking for the four city colleges. Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, I think you know, having wrestled with this budget, that the asking of the four municipal colleges this year was paired to the bone. We came in with a very realistic asking. Despite the situation that has arisen, you people have recognized that. You have cut us, but you have cut us with understanding. We do hope that if you get more money, you will recognize the fact that we were cut to the bone when we went in. I would like to talk, if I may, for just a minute, however, about what will happen if it becomes necessary to take the alternative budget which you referred to before. In the first place, I think you will find that the reduction proposed is in violation of the state law, Article 125, Section 6202, which provides a specific relationship between amount of funds and number of students. Let's presume, however, that that doesn't come into the picture. Number one, we would have to cut out the entire summer sessions. Number two, we would have to eliminate a very large proportion of our evening sessions. Number three, we would have to eliminate the entire entering September class. And three quarters of those people have already been notified of acceptance. We might even then have to cut into some of the people who are already in the upper classes. You're talking about the alternate budget? The alternate budget, Mr. Controller. In addition to that, the fact that we eliminated an entering freshman class would eliminate our eligibility for state aid under the teacher education program. I think I can say, Mr. Mayor, that if the alternative budget becomes a necessity, colleges will be very close to the point where they will have to close shop. That's all I want to say. I don't want to go into detail. I would like, if I may, to yield the floor to Mrs. Streeter of our Board of Higher Education, who is chairman of our Queen's Administrative Committee. Thank you, sir. Mr. Mayor and members of the board, in preparing our budget request this year, the Board of Higher Education was well aware of the stringent financial circumstances in the city. The only new money which we requested, the new program which we attempted to put into our budget, was a request for money to set up an experimental nursing program in cooperation with the Department of Hospitals. You gentlemen are all aware, I'm sure the Department of Hospitals have made you well aware of the shortage of nurses which exists. The Board of Higher Education wishes to cooperate with the Department of Hospitals in setting up an experimental two-year nursing program. And for this program, we did request money in our budget for the new project. Dean Carley from Queen's College also serves as chairman of the School of Nursing Committee for Queen's Hospital Center. And at this point, I would like to have you hear Dean Carley present to you our program for experimental nursing education on a two-year basis. Dean Carley? Dean Carley? Dean Carley? Thank you. Dean Carley? Dean Carley? Dean Carley, thank you. Dean Carley? Dean Carley. Thank you. That's all very good. Thank you. Dean Carley? Good. Thank you, I'm now! Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Street has told you I've come here to ask your consideration of the request to the Board of Higher Education for a funds sufficient to enable Brooklyn College and Queen's College to make a first necessary start in establishing a supply of nurses for the city hospitals. I make this request, as Mrs. Treeter has said to you, as chairman of the education committee at the Queen's Medical Center and also as a member of the central committee advisory to the city hospitals. You are, I know, familiar with the crisis in the nursing shortage. The facts are immediate and undeniable. We also are all appreciative of the terrific pressure that you are under, this financial pressure. We know it, and I personally, I'm sure we all do agree in appreciating the patient and intelligent and constructive efforts with which you are attempting to meet the pressure. But if you really realize the facts of the nursing situation in our city hospitals, I feel that you cannot but make an extraordinary effort to meet it. Your crisis is extraordinary, and the health situation in our city hospitals is really super extraordinary. We must admit our people to our city hospitals. We are not saying that we do not have enough nurses. We practically have no nurses. The facts would be almost too startling to repeat. We have fought this thing now for several years, and we have few resources to keep the people that we have. We hope to meet that aspect of the situation also. There is no supply in sight. The city owns the hospitals. It owns the colleges. The colleges has mapped out a program. It is not a service for which we are anxious. It is not a service that we have thought of for ourselves. It is a service that we feel we must respond to. We are prepared to initiate a two-year program at the close of which our nurses will be prepared to work in our city hospitals. They will have a college degree and will be eligible for, at the close of two years, for the state license and examination for our registered nurses. We hope that by the character of the training that we give them and the character of the source to which they will come, that they will have an initial loyalty, which will hold them in the service of the city, and we know that they will have a professional skill that will make them valuable. We ask this because we do face, we feel, an inevitable disaster. Nursing care is really the first service that you owe our city hospitals. It is also the only control that we have. The spread of disease and physical danger, once out of nursing control, and the only control is nursing care, one out of nursing control will propose a citywide problem, the answer to which will call for far greater funds than this relatively small sum that we now ask to start to set this machinery in motion. An epidemic, a tragedy, will result if we are not able to send some nurses into our hospitals. And I repeat that it is not that we do not have enough. We literally have no nurses. There are spots, places, and hours and sessions in which great groups of our people are left alone. I believe firmly that in spending this money you will save, money. And I ask you to help us. It is not college or hospital. It is the whole city asking you to save us from ruin for which I feel we must all share a moral culpability if we do not answer the demand for nursing service. There isn't a member of this board that doesn't agree with everything you've had to say. As a matter of fact, this board, which you're probably familiar, a year or 16 months ago, authorized the spending of $14 million at Bellevue Hospital just for that purpose, so that we could provide decent sanitary quarters for young women that wanted to go into the nursing profession here in the city of New York. And that's well underway. I think it will be ready for occupancy within the next few months. But in this budget, unfortunately, although we agree with everything you had to say, there's no room for any expansion in any of the city departments. And this program that you speak about, while every one of us feel is a very wonderful program, we should go along with it. There just is not the money available for further expansion in city services. And as you know, in this budget, as Dr. Jansen has pointed out, we even have to cut down on some of the vital city services. I just wanted to make that clear to you. Yes, I know all that. You know, of course, that in Queens, we have no training facilities of any kind. We cannot prepare any nurses at all. Everything has been taken from that large medical center. The tuberculosis hospital in Queens is a city hospital tribe or a known, not only nationwide, but it is internationally known. What will happen there with the continuance of discussion is a serious matter. I firmly believe that in a matter of the health of the city and in the face of the impending and inevitable danger that we're in, the city can find $100,000 to enable us to start the flow of trained, interested, devoted nurses to the care of the sick poor whom we must admit to our city hospitals. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, doctor, doctor, may I ask you a question? Yes. The mayor is absolutely right in what he said, but we all, every member of this board, thoroughly agrees with you. I have carried your arguments for many, many years. I'd like to ask you a question. If you were to get this money, the students that would take this course up would be practically all residents of the city of New York. Is that correct? They would all have to be. I see. I see. The unfortunate part today, after we spend the city's money and we educate and train these nurses, we get less than 40% who stay in the city of New York and about half of that 40% work in our city hospitals because they come from out of town to get the education and training. And if we were to follow your policy and your plan and your suggestion here today, I'm pretty sure that we would get twice the amount of nurses after they had finished, who had their residents right here in the city, stay and work for us in our own hospitals, especially in the city of New York. And I want to thank you and I want to ask you this, even though it may be a little discouraging today because of the shortness of money, continue the fight because I'm positive we will someday be able, and I hope not in a too far distance, to help you because I think you're on the right track and stay that way. We're all ready to go. Thank you. Mrs. Mildred Miller. Mrs. Mildred Miller. I'm Anne Lasky of Sedgwick Community Center. Instead of Mrs. Miller, I'll speak today. I'm the chairman of the Sedgwick Community Center, which is located in the Sedgwick Houses, a middle-income project in the Bronx. We are, we have established the need for a community center in an area that houses approximately 40,000 people, where we service about 500 children, teenagers, and adults. Now, as I said, this center is completely staffed by volunteers and has been in operation for two years. While we have helped fill some of the recreational needs of the people in our community, we are not in a position to give the fullest possible use to our facilities, and we feel that an improved program managed by a professional staff is needed. We want to impress upon you the fact that this program would not cost too much in view of the fact that the Community Activities Division of the City Housing Authority supplies the physical facilities, such as rent-free space, basic equipment, and expendable materials. The community supports our center, too, by various fundraising functions. However, these small amounts raised are not enough to cover our needs for a full-time professional staff. We feel that in order to carry out a more successful program at Sedgwick Community Center, and to use our facilities to its fullest extent, that the Division of Community Education of the Board of Ed should be allotted a sufficient amount of money in order to help our center as well as all centers operated by volunteer staffs in middle-income housing projects. I'd like to stress here that the middle-income families of our city are the forgotten people, and we urge that you grant this appropriation of funds to the Board of Education, who have included this item in their budget request. I'd like to leave some pictures of the activities that were taking place last year, and I also have the briefs that I'd like to leave here. Now, I can't stress this too much. I want to repeat that we operate this community center with an all-volunteer staff, and it isn't fair to leave that responsibility to communities all over the city. There are too many of them now, and we need this professional help, and we'd be very grateful to you if you would grant this budget request. Thank you. Celio Calasso. Celarco. Celarco. Celarco. Celarco. Celarco. C-A-L-A-R-C-O. I just would like to say a few words. I don't believe and I don't expect to get more money today, but I would like to point out some points that can be remedied and I think can be put through. As chairman of local school board number one, I guess you all know the chairman, local school board number one, takes in from 14th Street to the Battery, and we now take in Governor's Island. We take from the North River or the Hudson River approximately over to Third Avenue. That's the size of our board. We have been burdened in addition there too with a junior high school, which now will take in an area from 44th Street to the Battery, and from the North River to Third Avenue, and that's the only junior high school that we have. Now in our particular area, we need a new school, and I know definitely I'm not going to get a new school here this morning and take it away from some other district or some other community. The, yes? The schools are in the capital budget. That I know. I'm not going to discuss that, the amount of repairs that we need in these different areas. In PS95, for example, in our area, we had a school that was closed up for years. That became a vocational school by simply opening its doors without any repairs being done. A long-range program should be instituted somewhere, and it should start sometime, someplace, and from some budget. It shouldn't be necessary just to go to our borough president and to the members of the Board of Education to try to take funds away from other districts or other schools. That is the big problem today with most of the local school boards and the schools in our area. We have tremendous increase in different students and different types of foreign-speaking people. We have that especially in our own community today, especially in our area. We're not keyed or keyed up to it. We don't have the necessary funds. We don't have the necessary means to cope with the situation. Now, the Board of Education takes the view, and I don't know what other view they can take. When you go to them with a problem, they point out that other districts need it more than I do, or other districts need it more than your own local school district needs it. Now, I point out to this, to the mayor's office, and also to the Board of Education, that none of the school board chairmen or none of the people on the school board receive any salary whatsoever. We serve simply because we love the city. And we stand before you in deep gratitude to our borough president, Mr. Wagner, and what the other members of the board try to do in these terrible times. We point out to you that where the schools don't get these necessary funds to carry on, you have juvenile delinquency. You notice the areas. You know what juvenile delinquency costs us. It's the same tragic cycle that goes from one district to another. Where you have good schools, where you have good facilities, wholesome facilities, you have a better class. And I say that in the way of a better citizen from that viewpoint. Where you have dilapidated and broken down schools, the children become completely disinterested. The teachers in our educational system are real modest to the cause. We have many people, including members of our press, that seem to think the popular thing to do is to slug a public official. We come here because we serve with our funds, because we love our city. We come here because we know many of our city officials are in accord with us. We have a common problem. We have a common bond in the need that we do. We turn no one away from our shores. No principal asks any child how long you've lived in a community. The same thing goes to our hospitals and other services that we render. We ask no questions. The human being stands before us and we immediately put every effort and spend every dollar, every ounce of energy that we have to serve. Now surely, from such a community as ours, we should come to some solution. I don't believe that new schools and the facilities and the way we service, not only New York City, but anyone that comes here, I believe it's grossly unfair on the part of our governor to ignore the situation of schools, to dump it into the lap of a municipality that cannot afford to go on because of these changes, because of inflation. We know definitely that you can't do the same things today that you could do in 1942 and before many of us left for service. And that's what I want to point out. I know definitely that a long-range program should be made for purchasing sites now. I know, especially in Manhattan, which really is hard as hit perhaps than any other borough, to go in to build a new school, the amount of condemnation, the amount of places you—people you have to displace for housing and so on. These problems should be taken up now because we can get land in certain areas now. And if we don't, it's going to cost the city 10 and 20 times and many more times, more than what it will cost today. I know what juvenile delinquency costs. The cost of your costs are going up. Courts. The cost of your prisons are going up. And as I say briefly, something should be done to begin now to plant the seed now. Just as I was coming in, I noticed the beautiful trees around City Hall. Somebody planted a seed, not today, but years ago because they thought of us. And I think that's the way it should be done today. Bernice Rogers. Bernice Rogers. Unless something else she was on last night. Mrs. Ann Fuss. Gentlemen, I am a parent representing the PTAs of PS 191, 144, and John Marshall Junior High School 210 in Brooklyn. This junior high school is the only after-school recreation center in summer school covering the entire area of the three schools mentioned, as well as PS 167. We are badly in need of more equipment and teachers so that the juvenile delinquency about which everyone hears and speaks, and about which we read so much, may be prevented by intelligent, supervised play. We don't have nearly enough equipment and teachers for the summer school, and have had to turn away youngsters who are literally clamoring to register. The chances of these same children being killed by automobiles will be greatly lessened if they too could have been taken into the summer schools. Please do not cut the appropriation for our after-school and summer school activities. They are very essential to the well-being of our children. Thank you. Harold Segal. Harold Segal. Gentlemen of the Board of Estimate, most of you know the United Parents Associations, and that we represent 350 parent associations in our schools, and over a quarter of a million parents of public school children. Our interest is the welfare of the children. To us, a budget is not a bookkeeping operation. It isn't even a matter of dollars and cents. To us, a budget for education is a vital living thing. It tells what the community thinks of its children, what it wants to do, and is willing to do for them. Now, we heard Mr. Clausen here say that the Board of Education's budget, as presented to the mayor, was a reasonable budget. We think it was a minimum budget. We know, and the budget estimate presented to you said, that the budget presented by the Board of Education had been curtailed in the light of the known financial difficulties of the city. It was not the kind of a budget that we would have liked to see presented. It was a very, very minimum budget. Nevertheless, we think that nothing less than that budget is applicable to the needs of our children. Now, New York City is not measuring up to its responsibilities to the school children. The executive budget manages, by the use of capital funds, $8 million worth of capital funds, to meet what the mayor presented in his financial program when they went to Albany, about a half a million dollars more the increase is. There is much buck passing, much passing of blame between Albany and City Hall. We think the responsibility rests on those who are responsible for financing education, and that includes both Albany and City Hall. We have no political access to grind. We want adequate budgets and education for our children. I want to go back a bit. When the mayor went to Albany, some of you gentlemen were with him, the program indicated that the minimum needs for education were $11.1 million. That was the first mistake. That wasn't the minimum needs for education in this city. The minimum needs for education in this city were over $30 million. And it should have been so stated. We hope when you go to Albany again you will so state. The needs for education, the minimum needs are as presented by the Board of Education. And not as we don't know how the figure of $11 million was arrived at. When the $11 million figure was used, the case was underestimated. In our opinion, the case was compromised. Because you then went to Albany and asked for $14 million in State A. When you were indicating that you would spend $11 million for education. When you go to Albany again, we want to remind you, the last time you were in Albany we had 600 people sitting in that chamber. And we made our pitch and we made our fight for state aid and we'll do it again. But we hope that this time you will consult with the civic organizations before the budgets are made. We may have some ideas that will be helpful to you. I tell you, in our opinion, on the matter of state aid, we think we have a better idea than you presented to the Governor. Our idea not only would our legislative program call for a change in the state aid formula that would have given New York City $30 million. And it rested on a sound and reasonable base. And it made sense. It made logic. And we'd like you to present that kind of a suggestion to Albany in terms of state aid. Now we don't expect that the children will be the victims of this continuous foot passing. Both the city and the state must gear themselves to spending more money per pupil in New York City. Now not only is this budget inadequate, but in the areas where it begins to approach what was suggested or the areas where it most closely approaches the Board of Education's budget, this budget is loaded. And we want to make very clear about the loading. The line-by-line allowances for school teachers, for example, and you will remember we saw some of you, and we suggested that we insist that class sizes be decreased this year. That the trend that was established last year of increasing class sizes should be reversed this year. And we don't know now whether it was done or not. We say that there is a possibility that that will be done. For you allow enough teachers in the elementary schools, or the mayor's executive budget allows enough teachers in the elementary schools, if the estimates are correct, and there have been mistakes in estimates, for class sizes in the elementary schools to be decreased. We know that you have allowed, the budget allows, the total request of the Board of Education in the Junior High School Division, but in spite of that, and you will see now why we don't think this is particularly a reasonable budget, in spite of that, the teacher-pupil ratio in the junior high schools will increase. In the kindergartens, there aren't sufficient teachers allotted, and there will be waiting lists. And in the high schools, the odious practice of hiring in the fall and firing in the spring, at least in the academic high schools, is continued. Now, on top of that, you say that there must be a saving of $2 million by September 1st. Dr. Janssen here this morning said, hope that it would be extended to October 1st, and we are going to suggest to you that the dates be eliminated completely until the end of the fiscal year. This budget will allow no line cuts. There should be many more lines added to this budget. We can't think of it that it is possible that you could not save $2 million in one year, using both the administrative, both administrative efficiencies and the Board of Education, your normal savings. And over the years, we have found that there have been substantial normal savings, and if necessary, savings in administrative efficiency without cuts in services in some of the other departments. Now, the GULIC committee indicated that savings of $22 to $37 million could be made immediately. Now, that wasn't our committee. The city spent $2 million hiring the experts. We may be experts in certain phases of education, but we're not experts in administrative efficiency in the city. They are the experts, and we have no choice but to accept their word for it. And so it is inconceivable, if I may repeat, that you could not now save $2 million. If you require them to do that by September 1st, there will be difficulty in that budget. If you allow it to go to June, you know very well that those savings can be made without cutting out any teachers, and we are going to insist that every line be covered. If you have a bill, last year you authorized the board to hire, in September some 280 teachers. I don't recall that a nickel has been given to the Board of Education for that purpose. And they'll carry it. And so we're going to ask that that date line be eliminated. And if the savings be made, they be made not out of services. Not even, as the mayor said, out of adult services. But that they be made out of administrative efficiencies and the normal savings that accrue to the Department of Education and other departments. Now on the capital budget, we will expect some assurances. $8 million in the maintenance and repair funds are from the capital budget. A little over $6 million are from tax levy funds. That $6 million is not enough. I understand that in order to do the first phase of the painting job that has to be done on the schools in the city of New York, cover the painting that hasn't been done for 10 or more years, it will take $5 million. The emergency repairs, the minor repairs, the furniture repairs, other things that normally would not come out of capital budget funds must be made. And therefore the $6 million isn't sufficient. And we're expecting that the $8 million is in addition. The mayor said in his budget message that I am recommending an additional $5 million. And we're taking that at the mayor's word. That this will be $8 million over and above what is now in the capital budget including the modernization funds. And that that money we hope will be transferred without our having to go to you again and urge the transfer of the funds. And that they will be used this year. And that our next year capital budget will not be loaded with any part of that money. Because if that is not true gentlemen, if what you have in mind, I'm not suggesting that you have to the best of my knowledge you do not have it. I think forewarned is forearmed. This is not only an inadequate budget, but it would be a budget without honor. Now in other areas, the Board of Education's budget you have made some very expensive savings. By eliminating the increases for the Bureau of Child Guidance, the community centers, the playgrounds, all of the special and auxiliary services. You are first of all giving less service per pupil. While the actual absolute amount of service may not be reduced, per pupil it is in the face of rising enrollment. And so you will save money in that budget to spend it on the courts and repairing the effects of vandalism. That doesn't make any sense. There are a few other areas of this budget where you are also making extremely expensive savings. I think it was Dr. Jansen who mentioned the Director of Programming. Now this has been a sore spot for many, many years. The Moore Commission documented it. We know it from everyday operations. So do you. Only a few weeks ago it cost you $20,000 because somebody wasn't happy enough to stop the building on a school site. The Director of Programming could save his salary a hundred times over each year and more. The mistake cost scores of thousands. Sometimes it runs into the millions. When you are saving $50,000 in an F and failing to put or give the Board the staff that is necessary to put some efficiency and make some coordination in this town on the matter of the acquisition of sites, the programming of schools, the determination of where and when modernization will take place. That's a very, very unsound saving. The same thing goes with the Office of Business Administrator. You set up in line with the recommendations of the Mayor's Management Committee an Office of Business Affairs. You appointed an administrator. His job is to save money in the Board of Education in administrative ways where it won't show in the services. And then you give them no staff. You give them nobody to work with. And that too is a relatively small amount of money. We urge you to correct those mistakes. Now this whole budget is a dark and foreboding budget. Here and there, there seems to be a ray of light. And then there are so many ifs and maybes. And we don't know whether the ray of light is there. Let me repeat. We expect that every line authorized will be filled. The budget presented by the Board of Education should be thought of in terms of the minimum. And the additions made to this budget and the places where it is needed so badly. The parents of this city want their schools to go forward. Not backward. And gentlemen, they make it, they look to you to make that possible. Thank you. Mrs. Rose Kester. Mr. Rose Kester. Gentlemen, I think it's important to state at the outset that in calling this budget short-sighted and inadequate, we are not unmindful of the city's financial plot, nor of the current city-state financial tussle. An analysis of the facts would indicate that as far back as last December, New York City parents were largely responsible for a bill introduced in the state legislature, which would have provided the city with an additional $30 million in state aid for education. The parents' activity, one must conclude, reflected a greater awareness of the educational needs of the city than did the financial program presented by the mayor at that time, which asked for a mere $11 million in additional funds for education. Accordingly, neither the city nor the state can, with any validity, completely blame the other for the educational crisis, nor should either expect to be completely absolved. Once again, the pot is calling the kettle black. As a representative of the Parent Teacher Association of James Madison High School, I refer particularly to the heavy hand with which the Board of Education's request for the day academic high schools has been cut. We have long opposed the one-term substitute positions whereby teachers hired in September are fired in February. Yet, even this compromise, which we have accepted for expediency, has not escaped the whittling down process. A full 25% of these 160 positions certified as necessary by the Board of Education have been eliminated, as have all of the 80 additional full-time positions. A request for funds for 17 new laboratory assistance was disallowed. In a school with an enrollment of 5,000 students, it is shocking that the science and home economics programs be handicapped by antiquated and inadequate equipment and materials. Requests for a modern science laboratory and a new home economics room date back at least 11 years. Thus far, there have been only blueprints and promises. This budget will obviously likewise fail to provide the necessary relief. The basement lunchroom has been a matter of grave concern to students, parents, and the school administration for many years. It is beyond the patching up stage. Only complete modernization can remedy the situation. The entire plumbing system and steam plant are in need of re-piping. While the maintenance and repair appropriation is greater than last year's, it is still woefully inadequate. The city is not practicing economy in slicing these appropriations. It is embarking on a program of delay which will prove far costlier ultimately. I know whereof I speak. Last year, when I appeared before you as a representative of an elementary school, you see I have since been graduated, I pointed out to you that my statements and my statements were confirmed by Mr. Lenneth that the cost of repairing that school had increased 75% because of delay. The specifications originally approved at $40,000 had to be changed to $70,000 because the execution of the work had been postponed. $30,000 is a pretty costly economy. The people of New York City may be economy-minded, but they need protection from this kind of economy before it bankrupts us completely. An essential service such as education is hardly the area in which to wield the axe. It has often been stated that free public education is a cornerstone of democracy. It would be foolhardy to hack away at the foundation. It might be well if you'd refrain from applauding because you merely delayed the proceedings. The young lady. Mrs. Custer. Mrs. Custer, may I ask you a question? What happened to that bill that you say you were responsible for putting in? The Bridget Brady bill died in committee from lack of support and it was subsequently introduced under Democratic sponsorship as the Wachtell-Gans bill, the identical bill. And there, too, it failed to be reported out of committee with a record vote, however, which indicated the voting was on political lines. Yeah, well, who killed a bill? Well, the fact that there's a Republican majority in the state legislature and that was directly responsible for killing the bill does not change the picture. The picture is this, that New York City— I didn't ask you for the picture. I asked you who killed the bill. Well, I don't think that's fair, Mr. Joseph. You are asking me to answer a question without giving me an opportunity to elaborate. It is true that on the vote, the Republicans killed the bill. However, we in New York City have a right to feel that if we had had more support from our city administration, if they had gone along with us, if they had not conflicted with the Board of Education and the parents of New York City as far as educational needs are concerned, that we might have been able to swing greater influence. Mr. Mr. Castro, let me tell you something. And to those who applaud, I want to particularly call your attention to this. I was a member of the Senate for 12 years. And when you have a Republican majority and they refuse to report a bill out, that settles it. I don't care what you do. If they make up their minds and not going to report it out, they don't—you don't get it. Now, I understand you, I don't remember about the 11 or the 14 million dollars. You say the city didn't ask for enough, is that it? That is correct. Well, did you get any of it? Any of what? Did you get any of the money that you requested? From the state legislature? Yeah. Well, now, do you really want me to answer that? Yes. No, we did not get any money from the state legislature. All right, but what difference would make what we asked for? We didn't get anything. We got zero. I'm sorry. I cannot follow your line. I don't know what you're trying to point out other than the fact that the state— Well, don't claim—pardon me, Mrs. Castro. I'm not arguing with you. Your contention is that the city didn't ask for enough. Yes. Well, the result is we got nothing. I would prefer to get nothing, knowing that the city had recognized the needs and asked for a sufficient amount— Well, now, that doesn't help you. Getting nothing doesn't help you, darling. You know that. Well, asking for less didn't help us either, did it, Mr. Castro? Well, but you got nothing. We didn't get anything, but the city still did not ask for enough. All right. And then I point out that we have a Democratic administration in New York City, and we have not gotten enough from the Democratic administration in New York City. Do you mind if I answer these questions, sir? No, no, no, no. You had your say, Mr. Segal, and we've got a number of people here. Well, I am willing, but I am not— Well, I was involved in the program. Huh? I'm sorry, but you had your opportunity to speak, and we're not going to bide in this town with that. I don't think that's going to settle very well in the back there, sir. We were involved in the introduction of the bills. Mr. Segal, wait a minute. Listen to me. Mr. Segal, I have the greatest evidence of the bill. I have the greatest admiration for this young lady because I wish there were more of them that take an interest in the affairs of the city of New York and in the children and all our problems. What I'm trying to bring out is this. I heard a criticism that the city didn't ask for enough. The result was, no matter what you ask for, you got nothing. So the fault doesn't lie with the city. The fault lies with the state. Now, let me tell you something, Mr. Segal, that you don't know. We've taken that up. I have spoken to Frank Moore about this a number of times, of why we get so little per pupil and upstate get so much. The answer is that the appropriations, the allocations are made on a basis of local real estate assessments upstate. And you and I know that they're terribly under assessed. Now, they've been talking about that for years now, of getting an equalization program up there to bring the assessments where they belong so that the allotment for education will be less upstate. Not that we'll get any more, but there'll be more available for the city of New York. Now, if I went up to Albany and asked for an appropriation of $15 million and they turn it down, that doesn't mean that if I asked for $30 million, they were going to give me the 30, does it? That's all I want to know. First of all, so far as we think there is an answer. I'll sit down if you insist that you don't want that answer. But I think that it does call for an answer. Now, I don't like this any more than you do, sir. But the fact remains that when you talk about the equalization study, we have been pointing that out for many, many months. And we were very happy finally to see the budget director make the same argument in his answer to the mayor, to the governor. I've been pointing it out for a number of years. Well, but something ought to be done about it. We want some programs in action and we're not satisfied anymore with buck passing, sir. Well, that isn't buck passing at all. I think it is. Now, wait a minute. I'm a little older than you and I had a little more experience. I had a bill up there in 1944, which I thought was one of the most legitimate bills that one could offer. I wanted to stop discrimination in the colleges, especially in the medical colleges. I asked the state to appropriate enough money to build two medical schools, one up in the north and one up in the south. I had that bill up in 1944. I couldn't get it out of committee. And I was promised that if I didn't ask for a discharge of the committee, you know what that means. I would get it in 45. I introduced that bill in 45. I introduced that bill in 45. Something went wrong. I was told you can't get it. I made a motion to discharge. I spoke for three hours. I was sick for 10 days after that. All the pressure in the world from every group in the city of New York asked for that bill. The Republican leaders decided nothing doing. Was I passing the buck? Have we got the bill now or something close to it? Oh, no more resemblance to it. There is night and day. Well, but there are bills forbidding discrimination or some, to some extent. It isn't a question of discrimination. The point is that times change. It's a question of getting schools to get kids in there. That's right. But at the present moment, the fact remains that you may have noticed in the press yesterday, we have requested the Governor to add to his call for the special sessions, the matter of state aid to education. The bill that we presented, the bill that we backed, let's put it that way, in our opinion, had a sounder base than the bill presented by the bill. By the city which was full of holes and which the governor and the lieutenant governor replied to. I don't want to say this in derogation of anybody. But the point is, I think that you have a reservoir in the civic organizations which you don't use. You hold hearings when budgets are established. If this hearing had been held perhaps several months before you went to Albany, it may have been different. Our bill did receive extensive upstate support. Not only that, but on the motion to discharge in the Senate, I don't know why, but 10 senators walked out on it. 10 Republican senators. Now we know that the ones from New York, just a minute. We would know that the ones- You don't know why? You said you don't know why. I have an idea why. We know that the ones from New York didn't want to be recorded. But when the upstate senators walked out too, we think that they didn't want to be recorded. And when they come from Rochester, from Utica, from Oleanne, from Syracuse, that's important support. And maybe if we work together on this thing, we can get it. But there will be no profit in this kind of debate and argument. That's a great answer. Mrs. Jean Lowenton. Mrs. Jean Lowenton. Mrs. Lowenton. Mrs. Dorothy Mantel. Mrs. Mantel. Mrs. Mantel. Gentlemen, I'm representing Mrs. Mantel, who couldn't be here today. I have her message here. Mrs. Engel. Mrs. Engel. E-N-G-E-L. Gentlemen, we know of the financial pressures facing the city. Mrs. T. We feel that economizing on the children is a false economy. The school I represent, Public School 169, for example, was built in the 19th century. It houses 1,400 children with a seating capacity of 1,167. Mrs. T. We have a room to be built in the 19th century. Mrs. T. Every available space has been turned into a classroom. Mrs. T. This means there is no library that is being used for a classroom. Mrs. T. An old supply closet has been turned into a classroom. Mrs. T. Our audiovisual program is curtailed, as that room is being used for remedial reading. Mrs. T. We have no auditorium. Mrs. T. Six classes have to be turned out of their rooms to make space for an assembly by using the rolling doors. doors. The school serves 700 children daily for lunch, with a seating capacity of only 200. There are no restrooms for our teachers. Almost two-thirds of our classes are of excessive class size. The money's allowed for books does not cover every child in our school. This is the picture at Public School 169 today. We are fearful of what the fall 1953, with this increased enrollment, will do to our children. And we parents strongly protest cutting the budget on education. Mrs. Harriet Ramos. My name is Mrs. Harriet Ramos. I first represent the school committee of the Astoria Long Island City Health Council. And I am the school committee chairman. Yes? Oh, I'm afraid of a mic. I'm scared stiff. I have mic right. The Astoria Long Island City Health Council would like to present to you a few cold facts. Several months ago, we made a school survey of districts 45 and 46 of Queens. The results were terrifying. Yes, terrifying to think that our children have been subjected to neglect in sanitary facilities, unhealthy, damp schools, and leaking roofs. I am not interested in new schools. We are primarily in the school schools. We are primarily interested in the repair of existing schools, which have been so long neglected in our area that you will see by pictures presented with this brief that they are in the most hazardous condition. Members of the Board of Estimate, you alone are not responsible for this neglect. This neglect is cumulative over a period of years. It dates back as long as 30 years ago, where schools have been left to decay from neglect. P.S. 83, the pictures in our local paper is one of our source parts, too. P.S. 5, I submit pictures of this to the mayor, because I don't think he has pictures. I think our borough president has them, and our local paper carry them. That is deplorable. It is a type C building, which according to which according to the law is obsolete, is obsolete. Type C buildings are a type of buildings with wooden underpinnings. And God forbid if a fire or an air bomb, an air bomb should fall. P.S. 9, and all the schools in our area are equally neglected. I go along and I say I'm primarily interested in holes and roofs. I am, because those holes, I look around for holes, are damn schools, and they're very, very detrimental to the health of the children. And I assure you, most of our schools, including my own, which I don't want to stress too much, P.S. 141 is very much neglected. P.S. 84 in my immediate area and 122 had very bad heating. And I believe that was taken care of after telegrams being sent. How long are these conditions are they going to be allowed to continue? The people of Queens have felt like a stepchild of the city of New York. And we have really been neglected. We feel as a growing borough, and we are the fastest growing borough, gentlemen, in Queens, that we deserve more attention than we've been getting. And I think immediate measures should be taken to see that the voice of Queens is heard. Our children no longer must suffer. I realize the financial straits of our city and bring the above facts before you in order that we may find immediate measures to remedy such conditions. If such gentlemen, you're not listening, and I refuse to talk to them. Why are these conditions allowed to exist in our schools? I ask you, do you know what the picture's going to be in the immediate future? You're going to have a ghost town of empty schools. And I declare empty schools. And I declare empty schools. People are just going to take their schools out of our school system and move. And where will the city of New York be? Behind the eight ball again, I assure you. Now, let us go ahead for some recommendations. We know that you are all ready and willing to listen to a few of the recommendations. The special session of the legislature must be called specifically for education. I think one session of the legislature may be a whole week. We pay those men, Governor Dewey included, a yearly salary. Let them serve on a yearly basis. I assure you that's what they should serve. We pay them year by year and on a yearly basis, let them put an eight-hour day in like some of us office holders, and people who work in offices. Day care centers and recreations are items that must not be curtailed. Again, that will be at the expense of the children. We are most of you parents and should hear the cry of our children. We mothers and parent groups will accompany you to Albany as we did in February. I was one of them who appeared before the Ways and Means Committee. I went up there looking for the elusive Paul that Peter borrowed from. Senator Mahoney assured me he was not on that committee. They looked under every bench and they couldn't find Paul. I think Paul must be in Governor Dewey's office holding that bag of state aid that we deserve. For a fight we must, for we are being left to sink or swim, and the city of New York has no other alternative. If sacrifices must be made, let the upstate cities carry their fair share of the burden for the period of our emergency. We will fight with you every inch of the way, gentlemen, but I beg of you not to sacrifice our children. Now I am going to step on the other foot and become Mr. Hyde. I have appeared before you as a civic worker for the past seven years. I am a civic worker. I have appeared on various problems. Now my Mr. Hyde personality comes to the fore. I am a homeowner. One of the thousands of Queens homeowners who will feel the bite when the assessed property valuation will be raised to close a fourth of dollars for the coming fiscal year. And the other bite will come in increased water taxes. Queens is the largest growing borough as I stated before. And in proportion to its size and growth has been the city's stepchild. And again I repeat, our schools, transit system, and other services have been neglected year by year. Queens has been shortchanged all around. Gentlemen, we are now faced with an internal crisis in New York City. But when Spartan measures of economy are mapped out, will Queens again be the stepchild and orphan of the internal storm? The people of Queens have been neglected long enough. Our schools, as I told you in the previous brief, are not the ones that are in shameful conditions. Our fire and police protection is inadequate. And most of the services are depleted. Some years ago, according to your master plan, you took away from our borough our jurisdiction over sanitation, parks, trees, and so forth. We demand that that jurisdiction be put back into Queens. Queens will take care of its own items there. Our trees, just for instance, this past week, they began pruning trees in my neighborhood. They got halfway up the block. They gave my tree a special pruning. Because in 1948, a request was received by Mrs. Ramis. And they had a call out, Woodman, spare the tree. They stopped in the middle of the block and they have not been seen ever since. I don't know where they are, but that'll be up to you people too. There's lack there. There's lack there. Now, gentlemen, if you're not going to follow what Lazarus Joseph has suggested by tightening on your own incomes and curtailing of your own personal expenditures. We're doing it. How much can you squeeze the average homeowner and taxpayer? We look to you for personal leadership. We look to you for personal leadership. This is our time of crisis. You are our city fathers. We have no one else to look for, to for help. And we have backed you all these years. All years. And we're not, as Governor, as Mayor Impeletter said, the people from the sticks come down to give suggestions every year. If you had followed some of the civic leaders' suggestions from time to time, maybe some of the city's dilemma could have been relieved. Why not have some of the tax-free properties except churches pay their just an equitable share of realty taxes? There's the Chrysler Building, for example. Empire State and other buildings that are tax-free. I wonder how Mayor Impeletter would like it if Gracie Manchin was put on the tax roll and we asked him to pay tax out of his income. I don't think he'd like that one bit. Now the $5 monthly overnight parking bill seems to be a good economy measure, but that is up to you people to decide where you're going to get additional revenue. But these are just a few suggestions. And here comes the one that we've been hopping on for seven years. And it's dynamite to you boys. And Albany turns its head the other way. But somewhere the, the, the, the, the, the point has to be started. How about legalizing bookies? We mothers are not too proud to take money for our schools and hospitals. Give us lotteries for, for hospitals. If, if, if, if Dr. Keeley needs it for nurses, give us some lotteries. And, and, and, and think these things over. You have to have on us, uh, uh, uh, uh, take drastic steps now. Uh, you've been throwing, throwing your weight around and borrowing from Peter to pay Paul year after year. And it's something that you've got to take other measures on. Is this a hearing on the education? Yes. Yes. Some of us would like to be heard on education. This is, I'm sorry. This is all money. This is money, uh, to be allocated into your budget. And, uh, for education, mister. And, uh, the, and the, uh, Queens has two of the largest, uh, race tracks. And, and, uh, and if the Pary mutual tax, uh, was, uh, declared illegal up there in, in the state legislature. How is it Governor Dewey has grabbed it for upstate? We'd still, we'll take it for education. Uh, we'll take that for education, mister. We'll take anything we can get for education of our children. I don't care where it comes from. Legalizing the bookies or anywhere. That's all. Thank you very much. Pedro Canino. Gentlemen of the Board of Estimates, I come here on behalf of the old-day neighborhood schools, you know, especially the one in the East Harlem area, PS 108. After listening to the million mention of so many millions, you know, staggering and bewildering to me, I come over here to plead for so very little. In behalf of my people, in behalf of the old-day neighborhood school, the old-day neighborhood school is no longer an educational experimental project. It is a verity. It is an institution. It is here to stay. It is a boon to our working mothers because it releases them to go and work at the mill and factory and supplement the family budget. To us who are working in close association with the old-day neighborhood school, we have discovered in it an ally, an asset to our community. That's why we are here to give wholehearted endorsement to the old-day neighborhood school and all that it stands for. People struggling to meet with the requirements of good citizenship need an assist, especially people living in other overcrowded slum areas, low-income areas as we are in East Harlem. We have an all-day neighborhood school with a registration of over 1,500 children, of which 99% are Puerto Rican. We have an all-day neighborhood school with a Spanish lake in East Harlem. And the least we ask, the least we ask of this board is to be given an extension of the facilities of the old-day neighborhood school to the adjoining schools, so that we will have a deterrent to juvenile delinquency. That our mothers will be released to go to the mill and factory and augment our daily budget. We are struggling wholeheartedly to meet with the requirements of that good citizenship that is being predicated left and right. Some of that printer's ink being used by the metropolitan press to keep us in the forefront every day should be used to come over and discover with us the benefits that are accruing to us in the neighborhood school and plead with the city to make to us extensive, you know, the benefits of community centers within our school that will keep our boys, you know, from the pitfalls of juvenile delinquency. We are thankful for the very valuable assists rendered our people in the past, but at present that's not enough. The containment of the special services in the supplementary budget or elimination of those services will have an ugly repercussion among our people. We are an impoverished group and it will only bring misery and anxiety to our people. Our wholehearted endorsement of the all day school stems from the fact that it has been a boon to our working mothers. It is a sound and wholesome program has been a deterrent to juvenile delinquency. We are painfully aware of the many hardships visited upon the city administration at its source in all the world. We are a deterrent to juvenile delinquency. We are a deterrent to juvenile delinquency. We are painfully aware of the many hardships visited upon the city administration at its source in Albany. It is sad to see that those who purported to love us in December have forsaken us in March and April. We are faced with a very unique situation in our neck of the woods. We have a registration, as I said before, of over 1,500 people. In the last two years, that is the life of our all day neighborhood school, we have had, and mind this, we are proud, we boast of the fact, that we have had an attendance of over 300 parents to PTA meetings. And that is a unique situation in New York City. Why? For the very obvious reason that we have discovered that school is an asset to the community. They have a sound and well balanced program in our school, in there. And that is why we have given it wholehearted support. But that is not enough, gentlemen. We need an extension of these same facilities to other worthy areas that are overcrowded, that are low income areas. We are, I am speaking, see, from the experience of a man that has been closely cooperating with his schools. And I would like, you know, I would have liked Dr. Johnson to listen and hear us. Because we need, it is a paramount need in our community, to have a community center with a permanent director that will help, will help all these children in the community, that will help our, by implementing programs, you know, for adults, for adult education to further it. We need that. It is a crying need. We are blessed with a brand new school. We are not asking for a brand new school. But we are asking for help. The extension of these all day neighborhood schools. We are having a meeting tonight. This is not an idle boast. Please come with us and investigate closely what we are doing, what we are trying to accomplish. We are trying to integrate our people, see, and to be able to sit at the council, at the table with the different races of their own contribution, which is valuable. We are people, see, with a, who are proud, you know, of their ancestry. And we want to contribute. We don't want to be handed charity in a silver platter. We want to work our way out. Now that we are coming out of the woods, all of this is visited upon us. We are in an area that is beset by grasping landlords. Now we get a rent increase where we are paying rents that are the equal of apartments on Park Avenue. We don't know why. We would like to hear the answer. We would like to get the solution of our ills and problems. We came here today hoping wholeheartedly that we can get an assist from you gentlemen in furthering, you know, our steps, you know, toward integrating our people. To be able to sit at the council with the other races on an equal footing. And not be called, you know, the ugly duckling. We are the later rivals. But I don't think that those races that preceded us, the other people that preceded us, had to contend with so much antagonism. With so much, should I say, at times hatred. Because they feel that we do not belong. We don't want charity. We don't want sympathy. We want an equal chance, an equal opportunity. And the schools are the only ones, see, that will offer us, that will bring to us the opportunity to work our place among the other people that integrate antagonism. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Alice Kelleha. I'm pleased to follow the last speaker because I think he has done something we needed here. He's brought the heart into this situation. Our grave concern is about the future of the city. It's too bad we have to discuss budgets year by year as we do. Instead of being able to look ahead and do long-range planning. One speaker used the expression, ghost town. That's not idle. I'm in a position as a university person to know how many parents are deeply distressed about our schools. How many parents are asking into what communities they can move, where they will find schools of high standard and high caliber. That doesn't mean that we don't have in this city schools that are excellent, principals who are making every effort under very difficult circumstances, and devoted teachers. But, for example, in this coming budget, we are allowing for the elementary schools slightly under four cents a day for supplies, when even a penny postcard now costs two cents. Four cents. It's a little more than four cents for junior high. Young adolescents. And then we struggle with the problems of what they do in terms of vandalism in the parks, and other problems of costs of young adolescents. We struggle with the problem of half of our boys and girls leaving school on the high school level. Where do they go? What happens to them? And in what other ways do we pay? Because we have not expended the funds. I, too, happen to be a real estate taxpayer. I know that my pocketbook's going to be hit, too, so that I'm not coming to you in an irresponsible mood. But I also know that the value of the property throughout our five boroughs is intimately related to the quality of our schools. The chambers of commerce throughout the country know that. The citizens' committees on schools know it. Roy Larson knows it in his National Citizens Committee that people will move into communities because they offer good schools and good opportunities for children. But we are now giving the Board of Education the privilege, almost, I think, for the first time, of maneuvering its own budget so it can cut two million. I was going to say so it could cut its throat. Why should we save two million on our children? Aren't there other ways? I'm not a tax expert, but I live in Manhattan. I work hard. I'm on one of Mr. Wagner's committees. I'm trying to find out where the money goes. I see this list up here. I don't see two million being taken away from the children without real loss. As of last spring, for example, when I went over to the law committee of the Board and met with Mr. Timon, I discovered, to my great regret, that we had 4,000 teachers out of something like 36,000 called permanent substitutes. Now, any of you lawyers know that's a classic, non-sequitur, permanent substitute. What kind of morale can you build if you're a principal and some 8, 10, or 12 teachers come into your school in September knowing that, in effect, they're temporary employees? What could you build in a law office? What could you build in a medical clinic? We've got to tackle this problem of personnel. And we've got to pay for it. The surrounding communities are paying for it. And they're giving people real jobs, not substitute jobs. Now, the gentleman who preceded me said, far more eloquently than I can, that we cannot afford not to increase the budget for community recreation. Again, it's robbing Peter to pay Paul. That's been said. We need more permanent recreation centers. And I want to support one point that he made several times. And that is that we should put into communities permanent directors of recreation centers who become tied in with the destiny of the community. Not just people who are going to be hired an hour or two and paid a dollar or two, but people who go into a community like the one this gentleman describes, knowing that that community is going to be a part of his life or her life, and over a period of years can tie in, as have the neighborhood houses, to their communities in a constructive human way. Recreation has many deeper implications than just play. Recreation has been a part of his life, the human relationships, the building of a real community feeling. It's not just keeping adolescents off the streets. It's helping to make people and good citizens of our boys and girls. Now, we've heard a good bit about Albany. I heard that we could have gotten $30 million somehow. I don't know about that. I'm sure if you could have gotten $30 million, you would have done it. But I know this, that if we cut our children anymore in the city schools, they're going to lose the prestige that they now have because of the magnificent struggle teachers and principals have made. And I go back again to the fact that I wouldn't know, and I don't think any of you would know, how to keep a boy or a girl constructively occupied when you give them four cents a day for their supplies. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Abraham Lefkowitz. I'm glad that some members of the Board of Estimates think education is significant enough to be here to see what can be done despite the dark outlook. The mayor made an eloquent plea for support at the special session of the legislature as one who spent much time there and took a decisive part in the attempt to get state aid, and who took the budget message of the governor of the state and showed that it did not meet the challenges of the time, that it was phony throughout. I sympathize with the mayor, but I'm here to discuss his budget, your budget, the executive budget. And what I read on my way back to the city from a much-needed vacation did not make me joyful in the slightest. As one who witnessed the arbitrary and scornful treatment of our city by Governor Dewey, who flagrantly ignored the principle of home rule, which he thrusts at us every time he wants to veto a good bill, I am nevertheless of the conviction that lack of financial vision and courageous, responsible leadership that dares make decisions and make them on time and not when it's too late, made it possible for the governor to cram an unpalatable financial program down the throat of the city of New York. And it's obvious to me that that was a program for the haves and not for the have-nots. In my 36 years as a spokesman for labor and the teachers, I've never faced what we face now, a will-o'-the-wisp budget. Now you see it, now you don't. A pea-shell game in the form of budgeting, which is called sound financing. What will this budget be? No one definitely knows except that it will prove disastrous to education and to the services of our city. Education faces a possible further budget deficit of $15 to $17 million, and the budget that you cut at the present time from $279 to $261 is a budget which the Board of Education said was not even a decent minimum budget. And if you're going to cut that, a total of $34 or $32 million, I can only see disaster. And I ought to know something about education. I've spent 48 years in it. Those who are responsible for the lack of foresight and the vision which precipitated this crisis because it was of slow growth, because they ignored every constructive financial suggestion we made within 20 years. Who will pay for it? They? Oh no. One million school children and 40,000 teachers and public workers are going to pay. Take our city colleges. I'm sorry Dr. Gallagher wasn't here. To them, what kind of a budget is it? It's a budget that doesn't give them anything practically, $100,000. And that budget will be cut about 20% or more if the disaster that the mayor so delightfully predicts will take place. I don't like budget juggling. I don't like a failure to face an issue. When you tell the public that the public schools of this city are getting $349 million, that is misleading the public. The budget that we asked for was $279 million. You're giving us $261 million. You're giving us not the $20 million increase you advertised at all. You're giving us $11 million and a fraction. And you got the other $9 million by taking it. Because of the gains of the other services, not under the control of the Board of Education and not a dollar of which is given to them. The $88 million which is saddled on to create the impression that something is done. For financial juggling, I give you prize number one. If you do not accept the transit authority, says the mayor, this will be a ghost town. I say he is right. It'll be more than a ghost town. It'll be a town where delinquency will mount and crime exposed before will be such as to frighten any decent citizen. 97 millions. And he does us a favor in taking our slash budget and taking 15 millions more if he has to, if the transit authority is beaten. Do you know what that means? Well, I'll tell you as an administrator, one of the largest high schools in the world. It means class size that's staggering. I'll come to that a little later. It means no extension, not only no extension, but every important recreational facility will be slashed. And we're now faced with a delinquency problem that we can't cope with at all. Supplies, texts, every important thing, auto-visual education, everything that makes education interesting to our children will be cut out and slashed. Do you expect education under those conditions? How could anyone dare to contemplate in a city that has almost a $20 billion assessed valuation, dare to imply that? And my answer is this, and I regret I have to say it. As far as I can see it, that is simply a red herring drawn across the budgetary trail to frighten the people into what may happen, and yet they know they daren't let it happen. Let me take up the class size. We now have, in the city of New York, 17,848 oversized classes. And that's using not the national norm of 30. We're using 35 as a basis of the normal class in this city. 17,848 oversized classes with 35 or over, and they run up to 55. Of these, 10,838 are in the academic high schools, throwing us back 50 years, and you're giving the academic high school the rawest deal in this budget, as I shall show. What will happen with classes so huge that they are unmanageable? How can you maintain order? How can you do constructive work? How can you give children individual attention? Anyone who was ever taught at all knows that that's utterly impossible. The only element in the school system that received a fair deal was the junior high schools. There you granted the instruction and supervision that they asked for. Now, much against my protest, the high school division asked for 160 substitutes and 80 regular positions. In a sense, I'm glad you slaughtered them. They should have had the courage to ask for what they were entitled to, not for what they thought they can get. I pleaded with them never to do that, and they do it all the time. So what did they get? 120 substitutes hired in September and fired in February. Are you going to build morale by doing that to people? What you are actually doing are taking trained teachers who are licensed and driving them out of the school system and industry at a time when there is a mounting teacher shortage in the state and the nation. That's educational suicidal policy. And I can't understand how a thing like that can be done. And you do the little beautiful ledger domain in the vocational schools. The teachers ended the boycott. And one of the agreements in that was that the vocational hours were to be made the same as those in the academic high schools. And since they couldn't do that because of the lack of teachers, they put in the budget $1,085,000. So we have the most beautiful bit of financial ledger domain I have ever witnessed in 36 years of budget unions. They drop 34 jobs and 141 unfilled positions making a total of 175 jobs. And then they delightfully provide that the board may have 175 jobs that they have just taken away. And then they delete the $1,085,000 from the budget. Talk about high finance. That's cute. Why didn't you use that process to get the necessary money for the entire educational budget? I could use it delightfully. Now I'm a supervisor, but I'm here to make a plea not for supervisors, but for the teachers. And the plight of the teachers is tragic indeed. They sought to get the restoration of their 1939 buying power of the dollar by asking for a $1,500 increase of which $700 was to come from the city and the rest from the state in the form of state aid, which never came because the governor, an astute politician, prefers to grant his favors at the time when he's up for re-election. He knows people don't remember politically too long. And so what did we get for the teachers? First, thanks to the governor of this state, they will take a 15% rent increase, which will affect 800,000 people in New York City. Thanks to the governor, they will get a fair increase because you have to accept the authority. And in addition, several nuisance taxes, and you may be forced if you don't, to drop the HIP. Here you give them three and four salary cuts in a delightful little bunch, instead of an adjustment in finances for salaries long overdue. Now, if these cuts were not enough, the teachers find that they have to take another job to make ends meet. And so what happens? They come back to school, inadequate supplies, huge classes, worn out from the night before. Do you expect any inspirational teaching from those worn out wrecks? No. If you think you'll get them, you are the leading optimists of the nation. And I want to ask you one question to think about. How much more must you lay on the back of the teacher before you break his back? I know the load they're carrying, and I tell you it's frightening. And what they'll carry under this budget, if you have to raise the $97 million, I hesitate to think about. It is too much for me to think about. Now you say, in the budget, at least in the executive message, that if you decide to reject the Governor's outrageous program, and it is outrageous, it will involve an across-the-board increase, or cut rather, of 12 and three-quarter percent. 12 and three-quarter percent from a wholly inadequate budget. And you will fire over 3,000 teachers, 2,700 police, 1,000 firemen, 1,500 sanitation men, 20% increase in class I, closing of playgrounds, and so on, and so on, and so on. Who's kidding whom? But you want to give education some consolation. So you say to the Board of Education, we've cut you on a percentage basis less than anybody else, you and the fire department. And percentages are very elusive because we take a slash of 15 millions of that money. And then you are gracious enough to say to them, you may cut wherever you please. We leave that to your judgment. It's like saying to a man, we're going to amputate two of your fingers and we'll give you the glorious opportunity of deciding which ones. I can assure you the Board of Education will not appreciate your generosity one bit. Now, I want to answer, in a sense, an implication of a lady who's an owner. Well, I'm a taxpayer. Thank you. I am a taxpayer, too. Everybody talks here as though they are the only taxpayers, when every teacher is a taxpayer. And there are 40,000 of them. Now, since the legislature of the state of New York, at one of the worst jockeyed fixed hearings that it had ever been my misfortune to see, jockeyed against the tenant, put through a 15% increase for everyone who did not have it since 1943. Why not, instead of eliminating career men, instead of destroying services, instead of mutilating the city and making it what the mayor said, a ghost town, why not put the assessed valuations at what they should be? Because they are woefully under-assessed and nowhere near market prices. The Empire State Building, I'll give you one illustration, was assessed at around 30 million. It sold for over 50 million. And I can go, I haven't time to go into a discussion of how much more you can get by an intelligent application of that principle. Career men, men who've dedicated their life, and men and women who've dedicated their lives to public service, are not to be threatened with a dismissal in order to incur support or to win it. You've got that support. We know we're entitled to more state aid. We know the city got a raw deal from the governor. We know it was done for political reasons. But make it on a straightforward appeal. And say, we want this for the schools. We want it for the hospitals. We want it for the children. We want it to avoid mounting delinquency. And you won't have to beg for the support. You'll have it. And may I say to you, I am the last person in the world to say a good thing to the governor of this state. He's guilty, all right. But I want to also emphasize that his alone is not the responsibility. Those who showed the lack of vision and foresight and courage in this administration must also assume their share of responsibility. And now I'll close. This city and the people living in it, my colleagues, other city employees, and especially the children, are going to pay a terrible price for an oversight over a period of years. I can just vision my own school with 6,000 youngsters in the fall. Have to stand because there are more children than seats. Some of them stand now. With inadequate text. With books so dirty and unsanitary that I would hate to give them out. With auto-visual instruction crippled. We have three sessions now and it's bad enough, God knows. Faced by whom? By teachers full of inspiration and life? Oh no. By teachers with two and three jobs. Worn out. And there they must face this little army five times a day because they have five teaching periods where they must deal with their subject. Well, frankly, it isn't pleasant even for me who can sit in an office and not look at him if he wants to. Last year I warned against those financial gimmicks of the Moore Report. This year you are crying aloud against those gimmicks because they worsened our situation. All I can say is this. May, nay, takele you far, soon. You have been weighed in the balance with the governor and in my judgment the verdict is that you have been found wanting. When a great school system must be cut and cut and cut to the bone so that a million children who have to face the world problems and reach far reaching decisions and help save humanity from the great number one menace of communism which has challenged us. When these children who have to make the problems are going to have their education mutilated so that it is not effective. I say it's a crime not only against the city but against civilization itself. No, no, no, no, not at all. Mrs. Lindlof is the next speaker. I'm sorry you had your say. I'm very sorry you cannot speak anymore. I forgot to be debrief. Mrs. Lindlof. Not going to make this a debating society. No, it's not, it's, uh, brief. Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimate, I shall not speak at any length. I think Dr. Lethkowitz's speech was a good speech for all of you to take to heart very seriously. I share almost all of his opinions. I want to speak a little bit about class size. That is one of the gravest ills in the school system. And that is the size, the size of classes. We have a very fine program which is belittled by those people who refuse to have money spent where it will do the most good. But that program requires really intimate knowledge of the children whom we teach, particularly in the elementary schools which I represent. You cannot, with the best of goodwill, do the work that it is your duty to perform with classes which average, according to the budget, 31.5. When there are over 7,000 classes with more than 40 pupils in them. Those, the situations where you have these large classes make it impossible for the teacher to really do an honest job. And I am certain that you people, if you would go to our schools and visit them, not with critical ideas in your mind, being against this kind of a program, but go there and try to understand what the Board of Education and the teachers in our schools are trying to do. We realize the kind of a world these children that are in school today are going to have to face unless we who have the authority to bring about the right conditions for these children to be taught under. Unless we see to it that the money is forthcoming to provide the right number of teachers, to give us the right number of teachers, to give us the small classes that we must have, to give us not inadequate supplies, and those are the poorest quality. To give us the right number of teachers, to give us the right number of teachers, to give us the things that are needed to make you be able to remain in your graves when these children grow up. If you have failed to provide them with the kind of education that they need to live properly and act properly and do for their children what we have failed to do for them thus far. I want to say just one word about ways of getting more money. I know what I shall say will be very, very much criticized by some of my colleagues, perhaps by some of you. However, I happen to be old enough to have lived when the federal income tax was not yet a reality. And I heard the college boys of my own groups at that time talk in favor and against the federal income tax. We have it today, and I'm sure you must agree that it is a blessing that we do have the federal income tax to provide us with some of the much needed money. Now, in my opinion, and in the opinion of some people who are really tax experts, I don't pretend to be an expert on taxes. However, I do know this much, that a moderate income tax on city residents or people that come in from the outside, that there should be a city income tax for all. All the residents of the city, begin with a penny a month, if you like, for those with hardly anything. But so that every single person in this city and who comes in here and works here and gets the benefit of our business establishments by working here, should all pay something to bring about sufficient income or to help to bring about sufficient income to educate our children. And I can tell you that I'm not speaking about education from a selfish point of view. But I say that education is your most important activity. Because if you have your people, young and old, adult education comes in here, remember, if you have them properly educated, they will see to it that none of the welfare things that we have on there should be cut down, but that all the things that are necessary to give our people and our children a normal, happy, healthy life with the right kind of education, they will all work for it. I plead with you, gentlemen, to think over this very much disregarded method of getting money. I know how it worked before it was adopted by the federal government. I know that there will be a great deal of opposition, but I'm sure if you take the trouble to educate our people to the needs and how little actually it will cost each individual with small income and the people with big incomes, well, perhaps they'll give more to charity. That's what they do now about the federal income tax. They always cut down their income. But then they'll give it to the charities and perhaps the city will not have to supply so much. However, I believe it is a legitimate source of income and I think you need that. Thank you. The board will take a recess until 2.20. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.