It's ballet time. Each Saturday at five, we offer an hour of music, legend, and news of the dance. For our commentator and guide in this series, we present the ballet reviewer and writer, Reed Severin. Here now is Reed Severin to introduce today's recorded program of ballet time. Thank you, Mr. Enlone. Good afternoon, everyone. My guest for today is someone who needs, I'm sure, no introduction to those of you who have been interested in dance for any length of time. Mr. Anatole Chujoy has become a kind of American dance tradition in the years that he has spent here since coming from his native Russia many years ago. He is, in fact, a graduate of the University of St. Petersburg, and as a young man, counted himself among the so-called gallery ballet domains that fought their way into the Mariansky Theater to see the imperial Russian ballet in the days before the Revolution. In this country, he has made incalculable contributions to dance education generally, aside from remaining an avid ballet domain. He is a dance scholar of worldwide reputation. He is the founder, along with Paul Milton, of Dance Magazine. He is the editor and publisher now of Dance News, the only newspaper in the world devoted solely to dance. And he is also editor of the Dance Encyclopedia to be published this spring, which promises to be a sort of landmark in dance book publishing. There are, in other words, few people who are so well qualified to answer the sort of questions I plan to ask today. In fact, I got my idea for this particular program from reading one of Mr. Choojoy's articles for Dance Index entitled Balletomania, which discusses the Russian craze for ballet from its early origins. It was so completely fascinating to me that I thought you all would enjoy sharing Mr. Choojoy's knowledge and experiences. I thought, too, that it would be intriguing for you to hear from him about the original productions of classic ballets such as Swan Lake and Giselle, which most of us, myself included, know only from the productions of American companies. Tell me, Mr. Choojoy, just how does our American ballet setup compare with that of the Imperial Russian Ballet, in very general terms, that is? In very, very general terms, Mr. Severin, the difference is a quantitative one. A ballet company in America is considered big when it has 50 or 60 dancers. A pre-revolutionary Russian company never had less than 250 active dancers. I see. Here, we consider a ballet like Giselle or Coppelia, in fact, any ballet of more than one act, a big ballet. In Russia, a full Giselle or a full Nutcracker was considered a small ballet. A really big ballet contained at least three acts and four or five scenes, such as the Sleeping Beauty, for instance, or Swan Lake, or an old-timer like the Daughter of Pharaoh. The Daughter of Pharaoh, incidentally, used to run more than three hours and had a cast of more than 200, not including animals. Well, more specifically, how does the Swan Lake that we see today at the Ballet Rusta Monte Carlo, or Ballet Theatre, compare with the evening-long Swan Lake that you saw back in 1914, 1915, and so on, in St. Petersburg? The Swan Lake, as we know it here today, is an excellently constructed choreographic poem, the kind that used to be called Grand Pas in the Imperial Theatre. As you know so well, Mr. Severin, contemporary ballet programs very often call this or that Pas de deux, a Grand Pas de deux. Mm-hmm. This is incorrect. A Grand Pas de deux is a Pas de deux for the ballerina and premier danseur in which the corps or other soloists participate. A Pas de deux in which only the ballerina and the premier danseur appear is just a Pas de deux. Our Swan Lake today is a typical Grand Pas. There are the soloists, the corps, and the ballerina and the premier danseur. Mm-hmm. This Swan Lake tells a very romantic story about the prince who meets the Queen of Swans, a beautiful girl, who has been made into a swan by an evil magician. For certain hours during the night, the magician permits the Queen of Swans and her friends to assume their human forms. But at daybreak, they are all turned into swans again. The gallant prince attempts to fight the magician. But since he is not possessed of supernatural powers, he is no match for the magician and falls dead at the end of the ballet. This is our Swan Lake. Now, the full Swan Lake was in four acts. It had a long and complicated story with a great deal of pantomime, scores of interpolated dances, and all the trimmings the Russian ballet was justly famous for. As a matter of fact, the history of Russian ballet knows two swan lakes. The first was produced in Moscow in 1877 by an obscure ballet master, Julius Reisinger. It was not a success. The music was considered too symphonic, and the audience did not take kindly to it. But the second swan lake, staged in St. Petersburg in 1895, that was after Tchaikovsky's death, was a huge success. It was staged by Marius Petipa and Lefe Ivano, his assistant, and the great Italian ballerina Pierina Lenniani had the main role. Well, speaking of the main role, how do our Swan Queens now compare with the old Russian ones? Or should I say, how do our best Swan Queens compare with the best of the Russians? In my opinion, Mr. Severn, and speaking generally, our Swan Queens compare pretty favorably with the Swan Queens of old Russia. With this qualification, however, a qualification, incidentally, which applies to all ballerinas dancing all classic ballets, a dancer must believe in the story, in the drama, in this case, in the drama of Swan Lake. She must be romantic enough, perhaps unsophisticated enough, if you wish, to be touched by the melodrama of Swan Lake. Otherwise, she will never be able to dance well, the role of the Queen of Swans. Of the several Russian ballerinas I have seen in Swan Lake, and among them were Kshisinska, Vaganova, Spesivceva, Tamara Karsavina. Karsavina was always my favorite. Of the contemporary dancers, and I'm sticking my neck out, I like most Alexandra Danilova. Second, I'd say Irina Baronova, who unfortunately is not dancing any longer. Third, Nana Golnar. And fourth, Alicia Markov. And then, the field, the rest of them. In the pas de deux, I just wanted to mention this, that in the pas de deux from the third act of the old Swan Lake, that is, the so-called black swan pas de deux, or the magic swan pas de deux, as it's veryly called, I prefer Tamara to Manova. But overall, as the Queen of Swans, I think Danilova comes closer to the conception, to the image of a Russian ballerina in that role. Well, Mr. Chirjo, I've never seen the old Russian ballerinas you mentioned, of course, but I certainly do agree myself about Alexandra Danilova, who happens to be one of my ten favorite Americans, even if she wasn't born here. You have ten favorite ballerinas. Well, I wouldn't go so far as to say that. Almost. But now, let's hear the music from the Swan Lake that we know here in America. Not the music, of course, for the full-length Swan Lake, but just for the American Swan Lake, such as we see in ballet theater, or at the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. The Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now,