When you walk by a war bond, remember, ladies and gentlemen, that the boys overseas are giving their lives. You are only asked to lend your money. And on this theme, your city station microphones are set up at 29th Street and 7th Avenue on the southwest corner to bring you the ceremonies of the war bond rally of the War Emergency Board of the Fur Industry. Among the notable speakers to be heard will include our own mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Fiorello H. Ligardia. And now it is my pleasure to introduce Mr. Henry H. Engel, who is chairman of this rally. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed a privilege to present a great singing star who has graciously consented to be with us at this monster war bond rally. She has sung with the Metropolitan Opera Company, the San Francisco Opera Company, and is now one of the stars of that smash hit operetta, Rosalinda. It gives me great pleasure to present Miss Jean Merrill, who will sing our national anthem. Thank you. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what some road may be there. Thank you, Miss Merrill. And now, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of this rally, I wish to present the chairman of the War Bond Committee of the War Emergency Board of the Fur Industry, Mr. George I. Fox. Ladies and gentlemen of the Fur Industry, I welcome you as chairman of the Bond Committee of the Fur Industry to this rally, which marks the opening of the greatest drive. The nation has attempted to raise a huge sum of $13 billion for the support of our boys in the field. The fur trade has pledged itself to participate to the extent of $10 million in bond stores this drive. I'm sure that every one of us, both employers and employees alike, will do their share in participating in this privilege, to share in the fight for freedom, democracy, and until victory is ours. I know the fur trade, then, will all to a man, will come along and not wait to be approached and coached to participate in this privilege. You will come along from your own free will, buy bonds as much as you can, so that we can share in the effort until the Nazis and the fascists have been wiped off the earth. We have a very elaborate program prepared for you. We have some nationally known singers and some well-known speakers, among whom our very beloved Mayor, the Honorable Fiorello Lagaria, will speak to you in a little while. And now I'm going to introduce to you the young man who will take our work to be the master of ceremonies on this occasion, a man who is a nationally known artist, both on stage and screen, who has just come back from the coast, where he has entertained 195 camps. He is also appearing on the Campbell's shoe program each Wednesday night. He is the star of the Siegfeld Follies. He is a man who gives of himself at all times that he has ever called upon to perform a duty for patriotic services and for very charitable causes. I give you the very fast approaching number one comedian of the United States, our very beloved Milton Berle. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Fox, it's a wonderful announcement for a skin dealer. I'm very glad to be here today, ladies and gentlemen, on this wonderful rally. It's very nice and warm out here. I should have wear my silver fox earmuffs today. But I want to tell you, pardon me, I just got up. It's a pleasure and a privilege, really. On behalf of the fur industry, and I'd like to be half of the fur industry, it's really a thrill to be up here on this rostrum with all these. I guess all you ladies and gentlemen in this very vast audience are wondering who these very, very gorgeous-looking ladies are here with the roses in their hands. May I say that these ladies, I'd like to introduce them, have them stand up and take a bow. They're all mothers of all the boys from the fur industry that are seeing service. Let's give them a swell hand. Here they are. Thank you very much, ladies. Thank you. You look very, very pretty. Very. I want to tell you that everybody's going to be here. The mayor, Mayor LaGuardia, was supposed to be here a little earlier, but he's tied up. He's playing bingo up in 48th Street, you see. If he's here, I'm kidding, Theorella. But I have... Everybody, in fact, you know, the reason I'm here, for another reason, I, uh... I, uh, very, very glad because I have a brother. Uh, Mr. Fox, you can sit down. We saw your coat. Looks all right. Looks... Gets up and shows his coat. And, uh... Who's afraid of the big, bad wolf? I.J. Fox. I, uh... No, pardon me. I mean George Fox. But it is really, uh, my brother's in the fur industry. He's a caracal curler. He's got a wonderful job. You know how you, uh, curl caracal. They're curled already. Do I have to explain the jokes here today? But I want to tell you, it's really very, very, uh, a big thrill, ladies and gentlemen, really, to be up on this spot around it. There is very, uh, in fact, uh, Eleanor Roosevelt was supposed to be here, but it was too near. And, uh, I'm a little tired out. I've been ironing all day and forging my ration card. And I want to tell you, it, uh, this is like trying to get laughs at a murder trial. Will you relax, please? Laugh when the world laughs with you. Try and they put you under goodwill. Put you under goodwill. I want to tell you, it's very, very difficult trying to get laughs with the subway going underneath you here. But I want to tell you that I would like to introduce, I would like, I would like to go back to sleep. I would like to introduce, I'm really, I'm tired, really. I'm very happy though today. It's my anniversary. I've been married a year today. I don't know what to get my wife. She wants a man. I, um, oh, now you laugh. I like that, uh, our New York finest, all these very fine policemen are doing a wonderful job here this afternoon. I want, I think, a swell hand for the New York's finest boys. Let's give, let's give all the boys a hand. Except the guy up on 34th Street wouldn't let me through. And if he can hear me, I mean it. He's a, get out, get out there. He's a Harvard man. And, uh, no, all kidding aside, all these fellas. I played a cop in my last picture. I made a picture called Margin for Error. Who saw the picture? Anybody see it? Three, four, five. Thank you. You did. Hello, Ben. I'm glad to see you. Ben Platt's here. I guess he wants me to mention his name. I mentioned it. Now you go back to your store. All right. I played a cop in that picture and I had the most important part in that picture in Margin for Error. Joan Bennett, she's in the picture too. And I have the most important part. At the beginning of the picture, I opened the door and let Joan Bennett in the picture. And if I don't open the door, she's not in the picture. If I don't open the door, she's not in the picture. That's the end of the joke. What do you want? Gasoline? Relax. May I present, may I present as our first surprise, ladies and gentlemen, may I present as our first surprise some kids from CCNY waving to me over there. How are you, kid? Fine, how are you? Playing hooky, huh? May I present four boys, ladies and gentlemen, that are from our very fine United States Coast Guard. All of them have seen action and fighting. One gentleman who was the head of the Southerners, Mr. Homer Smith. You've heard on the Columbia Broadcasting System, and he's gathered all these boys and formed the Coast Guard Quartet, which is one of the finest singing quartets in the service. Now, the fellow members of the quartet are Ms. James Lewis, Thomas Lockhart, Martin Bowen, with Frank Boyle at the piano. Now, Homer, suppose you take over and tell him what we're going to do. Where's Homer? Homer. All right, Homer. Ladies and gentlemen, Homer Smith. A swell hand for Homer Smith. Thank you. Oh, yeah, I know you, Homer. How's everything? All right. This wasn't the same as fuck for you out there at Manhattan Beach. We're waiting for you. Yeah, we're out at Manhattan Beach together. We did that big benefit out there. That was the opening. I remember very well. Okay. Well, these boys are dynamite. Yes, yes. Semper Veratis, ladies and gentlemen. Semper Veratis is our guide, our fame, our glory too. To fly, to save, or fight, and die, I'm for Scott, we are for you. From north and south and east and west, the coast starts in the height. Chasing subs and landing troops, the axis feels a might. The coast that landed everywhere in all our fighting field. In Arctic, though one trapping shore, you'll find a silver shield. So hear the coast that was a great battle song. We fight on land or sea. Through our land and gale. And shot and shell too, we're our things for thee. Semper Veratis is our guide, our fame, our glory too. To fly, to save, or fight, and die, I, for Scott, we are for you. I, for Scott, we are for you. Yeah. You gonna sing another one? I want you to listen to the Coast Guard's next song, and if you like it, I'll tell you who wrote it. And if you don't like it, I'll never write another song as long as I live. Keep the home fires burning. While the hearts are yearning Though the land be far away They dream of home There's a silver lining Through the dark clouds shining Turn the dark clouds inside out Till the boys come home There's a long, long trail a-winding Until my dreams all come true Till the day when I'll be going Down that long on trail with you We're on our way, glory laying down It's a long way to Tipperary It's a long way to go It's a long way to Tipperary The sweetest girl in all the world To me, so goodbye to Pinker Dilly And farewell, Esther, swear It's a long, long way to Tipperary But my heart's right there Nights are all Sinuit away I think about you All through the day My body knew My body knew Nobody quite so true Missed your eyes The touch of your hand I long to know That you understand My body knew My body knew Your body knew Your body knew Your body knew Your body knew Over there Over there Send a word, send a word Over there That the Yanks are coming The Yanks are coming The drums are coming everywhere So prepare Say a prayer Send a word, send a word To beware We'll be over We'll be over We'll be over And we won't come back Till it's over, over there Over, over there Over, over there Yes, sir Wonderful, wonderful Come on, let's give a big hand Give a big hand The Coast Guard Quartet Boy, look at that God bless you, boys Well, it just goes to show you Ladies and gentlemen That what a land of democracy And freedom that we're living in Where we can have four boys To come up here And sing from the well Right from the bottom of their heart And really mean everything And really mean it all Thank you, boys You were really wonderful God bless you I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen Quiet back there, please Thank you Wonderful orchestra, really They love music They sleep music They eat music If they can only read music That's it I'm only kidding If I said anything to insult you I thank you I, uh I would like, ladies and gentlemen To introduce to you Uh A young lady When I say a young lady I really mean it Because she's a very, very beautiful young lady And she's a grand star in her own right She's a grand 20th Century Fox star Incidentally, I'm under contract to them And I just signed a 10-year contract with them And they're very, next week They're gonna let me read it This young lady has been doing such a wonderful job In all the camps and Navy bases and everything And her very swell and grand husband Who is in the Navy right now In the Marines, I'm sorry Pardon me Well, alright, thank you I'm sorry Well, what's the difference Huh? Thank you for correcting me He's in the Marines And oh boy And he's doing his part And he's doing a great job May I present to you Annabella Mrs. Tyrone Powell, ladies and gentlemen I'm awfully sorry about it Thank you I'm sorry about the police Oh darling Thank you Ladies and gentlemen I have to make a confession first As you'll be able to realize very soon I'm awfully bad to make speeches So this morning They gave me that To read to you And on the way over in the car I tried And I found out that I was as bad to read it That just to try to make it by myself So, if you don't mind I'll try in my own words To tell you what I feel And if my accent is not very good And if I don't always use the right word I want you to know that At least It comes from the bottom of my heart I'm an American citizen now And I'm very proud of it I'm married to an American citizen You know who he is And I'm very proud of it too But I'm married to an American citizen You know who he is And I'm very proud of it too I'm very proud of it too But I was born in France In Paris And Coming from Europe As I suppose many of you did And you have some of your family And some of your parents over there You know all how much They are waiting For the American soldiers to arrive So what we are going to try to do today And every day And every day It's to try to hurry that day Of freedom For all those poor countries over there And for that we need more guns And more tanks And more planes And for that we need every penny we can give Because A little while ago 15 or 16 months ago We were asked to buy defence bonds And that was wonderful We had to defend ourselves And we wanted to fight And we were hoping to win But today What you are asked for Is even more exciting Because today We know we are going to win But we want to win quickly And if you can remember that Maybe each time you are going to give a dollar Each time you are going to buy a bond Each time you are going to buy a bond It's going to bring peace near to us Maybe it's going to save an hour Or one minute So if you think of that When you are going to give the dollar Don't wait an hour Don't wait a minute Don't wait a second But please, please do it now Thank you Thank you Thank you, Annabella Thank you Lots of good luck Amara gots to Ty After all, what has Tyrone Powell got that I haven't got? I'm sorry to say But ladies and gentlemen It is my pleasure now To present to you At this time A gentleman The War Emergency Board Of the fur industry Who discusses the records Of the War Emergency Board May I present to you The Chairman, Mr. Lou White Here he is, Mr. Lou White Ladies and gentlemen My friends have often told me That I look 10 years younger With my hat on And I'm sure that I'll feel At least 20 degrees warmer If I can keep my hat on Oh, pardon me, Mr. White May I interrupt? Were you caught in a hair raid? If I had the humor that our friend Mr. Burl has here I could answer him If you also had my hair, it would be alright The War Emergency Board of the fur industry Composed of labor and management organizations In the industry Has done an outstanding job In its war effort activities It has sponsored the previous war bond drive The salvage drive The blood donors drive And through its war chest Recently distributed $250,000 To war relief agencies of the allied nations The board's greatest gesture Was the creation of the fur vest project Which is now of national scope and operation Thousands of fur line vests Have been distributed to brave merchant seamen Of the allied merchant marine And this project is to be continued indefinitely To ensure a steady flow of these vests For the duration of the war This project was made possible Through the patriotism and generosity Of the fur workers Many of you within the hearing of my voice Are giving unstintingly of your time and labor For this most worthy cause And I'm sure you will continue to do so We are here today to ask you to make another contribution But one which will not require your time or even effort The United States government is asking you to put your money Into the finest and safest investment in the world Not only will you receive a good rate of interest And ensure yourself against poverty and distress in the years to come But these bonds will pay big dividends in victory, freedom, and the peaceful pursuit of happiness Bring those boys over there back quicker by backing them up with your dollars over here And now it is my extreme pleasure to present to you a dynamic personality A real friend of the fur industry A man who has been untiring in his duty and devotion to his country and his city His honor, the mayor of New York, Fiorella LaGuardia Mr. Chairman Mr. Benny Who said this was a ghost town? I wish some of these employers were trying to bring back starvation wages and the sweatshops and the sweatshops who said this was a ghost town I wish some of these employers were trying to bring back starvation wages and the sweatshops and Macy's and Bloomingdale's and Abraham and Strauss could come here and see this ground and incidentally while we're fighting this war we are not going to permit labor standards to be brought down now let Bloomingdale and Macy and Abraham and Strauss and Lord and Taylor take note of that and perhaps look at their own payrolls and give their employees a better birth you know Ben Gold asked me to come here make an appeal for this second war loan and after he asked me to come here and make the appeal he just now told me you're oversubscribed already and of course I know that the fur industry will come through as they always do you know you know as I said last night at Carnegie Hall the matter is very simple we either loan the money to our government and get it back with interest interest or else Hitler and the Japs will come over here and take it away from us we get nothing and we're not going to let them come over here and that is why we want to make this second war loan not only successful we want to oversubscribe it and I am sure that the flourishing prospering great industrial town of New York will lead the whole procession now of course we have no illusions about this men it's going to be a long and difficult war there's no doubt as to the outcome but we must do a complete job that means that there is a great deal of hard and difficult fighting ahead the news this week is rather encouraging the French the British and our American troops are chasing Rummel and his army into the waters of the Bay of Tunis the army of the Soviet Republicans are pushing back every attempt of the Nazi forces to break through again the Russian army has now the Nazi army in the mud up to their knees and pretty soon they'll have them in the mud up to their necks it wasn't so many weeks ago when Hitler was making preparations for his march into Moscow and as I told you at the meeting Madison Square Garden the only time the Nazi army will see Moscow will be when they'll be taken there as prisoners of war and yet as I say there's a great deal more fighting to be done and we have to fight until we've beaten and crushed and destroyed the Japs Hitler and his little pal Mussolini too none of them are any good and never were any good and some of us knew that they were no good all of the time so I want to congratulate the fur industry of New York City employers and the organized workers of the fur industry in getting an early start in this war loan in setting the example to other industries and I know that you'll make good for your country this time as you always make good this war is not only for our protection it's for a better world to bring about the assurance of peace and economic security not only for our people but for the people of the entire world thank you thank you thank you honor for the mayor LaGuardia it was really a wonderful wonderful speech I know the little flower so well I call him bud never forget the time I landed in California I came in on a plane and I landed at LaGuardia airport right on the brim of his hat but I do want to tell you incidentally I'm wearing an Adam's hat myself looks like Adam Warren but I do look he's rehearsing there again thank you what do you may I now you'll get a chance really to play that music they've been rehearsing there for about 15 minutes may I introduce now once again the little lady that sang our national anthem at the beginning of the show and she's going to do a little song for herself and for you lovely ladies and gentlemen may I present to you the star the singing star Rosalinda Miss Jean Merrill let's give her a swell recension Miss Jean off we go into the fire blue yonder climbing high into the sun here they come zooming to meet our thunder and a noise before the sun down we dive spunking our flame from under off with one terrible roar we live insane but go down insane place nothing will stop the army air car fighting men guarding the nation's border we'll be there followed by more in Esherland we carry on fighting nothing without the army air car lovely lovely thank you very much so long Mayor LaGuardia Honorable Mayor LaGuardia thank you very much I want to tell you I uh I'm only kidding Mayor you know you know I just goes to show you now uh Fiorello who just walked off the stage did you see him smile it goes to show you when you take a man like the Honorable Mayor LaGuardia when he can smile and we can say what we want to a man like uh the mayor when we say what we want to the president we must be living in a land of freedom and democracy and I really mean that sincerely ladies and gentlemen I would like I would like to introduce I would like to introduce a gentleman who's been doing his utmost and been doing a sensational job taught the war uh effort he uh he has a very marvelous position in the treasury department and he's going to say a few words may I present to you Mr. Mitchell of the treasury department ladies and gentlemen thank you Mr. Perl I'm not going to talk to you about bonds I know as the mayor said that you people will assume your obligation what I want to talk to you about is what you are going to think during this bond drive and it's been said far better than I could tell you a long time ago by Thomas Paine he wrote it at the time of the revolution when we at that time also had a crisis this is what he said these are the times that try men's souls the summer soldier and the sunshine patriot will in this crisis shrink from the service of their country but he that stands it now deserves the love and thanks of men and women tyranny like hell is not easily conquered yet we have this consolation with us that the heart of the conflict the more glorious the triumph I call upon not a few but upon all not on this state or that state but upon every state and up and help us lay your shoulder to the wheel better to have too much force than too little when so much is at stake it matters not where you live or what rank of life you hold the evil or the blessing will reach you all the far and the near the home country and the back the rich and the poor will re-suffer and rejoice alike the heart that does not feel now is dead the blood of his children will curse his cowardice who shrinks back at a time when a little might have saved the whole ask yourself just one question will you be proud of your boys when they come home of course you will now ask yourself another will they be proud of you you know the answer you're going to make them proud of you and I want to present one of the boys that we can be justly proud of a man who has seen action on practically all the fighting fronts a man who has done his work as we shall do ours from the coast guard Mr. Joe Press the boys out there are doing a good job I've seen them and I've seen them die by the guns so all I can say is they're out there giving the Japanese the Italian and the Germans hell and all I can say is you just can give the bonds hell and get the guns over there thank you thank you Joe a grand looking boy and thank you Mr. Frank Mitchell of the Treasury Department and now ladies and gentlemen being that Joe Chris is one of the United States Coast Guards I think it's just proper once again through numerous requests to have the Coast Guard Quartet sing another song Chris how about it one more song from the Coast Guard Quartet are you all ready boys? well that was a solid that was a game got ya this is my America that's what we're going to sing Mr. Burr this is our America let's go you ready? for this is my America land of liberty for this is my America where all men are free so let us raise each voice in praise to our God of love he gave us all America the land we'll always love we thank thee for America the land that we'll always adore and love and love from valors and plains America grew this beloved America Washington knew our America stretching from coast to coast has given a heritage we proudly boast we stand ready to defend our land and we want the enemy to understand and they cannot stop us no matter how hard they try we will fight for our America and if need be we'll die with taps we now wish to offer a tribute our honored heroes we reverently salute to pick up his handigmasteraus of los Horn Thank you, Coast Guard Quartet. Thank you. You're really wonderful. And now I think it's time that I'm going to retire, ladies and gentlemen, as you master of ceremonies, and turn this program over to one whom you all know and I think and I believe and I'm sure you respect. He's a business manager at the Furrier's Joint Council. He is one of the most elegant voices of Labour. He's been, in a large measure, responsible for the success of this rally. And his associates in the union have given their time and energy in the handling of arrangements. May I present to you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Irving Potash, and thank you and good afternoon. Now, first of all, let's express en masse thanks to Mr. Milton Perle for his generosity and his kindness to come here and be with us and introduce everybody. Give a hand now, everybody. Secondly, let me inform you that you stay on and if you get into the shop a half hour or more later, you will be permitted to work it off. So stay until the meeting is over. And thirdly, let's see whether we can take our hands out of our pockets, all of us here. This is not just a meeting for the speakers from the platform. This is a meeting where all of you will have to speak. Those of you on the sides, all over, take your hands out of your pockets and the rest of you to the right of me and those in the front. Let the gentlemen from the Treasury Department, let the United States government representatives know that you are here not only to listen to speeches, but you are here to demonstrate your readiness to support with money and with everything until we smash Hitlerism and wipe them off. The face of the earth, get your hands out and put them up and this pledge to the United States government representatives here. Let's see your hands. Take them out of your pockets. Let's see this pledge from everybody here at this audience. Come up with your hands. Take them out. They won't freeze. All over, down the other side. Express your opinion and your determination. Next, you have on this platform, her workers, women, mothers, members of our union, workers in this industry, who have given their sons in the United States armed forces, some of them two sons, some of them three, some of them their sons and daughters. Some of them three, some of them three, some of them three, some of them three, some of them sitting on this platform, your sisters working with you in your shops, members of your union, have had their sons over on the other side who have already made their supreme sacrifice, who have already laid down their lives so that you and I and the rest of us in this world may live free of the boot of Hitler. The boot of Hitler. They are right here. The mothers, your sisters and your fellow members of your union and your industry. The boot of Hitler. You have here a mother of a hero. You have read the newspapers only the other day of a member of our union, a young worker by the name of Abrams, who was a lieutenant in one of the bombers, the fortresses, fortresses that sunk three German ships in the Atlantic. That hero's mother is right here on this platform. These mothers have given their sons and the United States Treasury Department is calling upon us to give money to buy bonds so that the United States government may be able to buy the best that the American people and the American workers can produce. The best trains, the best trains, the best trains, the best tanks and guns to their sons and the sons of millions more to put an end to Hitlerism, to put an end to slavery, to bring about the world free of the threats, free of the slavery imposed by Hitler and the conquered people, to bring about a better and freer world for all of us. These are the mothers here who have sent their sons for that purpose. Last night, the Secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Morgan Cowell, spoke at Carnegie Hall and his opening remarks. When he opened the speech, he said, the second friend is no military secret. We all know that just over the horizon, we of the United Nations are piling up the sun, the clouds of the greatest attack in history. Now we are ready to deal a few blows ourselves. And there will be blows that I can promise that will rock Nazi Germany to its rotten, blood-stained foundation. The Secretary of the Treasury of the United States government, the cabinet member of our government, opened the speech last night with a statement that we are ready and this second war bond drive is raised in order to make possible the invasion of Europe, of our brave American boys, of the heroic boys of the British Army, of the British Army of the British Army, with the heroic people and army of the Soviet Union, in one mighty invasion of Europe that will once and for all put an end to Hitlerism and his slavery. And it is these bonds that we made you to buy today that will give the answer of the firm workers to the American government that we will give and give and give in every way possible to make possible the realization of the invasion of Europe to make possible victory over Hitlerism in 1943. Now, it is my job and present job to introduce to you the next and last speaker, one who has inspired and led our union with its 80,000 members all over the United States and Canada to make a record of war activities that is a shining example for the entire labor movement in this country. One who has inspired and led our union with its 80,000 people who have inspired and led our union with its 80,000 members to fight in the front ranks of the American armed forces and who will give an account of themselves in the same manner and even more ironically and even with greater sacrifice. One who has inspired and the membership of the American armed forces and the membership of our union that has stayed behind to support them on this side. It gives me pleasure to introduce to you the President of the International Foreigner Workers Union, Ben Goh. Friends, since that we are bound to enter a new, very important, and perhaps decisive phase of this great tragedy of mankind, it seems that a great many developments will take place in the year of 1943. It seems that a great many battles will take place in the very near future. And every battle will bring closer the day when all of us and the entire civilized world will gather to celebrate the great moment of the collapse of the Nazi cannibals and the victory of the civilized world. Tables are definitely turning, slowly but surely. Not long ago, Hitler and his chiefs were bragging about the superiority of the German weapons. Today it is generally recognized that our country alone succeeded in outproducing the Nazis to to the degree that even the Nazis recognized this fact. Both in quality and quantity, our weapons are superior to the Nazis' murderous weapons. Not long ago, the entire world was trembling with fear at the threat of Hitler that he is going to continue bombing London to a shambles. Today, the situation is entirely different. Today, the situation is entirely different. Our liberators and fortresses and the Spitfires and the Russian Sturmawiks are bombing Germany without a stop. And he feels the taste of his blitzkrieg methods. Not long ago, Churchill, in his speech stated to the British people that the only thing that he can offer them is sweat and tears and blood. Today, Hitler and Gables and Gables and Gables sing that song and they talk to the German people of blood and tears and sweat. Not long ago, all of us were afraid that Hitler might carry out his threat to invade the British arms. Today, there is a great deal of talk about invasion, but the invasion of the United Nations and the European continent that will catch Hitler in our most brutal milkcracker in the history of military matters. On the one side, our boys and the British boys. On the other side, the glorious Red Army that will split the Nazi army and annihilate it until the Casablanca decision of unconditional surrender will become a fact. Until recently, Hitler kept on talking of speedy victory. Now, in our ranks, the force in a speedy victory. We are darn interested in that victory. Come as soon as possible. We can't afford to prevent this war too long. It is no more that great invincible Nazi cannibal army that threatens the entire world. The Minas de Lombari and the Soviet Russian battlefields will never fight again on the side of the Nazis. In order to carry through that great fight of mankind, we must make every effort to help our government help the armed forces of the United Nations to make that possible. And we gather today publicly and officially to reassure our decision and make it clear that we are ready and willing and eager to back up that decision by action. Now, we are opening the great campaign for $13 billion bonds. And the fellow workers who hate fascism, who hate reaction, who despise oppression, who are always on the job to fight for democracy and freedom and the rights of labor and the well-being of our nation, are called today to make the opening. The International Union intends to develop an intensive campaign to contribute $2 million to this fund to buy bonds. I ask, is there a motion to instruct the General Executive Board to develop the campaign among its members for $2 million? In this month, is there a motion to that effect? Is there any seconder to the motion? Regularly moved and seconded to instruct and empower the General Executive Board of the International Union to develop the campaign for $2 million war bonds. All in favor! All in favor! All in favor! Seek us by raising your hand and keep it up! Keep it up! Keep it up! Keep it up! Let's have a picture so that we can see it, whether that is a unanimous decision. Hold it! Hold it! Hold it! Hold it! Hold it! Beat marks now! OK, man! Don! Any opposed? Raise your hand! And this is the unanimous decision that we again serve no rest on the cannabis and on the appeasers and the agents of Hitler that we are ready to fight to the left! trap of blood to annihilate the Nazis for the victory of the civilized world! At this time, may I ask you to take your heads off? I introduce the people of the Nazis for the victory of the civilized world! And ladies and gentlemen, with this unanimous decision of the fur industry to back the second wall of the civilized world, the Nazis for the civilized world! And I ask you to take your heads off! I introduce a no- Ladies and gentlemen, with this unanimous decision of the fur industry to back the second war loan of the United States government, we bring to a close this program, of which has been taken part at the 29th Street, 7th Avenue corner, at which point the war emergency port of the fur industry has held its war plan to the war plan to the United States. And the war plan to the United States government, of which has been taken part at the 29th Street, 7th Avenue corner, at which point the war emergency port of the fur industry has held its war bond rally. Among the speakers that were heard on today's program was his honor the mayor of the city of New York, Mayor Legardia. Milton Burrell served as emcee for part of the program, Henry Angle, chairman of the war bond rally committee of the fur industry, George I. Fox, chairman of the war bond committee, Lou White, chairman of the war emergency port of the fur industry, and Jean Merrill, that is, a metropolitan opera star, who sang the Star-Spangled Banner and the Army Air Corps song. And also, we just heard from the president of the Furious Union, Ben Gold. Ladies and gentlemen, we, before we leave, remind you that once again, when you buy bonds, you are only lending your money, while your own brothers, sons and husbands are giving their lives. And so, on the theme of any bonds today, we conclude this program, which has been a public service feature of your city station. This is the municipal broadcasting system. This is the municipal broadcasting system. To the British and central offices tonight. As an agent has perceive the Relationship School and University to make this strategic spirit. There is a nice tempest carta of Gembols in vital seriousness. And allikes men will reach out to the shade of Government. They presented on the slickront of our southern side. If this assists on the faces ofта giveaway on a budget schedule,oku top 100there... While the beta dealt with transformations like Sakabo pela strain hastily end cost. So he has the special benefit. On December of�store, I've reached a strategic tour적 case 1973.