11.45 daily is New York City Good Health Time, and today we have the cooperation, as we do each Monday, the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, as well as the Medical Information Bureau of the New York Academy of Medicine. Our Good Health speaker today is Dr. Louise D'Antuano, attending obstetrics and gynecology at Bellevue Hospital. The subject of Dr. D'Antuano's talk is, So We Are Planning to Have a Baby. Dr. D'Antuano. Dr. Louise D'Antuano. Dr. Louise D'Antuano is a Expl offenders The ancient adage of an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure cannot be better exemplified than improper care of the pregnant mother. Pregnancy, usually a normal condition, can become abnormal more suddenly than any other condition. Only with teamwork on the part of a cooperative patient and an obstetrician can the pregnancy remain normal. By the same token, treatment can thus be instituted as soon as it threatens to become abnormal. The woman who is planning to have a baby should include in her plans that of receiving the proper medical management of her pregnancy and its termination. Prenatal care means proper, careful supervision throughout pregnancy by the trained obstetrician. Ideally, it begins with attention to the health of the female child, in her education for motherhood, in care during the critical period of adolescence, and in the premarital examination and advice. For most women, however, prenatal care begins with the first visit to the doctor. This first visit should take place as early as possible when there is a probability that a baby is coming. Even though the patient feels well and has no obvious complaints, there should be no delay in obtaining prompt medical supervision. When you report to the obstetrician of your choice, that is the time you really begin to plan to have a baby. It is at the time of this first visit that the actual medical management of your pregnancy begins. On this occasion, a complete history of your previous life will be taken, and this will include information as to childhood diseases, adult illnesses, operations, injuries, and related details. Your history will also include a review of systems, including inquiries as to your weight, appetite, sleeping, and other habits. A complete physical examination will be done, including an obstetric examination. By this latter means, your doctor knows what course to lay down for you to follow. Laboratory procedures will also be done. After all of this has been done, the doctor will know if there is any pre-existing disease that will bear active treatment and watching during your pregnancy. Thus, your medical status as you begin your pregnancy will be known. At this time, and on subsequent examinations, you will have the opportunity of asking about situations which may be troubling you. The doctor will closely observe your progress. The hygiene of pregnancy, which will include, among other things, diet, weight, exercise, bathing, clothing, will be supervised. During pregnancy, there is no indication for a special diet, but you should eat the foods to which you are accustomed and enjoy, provided these foods constitute a well-balanced diet. The adage that a pregnant woman must eat for two is not exactly true. As a rule, there is a tendency to eat too much. Four factors must be given consideration in the choice of a diet. These are caloric intake, protein requirements, mineral salts, and vitamin needs. The total caloric intake for the pregnant woman varies with her height, weight, and usual activity, but a diet ensuring 2,000 to 3,000 calories daily will be ample for the average woman. As long as periodic weight weighing reveals a gain which is healthy and normal, the total caloric intake can be left to you. A total of 75 to 100 grams of protein per day will fulfill the protein requirements. Meat, fish, eggs, together with milk and dairy products form the chief sources of supply. The remainder of the caloric intake will be supplied by fats and carbohydrates. The mineral constituents, such as calcium, phosphorus, potassium, sodium, and the chlorides, are present in large amounts in milk and dairy products, as well as in fresh vegetables, such as spinach, turnips, watercress, and lettuce. The increased need for iron during pregnancy and lactation can be met by such foods as egg yolk, whole grain breads, cereals, green vegetables, and lean meats, especially liver. Sufficient consumption of iodine will be ensured by substitution of seafood once or twice weekly for the daily serving of lean meat. At one time in obstetrical history, tooth decay was considered a normal accompaniment of pregnancy. You should see your dentist early in pregnancy for an examination, and any necessary dental work should be performed. Careful oral hygiene should be followed because of its proven value in the prophylaxis of infection and decay. The calcium in your diet should be sufficient to furnish enough bone and tooth formation in the baby and protect your teeth. Vitamins are an essential article of diet, and the pregnant woman presents an increased need for these substances. Milk, butter, and eggs are excellent sources of vitamins A and D. The vegetables, particularly spinach, lettuce, and watercress, are good sources of vitamins E and B. Citrus fruits and tomatoes furnish large quantities of vitamin C. In brief, the basic diet should include one quart of milk, fresh fruit, cereal, one egg, a cooked green vegetable, and a raw vegetable salad daily. The importance of milk in the diet cannot be overemphasized. Milk has been called nature's most nearly perfect food. It contains the three food substances in nearly equal proportions and is rich in calcium, phosphorus, and vitamins. We are unable to get enough calcium in our diet unless at least a pint of milk a day is taken, and a quart would be better. The amount of exercise a pregnant woman should undertake is an individual affair. Certainly she should not exercise more than she has been accustomed to. She should exercise somewhat less. In general, activities that jolt and jaw or involve sudden exertion should be avoided. If there is a previous adverse obstetrical history, more curtailment of exercise will be necessary. Clothing should be simple and warm. There should be no circular constriction at any part of the body. If indicated, a supportive garment may be worn. From your doctor, you can obtain other details as to general hygienic measures during pregnancy, as well as instructions for the treatment of minor disturbances, which can be quite troublesome. Although annoying, the minor discomforts need cause no alarm. Generally speaking, pregnancy is a period of improved health, accompanied by a feeling of well-being. Certainly, many women look their lovelies during this time. At each visit, when the blood pressure is checked and the urine specimen analyzed, the obstetrician will be watching for certain danger signals that indicate the pregnancy is becoming abnormal. You, as the patient, share the responsibility in this matter of reporting certain happenings that will aid him. When talking to your doctor, do not overlook any untoward symptom. Don't decide for yourself whether or not it is significant. Be sure to report to him promptly the following. Bleeding, rupture of the membranes, swelling of the face, hands, or ankles, persistent headaches, dizziness or visual disturbances, persistent pain anywhere, persistent nausea and vomiting, obstinate constipation, shortness of breath, and any acute illness such as a cold, sore throat, or persistent cough. There are three great groups of purely obstetrical conditions which are responsible for the largest risks associated with childbirth. These are the toxemias, hemorrhages, and infections. Toxemia of pregnancy is a term used to describe certain disturbances that are peculiar to pregnancy. If toxic symptoms are neglected, the mother may develop a dangerous condition with convulsions called eclampsia. Through vigilance and detecting the warning signs and the institution of prompt therapy, eclampsia has been almost eliminated among patients who have had continuous intelligent medical supervision. Leading during pregnancy is an abnormal condition and should be promptly reported to the doctor. It is of serious implication both in the early and the late months of pregnancy. On either occasion, it warrants prompt supervision and treatment. There are less serious causes for bleeding during pregnancy, but due to the frequency of more serious complications, bleeding must always be reported to the doctor at once. Infections are another risk associated with childbirth. In some cases, the infection is carried by the bacteria already present in the mother's body. Therefore, good care during pregnancy builds up the mother's health, increases her resistance, removes foci of infection, and eliminates every possible source of infections. One of the most important ends that is accomplished during these visits is that the doctor and patient get to know each other. Whether consciously or otherwise, the doctor will take a psychological approach to you, the patient. Events of pregnancy and labor are fraught with superstitions. The pregnant patient will undoubtedly have fears associated with her condition that should not be allowed to remain hidden. A frank talk with your doctor will be of great value to both of you. These unexpressed fears and anxieties will create a nervous tension that will be mirrored in your relations with your husband, family, and friends. Especially if there are other children in the home, is a healthy mental attitude so important? If the children notice that mother is cranky, there is some conflict present that needs attention. Avoid fear by a reasonable regularity and thoroughness in interviews with the physician and building up confidence in him. One of the commonest fallacies is that of maternal impressions. The belief that if a pregnant woman should see an ugly or terrifying object will be reproduced in the offspring dates from remotest antiquity. In the present state of our scientific knowledge, there is no basis for such fears. Learn to relax both physically and emotionally. The true realization of the importance and dignity of motherhood should strengthen a healthy mental attitude toward your pregnancy. Learn to keep yourself occupied with some worthwhile hobby and in tasks in preparation for the coming baby. Your doctor, in the course of your talks with him, will reassure you about the termination of your pregnancy. He will be ready to care for you with all of the aid that a well-equipped hospital can give him. In closing, I would like to leave with you the thought that there is no field in preventive medicine that offers the prospects of such fruitful returns as does good prenatal care. See your doctor very early and follow his advice to the letter. Remember to discuss your problems with him and him alone, for his is the responsibility which will guide you in your plans to have a baby. Thank you, Dr. D'Antuano. You've just heard the health talk entitled, So You Are Planning to Have a Baby. It was presented by Dr. Louise D'Antuano, attending in obstetrics and gynecology at Bellevue Hospital. We had the cooperation of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, as well as the Medical Information Bureau of the New York Academy of Medicine, in arranging this essential talk to expectant mothers this morning. Join us tomorrow at 1145, when we have the cooperation of the Oral Hygiene Commission, committee rather, stressing the importance of your teeth and their equally important relation to your good health. New York City's own station, WNYC.