All right, we have to get started now, please. Yeah, I'd like to get going. All right, now, we're going to get started. All right. All right, now, we'll have to have quiet now. Ladies and gentlemen, before proceeding with the public hearings on this budget, I'd like to give you a brief analysis of what it contains. I believe this is very necessary and important in order that the speakers who will be heard should clearly see where the bulk of the city's money is to be spent next year and what would have to be done to other vital services if their requests for added funds are to be adopted. I cannot emphasize these points too much since too often many proponents of additional appropriations do not realize that the funds to finance them must come from within the proposed allotments in the budget. Therefore, an increase in one area must be accompanied by a decrease in other areas. In front of this rostrum are two charts in summary form which present a picture of how the money in our city budget is to be spent. Let us begin with the chart on your left. You will notice that it shows that the total to be spent in the 1953-1954 budget is $1,528,000,000. Of this sum, $377,500,000 is to be obtained from federal and state aid as well as from other miscellaneous sources. That leaves $1,220,500,000 of city funds to be spent. Of this sum, we are required by law to include $455,500,000 for the following fixed items. These cannot be reduced because they are mandatory. Debt service. That is for interest and redemption of bonds issued to build new schools, hospitals, and other public improvements. $281.5 million. For pension contributions for city employees, $123.5 million. For expenses of the mandatory courts, $14.5 million. For judgments and claims, tax deficiencies, et cetera, $36 million. After deducting these must items, there is left a total of approximately $765 million. This is the total sum the city can use and proposes to spend for operating all the 90 different city activities. How do we intend to spend this $765 million next year? The second chart, which appears on your right in the front of this room, shows this very clearly. There, you will notice that out of the $765 million, 86%, mind you, or $657 million is to be spent for only eight activities. Schools and colleges, $186.5 million. Welfare, $46.5 million. Hospitals, health, and institutional care, including voluntary hospitals, $147.5 million. Police, $97 million. Fire, $57 million. Sanitation, $59.5 million. Recreation, $34 million. Water supply system, $29 million. Think of it. 86% for only eight activities. These eight activities embrace the very areas in which everyone is seeking to spend more money. That leaves only $108 million for the almost 80 other city activities, which include such other vital services as our docks, ferries, bridges, streets, legal agencies, district attorneys, the lower courts, correctional institutions, and so on. It is simple arithmetic for those who are demanding further cuts in this budget to see that the bulk of these cuts must come from the most vital areas since almost all of the money to be spent is allocated to the eight activities indicated on this chart. For those who are demanding that more money be spent for these vital activities, it is obvious that the money to finance such additional appropriations can come only from the $108 million which is to be spent for the 80 other city activities. The financial cuts in these activities will be difficult since the sum now allowed is practically a rock bottom figure to maintain these services which are so necessary to round out our city operations. I have taken these few minutes to present these facts to you in the hope that you will have a better understanding of the city's financial picture as well as the problem of the city's financial picture. As well as the problems this board has faced with in determining whether your request, however valid it may be, can be favorably considered. I cannot emphasize too strongly that the funds for any addition which you are seeking to make to this budget must be obtained from the items shown on the chart to your right. It cannot be obtained from the items in the chart shown on your left since they are mandatory and cannot be reduced one penny. With this background, I will now call upon the first speaker. I don't know where the virus is. Do you want to? Yeah. All right. Before the first speaker begins, I would like to say on behalf of the president of the council that he's confined to his home with a serious virus infection today and was there yesterday and regrets that it's not possible for him to be here today. Mr. James C. Quinn. Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimates, my name is James C. Quinn, Secretary of the Central Trades and Labor Council, AFL of Greater New York. President Lacey would have been here this morning, but he is ill, and I am here to speak for the Central Trades and Labor Council. May I, in the outset, may I, in the outset, say that in representing the civil servants of our great city, our council believes that the civil servants who make this a career and work for one of the greatest municipalities in this United States, with a population of, you might say, a little over 8 million people, this city of New York is called upon to render service to its people. Therefore, those who do that, each individual, in no matter what department he may be engaged in, is obliged to give that service to the city of New York. We, in labor, know that those in private industry have their wage agreements that come due perhaps every year, every two years, or every three years. They sit down and iron out their various grievances with their employers. We, this morning, come to you, Mr. Mayor and the Board of Estimate, as the employers and the officials of this great city, to say that we are deeply interested in the welfare and the working conditions of the civil servants. Therefore, our council, in going into this subject matter of the budget for 53-54, adopted a program. Number one, number one, was a wage increase of $700 for all civil service employees on a per annum basis. We have other workers that come under 220, of which their wage is based. However, our council, knowing of the flight of the city worker, believed that this should be adopted, and we therefore present that. The next item was making the bonuses permanent. We trust that the Board of Estimate will give consideration to number two. Number three, reducing pension contributions to 25%. Number four, five-day, 40-hour week. We want to say that in our recommendation last year, we requested, Your Honor and the Board of Estimate, to institute the five-day, 40-hour week. The Board of Estimate, to have the 40-hour week. The Board of Estimate, to have the 40-hour week. The Board has been, up to this time, doing its best to inaugurate the 40-hour week. Right now, many of the employees have reached the 42-hour week, of which we are grateful to you and the members of the Board. However, we trust that some ways and means may be found that before this budget is over, that the 40-hour week may be inaugurated. Next was that of payment of time and a half for overtime. As our civil service committee, under the chairmanship of our Jerry Sullivan, who is a member of our executive board, this matter was thoroughly gone into by our organization. In view of the many letters we received, our various departments, where they are called upon on a round-the-clock proposition to give service where emergencies do exist. Number six, provisions for mandatory increments. We trust that the Board will give consideration to this also. Number seven, a minimum wage of $3,000 per year and reclassification. Mr. Mayor and members of the Board, the reclassification. As we know, the matter has been referred to the Civil Service Committee on the reclassifications, and we trust that ways and means may be found to carry out this part of the program. The matter of number eight, vacations and sick leave. We have been in conference with the director of the budget, who has been helpful in trying to get together with the various groups to bring about a uniform rule of sick leaves and vacations. I want to say, Mr. Mayor and members of the Board, that we realize the seriousness of this budget. But civil service employees are faced with many of the hardships that come along to their families in the line of rent increases and so forth. And we trust that some ways and means may be found so that those servants may be given every consideration in this budget. There are other speakers that will talk on terms and conditions, Mr. Mayor and members of the Board, that we trust that they will present to you what they believe your Board should know. I think, Mr. Mayor, the second speaker, I believe you are going to alternate on the speakers. So, I think the list is there, and we appreciate you giving us this time. Mr. Morris Yuschevitz. Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimate, my name is Morris Yuschevitz, and I am Secretary of the New York City CIO Council. Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimate, my name is Morris Yuschevitz. I would like to begin by saying that what I want to say is said with due respect to the mayor and to the members of the Board of Estimate, and with a knowledge, a clear knowledge, of the difficulties under which they have operated. It seems to me that a man in a straitjacket doesn't have a lot of room to maneuver, and that, in my opinion, has been the situation of the mayor and the Board of Estimate in this budget. To be very honest with you, what I find missing here is the presence of the man who, in my opinion, had a lot more to do with the budget than the mayor and the administration, and that's His Excellency, the Governor of the State of New York, Thomas E. Dewey. It struck me as we sat here that it might not be a bad idea, since the Governor didn't see fit to come down here and listen to this, to have an empty chair for him with his tag on it. Because he belongs here, he should listen to it. I would like to say to the Governor, as well as to you gentlemen, that the half-million members of the CIO fully support the demands of the government and civic workers for decent pay and proper working conditions. The Governor should know, as well as you do, that our delegates are very incensed to learn of the threats made through the newspapers against the job security, pay, pensions, and other benefits of municipal workers. He, as well as you, should know that they bitterly deplore the failure of both the city and the state to consider the needs of the employees for decent pay and proper working conditions. He, as well as you, should know that the city CIO delegates have voted unanimously at their last meeting to support the municipal workers in whatever action they take to win their just demands. The City of New York is the largest employer in this area. So much so that it must be obvious that any action that you take here that will injure the working conditions and the pay of the 200,000 odd municipal employees are bound to have a very depressing effect on general industrial conditions. I think you ought to realize that any action that you take along these lines is the beginning of a cycle that will reach out into industry. You know, in 20 years of negotiating, I have yet to meet an employer who is willing to admit that he can give as much as a penny. The City of New York is no different. I know that you get your money in a different way. But at the same time, you are an employer. You are the largest employer of labor in this area. Any action that you take, I tell you again, is bound to have an effect, either good or bad, on the conditions of all other workers in New York City. The other workers, the organized workers, with their pensions, with their health and welfare plans, with their 40-hour week, must obviously regard a worsening of the conditions of the city employees as an attack on them, a direct attack on them. And that will lead, it seems to me, to a general worsening of economic conditions in the city that are bound to have a bad effect on every industry and on government as well. To be very honest with you, I don't want to go into any details on the budget. I feel that the entire budget is such a bad one, a dictated budget from Albany, dedicated, it seems to me, to place the burden of running the City of New York not on the back of the people that can do it, but on the backs of the little people, that there is very little point in getting into actual details. I will leave those, a, discussion, a detailed discussion, to the people who will follow me from the City CIO unions. There's one or two points that I do want to take up, and one is the establishment of a transit authority. Again, I have the feeling that I'm directing my remarks in the wrong place. I don't believe that any of you gentlemen are for the transit authority, with the exception of one, I believe, if my memory is correct and newspaper reading is correct. The transit authority is a good example of trying to pin the cost of transit, not on the people who benefit from it, and that is the industrialists and the big merchants, but on the people who can least afford to pay it, and that is the people who use the city subways and bus lines, and who live and work in New York City. I feel this, that this bad budget, this terrible budget, cannot be allowed to go unchallenged. There is a special session of the legislature coming up. I repeat what I said at the beginning, that I appreciate the difficulties of the mayor and you gentlemen in dealing with this particular situation. If I have any criticism of you at all, it's that there was not an adequate fight put up in the legislature to ensure the passage of decent legislation. I went up there several times in the recent session, went up there on the question of a rent increase. I didn't go up there for that purpose to get one, but I did go up to oppose it. And the arrogance and brutality that we met up there, and the total unwillingness to listen to the people of the city of New York, the total disinterest and the welfare of the people of the city of New York is without parallel, I believe, in legislative history. I think that at this special session of the legislature, a united attempt on the part of the people of the city of New York, and that, Mr. Mayor, should be led by you and the members of the Board of Estimate, should be made to secure fair and decent legislation that will enable you to give us a budget that will meet the needs of the people and the needs of the workers. This is a 40-hour country, and yet there is no prospect of the city workers at this late stage. And in most industries, the 40-hour week came 20 years ago. There is no prospect, obviously, of the city workers even in 1953 getting a 40-hour week. All the advantages that have been gained by organization of workers, 16 million of them, have passed the municipal employees by. There are a large section here in New York City, 200,000, and their families, and they have missed all these benefits. The only way we can get them is to go to the place where the proper authority exists, and that's Albany in this past session. And I repeat what I have said to you gentlemen before, that a united, vigorous fight in Albany, and I'm not thinking of a march on Albany because I remember how futile those communist tactics were. But a properly organized fight by your administration will, I am sure, soften some of the callousness and brutality of the state administration and give us the kind of a budget that I know we would all be glad to go along with. Thank you very much. John J. DeLurie. Thank you very much. Thank you. We'll get them through. We'll get them through. Mr. Mayor, members of the board. My name is John J. DeLurie, representing the Uniform Sanitation Men's Association, Local 831, of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters. I speak here this morning in behalf of Joint Council 16 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and of the City Employees Union Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, and the UFA of the Firefighters of the City of New York. Give me a chance. Never before has so much been said about the physical problems of the City of New York. Never before have so many people gotten into the act. Every person aspiring to public office in 1953 or even in 1956, every person who wants to be mayor or even president has gotten into this three-ring circus. The City is fortunate that one of its 30 years' residents is now its self-appointed savior. I say hallelujah. No doubt, borough president Lyons may want to check his residence. Since it's north of the Bronx Line, the governor's reputation has been made as appalling milk farmer. But some think that his milking of New York City is even more appalling. Since some might attribute his double talk to his double residence, on the new Channel 7, he talks a new line, a line of wage increase for city employees. But on the old Channel, the Albany Channel, the line is no wage increase for state employees. But the Oscar for the supporting role for the year 1953 will not go to Mount E. Woolley, but will inevitably be awarded for his dramatic performance as an objective and unprejudiced witness to his NIBS, the Lieutenant Governor. In Buffalo, his native city, he opposed authorities of any kind. And these are his own words. It is generally known that I oppose the creation of authorities to provide improvements or services for a single unit of government because the authorities siphon off the city's functions, most likely to be self-sustaining. And with them, the revenues reproduced thereby. They leave the city with a collection of services that operate a deficit. By this process, city finances are further weakened. Frank Moore said that on January the 19th, 1951, in a speech he delivered to the Buffalo at Neary County Planning Association. But the cure-all for New York is one authority, particularly one that is already dictated. Said the governor last Thursday, do not let any city official tell you that the city does not have plenty of taxing power to pay for every essential service and a full and proper salary for every city employee. This city has 140 million of unused taxing and revenue power, said the governor. Let's spell out the unused taxing and revenue powers. A beer sales tax, coin-operated amusement device tax, overnight parking tax, increased use of parking meters, and moving picture theaters. Tax on admission to moving picture theaters. On March 12th, 1953, in a message to the legislature, he, Governor Dewey himself, argued against the taxes on overnight parking and moving picture emissions. The governor admitted that knocking out the $32 million that these two taxes would bring would leave skim milk. In the same message, he pitched for his payroll tax. The $140 million, therefore, that the governor found on the new channel, he opposed a few weeks ago on the Orbley Channel, plus the payroll tax. The Dewey milk plan for New York City residents adds up to this. Rent increase for every family of $110 a year. Fair increase for every subway sardine, $35 to $75 per year. A tax on every infant, every preschool child, in kindergarten, every school child, every leaf recipient, every hospital patient, every housewife, of $17.50 per year. Or for the average family, an additional $70 per year. Total cost to every family, $215 to $250 per year. We congratulate the mayor, who said that he will come out fighting tonight. And I know you can fight if you roll up your sleeves. Don't let people call you a gentleman, because when you're a gentleman, they walk on you. You gotta come out fighting tonight. This we trust, will just the beginning of a campaign, to force on the agenda, of the special session of the state legislature, the entire question of additional revenues for the city of New York. For in essence, this controversy is not a political squabble, between Republican State Administration, and the Democratic City Administration. This is a squeeze play, on all New York City residents. That is why we hope, and we recommend, that the mayor's telecast tonight, be the beginning, of a city-wide campaign, of bringing home, the physical facts, to the people. We stand ready to join with the mayor, and the entire board of estimates, to cover the town, from one end to the other. From Coney Island, to Flatbush, Hell's Kitchen, to Riverdale, Riverdale to Flushing, Flushing to Tottenville, to involve the actual residents of the city, in the fight against making New York City, a ghost town, and the fight to make New York, a wonderful town. I pledge you, Mr. Mayor, the entire resources of the three local unions, for whom I speak, the Uniformed Firemen's Association, the City Employees Union, and my own organization, the Uniformed Sanitationmen's Association. We are ready to arrange, for additional telecast, on Tuesday, on Wednesday, and the day after. We know that other unions, of the American Federation of Labor, will do the same. We know that, we are ready to be ready to be ready to go, and we are ready to go, and we are ready to go. Let our goal be to reach all the people. Let us speak to them, not only from television studios, but from the platforms of Madison Square Garden, the armories, the public schools, and if necessary, let's talk to them from the street corners. Give the people a chance, to enroll in this fight. Give them the chance, to make themselves felt. Let's launch a campaign for two million, yes, even five million signatures, on a petition. This is the proper way, to force the problem, of city finances, on the legislature's agenda. Two million people, or five million, talking to the governor, means more, far more, than eight men talking, to one man, who holds all the cards, and in my opinion, it's a stacked deck. This fight, this great campaign, is long overdue. It is regrettable, indeed unfortunate, that the people, of the city of New York, have had not the benefit, of a single unified command. It is regrettable, that we have not, had even eight men, talking in unison. But we had the deplorable spectacle, of seeing one, and two, and even four, jabbing against one another, instead of, jabbing together. Enough black ink, has been wasted, to fill Central Park Lake, several times over. And enough newsprint, has been wasted, to stretch, from one coast, to another. In the torturous effort, to explain the present situation, of the Kilchays, Canards, and Chivalettes, literally flog the air. The flattest Kilchay, the corniest Canard, and the most shameful, Chivalette, is economy. Here, inconsistency, reigns supreme. Everybody is for efficiency, and economy. Everybody is for the family, but the words, mean different things, to different people. The professional headhunters, fabulously paid by the city of New York, run amok, declaiming that payrolls must be cut, that jobs must go. Slash the payroll, by $25 million, says the New York Times headline, on November 24th, of 52. Make it 50 million, Scream the Whale Telegram headlines, on April 9th, of 53. 75 million will be the headline, in some paper, next month. A hundred million, the month after. Take away the jobs, the tenure, the security of the people, who actually man the city services. But on the other hand, give us jobs, give us tenure, give us $30,000 a year, give us $36,000 a year, and then we'll tell you how to lift the cans with no hands. We'll tell you how to drive the trucks with no drivers, put out fires with no firemen, and treat the sick with no nurses, and prepare the food, with invisible cooks. Unfortunately, the milking of New York City, and the clamoring of these headhunters, has resulted in a budget, that means strangulation, slow death, and catastrophe for city employees. This budget outdoes, a 3D double feature. This budget means for us, that dual jobs, desperation, demoralization, and disgust. The total is a dewey, dictated disaster. This budget is in balance, because we have been thrown out of balance. Because our living standards, hours of work, and working conditions, have been thrown out of balance. Of the $39 million dollars in economies offered in the world, the $39 million dollars in the economy and the $39 million dollars have been thrown out of balance. Of the $39 million dollars in economies offered up to the headhunters in this budget, $27,150,000 dollars, or 68.2% is at our expense. Elimination of the 40 hour week, $12 million dollars. Elimination of the reclassification, $5 million dollars. 3,420 jobs, or $10 million dollars, or a total of $27 million dollars. There is that, but that's only one dimension of the picture. The mayor's message clearly warns that the sword hangs low over the necks of 3,300 teachers, 2,700 policemen, 1,000 firemen, 1,500 sanitation men, thousands of nurses and doctors in our hospitals and health departments, as well as a large number of our inspectors, engineering, skilled trades, and correctional labor, clerical, and accounting forces. In short, the sword hangs low over the necks of 16,000 workers. Are these 16,000 workers provisional employees, probationers, or people with no seniority? No, Mr. Mayor. No, Mr. Mayor. Go! The 16,000 next to be severed belong to teachers, policemen, firemen, sanitation men, nurses, doctors, hospital workers, skilled mechanics, clerks, and others, with a minimum of 15 years of faithful service, and with as much as 20 and 25 years seniority. Is there anybody in their right minds who really believe, if this dread day does dawn, that the city workers known for their patience will sit by idly while thousands of their colleagues, in their middle age with specialized training in the main, with no saving and with pension rights lost, are thrown onto the junkie. The budget does reflect some increases. There is an increase of $25,094,927, and even $0.88, in the item for debt retirement. Obviously, this is because this is a mandatory item. But apparently, there is no legal, or moral mandate, for an increase in wages. The Bureau of Labor Statistics says our living costs has risen 91%. This figure does not reflect accurately what has happened to the cost of living since 1939. This index does take into account that 1939, we paid no income tax. Whereas today, the city employee pays an average of $300 a year in income taxes. It doesn't take into account the 15% rent gorge that on May 1st will take an average of $110 a year out of our pockets. Nor does it reckon with the fare increase, which lops off another $35 to $70 per year, per rider, per family. Even the report of the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey couldn't kill all the facts. Even they admitted that on the average, the wages of the city workers have risen only 58% since 1939. This is 33% less than the rise of cost of living as measured by the admitted and accurate index of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Even on this basis, we would require an average increase of $1,080 to offset the rises in the cost of living. But if you add this figure to the actual increase in cost of living, including those mandated by Dewey, we would require an increase of $1,543 per year. Ever mindful of the city's problems, we did not even ask for that increase that would restore our 1939 standard of living. Instead, we ask for less than 50% of that. We ask for a $700 a year increase. We repeat our demands for a $700 a year increase. The facts already presented fully justifies this. And these are not all the facts. According to the well-known Heller Budget Committee's figures, a modest standard of living for a family of four requires $4,770.90 per year. Contrast that with the entrance salary of these city employees. A hospital helper, $1,930. Hospital attendant, $1,990. Housing authority labor, $2,530. Click grade 2, $2,110. Typus, $2,110. Cook, $2,350. Laboratory assistant, $2,410. Elevator operator, $2,230. Bookkeeper, $2,350. Cleaner, $2,170. Yes, 30,000 city employees take home under $40 per week. They would do far better on home relief. Here is the home relief budget for a family of four with one member employed. A man, $32.70. A wife, $27. A girl at the age of 13, $28.60. A boy, nine years old, $22.90. Or a total of $111.20. Utilities and household expenses, $1,340. Laundry, $4.50. Employment expenses, five days of car fare and lunch at $0.45. The school expenses, $1.50. Rent, $45. Or a total of $191.68. Or on a yearly rate, $2,300.16 per year. But a family on home relief gets an addition. They get free clothing, free medical care, free dental care, free optical care. Special diets ranging from $1 to $10.00. And this is tax free. Now apply the home relief budget to a civil service worker. Home relief allowance is $2,300.16. HIP, $73. Pension, $200. Clothing, dental, and optical expenses, $227.00. Taxes, $39.00. Or $2,839.16. $2,900 a year provides a city employee with home relief standards of living. A purpose standard of living. And there are more than 30,000 city workers earning less than that. And with this, he can spend as much as $24.50 per week for food. If anybody has got the address of ex-Commissioner Hilliard's wife, I'd like to know that survey she made. So I can mail out to the sanitation people how we can live on a few dollars a week. Of course if his wife would have to be a graduate dietician with two college degrees to get along on that. He can't pay more than $45 a month for rent. And where can he get an apartment for that? Furthermore, this budget provides him with no savings. And if the kids want to go to movies on Saturday, there is no allowance in the budget for even a 1D picture. The city can balance its budget at the expense of the employees. But the city employee has no one at whose expense he can balance his budget except his family and his home. After tightening the belts of his children, he has to go into hock up to his ears. In two years' time, 69,000 city employees were forced to borrow $26 million from the retirement system and the municipal credit union. If you add loans from banks, loan companies, and other leading institutions, you can double that figure. Who's going to meet that deficit? Our wives, our children, our health, our well-being. We have no one to settle that debt with but ourselves. We can't pass it on to the next generation. We have to be hounded by it 24 hours a day, every day in the week, and every day in the year. Look at the figures on Ghana shares of workers' salary. 45 and 46. 2,145. 46 and 47. 2,161. 47 and 48. 2,380. 48 and 49. 3,208. 49 and 54,152. And for the year 1952, this figure has gone up to 4,869. Can anyone doubt the mounting plight of the city employees? We repeat, the budget cannot be balanced at our expense. We need a raise of $700 a year. We need a minimum wage of $3,000 a year. This budget continues the provision that 20 to 25 percent of the city's employees pay shall be in the form of temporary cost of living bonus. The bonus range from $490 to $750 a year. What would be left to the city employees' salaries if the bonus was to be taken away? Yet, with prices rising, not going down in New York City, the Board of Estimates declares that this bonus money can be withdrawn if, in the opinion of the Board, economy conditions warrant it. City employees feel the economy forces the Chamber of Commerce, Citizens Budget Commission, Commerce and Industry Association breathing hot on our necks like the four horses of the Apopolis. They see the railroad workers, the workers in General Motors, Ford, textile, taking cost of living pay cuts. City workers are fearful that despite increased costs and living costs, the economy forces will demand that the city go and do likewise. Needless to say, we will do everything in our power to prevent it. We have a suspicion that the real reason the bonuses are kept temporary is to rob the workers of their pension credit. We are entitled to economic security for the present and the future. The bonuses must be made permanent. For 20 years, workers in private industry have enjoyed the benefits of the 40-hour week. 20 years ago, the most anti-labor employers in private industry were forced to grant their workers the 40-hour week. But the government of the city of New York, which has boasted of being a model employer, has ruthlessly cut out of the budget the $12 million to institute the 40-hour week negotiated last year with the representatives of the American Federation of Labor. In other words, this means each city worker still working in excess of the 40-hour week will contribute an additional $156 per year or $3 per week so that the budget may be balanced. Again, the city worker is learning the hard way that the budget balancing means nailing our hides to the barn door. Sanitation men waited 60 years for the 8-hour day. They waited 50 years to receive some holidays with pay. But let it be understood here and now that unless I misunderstand the sentiments of the sanitation men, they have no intention of waiting until 54 for the 40-hour week. Unless I misunderstand the sentiments of the firemen, they will not wait until 1954. Nor will the hospital workers. 5,000 laborers are still working the 48-hour week. That was all right for the 19th century. But where else in the year 1953 can you find a group of workers still chained to the inhuman anti-labor 48-hour week? We demand equity for the sanitation men, firemen, hospital workers, and laborers. We demand the 40-hour week now. In addition to squeezing extra hours of work out of city employees to balance the budget, city employees are told that for 53-54 budget, inhuman speed-up will be added to their life. 1,002 positions are being eliminated from the sanitation department. 943 jobs are being eliminated from the sanitation department. In 1932, we had 15,000 employees in the sanitation department. In 1947, slightly over 12,000. In 1952, just over 10,000. And now, 1,002 positions are being looped off, lopped off the budget. In 1932, there were 7 million people living in New York City. In 1953, there were 8 million living in New York City. While the population has risen 15% since 1932, the manpower of the Department of Sanitation has been slashed 33% in that period. Has there been mechanization? Of course there has been some mechanization. But none of the self-styled economy experts have yet found the substitute for the arms needed, the skills needed, the back needed to lift the cans, empty them to fire incinerators, to load the scows, to fill the landfills. And then they dare to hold over our heads the threat of another 1,500 sanitation men with 15 to 20 years seniority being fired outright from the sanitation department. We demand equity and respect to our pension contributions. The contributions are too high and the benefits too low. A sanitation man, and this goes for other members of the New York City employees' retirement system, and this goes for its employment employees' preservation team, so that resources willJeanshs attract��. And this will requirenehmer who wants to make someioni florid speakers and roeいた story of alsolyn 0 which was located in age 0. And here you know the electoral board would Gloria Barberes. So you make sure they先 to Lawned installing as aược that is ostat Universe. Other employees have received the benefit of a more equitable share. We request the extension of the benefits of 75-25 contribution to all members of the New York City Employees Retirement System. The present increment system should be revised in accordance with the truly mandatory increment bill, which provides for annual increments of $200 a year to the top of the grade up to $5,960 a year. There is no operative mandatory increment law today since the McCarthy law provides for mandatory increments for those whose starting salary is $1,801 or less. No city employee falls in this category. The amount of the present increment, $120, was set in 1937 when the cost of living was half of what it is today. City employees insist that the Trulic bill be adopted. A genuine reclassification of all city titles is long overdue. Our union has favored such a reclassification for years. The ball is now in the hands of the Civil Service Commission. The starting point must be the establishment of a minimum salary of $3,000 a year, which for a family of $4,000 is a little more than home relief standard of living. Technical and professional employees should receive correspondently higher minimum. The reclassification should be designed to increase, not decrease, promotional opportunities. All present rights of employees should not be tampered with. Vacation should be standardized at a minimum of 25 working days and a minimum sick leave of 18 days. The recent proposal of the budget director are unsatisfactory to our organization because they would drastically cut vacation and sick leave for tens of thousands of workers. The proposals we made are standard in many city departments and should be standardized throughout the service. Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt said last Saturday that this budget is a very bad budget that would affect false economies. Mrs. Roosevelt used very temperate language. We subscribe to her sentiments. Scrap this budget, Mr. Mayor. Give us a decent budget. Give us a budget. Subscribe, in fact, to the adage that the first lien on the city is the welfare of its workers. That recognizes that the first claim provide decent wages, decent hours of work, and decent working conditions. Give us a budget worth fighting for. Give us a budget that will provide a $700 wage increase. Give us a budget that will provide a $3,000 a year minimum wage. Give us a budget that will provide the $40 hour wage. Give us a budget that will make the bonus permanent. Give us a budget that will reduce our pension payments to 25% and the cities to 75%. Give us a budget that will provide mandatory income. Give us a budget that will provide for payment of overtime at the rate of time and one half. Give us a budget that will standardize vacations and sick leave upward. Give us a budget and then you can depend on the support of every city worker, every union member, and every fair-minded New Yorker in the fight against the state making New York a ghost town. Then you will be assured of the support needed to win additional revenue. More state-aided and a better deal for New York. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. With your permission, I will continue for Mr. DeLore. We have today, in a picket line and a parade of protests outside this city hall, many city employees in protest against the fact that this budget does not include a much-needed pay raise for its employees. There are 4,000 firemen who have come down here today, off-duty firemen to indicate that, and many other city employees. Out of all the economic shenanigans and the political skullduggery that have characterized this year's budgetary discussions, in Albany and in New York, only one clear fact has emerged. And that is the fact that we city employees are going to be the number one goats. Well, we're sick and tired of being the goats. We're sick and tired of carrying New York City and its fat cat real estate interests on our backs. And we're sick and tired of accepting substandard wages and working conditions to accomplish that. A pay raise is a must, gentlemen. A pay raise is not only a must for our welfare, but for the welfare of the entire city. The destruction of morale and the disintegration of vital and essential services, with emphasis, if I may say so, on the loss of life and property by fire, is the inevitable conclusion that will result from these policies. You threaten mass layoffs in certain events. Do you think for one instant that we'll accept layoffs? Speaking for the Uniformed Firemen's Association, we'll petition every one of our men in the New York Fire Department for their pledge of immediate and definite action in the event of any mass layoffs. We know that the state has placed an intolerable burden on the city. We know that the mayor's proposed budget program was so superior to the governor's program that there could be no valid comparison from the standpoint of the welfare of the people of this city. But we also know that in solving the budgetary problems of this city, you're destroying our budgets. Your chairman has stated that some of the aspects of the proposed budget are frightening. If you were to look at that budget from where our wives look at it, you'd be scared to death. You, the members of the Board of Estimate, I should say the individual members of the Board of Estimate, must stop your personal politicking and your individual budgetary solutions and unite to take on Albany. Or the city employees are going to be forced to unite to take on New York City. Now, we don't care how many of you want to be mayor. We're intent upon defending our families. And we expect the United and the far more militant attack on this problem from the Board of Estimate. We hope, Mr. Mayor, that tonight, as Mr. DeLorey said, you will really take the wraps off. And we pledge you and the Board of Estimate, if you will stick together in this battle, we pledge you our support in any shape, manner, or form in which we can be of assistance. We would suggest, if you will accept the suggestion, that you take this fight to the people of the city of New York. Take it, rent the biggest armory you can find, and ask your city employees for contributions to support that. We have a definite stake in this matter, and we're willing to fight it out on that line. But we need your support and your leadership. Now, the budget-making process under this Board, as Mr. DeLorey said, has degenerated into a three-ring circus. We've had Mr. Halley's budget, Mr. Wagner's budget. We've had the Citizens Union budget, and we've had a few dozen other budgets. But we haven't had a decent New York budget until the mayor came out with his, the only one that made any sense at all. However, that budget does not provide for basic and fundamental appropriation for your employees. Now, the mustache from his ivory tower in Albany says we need a city manager. But the state budget has gone up 150% in the time that the city budget went up 100%. Now, it seems to us that New York State should get rid of its road builders and hire a manager itself. It obviously needs it more than we do. We don't need any managers at all. This city has spent over $3 million on so-called expert studies and received recommendations, the cost of which would ruin the credit of Midas. What we need right here in New York is more guts and less candidates, more unity and less managers. We need more application of the job that has to be done than lip service to it. And how about, as I said before, taking the citizens and the city employees into this fight? We have a definite stake in it. And we employees are citizens, too. We're also taxpayers, which is something that most people seem to forget. We city employees are going to have to pay all the increased taxes that everyone else pays. And we're going to have to take a beating on our working conditions, too. Now, the picayune penny pinching that doesn't even provide equal pay for equal grade and equal work is intolerable. And we insist that the men advancing in grade be granted the bonus for that grade. The bonus for advancement in ranks is granted. And we insist that the bonus be made permanent. Our retirement allowances, which are certainly not sufficient today, become less and less with the passage of years and the piling up of bonus on bonus. We firemen are still behind, still almost 35% behind the cost of living. Last year, we were almost 48% behind the cost of living. And there is no other segment of the whole population of this country that is so far behind the cost of living as your city employees and particularly the firemen. A fireman's job is not an ordinary job. You people have recognized and admitted that in the past. You recognize the need for a highly trained and efficient fire service. You realize how vital a fact of morale is in such a service, where danger and death are everyday occupational hazards. But, and I speak from personal knowledge in the fire department, what's happening in that department that's so essential and so vital? I have a few facts, which I'd like to relate to you. And in relating them, I'd like you to bear in mind one other fact, which was a definite fact not so long ago. And that is that the fire department once offered the premium job in the city of New York. It does so no longer. Resignations from the fire department have increased 1,000% in five years. Many of the men who resigned had up to 15 years seniority. Now what does it make, does it take, shall I say, to make a man with 15 years seniority in the fire department and a great interest in a pension resign? Conditions must be getting pretty bad. Consider, incidentally, what the city loses in such an investment, in that man, in his skill, in his ability. Applications for the job of firemen have fallen 83% since the previous examination and 400% in 12 years. Of the men who do pass the examinations, 50% of them refuse to take the job when called. Those are facts. Now how low can you afford to let morale go in such an essential service? How badly can you permit deterioration to continue? And how much of a load are we going to have to carry before all these conditions come home to roost? Or maybe I should say roast. This city is averaging close to a major alarm. A second or greater alarm every day in the year. But we have only the same number of fire companies, engine and ladder companies that we had in 1918. When this city's area, when the area protected by the fire department was one-half what it is today. When the population was only two-thirds what it is today. When there were no hazards existing, such as exist today, hazards incidentally, new ones, which have caused a 500% increase in fires in 20 years. There was a 25% increase in deaths by fire in 1952 from 1951. Fire losses rose $6 million in one year. A fireman is killed every seven weeks in the line of duty. And three firemen are injured in the line of duty every day in the year. Day in and day out. For what? For a standard of living that has decreased and gone down for 10 years. The challenge is not, gentlemen, can you afford to give us a pay raise. The challenge is, can you afford not to? Neglect for city employees is no substitute for sound financing. Last year was bad. This year is worse. This coming budget year of 1953-54 will obviously be the worst year city employees have ever faced. And this budget places an intolerable burden on us. Carrying New York on our backs has become too great a burden to bear. Now, bad is the treatment we receive from the state is. A large portion of the blame for this budget lies right here. It seems to us that with a 1952-53 budgetary crisis so close at hand, and all of you gentlemen facing election contests, and I understand some of you have that in mind, you might have done much better than the record indicates. It's just possible, you know, that the fact that the elections are so close will give us city employees good reason to remember them. Now, if you are seriously concerned with the welfare of the citizens you are supposed to represent, then you owe it not only to them, but to yourselves to examine every avenue for solutions to these recurrent budgetary crises. The problems you face require courage. They require resourcefulness. And we look to you for the necessary changes in this budget to provide for at least minimum appropriations for salary increases for your employees. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Robert Brady. Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimate, my name is Robert W. Brady, the President of the Civil Service Forum of the National Public Service. Mr. President of the National Public Service Forum of New York City. Mr. Chairman, the President of the National Public Service Forum of New York City. Gentlemen, the Civil Service Forum of New York City, affiliated with the Civil Service Forum of the State of New York, respectfully submits herewith its views and recommendations on the executive budget for 1953-54. The purpose of our organization, gentlemen, is to help improve the public service generally and to promote the general welfare of the efficient and faithful government. The purpose of the efficient and faithful personnel. Now, we wish to record for the public record that we recognize the need for additional revenue and we fully support this administration's program for additional revenue. We will continue to support any necessary tax program designed to provide the continuance and expansion of essential services to the public and improve salary grades and working conditions for civil service employees, provided administrative and elected public officials insist that the recipients of such services and the public generally carry their share of the public. We will continue to support the public and provide their share of the state of their work. With limited income, due to statutory restrictions and public clamor for reduced taxation, there is an accompanying demand for increased municipal services. there is an accompanying demand for increased municipal services. The same elements of our society seek additional social services and demand less taxes. We insist that all public officials make a realistic approach to the problem, that nobody likes to be taxed, but everybody wants good public service. The city employee is always in the middle due to this unsound thinking which produces an economic mess. Continued high federal taxation and the inflationary cost of living has compelled municipal employees to remain under economic stress almost to the point of complete exhaustion and demoralization. We would be remiss in our duties as employee representatives if we did not inform your board that our members expected and are entitled to more favorable consideration. The Civil Service Forum therefore believes that the following wage increase formula should be placed in effect to establish attractive salary standards. A 25% increase on the first $2,000. A 10% increase on the next $1,000. And a 5% increase on the balance up to $11,000. The minimum increase to be $500 and the maximum to be $1,000. In our brief, the formula is broken down in accordance with the thousands. The approximate cost to adopt this formula is $68 million. In the event such a program is impossible, and it seems so at the moment, we ask consideration for the following minimum formula to cost approximately $46 million. A 15% increase on the first $2,000. A 10% increase on the next $1,000. And 5% increase on the balance up to $10,000. Once again, city employees are confronted with that delicate situation, which leaves part of their salaries subject to revocation at any time, should, in the opinion of the Board of Estimate, economic conditions warrant such action, as set forth in number four of the terms and conditions of this budget. The Civil Service Forum submits that no such opinion can ever be considered justifiable or economically sound unless and until all municipal salary and wage scales, plus working conditions and promotion opportunities are brought into line with the advancements made by those performing commensurate duties in private industry or in the state and federal governments. New York City has not been in step with other employers. While leaders in industry have been encouraged by public officials to improve their employees' salary standards and working conditions, city employees are expected to mark time or to stand by until funds are made available. It is inconceivable under existing conditions and expanded public services that our municipal economy shall ever revert to a so-called good old days. Because municipal pay scales have not kept pace with the inflationary cost of living spiral, federal and state employee tax payments, increased rents, and other living costs have become a complete drain on the fixed salaries of city employees. The Civil Service Forum contends the provision found in number four of the terms and conditions of this budget should not be attached to any part of municipal salaries and wages. We are mindful, however, that freezing the salary adjustments as presently contained in this budget into basic rates for pension purposes would further reduce take-home pay. We have continually reminded our members of the provisions of Section B3-15.0 of the Administrative Code, which permits payment of a lump sum contribution on total compensation, including cost of living adjustments for bonus payments received during the period upon which final compensation is computed. We nevertheless urge your Honorable Board to bear this situation in mind and approve as speedily as possible the necessary appropriations to eliminate the temporary nature of all salary adjustments without reducing current take-home pay to a substandard level for any category of the lower paid employees. We appreciate the Mayor's recommendation and expect the Board's approval to continue the policy of granting two annual increments for those at the minimum of the fourth grade in the clerical service or its equivalent salary range in other parts of the competitive class. We would like to point out, however, that civil service employees in all grades are suffering economic stress. The Civil Service Forum has sought for several years to have the provisions of the Automatic Increment Law extended to include all grades and all classifications. The existing Statute for Automatic Increments, which came about as a result of this organization's efforts, is no longer applicable even to the lower grades for which it was originally intended. Due to the fact that grade ranges have been changed, the present law must be revised. At the request of the Civil Service Forum and other interested employee organizations, Councilman Eric J. Trulig introduced to the City Council a proposed local law, Introductory 827, to extend automatic increments for employees in all grades of the competitive class. The Civil Service Forum respectfully requests, Your Honor and the Board of Estimate, to take an active interest in securing the enactment of this revised increment law. Increments in the higher grades as well as in the lower grades are now in effect in the state and federal governments, and private employers have also adopted this system. We respectfully submit that had such legislation been in effect for all grades and all services in recent years, a great number of City employees would not be saddled with the present admittedly inadequate pay scales, and the municipal administration, in turn, would not be faced with the tremendous task of raising such large sums of additional personal service revenue in order to adjust salary standards in a single budget year. Despite the $290 million granted in salary increases since 1946, and we are grateful for what was done, wages of City employees have not proportionately increased with a rise in living costs, except in some very few instances. We ask every member of Your Honorable Board to signify your approval of this local legislation by requesting its release from committee in the City Council and adoption by the Council. We have found favorable sentiment for the bill in our talks with members of the City Council and from some members of the Board of Estimate. Our experience teaches us that a positive sign of approval by your Board is required before Council action may be expected. We ask that you kindly give this request your immediate attention. The overall cost of this bill, we believe, is approximately $7.5 million. This is including the $5,700,000 contained in your budget for such increments. An upward regrading and re-evaluation of positions and all classifications in City service to bring grade lines up to modern levels and provide salary ranges which will attract and retain experienced, qualified, and efficient personnel is an absolute must. All authorities on the subject agree to that. Any proposed reclassification which is designed to diminish or impair the rights which employees enjoy under the Civil Service Law or in accordance with Section 220 of the Labor Law cannot be expected to solve our plight with regard to wages, duties of positions, or opportunities for advancement. The Civil Service Forum appeals to you, the members of the Board of Estimate, to take this matter in behalf of employees under your jurisdiction as part of your official responsibility. We deeply regret the exclusion of the $5 million to initiate the proposals to be presented by the Civil Service Commission's new bureau, established for the purpose of creating an improved classification and pay plan. We urge that funds be restored in this budget in an amount not less than the original provision. We recommend that a special code be set up and earmarked for redistribution of excess salary and wage accruals to personal service. We insist that funds allocated and charged in this budget as personnel expenses should be utilized only for personnel in civil service and all accruals in excess of the estimated amounts should be set aside for redistribution among the employees for the purpose of salary adjustments, appointments from promotion lists, and the upward revision of salary grades. An analysis of the Board of Estimate calendars indicates that several million dollars are diverted from salary and wage accruals and used for other than personnel service expenditures every year. Since much has been said recently about the cost for personnel and the employees have been the chief target of the economy campaign, we believe all excess accruals from personal service should in fairness be distributed to help adjust personnel inequities. We do not charge that such non-personnel expenditures are unworthy or in error, but we do feel that at least the funds allocated for personal service when the budget is adopted should be used exclusively for personnel when the budget is modified. We urge adoption of this policy for inclusion in the terms and conditions of this budget. Another plan dealing with salary increments based on length of service was placed before the Board of Estimate as far back as December 31st, 1946. Now this plan would provide a system of increments based on years of service to help retain the faithful employees in the city government who for lack of promotional opportunities or other cogent reasons cannot be advanced to higher grades. The plan would also serve to reward permanent personnel who have chosen to remain in public service as their career. Our recommendation was referred to the then Mayor's Executive Committee on Administration. We request, gentlemen, that you give full and sympathetic consideration to the adoption of a system of longevity increments to be reflected in the career and salary plan which will be an incentive for competent and experienced personnel to remain in civil service. A good part of the cost of such system would be offset by reducing all vacancies to entrance salaries upon resignation, retirement, or death of senior employees. It would also encourage superannuated employees to retire at a better allowance and thereby create vacancies for younger employees to advance to higher positions. We believe this plan is workable and urge your study of the possibility of putting it into practice. The terms and conditions of the budget specifically provide that not more than 250 days per year may be provided for employees in skilled crafts covered by the prevailing rate of wage provisions of the labor law. It also provides that less days may be allowed if the rate increases. To ensure a fair and equitable annual wage for them, a minimum of 250 days should be provided. With respect to both skilled and unskilled labor, we find the rates of pay are often less than the prevailing wages in industry. Laborers, workmen, and mechanics have recourse to the provisions of Section 220 of the labor law. City employed auto enginemen, laborers, and various other titles, however, are not paid in accordance with this law. All employees are entitled to a per annum salary in keeping with the commensurate wage scale for similar work in private industry. We also urge your board to discontinue the practice of eliminating positions which carry specific skilled trades titles and substituting all embracing titles which remove such positions from the protection of the labor law. To designate employees as maintenance men or maintainers' helpers, repairmen, or hospital helpers, or other titles of this nature, and still expect them to perform the duties of plumbers, carpenters, and other skilled crafts merely for the purpose of saving funds or evading the provisions of Section 220 of the labor law is unwise economy and unfair to skilled labor. We cite an example the present practice of having custodian engineers declared appropriate for positions of formative mechanics even though a list for formative mechanics is in existence. This is a blow to good civil service and denotes poor management. The civil service forum asks all members of the board to be alert to such items as they come before you and to disapprove this practice. We are deeply grieved to note the deletion of $12 million to reduce the work week not to exceed 40 hours. This is a great blow to the employees who accepted last year's promise in good faith. We insist that city employees should not be constantly denied the improved working conditions which employees in private industry enjoy. We urge your board to initiate immediate steps to provide the necessary funds to put the reduced work week not to exceed 40 hours in effect in all departments and agencies without undue delay. For the past few years your administration has eliminated a large number of out-of-title assignments in various departments. We again recommend the continuance of this policy not only for economic reasons but as a proper step in support of the civil service system. This policy should be extended wherever and whenever possible. We cannot logically expect to correct this condition over a very limited period of time. The civil service forum will never advocate policies which will disrupt departmental functions or ruthlessly cast competent employees out of jobs. We do believe in proper assignment of personnel and sound job allocations in keeping with good governmental practices. As the opportunities present themselves we encourage the correction of improper assignments. We note that the appropriations in the proposed budget for the city share of the health insurance plan payments is the same as that contained in the budget for 1952-53. By not increasing this appropriation for 1953-54 it will be impossible to open this plan for new membership. Our representatives who are in contact with the officials of HIP informed us that there is consideration being given to request an increase in the present rates for membership in the plan. This may not have been officially presented to the city up to the present time but we believe that some appropriations should be made to increase the existing appropriation of $4,500,000 for at least another million dollars. We ask that the members of the Board of Estimates of the Board of Estimates. You mean a new appropriation of an additional million? Yes, sir. You know there's going to be another $750,000 deficiency for this year in HIP outside of any additional rate? Did you know that, Bob? I didn't know what the deficiency would be, sir, but... There was $750,000 for this year. Now they came along and said the doctors want more money. Yes, sir. To create a pension fund and so forth and so on for the doctors. Yes, sir. That's why I'm asking... I tell you that the employees can't stand it and the city can't stand it. Well, I know the employees would like to have the membership extended and since there was no increase in the $5,354 appropriation, we're making the request. There's got a $750,000 got to be supplied for deficiency. But your appropriation for $5,354 is the same as $5,253. Your appropriation is the same. Bob, I'm telling you for this year, we've got to make a deficiency appropriation. That's outside of new rates. Well, then next year should probably have to be increased even greater than what we recommend. Yes, if you're going to give them what they want. Mayor and gentlemen, we ask the members of this board to all upon the view of the budget to make the necessary inquiries as to any anticipated increase in the rates. And let a sufficient amount of additional funds be included in this budget to cover the city share of the cost if it proves to be even greater than our conservative estimate. The Civil Service Forum, gentlemen, is well aware of the financial problems entailed in balancing this budget. Our recommendations presented herewith will require a minimum of $88 million. Now, we believe it proper to remind the members of this board that responsible public officials and certain civic leaders have estimated that at least $100 million would be required to compensate employees at proper salary standards. This does not include other improved working conditions which should be put into effect. It is not our desire, either imprudently or impudently, to attack the general fund estimates. We feel, however, that some of these estimates may have been unduly pessimistic at that time. We quote from the city record of February 13th concerning the controller's report of actual and estimated receipts of the general fund. Quote, some economists have expressed the possibility of a recession sometime in 1953 and on to 1954 of a magnitude of about 10%. This doubt with respect to the continuation of a high level of economy and the fact that we have no funds to rely upon in case our general revenues are not realized in full are reflected in my estimates of sales taxes and business taxes for the balance of the fiscal year 1952-53 and the fiscal year 1953-54. With respect to a part of the balance of the fiscal year 1952-53, we have checked with the Dun & Bradstreet. We find that retail trade in New York City, as reported, has increased 5% in the first quarter of 1953 as compared with the first quarter of 1952. Department store sales in New York City have increased 1% for the first quarter of 1953 as compared with the first quarter of 1952. Now, some economists fear that peace in Korea will result in a general business decline, but others feel very optimistic. The New York Times of April 9th quotes the United States Under Secretary of Commerce Walter Williams as follows. This country's business structure should not look ahead to peace in Korea, or rather, should look ahead to peace in Korea as a helpful rather than a depressing factor. Coutailment of armaments expenditures, he said, would divert spending to consumer products of which there is an insatiable demand. Mr. Arno H. Johnson, a vice president and director of research for the J. Walter Thompson Company, stated in the same issue of the Times, the amount of consumer credit outstanding has dropped from 31% in 1940 to 18% in 1953, and to reach even the 1940 relationship of 31% would indicate a possible $18 billion expansion in consumer credit without overextension. Mr. Johnson further declared it would require only a 10% increase in personal consumption expenditures in 1953-54 to affect a $20 billion drop in defense production. to offset it, rather. Now, other indications of economic progress are the prediction by Martin P. Durkin, the United States Secretary of Labor, that employment will reach an all-time peak of $62.6 million this year. The New York Times of April 8 shows that business failures for the week ending Thursday, April 2, 1953, totaled $171, compared with the same week of 1952 when they totaled $185. General Electric reports that sales of household appliances for the first quarter of 53 are up 10% over the like period of 1952 and might well approach a level of 20% above last year. Harvey Runner, the New York Herald Tribune columnist on buyers and sellers in the April 8th issue quotes Milton Greenbaum, a well-known merchandising expert, as follows, the spring season is off to a good start. Business generally is moving forward with good momentum with both industrial production and retail sales running ahead of last year. Now, gentlemen, it is quite possible that in the light of these more recent statements, the estimates of the general fund revenues for the present fiscal year will be exceeded. In the event that such is the case, we respectfully request that any additional revenues be allocated to improving the welfare of the employees of this city and be specifically earmarked for that purpose. We sincerely believe there will be a greater carryover than is presently anticipated. We strongly urge that such funds, if materialized, be allocated to restore the personnel program which the State Administration's economic squeeze compelled you to eliminate. Our experience teaches us that only a small number of the requests submitted at budget hearings are adopted in the final document. Consequently, we respectfully request that the in economic distress of civil service employees be given priority in your future deliberations and efforts to produce a long-range program for financing the municipal government. Funds must be found to eliminate salary inequities for skilled and technical inspectors, public health personnel generally, hospital workers, social service personnel, auto engine and automotive equipment operators, bridge operators, court clerks, officers, detaches, and attendants, probation and parole officers, correction officers, office employees and administrative staffs, highway and sewer laborers, water repair gangs and their supervisors and many other categories of municipal employees who perform efficiently and faithfully in the essential though seldom glamorized agencies of the city government. If we expected all our problems to be settled by a single stroke of the pen, we would be guilty of an escape from reality. We nevertheless urge you to keep these problems in mind and never let it be forgotten that permanent civil service employees are the genuine backbone of our government structure. Much may and perhaps will be said with smacks of an easy solution to the multitude of problems concerning personnel. We admit the problem is most difficult. Lack of available funds as a reply, no matter how justified at the moment does not free public officials from their moral obligation to do what is proper and possible to provide adequate compensation and fair working conditions for their employees. It must always be remembered that the laborer is worthy of his hire. There are matters dealing with specific conditions, certain departments which will be presented by other speakers representing the Civil Service Forum. We ask that you give them your kind consideration. And in the interest of saving your time and brevity so that other speakers may have an opportunity to be heard, we ask that we be permitted to continue our conferences with the Bureau of the Budget and the Mayor for items which are now on the agenda for consideration. I thank you gentlemen for your kind attention. Philip T. Bruick. Mayor, our Director of all the things CIO, Steve Franklin and Bruce. Mr. Mayor. Yes. At this time, what is your name? John Powerfield. I wish you would advise those who are going to speak when we're going to recess for lunch, though, as if there's anybody here, they will understand what recess hour we've selected, if any, yet. There will be a recess for lunch from 1 until 2.15. Gentlemen, my name is John Power. I represent the National Office of the Government and Civic Employees Organizing Committee, CIO. Our jurisdiction is city employees, and I'd like to address myself to that. Moe Youshavitz, our first CIO speaker, regretted that Governor Dewey wasn't here to listen to this. It's too bad that the mayor couldn't see fit to remain, too, to hear the employees on this one day in a year that he sets aside for them to speak. I'd like to start by reading something that the mayor said last year. It's from his budget message of last April. The increased cost of living, together with its effect on the standard of living of city employees and the number of employees now working more than a 40-hour week have been problems that I have always considered paramount and ones that must be solved. Although my recommended appropriations do not completely bridge the gap, they are a long step forward to their eventual solution when more funds can be obtained. Well, I wasn't sure, so I looked up the meaning of the word paramount, and it means superior to all others, the highest in rank or order. Thank you, Mr. Horowitz. Go right ahead now. Well, I'd like you to be heard. I'd like to be heard. Well, you're being heard and just go right ahead and never mind being caustic and nasty. Just get down to the merits, please. I'm speaking here and I think we deserve an audience of all members of the board. You're getting an audience. You're getting a full audience. Maybe I am. Now, in essence, what the mayor said last year was that if he had more money, he would give it to the city employees and he would give them the 40-hour week. We said last year that he did have more money and when he started his trek to Albany, he boasted of $47 million in accruals that he had. So we were right then. Now, did we get more money this year? And I might say that for the last four years at these budget hearings, we've been told by various members of the Board of Estimate, look, you're perfectly right. You should get more money, but we're bound. We haven't got the taxing power. When we get more real estate taxes, we'll take care of the city workers. Well, let's examine what additional income did come in. The mayor estimates that $88,722,000 will be raised this year in increased real estate taxes. This is offset by an estimated decline in the general revenue of $43 million, leaving a total gain of $45 million, $619,000, plus the release of making up the $47 million transit deficit. So in all, that would amount to some $92 million of additional money. How much of it has gone to city employees? Not a cent. So while we can be very critical, and justly so, of Governor Dewey, we have a right to suspect the motive and the intentions of the people right here in New York City. Now, we say, we'll go to Albany and fight for a better break for the city, but we're not embracing the mayor's budget either. When he said he was going to Albany, this organization, CIO, wrote to him and asked for an audience, and we wanted to know how much of his program was allocated to city employees. We have yet to hear one word from him on that. And while he made up two budgets, one showing what would happen if the transit authority wasn't given and the taxes was lost, he has still failed to spell out that budget that he originally asked for and how much of it would be for city employees in that. Now, he speaks of New York becoming a ghost town. That's nothing new to city employees either because most of them are ghosts, heads of families. Your own management survey just the other day said that a survey of three city departments showed that 60% of the employees had dual jobs. That means 60% of the heads of families don't come home in the evening when normally the other people on there block them home. And they never see their kids because they're asleep when they leave in the morning and they're asleep when they come home their second job at night. And what do you propose to do with the $92 million additional revenue, not a cent for city employees? Other speakers have told you of the way they're in hock to the municipal credit to the pension system. But apparently, that's perfectly all right. That's one form of subsidization for the city. And then, have you done everything? The mayor boasts and points with pride to the fact that he has continued the cost of living increases. Well, how about the many people that had been left out of the cost of living increases? How about the chiseling policy of the city administration by leaving these following titles, among others, out? If they were hired after July 1st last year, they don't get the cost of living bonus. After they're on staff for maybe anywhere from a year to 15, 16 months, they'll get half of it. And they're the least of our people, but they deserve our attention. Attendants, stenotypers, children's counselors, cleaners, clerk grade two, elevator operators, hospital attendants, public health assistants, practical nurses, ward clerks, hospital helpers. They don't get a dollar of that cost of living bonus. They have to wait 16, 17 months before they begin to get half of it. And the city is proud of a thing like that? You should realize, you should know, the state recently come out in a report on it, that thousands of city workers aren't members of the pension system. They will have no protection in their old age. And why? Because their salaries are so low that they can't afford to join the pension system. I speak of your hospital workers and your institutional helpers. They have no protection for old age. They couldn't afford to contribute to the pension system. But nothing is being done about that. Now, with regard to the 40-hour week, that was one of the things that the mayor said last year was highest in order. And yet this year, he tells us, wait till next year. Maybe. Now, the brewery worker CIO last year negotiated a 35-hour week for their workers in New York City. And to do that, they had to convince the Bureau of Wage Stabilization that that was the prevailing work week in New York City. And they pointed out at that time that in April of 51, more than half of the people under union contract in New York City were working less than a 37-and-a-half-hour week. And yet the city proposes to keep some 55,000 employees working 42 hours. There was no justification for it. And again, is it a question of being strapped for dough? If you had the money, would you do otherwise? I say no. And you, Mr. Horowitz, should be aware of it. We wrote to you pointing out that workers have had their work week increased under this so-called reduction in hours. We pointed out to you and asked you for a conference. We asked the mayor and it was referred to you. That under the city's policy, people who had been working less than 40 hours for nine years, ten years, and had been so hired, strapped for money with their work week. They had their work week increased under this so-called reduction in hours. We pointed out to you and asked you for a conference. We asked the mayor and it was referred to you. That under the city's policy, people who had been working less than 40 hours for nine years, ten years, and had been so hired, were forced to work four hours a week more. No additional salary. And in fact, if necessary, they had a boondoggle. There was no justification for the additional hours other than the city was setting a 42 work week. And that wouldn't cost a penny. Yet you made these, again, the lowliest of the city employees, the low-paid, the cleaners and porters, come in four hours additional a week. With regard to reclassification, the mayor proposed to strike out an inadequate five million from the budget. Now, I wonder if it's a coincidence that the mayor's management committee the other day proposed that we hire a lot of efficiency experts. We scour the country for them. And we put in a couple of more deputy commissioners in all departments. And we increased the salaries of the commissioners and deputies. And how much that would amount to? Five million dollars. Is this five million that you're taking out for reclassification to come in in a backdoor for increasing deputy commissioners and efficiency experts? It had better not be. You've already spent two and a half million dollars trying to evade the justice of wage increases and reclassification. It's even backing up on you. We've had responsible people in the city administration admit to us the very patent injustices of certain salary levels but tell us that they couldn't do anything about it but because if they would, they would dislocate another service. And that had to wait for this reclassification survey. And I talk about the public health assistants who seem to be pushing the public health nurses. The solution wouldn't be to increase the public health nurses. That will have to wait for several years. And then the mayor says that he's setting aside $190,000 to staff this reclassification bureau and when they adopt certain principles and God knows why they have to adopt the principle of equal pay for equal work at this hour and they complete reclassification surveys there to put them in order out of existing appropriations. Now, how far can you go? You've already taken $47 million in accruals and you say if you want reclassification no matter how just it will be it will have to come out of existing appropriations. That's kidding nobody. Perhaps these examples of how bad off the city is with regard to reclassification and the urgency of the problem. The city two years ago took a building the complete building rented it it was brand new. They pay elevator operators in that building $2,230 a year. There had been another leasee negotiating for the building and if they had taken it they would have come in on the union contract and for doing the same kind of work operating in the same elevators the outside man would get $65 a week or $3,380 a differential of $1,150 that the city is paying to their people less than what the outside rate is. You should know, you should be aware of the fact that social service investigators for five years they've been trying to establish an adequate list and they have no takers. A thousand people even refuse to show up for the exam because the salary is so low. The mayor speaks of this disaster budget or this ghost town budget of letting off thousands of nurses and doctors. Well you don't have thousands to let off. You're 3,000 nurses short now. You'd have to close every hospital in the city if you were to let off more nurses. And with regard to your technical staff you're attracting no new people. In fact the city has given up even trying to compete because they say they can't do it. And the average age of your technical men are 25 years of city service. That should be a danger signal. Subsequent speakers will point out the high cost in farming out these projects that the city is taking upon itself rather than keeping a competent engineering staff on hand working for the city and not for private people who are looking for a profit. There are many other things that must go out that are outdated. For example a $600 range between promotions. When a man is promoted after five years he'll have achieved $600 more. That thing is 30 years old. The dollar is devaluated. That should be increased to at least $1,200. Other speakers have spoken of the Trulic increment bill. An item that would cost $7 million. That's long overdue and it's being bottled up in committee simply because the other side of the hall hasn't given a word for it to come out of public hearings. You refuse to give your workers a 10% night differential. Although the prevailing rate men do get it for the off shifts. However again the cleaners porters and so forth the city will not give them any differential for working nights. You speak of elimination of jobs some 3,500 jobs. This is a very false economy. And about a year ago the mayor agreed with us on that. Controller Joseph wanted to eliminate vacancies. And the mayor was on our side and said that that was a dangerous kind of economy. Apparently he is embracing it now though. Some other speakers from CIO will tell of the danger and the cost in eliminating these vacancies. And of course the resultant speed up and stretch out that will accrue to other employees. So your resignation rate will again go up. Now we feel that the mayor made a grievous error if he were attempting to get his just demands in Albany by putting the thing on a purely political basis. He invited the five Democratic leaders over to Gracie Mansion one Sunday. It might have been wiser if he had asked the Queensborough president to get the five Republican leaders to go over with him. The results might have been a little better but it would have been far more just if he had invited the leaders of the employees in this city to come in and discuss his budget with him rather than putting it on a political basis that he did. There is another bill in the city council a Vogel bill that would give the city at this late date a system of labor relations where these matters could be discussed across the table and perhaps we wouldn't have to get caustic with each other but the city administration has seen fit to bottle that one up too and it's high time that the city employees were able to sit down with their employees across the table and negotiate the things that they want. In summation I'll briefly point to our demands and we repeat them again. We want a $900 increase. We feel this day and age there must be a $3,000 minimum wage for city employees. The five day 40 hour week now not maybe next year. $75,25 on pensions. You gave it to some of the city employees the rest of us are no different. We want it too. We want the full cost of HIP. And Controller Joseph said before that the city can't afford and the city employees can't afford it. I don't know about the city but I'll tell you the city employees must have it Mr. Joseph because they cannot in any other way meet the expenses of medicine and doctors. HIP has been a great boon to the city employees and you would do them a grave injustice were you to take it from them. And if you think that city employees don't want it you ought to resurvey it. There was a lot of talk about that and we were the ones to initiate it. You know that don't you? I rec... HIP you mean? Yeah. Yes and I was a party at that time asking that to be accepted. Let me tell you that the cost of mounted you know there's been three increases already. Not for HIP. Associated Hospital this is the first increase for HIP. HIP had... No no you're wrong Mr. Powers. HIP had... Well then HIP has misinformed us. HIP had two. And now they come in and say that the doctors want more money. Yes. Now I don't know whether you've got to take care of the doctors or you're going to worry about city employees because that cost will be terrific. That cost will be terrific. Doctors are getting increased costs on the outside Mr. Justice. I don't know. When a child is ill a doctor will come and he'll have to pay it one way or the other. I know that. That's true. But you've got doctors there that are doing pretty good. They're doing pretty good. Now if you were in my place if you were in my place do you want to saddle extra costs because the doctors want more money? No I say that's something that should be negotiated. You know what that HIP is going to run into in a couple of years Mr. Powers? Do I know how much it's going to run into? How much it's going to run into in a few years? No I don't. It's staggering. Well I know that hundreds of city employees before we had HIP went into Hockton in an attempt to pay the medical bills that their families were faced with. They need it. There's no question about them needing that kind of protection. And you can't or shouldn't take it away. We've been negotiating with HIP and we were told by HIP that they never asked for an increase in rates. We don't want to take it away. They said the Associated Hospital of Blue Cross raised their rates twice but this is the first increase for the doctors since the plan was instituted. Is that right, Lou? That's right. That is correct. That is correct. I think HIP raised it once. Yeah. HIP raised it at least once. We've increased by 750. We've taken a discount for E this year with a 750. would normally increase the doctors' rates by 9,000 to 11,000 as the average that the doctors would get in the city if they have the employee. We don't want to settle any more cost on the employees, you know. Well, no, we ask that you pay the full cost of it. We're not asking you to settle any cost on the employees. I don't blame you for asking that but I'm not going to be a hypocrite. I'm not going to give you a phony answer. The more you cost for HIP, the more you'll enlarge your cost of general administration with the result that you know must come sooner or later. Now, I can be a hero and say, yes, Mr. Speaker, I agree with you. The city ought to pay all the cost of HIP and so forth but I wasn't telling you what my conscience dictates to tell me. You don't want me to be a demagogue or a hypocrite, do you? No, I don't but I'm sure, Mr. Joseph, if you took the additional cost for HIP and you and I sat down and I'll show you other economies that will make up for that. I put that HIP through. I know you did. You were largely responsible and so was our group. We fought for HIP too. And this board of estimate went along in every phase of it when it was first handed to me way back in 46. All we had at that time was a lot of talk about it, remember? For years we were talking about it. This board of estimate put it through. Well, let's keep it. It's all right keeping it but you've got to keep it within bounds. We also asked for the 10% night differential, the restoration of the 3,400 positions that are being taken out. $5 million at least for reclassification. Now there are two other union speakers from CIO who will talk on a general budget. One will talk on new sources of revenue and the other on this economy, this wasteful false economy program. Throughout the day you will hear from CIO representatives from specific departments and I would ask you to listen to them with attention because they have many excellent criticisms of the budget. I wouldn't put anyone on the board. Mr. Powell, you said an answer to control of the attitude for Joe's on the economy. I think we'd all be very glad to hear that he could give us that side of it. You don't want them now. But you give them to us. I'd be very willing to sit down. Our union has begged for a meeting with the board of us. I think you were sincere on it. I am sincere on it. I think you ought to supplement it though because some members of this board pick out the economy of $75 million right out of the air. Yeah, well... No specific KT, I know you don't mean that. I don't mean that kind of economy. No, I think... Some members of this board also speak of the reservoir of provisional employees as if they're needless, unnecessary employees. I'd like to state here that in welfare department, this union fought for provisionals to be hired because there were no lists and it was a question of hiring a provisional or letting a caseload go uncovered. And that would be the falsest kind of economy imaginable. Those people are waiting for lists to come out. And to think that this reservoir is if it's something that isn't being used daily. That's the connotation of the word. That doesn't injustice to these employees. I'm not making any bid or any defense of any political appointee or any merit employee who isn't doing a job. But let's be careful when we single out employees and try to say that they're unnecessary. Before one o'clock, would you answer me this question, please? As a matter of information, you said something about $88 million more in real estate. Where do you get that figure from? From the budget. Do you have the... Does that include the $50 million? That's close to $50 million plus what you anticipate in getting from increases in the assessed valuation. $88 million. It included the $50 million, did it? Yes, it does. That $50 million we can only get if we take the transit authorities dictated by Albany. Is that right? Yes. I'm not saying that we should do that. But what I'm saying, even with this money available, the mayor hasn't given us something that we will accept or something that does justice. So we're going to be very careful in deciding what budget we are in favor of. Mr. Barr, I'd like to point out that the mark of our provisional employees would carefully couch to point out that those that are performing necessary and useful jobs should not go. That's the whole... I'm glad that you have that distinction in mind. But when you use the term reservoir, it gives the connotation that something to be drawn upon that isn't being used there. I think it's only fair to quote the whole sentence. We may be wrong, but we should get the benefit of the whole sentence. Well, you have a situation, you know that, down in my sales tax. I get accountants, provisional employees, because if there is a list, nobody wants to take it. That's right. I was authorized by this board to hire 100 new accountants. You can't get them. Suddenly, I can't get them. And an accountant produces. Every man that I send out to audit produces money. And you can't get them because of the salaries? That's right. One other thing, it hasn't to do with the budget, but it does concern thousands of city employees. The present promotion list for three and four are being held up because of litigation. I don't know whether it would be proper for this board to direct the court of appeals to give it some kind of an emergency hearing because of the present writing, they're not going to review it until November. You want us to direct the court of appeals? No, no. I say, when you ask them, direct a request to the court or see that the Corporation Counsel's office proceeds with dispatch on that because that means that these people can't get their promotions unless that list comes out. And a city... It would be worse than pleading with Dewey to direct the court of appeals. Well, one other way you could do it... We pleaded with Dewey and it had no effect. One other way you could do it, but the budget office refuses to do it, is to make provisional grade three and four clerks. They merited the promotion. They'll be on the list undoubtedly, but the budget office won't make any provisionals. And these are civil service in the entrance grade who have shown their ability to proceed and are doing the work at the higher grade but don't get an additional dollar for it. Thank you, gentlemen. The board will take a recess to two-fifths in. Thank you. We have much more than the higher capital Thank you.