Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, what does Puerto Rico mean to us? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the new constitution proposed for Puerto Rico, the more important problems which the island faces, and the military and economic significance of Puerto Rico to us. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Antonio Farnoos, resident commissioner of Puerto Rico, elected representative of the Puerto Rican people in the United States Congress. Rexford Tugwell, professor of political science at the University of Chicago, and formerly governor of Puerto Rico. Mary Proudfoot, of Oxford University, studying problems in the Caribbean. And Clarence F. Jones, professor of geography at Northwestern University, and director of the land classification program in Puerto Rico. Now I understand that a new constitution has been drafted for Puerto Rico, and is now before Congress. Tell us a bit about that, Dr. Farnoos, would you? Yes, the people of Puerto Rico under law of 1950, which was to become effective if they accepted it, and they did accept it by referendum, were authorized by Congress to organize themselves politically under a constitution of their own adoption. Now what is the present status of Puerto Rico? What has it been? Well, Puerto Rico is under U.S. sovereignty as a result of the Spanish-American war, and as to the present, we are under an organic act of Congress. Under that law, Congress created a government for Puerto Rico. And I was going to ask, how will the new constitution change the conditions provided by this organic act to which you refer? Well, the new constitution will create the government on the strength of the authority of the people of Puerto Rico themselves, instead of under delegated powers of Congress, insofar as local government is concerned, insofar as external government, what we call federal in the states, it will continue to be federal, just the same as in a state of the union. And perhaps you ought to say, Dr. Farnoos, how federal laws will continue to apply in Puerto Rico. That's right, they will apply in Puerto Rico, just the same as they have up to the present, and just the same as they do in any state of the union. In that sense, we'll be in the same position of a state. And there will be federal courts in Puerto Rico? Federal courts and the same customs system, same coin, same stamps. And representatives of federal government departments? All federal agencies operate there exactly as in any state. Will the congressional veto on Puerto Rican legislation be retained? Not a direct veto, but as we know, any state law is superseded by a federal law. And in Puerto Rico, that would be the case. Well, now, actually, how does this situation provided by the new constitution differ from statehood? Well, we will be a state insofar as local matters is concerned. We will not be a state insofar as participation in national government is concerned. Would you like to be a state? Well, it's a great honor, but we simply can't afford it now. What do you mean, you can't afford it? We could not undertake to come under the federal tax laws. We simply haven't got the resources to, one, contribute to the support of the federal government, and two, develop our own economy. Well, is there a group in Puerto Rico interested in statehood? That is, there is a political party in Puerto Rico that has statehood as its main blanket platform. Now, you'll forgive me for exploring the provisions of this new constitution a bit and for directing most of my questions to you, doctor, because I know you're a chairman of the constitutional convention which produced this new constitution. I want to ask what provision is made for representatives of the federal government in Puerto Rico? Now, Mr. Tugwell used to be governor of Puerto Rico. What happens to his successors under your new constitution? Uh, when the governor of Puerto Rico was appointed, he was both the head of the insular government of Puerto Rico and the representative of the federal administration there. Now we elect the governor, governor, and technically he still is in a way a representative of the federal administration. Under the constitution, he will not be that, and he will be in the position of a state governor, just the head of the local administration. However, the federal government will have there all its agencies, just the same as in any state, and the federal government, or let's say the United States, will be represented there by its citizens. Does anyone around the table take exception to this new provision? I'm thinking of the change in the status of the governor of Puerto Rico. What would be your reaction to that, Mr. Tugwell? Well, I think that there is a theoretical difficulty which might be pointed to in that, uh, Puerto Rico is still not a state, but that there is no representative of the federal government in Puerto Rico. However, this is a theoretical objection, and I might point out that under the law of, of, uh, 1948, which, uh, provided for an elective governor, there was also, uh, provided a, a federal coordinator for Puerto Rico who was never appointed. And the fact that he was never appointed, uh, may very well mean that, uh, uh, practically it wasn't necessary to appoint him. So, perhaps this is more a theoretical than a real difficulty. Well, is this arrangement that we're working out with, uh, Puerto Rico unique? Uh, the arrangement that you're discussing under this new constitution? It is unique. Puerto Rico is unique. Uh, uh, our status has been really different from any other. Well, that is, I can't offhand, uh, think of any, any analogy with the kind of constitutional situation that you're proposing. That's right. Uh, it is really a Puerto Rican invention. We thought of a way out of a dilemma. We cannot, uh, expect to be state for the reasons I gave before. Uh, separation from the United States as the Philippines did would be, uh, the ruin of Puerto Rico. We simply couldn't survive. And still we want to have all the rights and, uh, fundamental rights and freedoms of an American citizen. We are citizens. Uh, therefore we invented this, this formula. I think it might be pointed out, Dr. Furnos, that, uh, probably our listeners all know that Puerto Ricans have been citizens of the United States since 1917, and this doesn't change that in any way. Oh, in no way. They continue to be, uh, citizens of the United States. That's right. That was one of the steps in progress of which this is simply another one. Well, now, would it be, uh, this is going to be unkind. Uh, would it be fair to say that you are seeking all the advantages of statehood without the disadvantages of, uh, involved in federal taxes? Well, I don't know that it is an advantage not to have two senators, six members of the house, and vote for president. We don't do that. Well, that's a pretty good answer to my question. Well, now, uh, what we're talking about today is the question, what does Puerto Rico mean to us? What does Puerto Rico mean to us? What does it mean, uh, militarily? Uh, Tugwell, you were down there during World War II. Well, of course, in World War II, uh, Puerto Rico was extremely important to the United States as a strategic point. And, uh, on the island of Puerto Rico, there were naval, uh, air, and, uh, army bases of, uh, considerable extent. Military strategy changes all the time, and it's very difficult to say under present circumstances what the situation is. In any way, I wouldn't be able to tell. But I should say that Puerto Rico is still extremely important. And, uh, certainly the air bases and naval bases are being kept up. And also, it must be remembered that, uh, the, uh, drafting, uh, the application of the Selective Service Law to a population of 2,200,000, uh, people is not an insignificant item. Is that? Puerto Ricans do, uh, serve in the American Army under the same, uh, conditions as other American citizens. Uh, Puerto Rico certainly was, uh, one of the main bases during the Second World War for the protection of the Panama Canal. Uh, submarine, uh, uh, fleets operated out of Puerto Rico. Air Force planes and naval vessels operated out of Puerto Rico to protect the lanes entering the Caribbean. And in addition, Puerto Rico was, uh, one of the stops in one of the main links, uh, for airplane transportation to Europe. Particularly of, uh, units of the Air Force and flying planes to Western Europe. Of course, however you may assess the, the military importance of the, uh, of the island, uh, I, I'd suggest that one way of, of, uh, assessing it is in terms of what it would look like if we had a hostile foreign power in, in possession. Uh, might that not be a fair way of putting it? I think it would be. I think it's very important. Of course, that was one of the considerations which, uh, induced the United States to purchase the Virgin Islands from Denmark in 1917. There was at that time a possibility, I think, that the, uh, Germans would buy the Danes out. And rather than allow that to happen, the United States stepped in and took them over. Also, you might remember that, uh, during the last World War, when, uh, France and, uh, Holland were occupied by an enemy power, the United States and, uh, the other allies stepped in at once and occupied the Dutch and French possessions in the Caribbean as a matter of necessity. So that they wouldn't be occupied by an enemy power. How far is, uh, uh, Puerto Rico from our coast, uh, Jones? About 800 miles from, uh, Miami. Uh, how far was the, uh, how far from the Panama Canal? Uh, roughly. Fifteen hundred. Roughly. Now, what are the other islands? England has islands in there, I take it. Yes, we have a string of islands. Jamaica and Trinidad are the largest of them. And then we have the small Windward and Leeward Islands. And incidentally, in the last World War, the United States built bases on the great air force bases and naval bases, too, on a good many of those islands for strategic reasons. Do we continue those military establishments in Puerto Rico and these other islands? Yes, the, the, uh, the English and, uh, and other island bases were taken under 99-year lease, which, uh, we still have. I think most of those are on the standby bases. Uh, some of them are not, some of them are active. But the bases in Puerto Rico are maintained. Uh, several of the bases in the lesser Antilles, uh, have been, uh, leased to, uh, uh, airlines, commercial airlines. How much of an asset, economic asset, is, uh, Puerto Rico to us, Jones? Well, that's difficult to, uh, to assess. But, uh, we handle, uh, more than nine-tenths of, uh, the foreign trade of Puerto Rico. And in recent years, that has totaled, uh, something like 300 million dollars. We, uh, supply Puerto Rico with, uh, 31 percent of its total food imports as of 1950. Rice, meats, dairy products, wheat, and fish are the leading items in the food imports. What do we take from them, mainly sugar? We, we buy sugar. Sugar is the leading, uh, product, uh, which we purchased from Puerto Rico. And in 1950, sugar contributed 60 percent of, uh, the exports of Puerto Rico. We also buy considerable quantities of tobacco. And in 1950, tobacco, uh, made up six percent of the total exports. We buy most of the needlework goods from Puerto Rico. 1950, they constituted 18 percent of the total exports, or a total of 43 million dollars. Is this a profitable trade in our terms, would you say? Yes. How about the sugar? Uh, of course, uh, Puerto Rico is one of the fairly high-cost, uh, uh, producers of sugar. However, uh, even if, uh, uh, we could get sugar elsewhere at lower cost. We can't do it now because of our sugar quota system. Of course, the impression is, is, uh, is abroad, uh, that we contribute rather substantially to the, the support of, uh, of Puerto Rico. Is that, is that a fact? Well, may I reply to that in this way? Puerto Rico does not pay federal taxes. That's one. Two, the government of Puerto Rico supports itself with its own income and taxes. It doesn't get federal appropriations to, uh, run its expenses. Uh, except that, uh, state aid laws apply to Puerto Rico in most instances, and, uh, joint programs, uh, supported on a matching basis by the government of Puerto Rico and the federal government do, uh, take place in Puerto Rico as in any state. But outside of that, the expenses of the federal government in Puerto Rico are those to support its own agencies, federal agencies, especially, and the most important one, the defense, uh, establishment. That's about the highest, uh, amount of money spent there. Another point in, uh, what does Puerto Rico mean to us from any other point of view? I'd like to point out that in the past 10 years, uh, many American, uh, manufacturing plants have established, uh, branch factors in Puerto Rico. Uh, has American capital, uh, invested there in any considerable extent, Dr. Fernos? You mean continental capital. Continental capital. I'll accept that qualification. Uh, the four most important sugar, uh, mills in Puerto Rico are owned by, uh, mainland capital, and, uh, in addition, many other industries. Of course, it's difficult now to say which is which. It's all together. Local capital as well as mainland capital get together and, uh, establish new industries or, uh, support the old ones. You... ...through this, uh, increasing industrialization? Of course, of course. Uh, industrialization is the only hope of Puerto Rico since we have little land and many people, and the people increase and the land doesn't. Now, how is... Go ahead. May I say just a word about that? Uh, uh, Puerto Rico did establish in, uh, 1942 a, um, an organization for the encouragement of industrialization. And this got, uh, considerable capital because Americans very kindly during the war drank a good deal of Puerto Rican rum, and, uh... Which is very good rum. Which is very good rum. And, uh, those taxes were returned to Puerto Rico, and they enabled her to start on this program of industrialization, which has gone on now for about ten years. And which is really, it seems, by now, establishing a kind of spiral, uh, for economic improvement, which is the kind that we try to establish in all the, uh, the underdeveloped areas with which we have contact. This was a very fortunate circumstance, but it seems to have, uh, succeeded very well up to now. Uh, Mrs. Prophet, I, I, I won't ask you about the, uh, quality of the Puerto Rican rum, but I, I... I should come back at once with, uh, Jamaican rum. I see. But I, I would like to ask your opinion about this, uh, this, uh, population problem. Now, uh, Dr. Furnow says that the land doesn't increase, but that the, uh, people do. Uh, do you regard that as a serious problem in Puerto Rico? Well, I should have said that with one of the most serious problems in Puerto Rico, as it is in most of the neighboring islands. And, of course, the big question is whether the job opportunities created by the industrialization program and by other facets of the, uh, Puerto Rican government's program can keep pace with the increase in population. Mr. McBurney, could I say just a word about that in, uh, sort of reply? I think that depends a great deal on whether you think of Puerto Rico as, uh, an isolated area in itself, or whether you think of it, uh, as we think of other American areas as a part of a whole, the whole being the United States. If you think of it in that way, there are other parts of the United States where there's a high birth rate, too, and where a great deal of their population is exported to, uh, industrial centers. Now, this happens to be, uh, rather exaggerated in the case of Puerto Rico at the present time. But I see no reason to think that this may not follow the same course that it has in other places. As the industrial spiral is established and as employment is increased and as the income increases, the birth rate will in all probability, in my opinion, drop. So that, uh, the population problem, in a given time, will, uh, tend to, uh, stabilize itself as it has in other places. The question is whether the new industrialization can establish itself fast enough to provide the income necessary for this course to be followed. Uh, how dense is the population down there? In 1950, the average, uh, population density, 645 per square mile. But more important, of course, uh, uh, is the density of about 1,700 per square mile for, uh, cultivated land. Of course, the population of Puerto Rico is increasing at a rather rapid rate. As you know, perhaps, Puerto Rico has, uh, uh, a very high birth rate, one of the highest in the Americas, and a very low death rate, which gives a high maximum increase annually. It's estimated that the population of Puerto Rico in 1970 will be 3 million. It is now 2 million, 200 thousand. Well, I take it, uh, from what you people have said, that, uh, you have essentially an agricultural economy, and that there's, uh, an earnest desire to, uh, to, uh, increase the, uh, industrial development in the island. Uh, it has been, it has long been understood that, uh, agriculture is the basic economy of Puerto Rico. Back in 1920, agriculture supplied employment for, uh, 60% of, uh, the, uh, employment, total employment. However, by 1950, that had decreased to 36%. On the other hand, manufacturing, which employed, uh, 15% in 1920, employed nearly 20% in 1950. Uh, services increased only slightly. But trade, on the other hand, increased from 6% in 1920 to 15% in 1950. And government increased from less than 2% in 1920 to more than 7% in 1950. Which would suggest that we're beginning to, uh, to solve this problem. We certainly are broadening the base of employment in Puerto Rico. Uh, uh. Dean McBurney, may I, uh, just say one, uh, little word, perhaps an aside, but, uh, I'd like to, uh, emphasize the figure which was given that, uh, Puerto Rico has one of the, uh, lowest, uh, birth rates now, uh, death rates now in the world. And I'd just like to say as an aside that Dr. Furnose was commissioner of health for many years, and perhaps we might give him a little credit, uh, for that along with DDT and penicillin. That's right, if you keep it to the death rate. He doesn't take any responsibility for the other. You don't take credit for the birth rate, doctor. Well, I was going to ask about the, uh, the general, uh, standard of living in the islands, and I can think of no one better whom to direct the question than yourself, doctor. The standard of living in Puerto Rico as compared with that of the mainland is low. I mean for the average. Uh, if compared with other countries in, uh, the rest of the New World, it is not one of the lowest by any means. And it has improved greatly in the last 10 or 15 years. And mostly in the last, uh, 10 years. Uh, of course, uh, Puerto Rico is a tropical, uh, island, and, uh, the, uh, necessities of life are different from those in the temperate zone. Housing, however, has been a great problem. And in that, we have made a tremendous improvement, uh, lately. Also in all the sanitary conditions and, uh, uh, communications, uh, roads, et cetera. Uh, do you have, uh, a lot of poverty in the island? We have, uh, our average per capita income is lower than that of the lowest income stake. And that's precisely what we want to overcome. And as, uh, uh, Governor Togel said, uh, we hope that with the, uh, improvement in living conditions, with the highest standard of living, the birth rate will become lower as the death rate has become lower. Of course, the death rate is low now. It wasn't 10, 15 years ago. And there's always a lag in the reduction of, uh, the birth rate after the death rate has been lowered. We have to give time to that to happen. Well, there's one other thing I wanted to say, not exactly, uh, following what Dr. Furnosa said, but one of the things which, uh, is not, uh, too often insisted in these discussions of Puerto Rico is that Puerto Rico is a very beautiful and very salubrious place. And, uh, it's one of the most beautiful places in the world, as a matter of fact. It has a range of islands, uh, in the center of the, uh, a range of mountains in the center of the island, uh, which rise to above 4,000 feet. And the trade winds blow nearly all the time and makes it almost an ideal vacation spot. I would say that, uh, one of the future assets of Puerto Rico is this very beauty, which will undoubtedly make it a great tourist attraction for Americans in the future. And indeed, it's already becoming so. Because one of the, uh, operations of this, uh, Fomento Corporation, the administration which is, uh, interested in, uh, industrialization, has been to build up the tourist facilities. And there are now, uh, several very beautiful, luxurious hotels. And there are beginning to be many hotels of, uh, of, uh, a more middle class sort, which accommodate ordinary tourists. Well, you make it sound very attractive, Mr. Tugwell. Well, I hope I do, because I think one of the things that, uh, we need and Puerto Rico needs is for, uh, more continental Americans to visit Puerto Rico and to find out what the problems are for themselves. And to see, uh, how, uh, nearly alike, uh, Puerto Ricans are to other American citizens. Sometimes they're thought of as being pretty far away and a little foreign. And it simply isn't true. Dr. McBurney, I would like to second what, uh, Dr. Tugwell has said. Puerto Rico is a beautiful place. Uh, I was going to ask while we were, uh, discussing the, uh, the, some of the problems that the island has had. Uh, Mrs. Proudfoot, uh, about a matter in which I know you're interested. The, the educational problem in the islands. What do you find there? Well, of course, in all the islands of the Caribbean, that is a tremendous difficulty. More than just a question of not being, there are not being enough schools. There are not enough teachers. There's not enough equipment. The children, when they spend a little time in school, have to go back to homes where their parents are probably illiterate. And where there are neither books nor magazines nor radio nor anything of that kind. And it is an extremely difficult problem. Um, and in a way it's a sort of vicious circle. Because if the people are better educated, they're more valuable as human beings and they're apt to produce more wealth. On the other hand, until more wealth is available, it's extremely difficult to, uh, find, uh, the means of, uh, providing a better education. And it's, the, the problem really is how to break into a vicious circle. I'd like to suggest, uh, again, the utility of the return on the rum tax which we got during the war, which enabled us really to, uh, break into that vicious circle for the first time in quite a large way. And the expansion of school facilities, as well as other utilities, like, uh, the splendid water system, which, uh, San Juan has now developed, and gives them water as good as Chicago has. Uh, the school system has expanded too. And the problem is not nearly as urgent and crucial as it was ten years ago. Although it's still a problem. What is the present percent of, uh, illiterates in Puerto Rico? I would say about 25 percent. But that's not so important as knowing that it's, uh, a less percent among the lower age groups, where the new education facilities are reaching. We should remember that 50 years ago, we were in the reverse position. We didn't have, we did have about 75 percent illiterates. Now we only have 25 percent illiterates. How stable is Puerto Rico politically, Dr. Fernandez? We never had a revolution there. Pardon me? Pardon me? Never had a revolution there in our history since Ponce de Leon. That's a neat way of answering the question. However, we did have a small outbreak, uh, a few, uh, months ago in Puerto Rico. But, uh, it was the first, uh, of course we handled it very well, having had no experience. May I say, uh, something about that which Dr. Fernandez probably couldn't say so well as perhaps I can? That that seemed to me to be, uh, best interpreted as a kind of last and perhaps despairing outbreak of a few, uh, rather sentimental, uh, independentistas who found themselves losing their popular support to the more practical program of the Popular Party, which is now in power, and that, uh, they thought that they were not going to be a part of the popular party. And that, uh, they thought perhaps that by making themselves martyrs by this violence... Please be pleased to be here. I'm sorry, Mrs. Proudfoot and gentlemen, but our time is out. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Does Puerto Rico Mean to Us? We want to thank our guests today. Antonio Fernandez-Cern, Resident Commissioner of Puerto Rico to the United States. Clarence Jones, Chairman of the Department of Geography at Northwestern University. Mary Proudfoot, Analyst of the United States and British Government in the Caribbean area. And Rexford Tugwell, Former Governor of Puerto Rico and currently Professor of Political Science at the University of Chicago. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Today there is a growing interest in discussion. Many broadcasts, such as the one you've just heard, make use of discussion. We read in our newspapers about discussion attempting to settle labor management disputes. The attention of the entire world is focused on the peace talks in Korea. At the same time, however, many people are wondering just what all this talk is accomplishing. There's a degree of skepticism about the effectiveness of talk. This has prompted our reviewing stand topic for next week, What Can Talk Settle? Our guests will be Maynard Krieger, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. Irving J. Lee, Professor of Public Speaking at Northwestern University. And Herbert Thielen, Director of the Human Dynamics Laboratory at the University of Chicago. We hope you will be with us next week when we ask, What Can Talk Settle? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Good time. We will be back with 24 trä potwise. But, as you see, here in the event is also about 7-18. I will simply move to our closing