Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we bring to a close our series, 1950, Midpoint in the 20th Century, and I'd like to take this opportunity to thank the very fine audiences and the very fine people that have helped to make this series so much of a success this year. That includes the WNYC radio audience, too. It has been a great pleasure for me to be here this year and to see so many of you here through this series. Tonight our topic is one world or none, possibly the most vital and the most important thing which we have to discuss here in this country and in the whole world. Our speaker is His Excellency the Ambassador, General Carlos P. Romulo, President of the Fourth Session of the United Nations General Assembly, Chief of the Philippine Mission to the United Nations, and incidentally a former Cooper Union speaker. His Excellency the Ambassador, General Carlos P. Romulo. Mr. Chairman, and my friends of Cooper Union, I am reminded of four years ago when I spoke here for the first time. At that time we were fighting a war. I spoke of the Pacific War that night. Those were very dark days indeed. The Japanese had overrun the Far East, and I was a lone voice in the United States at that time, going from town to town and city to city, helping arouse interest in the Pacific War. At that time we were somewhat jealous. We thought all your interest was concentrated in Europe. And so I was on a mission here, helping arouse your anger and your eye in order that we may get more soldiers and material for the Pacific War. At that time I spoke here as the last man of Bataan. Because I was the last one to leave that beleaguered peninsula before we surrendered. Well, that reminds me that I was scheduled to lecture in Tennessee. The same day I was to lecture here in Cooper Union. So not having the virtue of ubiquity, I could not be in both places. So I wired this town in Tennessee, apologizing that I had to speak Cooper Union. Well, they forgave me and set a date. For some reason or other, I could make that date again. So again I apologize. And in reply they sent me a column from one of their papers, saying, after these two postponements of Romulus' lecture in this city, now we can understand why he was the last man of the time. I'm glad that I have been asked to speak on the subject of one world. It is a subject close to my own heart. And I welcome this opportunity to discuss it in relation to the problem of war and peace that confronts mankind today. The experience of the past five years has taught us that we cannot build one world amid the convulsions of a Cold War. We cannot establish a viable world community, let alone a world government, on the shifting sense of a struggle for power in which the only constants are fear, suspicion, the desire to weaken or overthrow the other side, and a fatal obsession with the making of weapons, each deadlier than the last. We cannot even build regional security upon such a precarious foundation. We cannot stake the safety of nations or of the individuals that make up nations on the fickle chances of such a suicidal contest. The Cold War is a roadblock on the highway to one world. We cannot build a free, peaceful, and secure world society until we have removed this towering obstacle in our path. To build one world, we must first liquidate the Cold War. The task is Herculean, but it can be done. It must be done. The alternative is a permanent and increasingly intolerable state of international conflict and tension, the drying up of goodwill among peoples, the deferment of all hopes and plans for a better world, progressive social and political regimentation, and an atomic armament race which, short of war, can only lead to economic ruin and beyond that to total catastrophe. The liquidation of the Cold War requires a supreme new effort on the part of the powers concerned. I have proposed such a step many times before. I've spoken on this subject so many times I'm hoarse. And I reiterate it now with the earnest appeal that it be done as soon as possible. procrastination is dangerous in these atomic times. The processes of peaceful settlement must be set in motion before irresolution congeals in the frozen wastes of the Cold War. One practical start has been suggested by Secretary General Trickley of the United Nations. He has called upon the members of the Security Council to hold a special meeting in accordance with Article 28 of the United Nations Charter which provides that the Council should function continuously and hold periodic meetings at which each of the members may, if it so desires, be represented by a member of the government or by some specially designated representative. I have formally and wholeheartedly endorsed Mr. Lee's proposal the war, because I am convinced that it may furnish the occasion and the means for achieving a decisive turn for the better in the steadily deteriorating international situation. the fatal consequences of an atomic war is now fully realized by the powers involved in the Cold War. At the same time, the pressure of mankind's desire for peace has grown too heavy to be ignored much longer with impunity. I believe the time is ripe for reversing the dangerous grief of events towards a war which nobody really wants and from which none of the prospective combatants can possibly profit. Mr. Lee's proposal, as I have pointed out, has the merit of simplicity combined with flexibility. It offers the great powers a ready and familiar device for negotiation, thus relieving the state's concern of the necessity of initiating a special conference outside the United Nations. At the same time, it provides them with an opportunity to close the meeting with the highest prestige and to emphasize its unusual importance by sending to it their foreign ministers or even the heads of their respective governments. The agenda may be limited to a few specific issues, as Mr. Lee has proposed, the deliberations could include a review of the problem of peace in its totality. Being only the first of a series of special sessions of the Security Council, the meeting will be under no compulsion to produce the miracle of a complete and immediate agreement. it will have the advantage which a single extraordinary conference convoked outside the United Nations will not have of being able to proceed by stages whenever the exigencies of the problem so demand. in the case of atomic and other weapons of mass destruction for instance, the proposed specialization of the Security Council could provide a new basis for negotiations by calling, as I have proposed, publicly and formally, an international conference of scientists to help formulate a fresh approach to the fundamental problem of control. During the fourth regularization of the General Assembly last fall, I addressed a formal appeal to the six permanent members of the Atomic Energy Commission to explore all the possible paths to agreement on this crucial issue. I'll call their attention to a promising lead pointing out that a number of eminent American scientists were convinced that the control of atomic energy for military use may be facilitated by a realistic assessment of the present requirements of atomic energy for peaceful purposes. This lead could be followed up and elaborated in an international scientific conference convened especially for the purpose, and that is why I made that proposal only a week ago. The results could be made the basis of action, compromise, or at least further study in the next special session of the Security Council. Thus, by a series of carefully calculated steps, the goal of effective and acceptable control may finally be reached. the possibility of achieving a real and workable compromise on atomic energy control on the basis of the findings and recommendations of an international conference of scientists will have a moderating effect on the tensions arising from the Cold War. It will help to create a better climate for fruitful negotiations on the other aspects of the atomic problem. The prospect of finally reaching agreement on atomic energy control cannot but enhance the prospects of working out an international convention outlawing the use of atomic and other weapons of mass destruction in war. An agreement on either or both aspects of the atomic problem would instantly remove the awful weight of fear and anxiety that has lain on the hearts of men ever since the world was confronted with the atomic dilemma. It would be the first great victory for peace since the beginning of the Cold War. The problems of the Cold War are interrelated. They are tightly meshed and interlocked. An agreement on the central issue of atomic energy control would start a healthy chain reaction that would facilitate the breaking of the longstanding impasse on other problems. Among the most important of these is the question of reducing conventional armaments. The controversy over atomic energy control has overshadowed this less spectacular but equally important problem. In our preoccupation with explosive issues of atomic energy control and the prohibition of weapons of mass destruction, we have tended to lose sight of our ultimate goal in this field, which is nothing less than universal disarmament. Let me quote General Eisenhower. He said recently, the world must finally disarm or suffer catastrophic consequences. those are the words of General Eisenhower only a few days ago. Lasting peace cannot be secured until the nations have agreed upon and implemented a progress a program of disarmament in all categories. A corollary to universal disarmament is the creation of the United Nations armed forces in accordance with Article 43 of the Charter. The main function of the United Nations armed forces according to the Charter will be to enforce the decisions of the Security Council in maintaining international peace and security. it will be an instrument of peace not of war. All these problems of the Cold War can and should be solved by negotiation by accommodation by mutual agreement and they should be solved without delay in order that the long range aspects of the work of building a better world can be carried forward for while peace is our immediate objective it is not our final goal peace is a most desirable thing in itself but it is not the be all and the end all of our efforts we do not seek peace for its own sake alone we look beyond attainment of peace to a larger task the promotion of social progress and better standards of life for all men in freedom and security peace and peace and peace and those who look as parents at our insistent appeals for accommodation and coexistence miss the larger meaning of our crusade for peace we are anxious that the cold war should be ended as quickly as possible because the cold war is an obstacle to the enlargement of human freedom which we desire the cold war is an obstacle to the economic advancement of underdeveloped countries for which we are striving the cold war is an obstacle to progress in the field of human rights which we are pledged to protect and foster the cold war as I have said is a roadblock that stands between us and the better world which we are trying to build we do not want peace at any price I repeat that we do not want peace at any price we want a peace that will serve as a bridge to one world no peace can fulfill this function unless it is a just peace therefore we insist on a just peace no peace will suffice unless it safeguards fundamental human rights therefore we advocate a peace that free men can accept with a clear conscience no peace can be considered adequate unless it guarantees the liberty of nations and the right to work for their social economic and political advancement therefore we propose a peace consistent with the principles and purposes of the united nation there are two great forces at work in the world today one is disruptive the other cohesive the first manifests itself in a welter of conflicts which together make up the cold war the second finds expression in the united nations and the attempt to build one world it is our supreme task today to see to it that mankind's creative impulse towards integration and unity should prevail over the suicidal pull of contending powers towards fission and disintegration our working tools are conciliation and accommodation they are not a magician's one accommodation negotiation cannot produce miracles overnight they are workman's tools that must be used with patience with patience with persistence do not expect the grand solution overnight our goal is peace and beyond that the building of a better world in the inevitable backwash of disillusionment cause by the outbreak of the cold war it has become fashionable to talk of one world in two ways some refer to it in the past tense as something that mankind has failed to achieve and has in consequence abandoned as a hopeless past others speak of it in the future tense as an ideal that can be attained only with the advent of the millennium I think the truth lies somewhere between these two extremes despite the cold war and the deep divisions that it has caused in the ranks of the human family I believe that mankind is moving slowly but inexorably towards a universal society they say the world is split into two worlds how can it split into two worlds when we have not yet succeeded in building one world we are now witnessing we are now undergoing the birth banks of that one world if it were splitting now splitting irretrievably it would be a sign of decadence I don't believe in that because we are now working to build one world we are seeing the birth banks of that one world mankind may be diverted temporarily it may be sidetracked for a while but in the end unless it inflicts upon itself deliberately or by accident a war of extinction in the end mankind will reach its goal in this crucial mid century which by historic coincidence finds mankind in mid passage on its long journey from recurrent war to permanent peace it is our inescapable duty and our priceless privilege to help ease the transition and accelerate its progress let this be our chief contribution to the sum total of human effort directed towards the ultimate attainment of one world and if in closing the Cooper Union season tonight the listeners who have come here this season can have that message as the sum total of what they derive from the lectures in this historic place Cooper Union would have added another feather to its cap and that is my message to you this evening thank you very much general Romulo for those of you who have questions please write them and bring them down we'll be very happy to attempt to go over all of them I do have some paper here if you do not thank you very much general carlos p romulo for that very excellent and very inspiring talk that you have given us yes sir I have a large number of questions up there so we'll go right ahead as fast as possible sir do you consider a world government part of your ultimate goal well I think you do if so do you believe that it will take place within the united nations or as a separate movement outside the united nations it must take place within the united nations strengthen the united nations give it teeth sir how can the united nations armed forces be made acceptable to the minority russian block well that's a good question because that's typical of many other questions well I have always believed that when you think something is right you must do it irrespective of whether it is taken by the minority or not if we believe in a principle well let's go ahead and fight for it whether it is acceptable to this or to that that's my answer to that question all right thank you how do you propose to get your ideas of one world past the russian rulers and to the russian people i've answered that all right sir could you get permission from the russian government to lecture for peace publicly in moscow and why do they not allow united nations meeting in russia maybe they will do they well that's a good question very good question well i haven't tried to ask for a permission to lecture for peace outside the united states but that's a good idea i may try that and what's the other question next to that it's on the same vein sir oh about the general assembly in moscow yes well you know the philippine delegation way back in 1947 proposed that the general assembly session be held in moscow in the political committee that was the first time that was ever brought up and it was proposed by the philippine delegation i proposed that and at that time mr gromyko was representing soviet russia in that committee and he smiled and that's all we got at least you got a smile sir didn't general eisenhower in the same speech which you quoted also advocate greater national security for the greater national defense certainly yes he did and i'm glad he did he advocated national greater national security uh general about how long do you think it will take for the performance of that is for the plan of one world to be successful how many years are we working on this that's a 64 dollar question it's always risky to be a prophet especially when mathematics is involved but it will take a long time a long long time that is why we should not be discouraged if after four years of life of the united nations we did not get everything that we expected the dream of one world there's been the dream of mankind since time immemorial and we cannot achieve that overnight we have to work for it will think and talk and sleep it then we can have one world but it will take a long time all right sir thank you do you think that world socialism will bring lasting peace I rather not answer that question all right well general here's another one we have all kinds of questions here general Romulo don't you think that the present system of voting in the united nations is based on sovereignty is a road block to the path to peace that's true I have spoken on that before the political committee and in a plenary session of the general assembly I have advocated that that system of voting be changed that a weighted representation be adopted instead and so I agree with that question and I don't only agree with it but I have spoken on that subject and have advocated that a change be made thank you sir does the general believe that the current united states do you want to discuss our foreign policy no no certainly not I thought somebody would like to know your comments on our present foreign policy I guess that's a little bit out of our field this evening you don't want me to be recalled do you when we have a good man like you here we want to keep you sir do you believe that the world will eventually develop in the world federation through the united nations I hope so what about the world federalists there are always a lot of world federalists would like you to have you talk a little bit about that well I have as you very well know spoken several times on what I believe should be a limited form of world government and I have said that the strength and the hope of the united nations lies in the fact that it should ultimately develop into a limited form of world government and to do that I have suggested several measures and to those who are interested what suggestions these are as I have made them in my speeches before the united nations you can write to me at 6231 empire state building and I will send them to you all right thank you would you care to come in on a certain prominent senators remarks of the present moment or not we're going to leave senators out tonight I won't ask you it was a question on senator mccarthy and I wouldn't ask you about it general what part would an international language play towards making and maintaining one democratic world it is here has unesco done anything towards developing one language unesco has not tried to develop one international language as far as I know may have I don't really know very much about unesco but I can say this with the simultaneous interpretation that we have in the united nations we have bridged over that difficulty of language those of you who have been to lake success and to flossing meadow know that you can listen to a russian speaking simultaneously in english spanish french and chinese now that has gone a long way to save time and to make us closer together of course the chinese interpreters many times on vacation your excellency would you consider that a world enslaved would be better than no world at all perfectly obvious answer that just gives you a chance to use your oratory well I want this tonight everything I stand for as you know is not for a world enslaved now you've answered some of these other questions what indications have you observed in this country for a desire to liquidate or to stop the cold war do you think the united states is making any progress at all towards ending the cold war well that's a good question because it is true that nowhere is the desire for peace more insistent than in this country as I've found it people take the time of sending me telegrams and writing letters when I made my four proposals to the atomic energy commission to the six powers well I received telegrams from all over the country and letters from all over Wisconsin yes yes watertown Wisconsin I remember general do you think that there any headway is being made to raise the standard of public opinion here in or for the united nations do you think the newspapers for example people are doing all possible to develop our good feelings and good wishes towards the united nations that's that is a summary of about four questions here well that is a quite an involved question it's an involved question because modern journalism by its very nature demands variety if any newspaper in America or in Europe or in Asia attempted to cover the united nations adequately if any newspaper tried to picture what happens in the united nations every day completely it would contain nothing else but the activities of the united nations you would not have a society page a sports page you would have a classified ad page you would know where to get your apartment you would have a comic page because the united nations is such a complex organization now that what it does cannot be published completely and adequately every day so naturally by the very nature of modern journalism only that with sketches a headline is picked out and published well that's not the fault of the newspapers that is the very nature of modern journalism as journalism is and that is my answer to your question all right thank you very much for a very fine evening and I hope we'll see some of you next year thank you time for that to you thank you you you you you