Black deployment of the first division. It could have been held in reserve, awaiting development, or thrown around the north or south flank. My air forces were especially charged with the mission of discovering the utilization of this mobile black division. Very early on the morning of the 19th, the blue air forces gave me the desired information. And as a constant, while the 3rd and 2nd Corps drove forward and held the black, the 22nd Cavalry Division and this mobile force moved to and sourced the racket at Cotan and South Cotan. If the 1st Division had been thrown to the south flank, the 3rd Corps could have played a similar role on the north flank. The superiority of forces, therefore, opened the road for either plan. During the fighting between the grass and the racket's rivers, Gerald Spartan's 3rd Corps, by using the superior strength of its two square divisions, grasped for noting, or noting, to threaten the rear of the black north flank. This movement, combined with the blue threat on the south, caused the black to withdraw to the east of the racket river. The continued threat, the black south flank loosened the defense on the racket, and after skillfully throwing foot bridges early on the 21st, Gerald Short's 2nd Corps assisted on its left by the 3rd, succeeded in gaining the east flank and mission headway to the east. As the maneuvers ended, the blacks were counterattacking this penetration. There's much to be learned in this exercise. I'm sure discussion in the lower ranks has implanted lasting lessons. The spirit and gas of the personnel on both sides were remarkable. In fact, this trait was responsible for the early conclusion of the maneuver. Groups got so far from base camp that I had to call off the exercise or rearrange the railroad schedule for the whole army. I saw many instances of American resourcefulness, which is a prime requisite for success in the field. The first footway to cross the racket that I saw was made possible by the 44th Division, using assault boats to complete the span. As a sawing connection with that bridge, it seemed that one of the men enjoying the bridge expressed the viewpoint that there wasn't much of this. He didn't want to bother with it. Got in the water and got wet. The other fellow, rather dry in his humor, looked at him and says, Oh, come on. You know Washington had to do this. All helps the situation. Many improvised shelters and means of concealment were divided. Passing through the 1st Division on the night of the 20th, I had great difficulty in locating any units. They had concealed themselves so well. All divisions on both sides, the 26th, 43rd, and 1st on the Blacks, the 27th, 44th, 29th, 28th, 22nd, and just go before, comprising a combat team from the 27th Division, on the blue side, were involved in special operations, which I cannot recite in the time available. They all showed great energy and spirit and resourcefulness. In fact, we all units, food reached the troops in a reasonable time. I had one or two complaints about shortage of food, not very much, but I was convinced the day before yesterday, they didn't amount to very much, because I had a letter from one of the nearby ministers, and he said he understood the men were giving their food away, because they had so much food, and he asked if I wouldn't send some of it that we didn't need to him for his people. However, with all these statements, there were defects, some serious, which were to be expected under the limitations of our system of training. I'll point out some of these in the following remarks. My personal observation of the entire three weeks of our training has been extensive, covering personal talks with men of all ranks of the Army. As I announced in the opening conference, we are here to learn and not to test. My remarks in this conference are intended in that spirit and not to criticize. There have been marked improvements by the whole command over last year's movement. The movement to and making of camps, as well as the handling of these camps, and transportation has been well done. On roads and in exercises, the handling of transportation, and in most cases concealment, have been executed. The spirit and confidence of command are most gratifying and superior. The high commanders and staff have met their problems excellently. In most cases, their headquarter organizations were well-teamed and something to advantage. However, in the lower units, weaknesses were evident due to inadequate practical things. There can be improvement in these subjects in relation to smaller units. basic tactical things. Patrolling, security, outposts, advance guards, connecting groups, securing and transmitting information, and many fundamental tactical formations. More frequent tactical exercises are needed. One of the officers met an outpost during the last night of the exercise, and he asked him if he knew anything about a force that was moving along his flank. He said, yes, we know about that force, all right. We catch it tomorrow with dive bombers. The high command has done better this year in keeping the lower ranks informed of the situation. However, there is still room for improvement. The advent of the motor and the catchphrases coming from the European war have given many an erroneous conception of actual battles. They appear to visualize battles as consisting primarily of motoring instead of fighting by a combination of firepower and tactical movement. As one of our famous julls put it, they do a lot of blitzing but little creaking. Some headquarters improvise mobile advanced command posts with trucks covered with canvas which appeared excellent. We need such mobile command posts for brigades, divisions, and corps. We need more experience in cooperative work between the air and the ground forces, especially in combat. We have had one of the first experiences along these lines which I'm sure will develop in the future. Conservation of manpower is a principle in war as in any other walk of life. It was neglected both at headquarters and in fighting units. Too many commanders expected all officers and all men to be at work or in the fight all the time. A successful commander is generally one who has fresh forces available for the crisis of combat. Advanced guards, outposts, and other security forces fail in their primary purpose if they do not ensure rest and so forth to the main forces. We must guard against the danger of the combat team system destroying the firepower of artillery and leading to undue dispersion of forces and to the failure to provide adequate reserves. Distances between supporting units such as divisions may be large temporarily, but overextended deployments within divisions risked defeat due to the absence of adequate local resistance. From this viewpoint, many of our deployments were overextended and lacked desirable depth. I feel this viewpoint so seriously that I have placed on the slide a diagrammatic picture of the two viewpoints. On the upper part of the slide, you see the combat teams of a regiment of F-3 and a battalion of artillery and a company of engineers frequently set out in a very dispersed formation anywhere from two to eight miles between the teams. Many times and most the times not within supporting distance of each other and most the times with no reserve held back. At the bottom you see the opposite in which the mass of the command is held in hand and set out in front of it is a group of patrols and scouts and developing forces to find out where the enemy is and then the mass can be used as a mass to make a penetration or envelopment. We have been led and I want to say it emphatically by this combat team expression into a false fundamental tactic a false fundamental tactic of overextension lack of reserves and the lack of a final power in the commander's hands. So don't let slogans carry us too far. Our exercises of last year as well as the present one demonstrate the value of mobile motorized forces people of rapid swing around flanks or to gain terrain advantages. Every large force needs such a unit. The lack of tanks to supplement such a force was a serious handicap to it. So also was the absence of any senior reconnaissance unit for cause and division. The air defense command system is a strong conception and under the circumstances of our exercise has demonstrated its value. General Kane and his group of air fighters drowned at the aircraft guns warning service and the control center in Watertown have given an excellent illustration of the possibilities of this organization. The Army Air Organization fulfilled its mission with excellent observation results. The pilot proved without much training represented the attack bombing are to be congratulated. However, we are badly in need of more training in the cooperative work between these forces and ground units. Considable use was made of commercial telephone lines by both sides and to an advantage. However, the danger in freely using this method is well illustrated by a telephone message received at Blue Army headquarters from a black soldier telling the location of his division train. The black soldier got the wrong number and the trains were captured. the horse cavalry has experienced some real service. In two days, some units covered over 60 miles. The horse cavalry again demonstrated its value as a close-in flank unit of some mobility. Officers patrol penetrated well into the south flank of the Blues and supplied valuable information in time. there will be as told you of our sick rate the highest being one and three tenths percent. Our normal sick rate in garrison is two and five tenths percent. This is very gratifying. Many leaders are inclined to follow sick forms and diagrams in their fieldwork. They are too bookish. They fail to use their natural practical common sense. We have succeeded well in these exercises in shortening our orders and developing a practical solution which corresponds to present-day warfare. We should apply this same approach to our troop leading, especially in lower units. Let us always keep in mind that man is the fundamental instrument of war. The worth of the individual man is still decided. Group leading in battle, regardless of the echelon of command, calls for cool and thoughtful leaders with a strong feeling of great responsibility imposed upon them. The offensive demands of a commander these positive characteristics in the highest order. The offensive form of battle only embodies the positive qualities which seek and promise a battle to a decision. And the first of these qualities is initiative. Initiative permits the choice of objectives and direction, the organization of the attack formation, the adaption of action to time and the creation of opportunity. With initiative goes high morale which promotes confidence and determination which are essential to success in battle. in order to realize upon these advantages to the fullest, it is vital that a commander know what he is going to do and have the strength of character to determine and order when, where, how, and why it is to be done. But even this initial attitude is not sufficient. Once the operation is launched, a commander must make his presence felt along the whole front, particularly during a crisis at any point. He must have confidence in his plan and in his command and have the courage to drive his attack home with the dominance of his own personality. History first is numerous examples. of military commanders who, when confronted by a mission or situation requiring positive actions, have remained inactive. The excuse ordinarily given for an inactive to inactivity may be one or several. Lack of information of the enemy, lack of means, enemy too strong. Investigation has indicated that such claims invariably have been poor excuses. the real reasons can tell it be traced to a lack of willpower on the part of the commander. They were unable to make up their minds or to take a calculated risk. History fails to record a successful commander who did not take calculated risks, even in the face of superior numbers. Superior hostile numbers may be overcome through greater mobility, more accurate effective fire, better morale, and better leadership. Superior leadership often enables a numerically inferior force to be stronger at the point of the size of action. such was the type of leadership of Stonewall Jackson. It was the, it was not the size of this command, it was not the size of his command that constantly disturbed the Union commander, it is his uncanny ability to move his command like the wind. Secretly, appear suddenly from nowhere, fall upon it and expose flanks or rear like a bolt of lightning and cut a pass of destruction before the inertia inherent in all defensive forms of battles would permit the Union commanders to react. There is no better type of commander to emulate the conditions of modern methodized warfare. Before closing, I desire to express our appreciation for the assistance given to us by the citizens of Northern New York. Their interest and effort helps to make the maneuvers possible and their cooperation during our stay here is appreciated by all concerned. Without the support of ground forces, with the two arms to deduct, the two arms to deduct closely in command, training, and leading conditions, the introduction of modern weapons, especially in the air and in mechanization and motorization, has led to several divergent fields in the field of practice. Slogans, and text phrases, and undigested reports are using battles while having their influences. Flexibility of viewpoints and constant experiments could be encouraged along these lines. On the other hand, a combat army is a team pretending greatly for success, for unity, for peace. if they are present in connection with the campaign, our brother service. Whether the brother service leaves or whether the brother service follows, it certainly is a great meeting, a meeting to have with the army and always the Navy. And I want to introduce to you this evening the commander of the 3rd Naval District who is close to us with New York Admiral Woodruff. And they look at you. In handling a maneuver of the size we have just finished, the commander must have many assistance. They work behind the scenes and queues nobis. Well, there are too many for me to mention all. I do desire to present to you the following heads of departments and to thank to them all the others. You've already met General Sullivan, the deputy director. You've met Colonel Wilby, the chief of staff of the army. Colonel Dowles, who commands the Milba area. Set the stage for our work. Colonel Chambers, the quartermaster of the army. He fed you. Colonel Dowles, the aviation you have met. Colonel Lloyd, he's handled all the finances and transportation of all the big movements. Colonel Potter, the chief umpire, the military you have met. Colonel Weed, the surgeon of the army, who has produced such a marvelous record for us. Colonel Weed. Colonel Ward, the engineer, supplied the water, supplied the bridge material. Colonel Roth, the public relations group. Colonel Smith, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police. Colonel, the police, the police, the police, the police, the police. And the man, if you did not disturb as much as I thought you were going to disturb, then I express you my appreciation for not disturbing you. Colonel Smith, the fellow marshal. I desire in addition to express my thanks to the Corps and Division Commanders of General Cady for their very fine cooperation and assistance. It has been an exceptional gathering, and I'm sure you must realize that if the crisis does come to us, that nothing would please me more than to have you under my command. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll pause briefly now for station identification. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is Major Edward Davies broadcasting direct from Canton, New York, to the audience of WNYC. We are privileged tonight to present some of real New Yorkers who are up here in the great stadium of St. Lawrence University in Canton, listening to the final critique by Lieutenant General Hugh A. Drum of the First Army. And I've gathered in three to come over here and say hello to you New Yorkers down there in the city. First, we are privileged to present Colonel Arthur B. McDermott, Judge Advocate of the New York National Guard. And Colonel McDermott has sprung a passion on me. He's making me ask him questions. So here goes. Colonel, you're attached to the 27th New York National Guard, I understand. That's right. Colonel, would you explain to me just what a division is? You know, a great many people seem to have rather hazy views on this subject. Well, I'll do the best I can. A division is the basic or practical unit of an army. I'm speaking now of the so-called square division, not of the so-called five-angular, a streamlined division. It contains four regiments of infantry and three regiments of artillery. They are the combat troops. In addition, the division contains a large number of auxiliary troops who are just as essential and important as the boys with the gun. These auxiliary troops include an engineer regiment, a quartermaster regiment, a medical regiment, and various other troops, such as St. Louis, Frank, Ordnance, Military, Police, and the like. An infantry division is a complete fighting unit. It contains all the necessary combat and auxiliary arms of the service to enable it to carry on independent combat operations in the field. Two or more divisions compromise a core, and two or more core compromise an army. Colonel, how many men are there in the 27th Division? There are present up there at the Manuers 10,500 officers and enlisted men at the 27th Division, which is approximately the full team-term strength. Well, does that make up the whole New York National Guard? Oh, no. The total strength of the New York National Guard is approximately 25,000. In addition to the 10,500 men in the 27th Division, we have about 5,000 other troops from the New York National Guard up here at the Manuers, and the remainder have been receiving their training at various other places. What do these other New York National Guard troops consist of, Colonel? Well, I'm afraid it would take too long to answer that question in detail. But briefly, we have two full regiments of cavalry. We also have a brigade of infantry and artillery, which are part of the 44th Division, which consists of New York and New Jersey National Guard troops. We also have the New York National Guard, three regiments of coast artillery, four infantry regiments, which are about to be converted into anti-aircraft and heavy artillery, and various other troops of a similar nature. They all add up to 25,000 troops in the New York National Guard. Well, now, here's an interesting question that I know will be of interest to all New Yorkers. Does the state of New York pay the expense of maintaining and equipping the New York National Guard? Not by any means. The federal government provides everything and bears all the expenses except the construction and maintenance of armory. That last item, however, is not an inconsiderable one. New York City, for example, spends just about $1 million a year for maintaining the armory for the 15,000 National Guard troops located in the city of New York. Were there many of the officers or men in the New York National Guard unable to come up here with their regiments, Colonel? No. Out of a total of almost 16,000 men, the percentage of attendance of the New York National Guard troops up here is a trifle better than 97%. Two regiments, the 102nd quartermaster regiment and the 106th field artillery, reported with every single officer and enlisted man present for duty. That is really an extraordinary thing when you stop to consider the innumerable contingencies which could prevent a member of the Guard from reporting for duty. No matter how anxious he might be to attend, we feel very proud of him. Well, now here's a question that is of great interest to me being a veteran. Are there many veterans of the last war still serving in the New York National Guard? Well, naturally, there are very few among the enlisted men and junior officers. Most of those boys were in swaddling clothes in 1917, and a lot of them had not even been born. As to the higher officers, however, from battalion commanders up, I would say that practically all of them were in combat service overseas in the World War. It is a very comforting thing to know that when the New York National Guard is called into service again, it will be led by men who learn their job in actual field and combat service and who have been sticking to the job ever since. Thank you very much, Colonel Arthur V. McDermott of New York City. That was mighty fine. And here we have a brand new major. He's sitting here just smiling all over, and I don't blame him because those gold oak leaves certainly look fine. Major David Marcus, Commissioner of Correction of New York City. Major Marcus, will you tell us your impression of the tactical phase of this maneuver? A Civil War general wants to find tactics as the science of getting to a place first with most men. However, there's much more to tactics than that. I have seen and read field orders used in battles during the last World War. All were voluminous, cumbersome, requiring concentrated mental ethics. One got the impression that the higher units were taking the lower organizations by hand in kindergarten fashion and teaching them their jobs. Not so with the present maneuver. The 27th Division of the New York National Guard went into action upon receipt of a one-paragraph directive from the Corps commander. The various lower units of the 27th Division sprang into immediate and vigorous activity upon receipt of a simple one-page order. No verbocity. The officers and men of the New York National Guard were not talked to death, nor were they wounded by the typewriter battery. All instructions, orders were briefed, cursed, and cleared, resulting in speed, and, what's more important, fast teamwork. However, you can give concise, brief orders only to well-trained officers and men who are mentally alert and physically alive. Those of us who have been trained by and who have served under Mayor LaGuardia know the magic of speedy, intelligent action. Thank you very much, Major David Marcus, and congratulations on your promotion. And now I'm going to present for just a few moments a gentleman who has been visiting with us here during the First Army Maneuvers and has endeared himself to everyone that he's met. He's genial, and he knows his best. I present Inspector James J. C. of New York City. Inspector, tell the people something about these maneuvers. Good evening. I was assigned by his honor, the mayor and police commissioner, Valentine, to visit the area of maneuver up here in northern New York for the purpose of finding out firsthand the problems involved in the movements of 100,000 troops with about 8,000 or more vehicles. This movement is of tremendous importance to us. I feel that the time spent here has been well spent, and the experience, James, will be of considerable value to the police department if any such condition should arise in the immediate vicinity of New York in the future. I particularly noted the splendid manner in which the Army, the state troopers, and the local police cooperated in making the movements of these thousands of vehicles and men in the maneuver area success that it has been. I haven't noticed one case of serious congestion, and this fact is entirely due to the splendid cooperation of the bodies I just mentioned. I thank you. Thank you very much, Inspector C. This broadcast came to you from Canton, New York State, in the First Army Maneuver area. I want to take this opportunity of thanking the management of WNYC and its extremely genial manager, Mr. Novak, for making these broadcasts possible direct from this area up here in the New York Northern Hills. This is Major Edward Davies returning you now to New York.