Mr. Liebman, it gives me great pleasure to present to you Fireman Victor F. Rossi of Hook and Ladder 120 and Lieutenant John F. McGlynn of Hook and Ladder 10, the winners of the Rheingold Awards for the last quarter of 1950 and the first quarter of 1951, respectively. And now let me add that it is brave men such as these who comprise the ablest and greatest firefighting organization in the world. Fireman Rossi, your heroic and daring rescues of two helpless women at a midnight fire on October 21, 1950 in a four-story tenement at 162 Glenmore Avenue, Brooklyn, challenge the imagination and make us all prouder than ever of New York City's dauntless firemen. After you climbed the ladder to the third floor, you smashed your way through the window with your helmet and then crawled through the apartment which was filled with intense heat and blinding smoke until you found a helpless woman whom you carried to the street. There being no other firemen immediately available, you were ordered to make a second rescue in the rear room of the first floor where another woman was trapped. The hallway was a mass of flames, but under the cover of a hose stream, you made your way into the apartment and rescued another helpless woman from death. Fireman Rossi, it now gives me the greatest of pleasure to present to you the award for the fourth quarter of 1950, the Rheingold Award Certificate and the bond which goes with it as a token of our appreciation as citizens of New York to the men of the fire department. All right. Thank you. There's only about 8,000 firemen back in quarters waiting to do the same thing if the occasion ever arises. Thank you. Lieutenant McGlynn, your courageous rescue also reads like a thrilling chapter from a work of fiction. Just before noon on January 16, 1951, your apparatus was the first to arrive at a fire in what was left of a building under demolition at number 32 Spruce Street, Manhattan. Thousands saw your dramatic rescue from the street and thousands more from nearby office buildings, including the municipal building where we are now gathered in Commissioner Monaghan's office. All four floors that were still standing were afire. Flames were leaping out of all the windows. At one of the windows on the fourth floor was a workman. His extended hands and face showed the effects of the flames. Your aerial ladder was quickly raised and you literally ran up its rungs to rescue the trapped man. You grabbed his hands and with the aid of fireman Solomon Wells brought the rescued man to the street. Your peril was great. The treacherous flames burned your aerial ladder and also caused second-degree burns to the right hand of fireman Wells. Your own hands were torn during your noble rescue work. Lieutenant McGlynn, it indeed makes me happy to present to you the Rheingold Award and the accompanying bond for your heroic act, which has been given the Rheingold Award for the first quarter of 1951. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Liebman, for the bond which could have been won by any other member of the force if they have had equal opportunity. I thank you. Thank you. And now let me close with the thought expressed by Fire Commissioner Monaghan. It is the brave men such as you who comprise the ablest and greatest firefighting organization in the world. Thank you very much. Fireman Rossi and Lieutenant McGlynn, I want to take this opportunity to let you know how deeply appreciative this department is of your willingness to go ahead and put your own life in peril in saving the lives of others. It's warming to know that the department is made up almost completely of men of your type. You have the thanks of the community as well as the thanks and gratitude of this department for your noble efforts. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.