Mr. Acting and to be President of the Council, this is a distinguished guest, Reverend clergy, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start this in the usual American way, and that is our distinguished, New York's finest police department band will play the national anthem. New York's finest police department band New York's finest police department band The privilege of having this wonderful band with us under the directorship of Acting Captain William Krauss. Acting Captain Krauss, my compliments to you and your very wonderful band. And now, again in tradition, we will start our ceremonies, that of laying of the cornerstone of this structure, with prayer. And prayer will be offered by Rabbi Alexander Boudin. Alexander Boudin. Merciful Father in Heaven, we invoke thy most gracious benediction upon this assemblage of men and women gathered here for the purpose of laying a cornerstone and breaking ground of a project which will enhance the beauty of our community and ensure additional comforts to its residents. Bless Almighty God, our beloved Mayor, our devoted Acting President of the City Council, our President of the Borough of Queens, all our Commissioners, all our Commissioners, together with all our loyal servants of our municipal government with spiritual and physical well-being, for their understanding, helpfulness, and kind cooperation in the planning and implementation of this project. Also bless our civic organizations for their devoted work and fruitful efforts. We thank thee, most bountiful God, for the fine humanitarian and God-fearing leadership thou hast given us and for the spirit of harmony and good neighborliness and good fellowship which we enjoy in this community and throughout our beloved city. Cognizant of the truth, as expressed by the psalmist, except the Lord build the house, the labor in vain that build it, except the Lord watch over the city, the watchman waketh but in vain. We therefore raise our hearts unto thee in humble prayer that thou continue to inspire and to guide every one of us with the light of thy holy law, the inexhaustible source of freedom, justice, and democracy. It is a tree of life to them that grasp it and of them that behold it, everyone is rendered happy. Its ways are ways of pleasantness and all its paths are peace. Cleanse us, merciful God, from all the pollutions and impurities of heart so that the beauty without which this wonderful project will ensure will also reflect beauty within. Bind all races and creeds to thee in a bond of brotherhood and love implementing in their lives the inseparable biblical injunctions and thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy might. Grant, O Lord of hosts, a speedy victory to the armed forces of the United Nations and dispel in thine abundant goodness the clouds of global war threatening the human horizon. Bless our president and all the leaders of the government of our beloved country. Make all people everywhere see their light. For in the light of thy countenance, O Lord our God, thou hast given us the law of life, loving kindness and righteousness, blessing, mercy, life, and peace. Amen. Thank you, Rabbi Boudin. As Commissioner of Public Works, it is a happy privilege to be the master of ceremonies at the dedication of the cornerstone of a structure that is entirely the work of public works. We at Public Works are charged with the responsibility of design, construction, maintenance, and operation of sewage disposal plants throughout the great city of New York. Now, that sounds in very few words like a mighty small job. but when one considers that there are eight million people contributing to the waste, human waste, which isn't a nice thing to talk about, but it's true, when one considers that there are eight million people in that great city of New York, one must know that the responsibility for the construction, or may I say the design, the construction, the maintenance, and the operation of a sewage disposal plants to take care of that waste from the city of New York is a great one. no man, no matter how great he might be, no matter how great an engineer, and I claim to be an engineer, no matter how great an engineer he might be, could possibly do that job without the able assistance of many capable and usually, unfortunately, in city service underpaid engineers. So at this time, I would like to introduce, and I'm not going to take too much time doing it because I'm only going to introduce the principal man. The rest of the men under him will recognize that when I introduce him, I am giving and paying a tribute to them. They who design, supervise the construction, maintain, and operate the sewage disposal plants of the great, greatest city in the world, New York City. I want to introduce to you, just for a bow, the chief of my division of sewage disposal, Richard Gould. And that, in a simple way, ladies and gentlemen, is a tribute of one engineer to many engineers in my department who labor, and I said before, with sometimes underpay, but labor intelligently, labor honestly and labor conscientiously in the endeavors of the people of the city or for the people of the city of New York. Today, we dedicate a cornerstone. The laying of a cornerstone is traditional in any building. It's traditional in any structure. It means in plain English that the structure has gotten to a point where it is nearing completion, it is assured of completion. And I say that because I want to say to the people of Rockaway, while during the last summer, you have been undergoing some inconveniences because of our endeavors in your behalf, the construction of interceptor sewers on the ground, the construction of these buildings that you see about you. While you have been undergoing some inconveniences, those inconveniences have been in your interest. We have not, we have belittled them or made them as little as it is possible to make them and yet construct. Nobody has yet devised a method of construction that doesn't inconvenience somebody, whether it be a neighbor, whether it be somebody who has an adjoining property, or whether it be somebody who has to travel through that portion in which the construction takes place. And I say to you, for any inconvenience that we have caused you, we hope and we pray that the end of our efforts, the purpose of our efforts, the cleaning up of the waters surrounding your lovely peninsula, a peninsula on which you live and which brings you your livelihood, I hope that the benefits derived therefrom will offset any inconvenience that we have caused you during the past year. Now, none of these things would be possible by my effort. I have acknowledged to you that I am but the leader of a great group of engineers in a department known as the Department of Public Works. but that is yet only one department of a great city, a great city that's made up of five boroughs. The borough of Queens includes your peninsula, Rockaway. You have, at this time, a man who served as a commissioner of borough works under your former borough president and is now holding the exalted and honored position of president of your borough. I have observed him in his work in your borough. His work naturally comes in contact with mine and therefore as man to man we have met and I want to say to you in all sincerity that you have a conscientious and a sincere active president of the borough, a former commissioner of borough works and I present him to you now, the honorable Joseph F. Maffara. Thank you. Commissioner Zilmillan, members of the clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I was very happy when I heard the commissioner of borough public works pay tribute to his engineers of laying out the plans for this project. I want to pay tribute to my engineers who helped lay out the drainage plan for this project also. We have the finest engineers in the world and I want to say right here and now the engineers in the borough president's office and the engineers in the Department of Public Work is doing an outstanding job for the city of New York today. The completion of the Rockaway Sewage treatment works next summer will make possible the restoration and the development of the Jamaica Bay as a recreational area. It will be the largest recreational area of its kind in the entire city. Elimination of the pollution in the Jamaica Bay will return to the use of the people one of the priceless assets of New York. The 18,000 acres of bay, marsh and metal lands and the surrounding shores was placed under the Park Department's jurisdiction in 1948 as mapped as a park by the Board of Estimate in 1950. One of the waters of the bay was purified. They will be available for the swimming, fishing, boating, and will provide a haven for wildlife. Queens is fortunate indeed that this vast playground is in its backyard. The problem of sewage disposal plans is just one of the many which the borough and the city has to content with since the end of World War II. Despite financial difficulties, the city administration embarked on an ambitious project of cleaning up the waters surrounding New York City. The first stage of this plan called for purifying all waters used for bathing, boating, and fishing or shellfish fishing, and this program is to be completed by the end of 1953. As part of this plan, the 26th Ward Plan in Brooklyn, treating sewage which flows into Jamaica Bay from that borough, was finished last year. The Hunnis Point Plan in the Bronx, which will help clean up the North Shore of Queens, is under construction, and the plans are being prepared for doubling the capacity of Bowery Bay Plan in the North Shore. The Rockaway Treatment Plan, supplementing the 26th Ward Plan of Jamaica Plan, opened in 1943, will assume the freedom of the Jamaica Bay from pollution. The second stage of the city pollution abatement program, to be finished by 1959, involves the construction of six additional sewage treatment works, two of which will be the North Shore, the Newtown Creek Plan, and its extension of the Ward Island Treatment Plan. An indication of the tremendous difficulties the city faced in tackling this program is founded in the facts, that the first phrase of the borough will cost 99 millions of dollars. The second phrase will cost another 105 million dollars, a grand total of 204 millions of dollars. As large as these sums are, I think they are a good investment. They are an investment in the health and welfare of all the people of this city. As your borough president, I am very happy. to participate in laying the cornerstone of this Rockaway treatment plant today. I wonder whether Rockaway has as brightest sun every day as it has today. That sun is almost unbearable when you sit here and have it in your face. Mr. Borough president, I know that you are familiar with our sewerage treatment program. I know that you are familiar with the progress that has been made. I want to make it just a little bit more intimate to the people of Rockaway. This plant that we lay a cornerstone today completes the four plants around your Jamaica Bay that will make Jamaica Bay a clean body of water that will make Jamaica Bay, which it is by God's work, not by ours, and was before we polluted it, the finest section for vacation recreation or finest recreation center in the world. There isn't any place in the world that will surpass your Jamaica Bay when this pollution program is completed. Now, when I say it is completed by this plant, let me just hedge a little bit we all know that out on Broad Channel there is a section of some 5,000 inhabitants that must be taken care of or their pollution will still go into Jamaica Bay. We also know that down at the other end, and I think I'm pointing to the right place, Dick, am I not? We have a section that must be picked up, but they, in comparison to the big job, is so small that you can congratulate yourself. And I say to you, and I am not a politician, believe me, I am not. I am an engineer and nothing else but. I can say to you that the former administration and the present administration made possible the cleaning up of your waters or they never would have been done. Now, with that as an introduction, and by the way, I was just sitting next to the next speaker, and I said, let me see your speech so I know how to introduce you. He said, I never wrote a speech in my life, and I said, I have never written a speech in my life except on something that I didn't know anything about, which always reminds me, and I know the clergy will excuse me if I tell the story of the clergyman who preached to his congregation on motherhood. And then he went to the back of the church quickly at the end of the services so that he could receive the compliments of his congregation on the beautiful preaching he had done. And one Irish woman said to him, Father, I never heard you speak so well on a subject you know so little about. And, gentlemen, that's what's necessary when you have a prepared, when you need to prepare a speech, and I know that your next speaker, the president of the Chamber of Commerce of Rockaway, knows his subject, Rockaway. And there's a peculiar thing about him. He is a chief assistant district attorney of your county. Now, that combination is not usual. Let me say it is unusual. As most of you know, if you don't know it, I'm going to advertise it. I live in Richmond. Richmond. I've been a member of the Chamber of Commerce of the County of Richmond, or the Borough of Richmond, for 28 years. And I'm proud to be a member of the Chamber of Commerce. And I'm proud to present to you the president of your Chamber of Commerce, J. Irvin Shapiro. Mr. Shapiro. Commissioner Zemelin, Reverend Kergy, Mr. President of the City Council, Joseph T. Sharkey, and honored guests, I'm very happy to be here today representing the Chamber of Commerce of the Rockaways, which has for so many years been urging the building of this project, the cornerstone for which we lay here this afternoon. I was rather interested in the introduction of Commissioner Zemelin, and I think he's a dandy engineer, one of the finest in the country, if not in all the world. But I became suspect when he told that story about the priest who was told by the Irish lady that he was talking on a subject that he knew nothing about, and then he said, I give you Mr. Shapiro. And then I became even more suspicious when I noticed on the program that after I sit down, they're going to call upon a reverend member of the clergy to offer up a prayer. No prayers are offered except after my speeches. But seriously, the weather here this afternoon, Commissioner Zemelin, is supplied here by courtesy of the Chamber of Commerce of the Rockaways. The Chamber of Commerce has been agitating for the elimination of pollution in Jamaica Bay, for lo, these many, many years. And we had a hard road to hope, not because the city administration of the present and of the past wasn't in favor of the elimination of pollution, but because of the tremendous sums of money involved, and because of the fact that right here in the Rockaways, we couldn't get a unanimity of opinion as to where the building should be located. As a matter of fact, when this site was agreed upon, we had numerous people come to us and ask that it be in somebody else's backyard. We didn't care where in the Rockaways it was placed as long as it was placed somewhere so that this pollution, which was a constant menace to the health and well-being of the people of Queens County, could be eliminated. And now it's well on its way. I'm just wondering, Commissioner, as long as we're meeting here on the eve of a political campaign, whether or not we can't use this pollution project, which is to eliminate pollution, in the political campaign, perhaps to eliminate some of the political pollution which is being disseminated by some people in the campaign. I think that also would be a very worthwhile project. I'm very happy, as I say, to be here representing the Chamber of Commerce to the Rockaways upon the cornerstone laying of this project. It means a memorable thing for the Rockaways and for the people of the County of Queens. Two things of great moment to the people of the County of Queens and indeed to the people of the entire city found their fruition this week. Yesterday, Judge Kennedy and the United States District Court in Brooklyn approved the sale of the Long Island Division, the Far Rockaway and Rockaway Beach Divisions of the Long Island Railroad to the City of New York. And that's a happy moment for all of the people in the Rockaways and for all of the residents in the City of New York who come to live and play in the Rockaways. And I want to say a fair word of tribute. I wish the mayor were here to hear me because he was largely instrumental in the day after his election in appointing the committee, which went right to work on this project and saw it through. And I want to say a word of commendation and thanks and gratitude to the Commissioner, to the President of the City Council, Joseph T. Sharkey, who lent his aid and assistance and his votes on the Board of Estimate to make the acquisition of the Long Island Railroad by the City of New York possible. And now, today, we attend the cornerstone laying of a second great event in the history of the Rockaways. We in the Rockaways are happy and proud to be a part and parcel of this project. We hope that the City Administration will carry on with diligence and expedition. We know they will. So that the County of Queens may soon become the greatest recreational place in the entire United States. Thanks very much. Thank you, Mr. Shapiro. I agree with you entirely except for your last statement. You said that you hope that it will soon become, from your words, from the words of your chamber, from the propaganda that I have had from the Rockaways, I always thought it was the greatest recreation center in the world. And I'm willing to say that I think it is. Now, we had hopes of having with us this afternoon the Right Reverend Monsignor J. Jerome Reddy, the pastor of St. Francis the Sales Church in Rockaway. Father Monsignor Reddy found it impossible. He's on retreat. even a priest must occasionally go and make amends to his maker. And that is what the retreat consists in. And he has asked his assistant, the Reverend John Jorgensen, to substitute for him. And I am going to ask the Reverend John Jorgensen to offer prayer at this time. Reverend John Jorgensen. Let us pray. O God, the strength of those who hope in thee, look favorably upon us all, and since without thee human faulty avails not, grant the help of thy grace that in following thy commands we may please thee both in intention and achievement through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you, Father, very much. Now, we had hopes of, of course, having our mayor here this afternoon to mark another milestone in a work of the elimination of pollution of the harbors of the city that he has been as president of the council and then as acting mayor and then as mayor a very instrumental part in. You know, as well as I do, that he had just returned from a rather long trip, as the paper said, but a very intelligent trip for many of us and many of us Americans, may I say, throughout countries and countries where we can have many friends and should have many friends and I'm sure that he did make many friends there, we have unable to have him with us this afternoon. But we did have an, in addition to him, what we call the acting president of the city council. Well, that acting, Joe, is getting rather on my nerves. I'm so sure that it's going to be knocked out in very short order within the next two weeks that I'm going to present you as the honorable Joseph T. Sharkey, president of the city council. Thank you, Commissioner. No electioneering here. Reverend Fathers, former President McFerrer, distinguished civic leaders, citizens of Rockaway, this takes me back a few years being here at the dedication of your sewage disposal plant. I was one of the original members of the staff that started with the sewage disposal plant. Seeing Commissioner Gold here today brings back some memories of a dozen years ago when we laid the groundwork for this program of sewage disposal. council. We had pretty hectic times in those days. It was an educational program that we started trying to sell this program to the people of this city. They were fearful of it. They were suspicious of it. Didn't realize the great health values, comfort values would accrue to the people of the city upon the completion of this great work. And we were called to many civic meetings. We were browbeaten pretty much. We went through some pretty hectic meetings in those days. Commissioner Gould is here to remember it. And he took it on the chin considerable, so did I. But the program was sold to the people of this city, and it's one of the greatest programs in the world. It will enable us to have a harbor. It will be free of health menaces. We'll be almost able to drink the waters of our harbor eventually after these sewer treatment plants are in full operation, and it will be something that can be sold to the world as one of the great gifts given to the people of this city, in which they rightfully deserve. People of this city receive many services that are not given to other people throughout the world. We're attempting at the moment even to have daily picked ups of garbage. There are some of the great cities of this country, Chicago, who pick up garbage just once a week. We pick it up daily on our avenues, three times a week on the side streets, and we're striving for daily pick-up. There's something that people deserve. These things all cost money, plenty of money, but eventually they'll come to the people. We're in the midst of the moment of a $150 million hospital program, in which we're only getting less than half of what we had expected for our $150 million. Because of spiraling costs of materials, we're receiving less than half of what we'd expected. It will probably require another $150 million in order to complete a hospital program which will give us the greatest hospital system in the world. We had problems in the last five or six years. I can remember the former administration when it came into power. We sat down around the tables and we debated whether or not to go ahead with our school program six or seven years ago because of the high costs. People at that time felt that possibly cheaper costs would come in. But thank God we decided to go ahead because if we hadn't, costs continued to spiral for the past seven years and if we had ever neglected to go ahead with this school program we would have had to leave town. And we've decided to build, we're building, we're building schools the fastest and most rapid school growth of school buildings in the past three years that we've ever had in the history of this city. We're continuing to build, we will continue to build. We'll ask for more monies the first of the year to continue to build schools. So these are some of the things, some of the problems which the city administration is meeting at the present time. But I'm proud to be a guest to this very important occasion today, occasion of the laying of this cornerstone for this last link in the four-plant program for the elimination of sewage pollution in Jamaica Bay. It represents but the culmination of one of the great projects designed to eliminate sewage pollution in this city. When this plant is completed, the Jamaica Bay area will become one of the greatest recreational resorts in any American city. The conception and execution of a project such as this represents long-range municipal planning of the highest sort. This project is also a further indication of the many activities of your city government and of the desire of those who run it to provide for the inhabitants of this city not only the essentials of their daily living but also, and of equal importance, the facilities for their recreation. creation. This project, too, represents just the beginning of the reclamation of the vast natural resources that surround our city so that they may be used by the people. Extensive plans have been prepared by the park department for the use of the Jamaica Bay area, for bathing beaches, playgrounds, boating, and fishing facilities. When these plans have been executed, the people of Queens will have at their doorstep for their use and for the use of their children, the advantages of outdoor living that are usually inaccessible to people in large cities. As part of this long-range program, like plants that we constructed in other boroughs of the city, it is the aim of this administration that the overall plan will be completed by 1959. It is for these reasons, among many others, that I am proud to be here today and proud to be a part of the city administration that has made a project such as this possible. The people of the city of New York deserve this sort of service. They've been getting it and will continue to get it. This project stands as a tribute to this administration and as a rebuke to all of those who seek to defame this city, seek to play up any of its weaknesses before the rest of the country and the world, because our daily newspapers have circulation throughout the world and throughout this country. And our city deserves to have the tribute paid to it that it deserves. It has almost 4,000 churches in this town towering to the skies as a monument to God. These are the things that we should play up. And a city as beautiful as this. This is the finest and cleanest city in the world. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the council. I don't think an occasion of this kind should go by without you people who see these buildings and see the structures. Know who are responsible in a commercial way, you might call it. I like to think of it in a professional way. Who built them? These buildings are being built by Merrick Chapman Scott Corporation. They receive their contract by competitive bidding under a scrutiny of a Department of Public Works, a budget director, and the controller of the city. And when anybody gets a contract after all those scrutinies, they have a contract. And I'd like to introduce, or at least have them stand and take a bow, the president of that company, Mr. Raymond F. Kopp. And now, in order to bring your waste and my waste and everybody else's waste into this structure for treatment and for cleaning it, as you might call it, and I'm talking very plainly, it is necessary to build large underground conduits. These large underground conduits collect all the smaller underground conduits, and the larger underground conduits are called in our language, the language of the engineer, interceptor sewers. We have some almost five miles of them going to be connected to this plant. The majority of that five miles is being constructed by the Bell Park Construction Corporation, and I think Mr. Angelo Pano, the president of that corporation, is here, and if he'll stand up and take a bow, I'll appreciate it. He, too, got his contract in a open, competitive bidding under the scrutiny of the Department of Public Works, the budget director, and the controller, and after we get finished with that, we've got to go over to the president of the council, who sits on the board of estimates, and they pass on it. So they haven't any cinch getting these contracts, and I think with the work they do, and I've been around a little bit, from the work they do, I think the city of New York, at least in my department, and I say at least because I don't know anything about any other department, the city of New York gets a dollar's worth for a dollar. Now, immediately after I introduce the clergyman who will pronounce benediction, we will have the president of the council lay the cornerstone, and I would appreciate it if you would, it will be where you see the cornerstone covered at the present time. But before that, I will introduce to you the clergyman who will pronounce the benediction, which is traditional again in the closing of our ceremonies, the Reverend Henry M. Childs, Jr., pastor of the First Congressional Church of the Rockaways. Father. Now may the blessing of God rest upon this place, those who have worked here and those who will administer its affairs for the common good of this community, and may the peace of God go with us upon our way. In the name of Christ our Lord. Amen. Thank you very much. Now the president of the council and the board president and the president of the chamber of commerce will proceed. To the cornerstone we will prove. If they have their union cards, we'll permit them to lay the cornerstone. If they have a block, they'll permit them to destroy the er مَنً Xinjiangota. Yes sir. Now all of some truths come from. Now our history of Trinkist,tagli H incluso moments in yacht, down the Chinese catalogue of melting thepunkt, a 1989-ーん- извест general article, and we ask them et al Pastor about social movements in the state of Congress. People have created a trademarked specialization of an agreement to investigate theacking of a documentale commem kavg, from the Caribbean state to Clear Lake Trump. Well, we are the only twoούs have a notification鬆 that they will focus on our four-term planned iterative design STA SEC additional ho 42-ed Geme. aional storm pretty quickly