Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Today is the 100th anniversary of the founding of Northwestern University. Mutual and WGN welcome this opportunity to salute the University on its 100th birthday. The Reviewing Stand has provided a weekly radio platform for the University and its distinguished guests for many years, almost two decades. We hope these forums have enabled the University to extend its influence in ways that contribute to better understanding of the many problems discussed. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce today's subject and our speakers. First, may I say on behalf of the University that we regard the Reviewing Stand as an important project in public service. We hope this fine collaboration with WGN and Mutual will continue for many years to come. Today, for the first time on the Reviewing Stand, we should like to discuss our own great university. This is our 100th anniversary. We hope our listeners will understand and share the pride which is ours on this occasion. We ask the question, what should the University stand for? To discuss this question, we present Dr. J. Roscoe Miller, President of the University, Kenneth F. Burgess, President of the Board of Trustees, and Payson S. Wilde, Jr., Vice President and Dean of Faculty. Dr. Miller, what would you like to see the University stand for in the educational world? What position should we seek? What place in American education? Well, Northwestern University has tried to offer a sound education to worthy students, young and old, throughout the past century. More than a quarter of a million have come under our tutelage, and there are 73,500 living alumni scattered around the earth. It is our aim that we should continue to offer a sound liberal education to our undergraduates and ever broaden the program of research and graduate and professional training, and to make further contributions to our community by means of our clinics, public forums, and institutes, remembering always, of course, the golden thread of religion which has been woven into our fabric. Well, Mr. Burgess, what do you think the University ought to stand for in the social and economic life of the nation? Well, that question requires discussion of a bit of history. Northwestern University was founded by a small group of young men. All but one of them were still in the 30s. They had a definitely religious background, and they believed in maintaining the integrity of the home. They wanted to locate the University in a thoroughly wholesome atmosphere, so that the students could get both learning and culture in surroundings that would develop the best type of citizen. So these men bought some farmland 12 miles north of Chicago and set about to create a city of homes in which the new university should be located. We've tried to carry forward those ideas throughout these later years and to keep the student body in healthy surroundings, healthy mentally, morally, physically, and spiritually. Northwestern University has been a coeducational institution since 1869, one of the best, we think, in the United States. There is the highest degree of mutual respect between the men and women on the campus, and we believe that they are getting their education in circumstances that prepare them for the world in which they will live, so much for the social aspects and responsibilities of Northwestern. On the economic side, we have tried to attract students from all walks of life. We provide a large number of scholarships for men and women of capacity who need them. The endowment income of the university also helps to defray the students' expenses. For each and every student, $325 a year of endowment income is used to help run the university. In other words, without that endowment income, each student would have to pay that much more every year. That is the part of our contribution to the economic welfare of the next generation of Americans. What should we stand for in teaching and research, Dean Wilde? Well, the university is as great as its faculty, and at Northwestern we give the quality and the interests of the faculty top priority. With other universities, we share the tradition of academic freedom. Now, that's a much abused expression these days, but we mean by that phrase that our professors and staff are free, completely free, to explore new ideas, to teach and to pursue investigations without interference from any source. We wouldn't and couldn't have a university unless our faculty members were assured that their status and advancement depended upon their own intellectual and academic qualifications. We aim, therefore, to have outstanding teachers and scholars who are leaders both in the classroom and in their research activities. Well, now we're addressing ourselves to the question, what should the university stand for? A bit formally, perhaps, here in the opening? Uh, President Miller, may I say this on my own? It seems to me that we ought to stand for the American way of life, for the social and economic institutions which make us strong. I think we should be constructively critical as a university, but firm in our commitment to basic democratic values. And I think to be these things, we must give our students understanding of man's cultural heritage, as you men have said, the capacity to deal with personal and social problems reflectively and creatively, and the faith and the courage to carry on when the going gets rough. And it's getting rough, gentlemen. I think Northwestern should be the kind of school where fathers and mothers in the big cities and the little towns and villages and the farms can send their sons and daughters with the knowledge that individual differences will be respected, that the faith and aspirations of home and school will be made richer through better understanding, and the finest kind of opportunities will be provided to develop good taste and good sense. I think that's a very fine statement. I agree with everything you say. Well now, before we discuss these objectives we've been outlining here, I think on this day of all days we ought to take special note, Mr. Burgess, that the charter of our university was approved by the legislature of the state of Illinois on January 28, 1851, 100 years ago. Dr. Miller, who proposed this charter and what were the purposes of these men? Well, the charter was proposed by nine young men. Incidentally, it's of interest that none of them had ever gone to college himself. There was one physician, John Evans, for whom the city is named, two businessmen, three lawyers, and three clergymen. And it was their purpose, as they put it, to found a university of the highest order, free from political domination, and to provide the students, young people, of this great Northwest territory with a liberal, sound education. They felt it was their Christian duty, actually. Well now, what was the status of higher education in this Northwest territory back there in 1851, Mr. Burgess? Well, that was the period in which some of the great state universities of the Middle West were being organized. Three years before Northwestern was organized, the University of Wisconsin was started in 1848. Ten years before that, the University of Indiana. The year before that, the University of Michigan. The movement for the building of these state universities was more or less contemporaneous with setting up the state government. Was all that before any state university in Illinois? Oh, yes. The University of Illinois was not organized until 1867, and it was known at first as the Illinois Industrial University. It didn't receive its present name until 1885. It was located in Champaign, was it not? That's correct. Now, what was this Northwest territory like back there in 51? Well, it was pretty primitive. It was a frontier, actually. There were 28,000 people in the city of Chicago. It was a thriving community, but education in this great Northwest was pretty much undeveloped. There were a few scattered colleges, and as Mr. Burgess has said, there were some state universities that had been established. But education was lagging, and therefore these nine men showed great vision in establishing a university at that time. And they had in view the great Northwest territory from which the name of our university is derived. That's correct. That's correct. Now, what were the essential commitments of the university under this charter, Mr. Burgess? Those have to be discussed in the light of the difference in respect to the Northwestern and some of the state universities. The characteristics of the state universities were that they were supported by state tax money. Their trustees were selected by the governor or the legislature, and they provided either free or nominal tuition to students that were living within the state. In other words, they preferred the residents of the states and discriminated against non-residents. Northwestern, when it secured its charter, was chartered to conduct forever a university of the highest order in the environs of Chicago. The trustees undertook to secure the land on which to build this university. They were permitted to own up to 2,000 acres of such land. They were authorized to grant degrees. In spite of the fact, as Dr. Miller has said, that the founders were deeply religious, the charter provided that there should be no particular religious faith required of students of the university. The charter also provided that no liquor should be sold within four miles of the university. That was the only provision, by the way, which the legislature reserved the right to change. And it has been modified somewhat since. But there still is no liquor sold in Evanston. That's a very fortunate provision, too, because it gives us an environment for developing a university that I think is unique. Evanston, as you know, is known as a community of churches. For that we are very grateful. Well, now, you men have referred to the, several times here, to the university's status as a privately endowed institution. How has that status affected our program in development? What do you regard as the distinctive functions of a privately endowed university such as ours, Dr. Miller? Well, some of them have been attest upon already. We are an institution free of political domination. We can promote research, ideas, some of them unpopular. We can explore new areas, experiment in teaching. We open up new avenues of learning as we see fit. We adopt new things, usually on the basis of experience of the past, and we don't follow any whims or fancies or political expediency. I might add also that we conserve our assets and make our dollars do dollars work where we think they should. I think that's the point about private institutions like Northwestern, that we're not subject to outside pressures. Now, specifically, I think the record shows over the years that privately endowed institutions have led the way in many respects. This is not to say that the state universities and public institutions also do not make a contribution to the American educational scene. We need them both. But as you look back over what's been done, one can see, for example, that private institutions have pioneered in this realm now known as general education. They've experimented in types of liberal education programs which are given to students before graduate or professional work. The growth of individualized instruction, tutorial or preceptorial or counseling systems, I think, come largely from private institutions. And then there's also been experimentation at the graduate level with newer types of programs, broader than has been traditionally the case in the past. We could go on and on about this, but those are just samples. Well, how do you see the future of these privately endowed institutions, Mr. Burgess? Well, theoretically, it might be said that it would be harder to raise money for education now than it was formerly. But practically, that is not so. I remember that some 20 years ago, distinguished educators, some of them, thought that the day of the endowed university was over, that no one would have money to give to education in the future. The events have proven that that's entirely wrong. There's been more money given for higher education in the past 20 years than in any previous period of like time. Don't you think that probably the attack on the freedom and dignity of the individual, which has been taking place the last 20 years, has had something to do with that? It actually has increased support to the church in higher education? Oh, I think definitely. I think more people are interested in preserving academic freedom and liberal education, unhampered by political control, than they were formerly. We have more contributors, perhaps a relatively small amount, all the time for our work at Northwestern. And I think that as long as we preserve the basic idea of freedom in this country, and we certainly all believe that we will preserve it, we will be able to get the money that is necessary to carry on our work. Well, are you saying in substance, Mr. Burgess, that there's a continuing demand for the kind of education we offer? Oh, yes, indeed. Mr. Wilde, it's true, isn't it, that we have much more demand for the use of our facilities than we have facilities? Oh, yes, especially the last few years. We've had more applications, really, than most fields we can possibly handle. We've had to be highly selective. The future is more uncertain, but there's no doubt about the demand up to this point. Well, let's talk a bit more specifically, Dean Wilde, about the educational objectives of our university. How would you state those objectives? That's a tough question to answer, I know, but I'll be glad to have you tackle it. I like to think that our educational objective at Northwestern is that of presenting the highest type of balance program, one in which the needs of undergraduates, graduates, and professional students receive equal attention. We regard ourselves as neither primarily undergraduate nor primarily graduate, but wish to present a rounded offering in which college training for the bachelor's degree is given within a university framework of graduate and professional schools. Now, we want our undergraduates to acquire a liberal education, one in which the values, which an integral part of our civilization and tradition, receive heavy stress, and in which the mind is freed of prejudice. We also want our advanced students in graduate and professional work to become experts and specialists without losing sight of problems and relationships which lie outside the range of their immediate interests. Well, now, you emphasize this balance between graduate and undergraduate instruction. Now, what kind of a faculty does that program require? It requires a faculty that can teach at both levels, both the graduate and the undergraduate level. Wouldn't that place pretty heavy demands on the faculty? No, that's what's expected of a good faculty. They should be able to do it, and they do. I think he makes a good point there. As a matter of fact, the faculty isn't worth very much unless they do some research, some graduate teaching, and push back the frontiers of knowledge just a little bit more than they were presented to them. It's very important to us that our faculty engage in research. Well, before Mr. Murphy decided to give Northwestern some $30 million a few years ago to build a technological institute, didn't he investigate very carefully into the whole general educational program at Northwestern? That's right. He followed, and it's a strange thing, that the history of Northwestern University during the past hundred years has set a pattern that has been followed pretty much by the professional schools in this country. Mr. Murphy was one of them who brought the technological institute to the university. In addition to that, our medical schools, our dental, even your own school of speech, Dean McBurney, became an integral part of the university because of the strong liberal arts college, which was the nucleus of all of our activity. Now, what do you regard as the proper place of vocational or professional education in the university? We've been talking here about the technological institute, the medical school, and the dental school. Meanwhile, how would you answer that? I think there's been a false argument over this question of vocational education is against professional training. I think all advanced training is really vocational education, vocational training. I don't think it's at all possible to separate the field in terms of subject matter, to say that such and such a topic is vocational and such and such a topic is professional. I think it all depends on how the matter is approached and how it is taught. I think you can make almost anything of cultural and academic value if you have an intellectual approach to it. And I think that battle has been a wasted one. I also think coming back to what we were speaking of earlier about teaching and research, that there's been a lot of waste talk on a subject of that sort. There's no conflict between teaching and research. You can't be a stimulating teacher without doing some research. Every good research professor should do some teaching. They go together. I agree with that. I think the transition from your undergraduate to your professional schools is very gradual. They're very well integrated and the faculties of the professional schools realize that it's necessary for a student to have a pretty well-rounded training in liberal arts before he ever comes up to his professional training. All part of one and the same thing. We regard the college as the college liberal arts as the heart of the university. They all have to depend on that to a certain extent. Well, Dean Wauw, can you give us some idea of the breadth and scope of the research interests of the university? You've referred to research several times here. Of course, there's so many. It's rather hard to pick out, Dean McBurney. Some of the research activities are probably more familiar than others. Everybody knows about what's going on in atomic research in regard to cancer, rheumatic fever, something along those lines. Perhaps they're not so... Those are the most dramatic examples. Both are the most dramatic examples, but all over the institution like Northwestern or any other university these days, there's a whole variety of research activities. For example, we have in our hearing clinic significant work going on in regard to loss of hearing, research in special new hearing devices. We have at our Technological Institute a special aerial measurements laboratory, which goes into the problem of speeds of airplanes involving higher mathematical problems. We have in our Humanities section, let's say, the language field, research in teaching of languages. Some very notable achievements were made during the last war and in recent years in training people in the foreign language realm. Some rather interesting developments there. We have research in terms of foreign policy and social problems and psychology of human behavior. We could go on and on. I think that's enough. Do you think that a university such as ours, specifically Northwestern, is likely to become primarily a research and graduate institution? I should certainly hope not. That's what I meant by a balanced program earlier. I think we've already covered that. I think that our aim is to keep it balanced, making research and graduate work a part of our whole program, but not to dominate it. I think there isn't any special trend among private institutions generally. Well, now, how are these objectives that you men have been discussing here related to the community and to community service, Mr. Burgess? Well, the trustees certainly hope that everything that we do is of service to both the community and to the state. And I mean by the state, the nation. I think we can all agree that that is the case. Everything we do in a sense is really that. Of course, there are some certain tangible activities that people understand very well. For instance, our clinics, medical, dental, and law. The medical and dental clinics take care of a large segment of our population here. Law offers counsel to people. We have various institutes, research institutes, nutrition, rheumatic fever that are limiting their activities entirely to solving problems in those areas. And then we have institutes like the Traffic Institute where we train police officers and traffic officers, all part of our activity as a service to the community. Well, now, gentlemen, an institution attaining the ripe old age of 100, I suspect develops certain distinguishing characteristics or earmarks. I'm wondering what our special earmarks might be. One collegiate song has it that we are noted for our pretty girls. As dean of the School of Speech, I would be the last to deny that. But I'd like to ask seriously, Mr. Burgess, whether a strong coeducational program for undergraduates might not be one of the special characteristics of Northwestern? Well, we think it is. That's why we have concentrated so much on making Northwestern a fine place for young men and young women to come and get their education. It's part of what I meant earlier about a balanced program, too. Naturally, education and intellectual development is the center of our program. But we do believe that undergraduates have to grow to maturity and to a healthy environment, and that there must be some outside activities in social life, which is an important feature of growing up. As long as it's kept in proper perspective with education at the center, we think that's a healthy approach to education. One of the big jobs of educators is to keep their program balanced and not let the tail wag the dog. Well, when I came to the university 15 years ago, I thought at that time that one of the characteristics of Northwestern was the strength and national distinction of our professional schools. Do you regard that as a special characteristic of Northwestern, President Miller? I suppose so. I imagine I'm somewhat prejudiced because I came up through that discipline. And I do know that our professional schools are known all over the world. On the other hand, we appreciate that they all lean heavily on the College of Liberal Arts and the undergraduate program on the Evanston campus. I would like to say that what was true 15 years ago is really not true now, as the professional schools have maintained their standing. But as President Miller says, we're emphasizing heavily the College of Liberal Arts, which is at the center. I am glad to know, though, that you did feel that way 15 years ago about our professional schools, because they are fine professional schools. They have national standing, and I think they've continued to, although I agree with Mr. Le Wilde that the College of Liberal Arts is the heart of the university. And these professional schools, as I know the university, are built around the college and draw heavily on its facilities constantly. That's right. That's right. Faculty and research. Both. And the university has some liberal arts training. And, of course, the graduate school, infinitely tied to the College of Liberal Arts, is central to this picture, too. Now, you men have made several references in discussing the founding of the university to the kind of religious faith that prompted its founders. Do you think, Mr. Burgess, that the maintenance and encouragement of that religious faith continues to be an important thing? I do, both very definitely believe that it is. I think that it must be a foundation stone of education, and it must be a foundation stone of our national life. I might make mention here that we have a religious center named for John Evans, one of our founders, under the direction of a full-time university chaplain. And with him are fourteen fuller part-time advisors in the various major religions who take care of our religious activities on the campus. It's an important part of our whole activity. And I think has been pretty much characteristic of the university throughout its hundred years of growth and development. Well, now, we've been talking about the objectives of the university. What does the university need to achieve these objectives we've been discussing, Dean Wilde? Well, obviously, as we've been saying, we want the highest type of student body, both graduate and undergraduate, that we can obtain. And we want the most distinguished faculty we can possibly have. That's why I said that's at the top of our priority list. Doesn't the first follow automatically? The second? Right. If you have a good faculty and put them out in a barn, they'll attract a good student body. That's the old Hopkins story in the log. I would like to see a university that's not only well-staffed but well-housed. And we've tried to do that. The staffing comes first and then the housing. Correct. Well, now, as one of the workers in this university, Mr. Burgess, I'm wondering how adequate our physical plant is today to the needs of the university. Well, it will always be inadequate as long as the university is growing. And I hope it will continue to grow. But we're trying to take care of the immediate inadequacy with a drive for funds in connection with our centennial celebration. And we're having success with it. Specifically, what are the centennial objectives in the way of buildings and equipment, President Miller? Well, some parts of our university are very handsomely housed and we're very proud of it. The number one need on the Evanston campus, of course, is the new classroom building, laboratory building to take care of our activities, particularly in liberal arts, but in the other schools also. They're going to cooperate in that building. A memorial hall, an auditorium, and downtown adequate facilities for our night school where we have upwards of 15,000 students registered taking adult education. Is this night school development to which you refer a comparatively recent development in the university? It is. It is an obligation, a great obligation of the university that was not foreseen by our founders. There was no way to know that they would someday take care of the educational needs of so many people who work during the day. And I suspect one of the more important direct contributions to Chicago and to this area as a service of the university. This is part of the whole adult education field and we've been experimenting in non-credit courses both on the downtown campus and the Evanston campus. There's a whole new range of possibilities there. Well, thank you gentlemen. In conclusion, I know you would wish me to extend greetings to the many alumni and friends of the university who are listening to this discussion all over America. To others who know us less well, we hope that this introduction to the university will make our weekly reviewing stand discussions a bit more intimate and a bit more meaningful. Thank you gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Our speakers have been Dr. J. Roscoe Miller, Kenneth F. Burgess and Payson S. Wilde. Copies of this discussion bound in an attractive centennial cover may be obtained without charge by addressing a penny postcard to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator will tell you about next week's program. First, may I announce for the benefit of our listeners in the Chicago area that WGN TV will present an interesting pictorial feature on Northwestern University at 1.15 today. Next week, we discuss the author and reader in time of crisis. Our guests will be John McKenzie Corey, Executive Secretary of the American Library Association, Walter Lavas, former Deputy Director General of UNESCO, Edgar Ansel Maurer, noted journalist, commentator, and author, and Stanley Pargelis, librarian of the Newberry Library in Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the author and reader in time of crisis. May we again remind our listeners that copies of today's discussion bound in an attractive centennial cover may be obtained without charge by addressing a penny postcard to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the world's largest network serving more than 500 radio stations from coast to coast, the Mutual Broadcasting System.ה匠oire &