Good afternoon, fellow New Yorkers, fellow citizens. I say afternoon because the clocks have just struck 12 and it's about one minute after. Commissioner Carey will present the regular order of a ceremony today, the occasion being the fourth annual awards to employees of the Department of Sanitation for deeds of valor outside the actual activities of sanitation. Commissioner Carey is now speaking. For some of the members of the Department of Sanitation to perform services at great personal risk completely outside and unrelated to the task which this city expects of them. And each year at about this time we gather with the mayor at this square to do honor to those men and to express our pride and admiration for an apartment capable of producing them. This is the fourth year we have assembled to publicly convey insofar as words may be able to express it our deep sense of gratitude to this group of men who during the past 12 months have performed deeds of valor which merit to a high degree the praise of this administration and the people of this city. We are proud too of the marvelous record the Department is making in connection with safe driving for which a large number today will receive the Department's bar. And now before I turn this microphone over to his honor the mayor, I wish to personally pay tribute to the members of our department on an entirely different matter. You have been called upon during the past 12 months to perform services of a gigantic nature, completely outside your everyday work, which might well try men less determined, less cheerful, and less unselfish. You are called upon for these additional services at a time when our forces were reduced and therefore the regular work of the department more difficult to perform. That this additional work which was of the most strenuous nature and which entailed long hours was shouldered by our men with undaunted courage and with the utmost cheerfulness is testified to by the letters of commendation which I have received from salvage committees, the borough presidents, and many private citizens, in addition to which his honor the mayor, has lost no opportunity to express his unbounded appreciation. You accomplish this task without neglect of the everyday work of keeping this city one of the most spotless in the nation. To all the other expressions of appreciation, as commissioner of the department, I simply wish to add my thanks and if I were to talk for another half hour, I could not say more. It is now my happy privilege to turn this microphone over to us out of the mayor. Commissioner Carey, officers and men in the sanitation department, I want to congratulate the men who are to receive distinguished service medals today for performances of services above and beyond the call of duty. I need not at this time repeat the importance of the department of sanitation and of the work that you men are doing. Particularly in these days of stress, the health of our people is of paramount importance. And it is you men who attend to the difficult task each day in keeping our city clean and healthy. Our work will become increasingly difficult as time goes on. I have already cautioned you to take very good care of our motor equipment. What you have now is all that we are going to have for the duration of the war. You must nurse and baby that equipment in order to keep it efficient and useful. And I fear for a long time. And I depend upon you to do it. Recently, in addition to your other arduous work, you have been called upon to render extra work. And you did it well and intelligently and cheerfully. And our message to Washington is, here is the scrap metal. Come and get it. The quicker they can get it, the better it will be. And if what Mr. Nelson said, that this scrap is so vitally needed, then it is strange that it has not been collected yet. Frankly, I do not believe the plans have been intelligently or fully worked out in Washington when they asked us to collect this scrap metal. I could step down from here, shut my eyes, and pick five men out of the ranks, and you could do a better job than the salvage division of the war production board. And I don't mean maybe. And we are ready to respond to any call which we will get from our government. And I'll guarantee right here and now that we'll do a good job, no matter what the task is or how difficult it may be. Commissioner Kerry, may I express to you and to your staff and officers the appreciation of the mayor and of the people of the city of New York for your splendid leadership and fine command of this great department. And to the men, the same appreciation and thanks. Your due thanks. Your due thanks. Amen. The same appreciation and thanks. Your due thanks. And you men who've been awarded. It will be an honor to pin these medals on you. Give you my congratulations and best wishes. And I want all of you to know that you are in the services of your country just as much as you are in the service of your city. Thank you. John Celebrity, District Superintendent, District 40, Borough of Brooklyn. Step up, Mr. Celebrity. On December 26, 1941, John Celebrity ran into a burning building and warned all the tenants of their danger. He assisted an aged woman and her daughter who were trapped in a smoke-filled, impassable hallway down the fire escape to safety. Celebrity then returned to an upper floor for a sleeping infant. He wrapped her in blankets and running through the flames, he escaped by the fire exit. Frank J. DeMaria. Frank J. DeMaria. On June the 11, 1941, Frank J. DeMaria observed a stolen car being pursued by two detectives. Traveling at a fast rate of speed, the bandit's automobile passed a red light at the intersection of Grove Street and Grotonia Avenue, Bronx. Struck and killed a pedestrian and then collided with a fire hydrant. DeMaria, during the two detectives in pursuit of the three criminals, blocked an avenue of escape, grabbed and grappled with one of them before he finally subdued them. DeMaria held it captive until the police took charge of him. John H. Mace, Sanitation Man C, District 32, Brooklyn. Joseph Conklin, Sanitation Man B, District 32, Brooklyn. On December the 24, 1941, Mace and Conklin observed smoke seeping from the windows of an apartment. They smashed the windows and climbed into the building's smoke-filled premises where their children were trapped. Mace grabbed two of the frightened children and led them out to safety. Conklin snatched a screaming infant out of his burning crib, extinguished the flaming clothing and carried him to safety. Both men then returned to the blazing apartment and assisted in extinguishing the fire. Michael Carbone, Sanitation Man B, District 35, Brooklyn. On April the 17th night, on March the 26, 1942, Michael Carbone heard screams emanating from a nearby basement. He immediately broke down the door and discovered an elderly woman screaming with pain, completely enveloped in flames. At first, Carbone tried to extinguish the flaming clothing with his bare hands. Then he took his jacket off, wrapped it around a woman, placed her on the floor, and rolled her back and forth until the flames were smothered. Carbone applied first aid until the arrival of an ambulance. Robert Pressner, Sanitation Man B, District 23, Bronx. On April 17, 1942, Robert Pressner was accosted by an agitated fast fire who had witnessed a burglar fleeing down the fire escape of a nearby apartment house. Pressner immediately pursued the criminal after a short distance. The burglar dropped the stolen articles to further his escape. But Pressner followed close at his heels. Pressner finally captured the criminal, disarmed him of burglar tools, and held him until the arrival of police. Vincenzo Acuri, assistant form in District 12, Manhattan. On April the 18th, 1942, a scream centered the attention of Vincenzo Acuri upon a man who had fallen on the subway tracks on the Jefferson Avenue station of the BM2T. Acuri jumped down from the platform, crossed the tracks, and pulled the injured man to his feet. He then succeeded in pushing the man onto the platform, but found it necessary to flag an oncoming train for his own safety. The flag train stopped the short distance from Acuri to allow him to climb onto the platform. Paul Ferry, sanitation man B, District 69, Borough of Queens. On November the 14th, 1941, Paul Ferry jumped on the running board of a driverless car which was rapidly bearing down upon a group of children playing at the corner of 85th Street and 60th Road, Queens. He pulled the steering wheel to swerve it from the dangerous course. Ferry suffered internal hemorrhages as a result of the car wedging him into the side of the truck. Joseph Bilalo, sanitation man B, District 8, Manhattan. On August the 10th, 1942, Joseph Bilalo heard a terrific explosion near the gasoline pumps in the garage. He rushed to the scene and saw one of the repairmen in the pit. Flowing flames, Bilalo plunged into the flames and assisted the trap repairman from the burning pit. Despite the severe burns suffered by him, Bilalo staggered to the firebox and turned him along. George J. McGivney, 1st, Main Office, Manhattan. On June the 13th, 1942, George J. McGivney saw a girl being carried out to sea by a strong undercurrent at Jacob Rees Park, Rockaway. He promptly dove in to swim and swam to her assistance. After subduing her desperate struggles, pulled her to safety, was in a state of collapse and shocked by the time he reached shallow water. 144 certificates of commendation are being awarded today. These commendations are given for meritorious and praiseworthy acts performed by employees of this department. Additional civil service credit, which is counted towards promotion, will also be awarded to these commendations. This employee has been called forward to accept his commendation as a representative of 154 to receive certificates of accommodation. Thank you very much.