Early in May, New York will welcome a distinguished guest from abroad, Eamon DeVallera, President of Ireland. He will visit the United States on the invitation of President Roosevelt and the World Fair. This evening, we are privileged to present Robert Brennan, Irish Minister of Prennipotentiary and envoy extraordinary to the United States, who will discuss the topic, DeVallera, Thanks America. Mr. Brennan will be introduced by Martin Convoy, former United States District Attorney for New York District and Chairman of the New York Committee for the Reception of Mr. DeVallera. Mr. Convoy. It gives me great pleasure to introduce today to the radio audience, Robert Brennan, Minister of Ireland to the United States of America. Mr. Brennan has come to New York to cooperate with the committee I have the honor to head in making the final arrangements for the reception of Eamon DeVallera, Prime Minister of Ireland, who arrived in New York on May 6th. Mr. Brennan will tell you about Mr. DeVallera's plans and what he hopes to accomplish during his visit to this country. It would seem reasonable that under the circumstances I should tell you something about Mr. Brennan himself. Mr. Brennan was the leader of the great Irish struggle is perhaps not as well known as that of his chief. Mr. Brennan was the leader of the rising in Wexford in the town of Eniscorthe. Mr. Brennan is one of the boys of Wexford who fought with heart and hand as the song goes. Mr. Brennan was the leader of the great Irish. He does not fear to speak of 98 or of 1916 either. Like Mr. DeVallera, Mr. Brennan was sentenced to death in 1916. And like the Irish Prime Minister, he was reprieved and sent with him to prison in Dartmoor, England. So he and Mr. DeVallera are old prison comrades, a close and not unusual form of comradeship for Irish patriots in the past. I do not think there is time enough to permit me to tell you how often Mr. Brennan has been in and out of jail. But you may be interested to know that he was Undersecretary for Foreign Affairs in the Irish Ministry. Under Mr. DeVallera's presidency in the days when Irish ministers went in constant danger of their lives. So he had excellent, if unusual, training for his diplomatic post before he came to America. Mr. Brennan has been in Washington since 1934 when he first came to this country as Secretary of the Irish Legation. Last year he was appointed to his present position. So you can see the Airman DeVallera Reception Committee is very fortunate indeed in having the cooperation of Mr. Brennan in putting the finishing touches to its plans for the reception of the Irish Prime Minister. This will be an unusual and historic occasion for Americans of Irish descent. It is the first time that we shall have the honor to receive the chief of the Irish government since he was re-elected to power and since he gave Ireland a constitution which asserts her position as an independent nation. We naturally want to make the reception arrangements worthy of the great occasion and with Mr. Brennan's help I am sure we shall do so. I have the pleasure and honor of introducing to you Robert Brennan, Minister of Ireland to the United States. Thank you. Thank you. It is my privilege this evening as Irish Minister to the United States to speak of the forthcoming visit of Éamon DeVallera whose official title in Ireland is Teesach Nehaeran or Chief of the Government of Ireland. Mr. DeVallera will arrive in New York on May the 6th. This will be the fourth visit that Éamon DeVallera will have paid to the country of his birth. He was born in the city of New York 57 years ago on the site of the present Chrysler Building which now, as could not have been foreseen at that time, houses the offices of the Consul General for Ireland. In 1919, 22 years ago, when Mr. DeVallera came to New York for the first time since he left it as a child of two, he was practically unknown. He landed as a hunted stowaway. He had just made a sensational escape from an English prison. He came then, as he put it in his own eloquent phrase, on a holy mission, a mission of freedom, in which he needed America's help. America listened to that missionary who was then President of an Irish Republic declared by the people and struggling to establish itself as a de facto government. America listened and learned the stern reality of the fight the Irish people were making to win themselves freedom. America proved itself, as it always does, generous of heart and hand. Saying farewell at the end of that visit 20 years ago, Mr. DeVallera declared, you do not need to be assured that Ireland will not forget. Ireland will not be ungrateful. As Prime Minister of a country which has begun to take its rightful place among the nations, Eamon de Valera now returns to prove that he spoke the truth. The new Ireland remembers clearly and appreciates keenly what America did to help her win her fight. She remembers the men and women who were her friends in need, and it is a happy circumstance that, though many have since gone, many remain to take part in the welcome to the Irish leader. At the head of the committee in charge of the national tour, which Mr. DeVallera will make, is Frank P. Walsh, one of the three delegates sent by the Irish Race Convention from America in 1919, to lay Ireland's claims before the peace conference in Paris after the World War. And heading the local committee, which will receive Mr. DeVallera in New York, is his old friend and colleague, Martin Conbay, who has introduced me so kindly to you. An invitation from President Roosevelt to visit the White House, transmitted to Mr. DeVallera last December, by Mr. John Cudahy, Minister of the United States Government to Ireland, prompted Antichoke's visit at this particular time. He was also invited by the authorities of the World's Fair to open the Irish exhibit in person. Mr. DeVallera will go first, therefore, to Washington on May 7, and will return to New York on May 10, where his and Ireland's friends will welcome him at City Hall through Mayor LaGuardia, in Central Park at a public reception, and at the Waldorf Astoria the same evening at a gala dinner of American men and women. This will not be Mr. DeVallera's first reception at City Hall. In 1919, Mayor Highland gave him the keys of the city, and in 1927, he was taken in triumphal procession from the Battery to receive a welcome from yet another head of the New York City Government, Mayor Walker. Mr. DeVallera knows that it is not a mere formal tribute to the head of a foreign government he will receive. He is coming where his friends and those of Ireland are legions. Friends who in dark days stood by him, and who in these bright days, when so much has been accomplished, can rejoice with him and share Ireland's triumph. On May 13, Eamon de Valera will formally open the two pavilions that make up Ireland's exhibit at the World's Fair. These pavilions symbolise at once her history and her destiny. One, a cultural and historical pavilion, illustrates Ireland's love of liberty and love of learning, and also shows how close was the link between your country and mine when this great republic was struggling for her independence. The other is a trade promotion building, and it will show to visitors to the fair something of what Ireland has done to bring about that state of economic self-dependence which the Irish Government regards as essential to Ireland's security. On Saturday night, May 13, Mr de Valera will speak at a great meeting in Madison Square Gardens, and I am sure his thoughts will go back to that night, 20 years ago, when in the same arena, he launched the great American movement that was to give Ireland such heart in her hour of trial, and to play so vital a part in helping the Irish people to realise an ambition which for seven centuries had been cherished in the hearts of their race. A coast-to-coast tour will follow Mr de Valera's visit to the World's Fair. He will go to more than 20 states and speak again in the cities and towns that greeted him almost a generation ago. The unparalleled success of that tour, 20 years ago, heartened the Irish nation in its then seemingly hopeless fight, and provided Ireland with the sinews of war. So much was this the case that the moral and financial help that Eamon de Valera brought back to Ireland from that tour. The sense of an alliance of heart between a great democracy and a little nation, rightly struggling to be free, proved to be one of the vital factors in subsequent history. Now the same man returns as Premier of Ireland to express his thanks in person, to voice his gratitude to all who had faith in Ireland and her cause. If we have not yet got to the end of the road, he can truthfully say that Ireland's friends in America are not to blame. I hope that all of you will be able to hear Mr de Valera himself when he arrives, so that you may learn from his own lips that the Irish nation has not forgotten and cannot forget a service to human freedom which was so much in line with the traditions of the founding fathers of this great nation. I thank you. You have just heard Martin Conboy, former United States District Attorney and Chairman of the New York Committee for the Reception of Eamon de Valera, present Robert Brennan, Minister of the Irish Republic to the United States. Mr. Brennan spoke on the topic, and de Valera thanks America. Mr. de Valera, who is head of the Government of Ireland, will arrive in New York May 6th to participate in the opening ceremonies of the Irish Pavilion at the New York World's Fair, visit President Roosevelt, and tour the United States after a four-day program in New York City. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you very much for watching, Game of motive, and poiam for our support. Se ты несこのグル мед northernウィージェフ slash we have a large spleen We have also called the Special Sphere Perché pastiandidatorunde We will be tratar of continuing there for Christ in seeingелей've been Captainessober or神絡 поз більざом Rovid力,؛ And Cass compliqué This is connected to the Financial Power Powerington This is how we changed ourchnitt I た Make Sthm