We are proud to note that the Center has been in the forefront of professional thinking and action in its treatment and care of emotionally disturbed children. One's thoughts can't help but go back and pay tribute to the many men and women who have given invaluable service and pioneered in child guidance work. We are indeed indebted to them for the part they have played in the past and we are striving today to carry on the work they started. In calling this part of the afternoon's program an anniversary presentation, it is really just our way of expressing our esteem and affection for those who had such an important part in the Center's history. How fortunate we are today, not alone to have so many of our former trustees with us, but one of our actual founders and to celebrate this momentous occasion. That joy is really not given to many organizations, so we feel doubly blessed. At this point, I'd like to say that I know that confession is good for the soul. And as there are so many important psychiatrists and psychologists in the room, I know they can read my mind. And they can read that I've secretly admired the man I'm about to introduce from afar for many a year. So I might as well publicly say that I think he is a man that is one for himself, his family and community. Not only as Mr. Hellman has said, as he's been a former Supreme Court judge of New York State, but a vibrant leader in many communal activities. And as he said, has endeared himself to us as one of the founders in 1907 of our Center. He not alone gave of himself, but he had the foresight to provide to very active members on our board, his son and daughter who carry on in his heritage. I think the Lord Arthur Balfour poem entitled, What to Give, really expresses what I feel that Judge Meyer Steinbrink has given during his lifetime of service to the community. Now what to give. The best thing to give your enemy is forgiveness. To an opponent, tolerance. To a friend, your heart. To your child, a good example. To a father, deference. To your mother, conduct will make her proud. To your self-respect. And to all men, charity. How fitting to join the past with the present and to mark the 50 years past and start the next 50 years. Will the designated past board members, present board members and friends join with our own Judge Steinbrink who will light the candle from the dais for all of us to light that way into the future and out of the dark. If we'd all light that one little candle, what a wonderful world this would be. It's really with great affection and pride that I'm able to present our friend, our founder, and our father, Judge Meyer Steinbrink. Thank you, Judge Meyer. Thank you, Judge Meyer. Thank you, Judge Meyer. Thank you, Judge Meyer. Thank you, Judge Meyer. Thank you, Judge Meyer. Thank you, Judge Meyer. Friends of the Brooklyn Juvenile Guidance Center, at the very opening, I have a confession to make. And I sincerely hope that my children who are here and my wife will not find fault with me if I tell you that just now when I received that kiss, there was also a whisper which said, I love you. You know, when you get to be my age, a compliment like that does not go unnoticed. Within a stone's throw of this room stands Plymouth Church, the head of which many years ago, Henry Ward Beecher, said that no souls are saved after the first 15 minutes. By that measure, I purpose to save perhaps one-fifth of one soul. I promised I would not take more than three minutes. For me, this is a blessed event. And there are present those who were related to the founders of this organization when it bore the name, already told you, of the Brooklyn Juvenile Probation Association. There was not only Judge Robert Wilkin. There was Alfred E. Steers, who had been a magistrate and became borough president. But there was also Edward C. Blum, the father-in-law of Mrs. Robert Blum, who for so many years was one of your active workers. Sixty years ago, when I was in my senior year at Boys High School, which at that time was the only high school which we had in Brooklyn, I read a number of the writings of Professor Richard T. Eloy. One thing that he said I have never forgotten, and it was this, that the world makes its progress on the little feet of childhood. And what our nation is to be in the years to come depends upon what we are doing for the youth of today. It was true then, it is true now. Our youth do not so much need punishment when, for reasons which we cannot understand, they go astray, but rather they need psychiatry. Had you told Judge Wilkin or Mr. Blum or Judge Steer or me, had you spoken to us fifty years ago of psychiatry and psychology, we probably would have understood as little about it as we did of Greek. But you have made progress, and today you are functioning in a way that perhaps will keep those who have strayed from the straight and narrow path, you will keep them back in the direction that they should go and help to make of them good citizens of this great city, of which the husband of the charming lady who was introduced to you before is the head, and the governor from whom you have had a message, and the nation from whose president we also had a message. As I am about to light this candle, I say to you with all sincerity that I possess, and almost with a feeling of religion, that I am grateful to God Almighty, the Father of us all, that I have been privileged to live and to be here in the observance of your 50th anniversary. I hope that many of you who have not yet hit the half-century mark will be equally blessed in the years to come, that your work will go in the language of the Bible from strength to strength, and that as you look back you will derive great satisfaction from the service that you render to our young people. Thank you Judge Steinbrink for your kind wish. I sincerely hope that the spirit with which you and your colleagues imbued our agency 50 years ago will continue to lead us to great attainments in the next 50 years. The picture of the teenage girl or boy standing with a club or gun over a prostrate form is one that has been brought to us in one form or another time and again in the newspapers. Bank robberies, rape, gang warfare are reported with such frequency as to make it seem that these are a major occupation of our younger set. It is a cause of major concern and occupies rightfully the first-line attention of not only our federal, state, and municipal governments, but a host of private agencies and bureaus as well. Juvenile delinquency is the hydrogen bomb of emotional disturbance in children. It is the fullest dramatic impact on our society of childhood emotional disorders. But the vast majority of children are not criminals. The vast majority of emotionally disturbed children are not criminals, nor even incipient criminals. Who are they and what are they? It is a little girl of six who becomes hysterical whenever her mother leaves her, who has to be fed at meals, whose temper tantrums are frequent and violent. It is the boy of 15 who rebels at the bossiness of adults and plays the truant from school to escape it. It is the overactive 10-year-old boy whose aggressiveness disrupts every group he enters. It is the bright six-year-old girl who cannot make friends, sleepwalks, is tense, and a prey to imaginary fears. It is the shy 14-year-old girl who would not date because she felt ugly and unwanted. And it is the 15-year-old girl who dates promiscuously to satisfy an insatiable desire to be glamorous. It is a nine-year-old boy who would not walk one block to school unless it could be on the arm of his mother. These are but a small sample of the cases which have come to the guidance center. These little people are of normal intelligence and left to their own devices might live out their lives without ever committing a crime. They are tomorrow's neurotics with an enormous capacity for unhappiness and for spreading unhappiness to others. They will infect their own children with their own emotional upsets and inflict upon them the same unhappy destiny as their own. These people will function in society at but a small fraction of their potential for productivity and well-being. They will be a form of second-class citizen, somewhat disinherited and short-changed. This would indeed be a boon for the business end of psychiatry and they would constitute an endless market for psychiatrists except for one thing. The people I speak of cannot afford to pay for private treatment and psychiatrists like all of us here cannot afford to live without money. The function of the Brooklyn Juvenile Guidance Center is not only to forestall the incipient criminal but to save for a useful happy life of fulfillment those emotionally disturbed youngsters who fortunately come to us when help is still possible despite an inability to pay for it. Our approach to this problem is simple, direct, and it costs a lot of money. We have a professional staff of psychiatric social workers, psychologists, and psychiatrists. They provide diagnosis and treatment for the emotionally disturbed child and the parent. Last year we had on our schedule 170 children like those I mentioned before and many much worse. Every week we treated 75 children and 75 mothers. Our staff spent 2,557 hours on this last year. This is a costly process. There are no shortcuts and there are no quick cures. There is a monumental shortage of trained professional personnel in this field. All of us have heard about it and we at the Guidance Center are doing something to alleviate it. Our training program last year had 6 trainees participating. 3 psychiatrists, 2 psychologists, and 2 social workers. To date we have graduated 45 professionals consisting of 11 psychiatrists, 20 psychologists, and 14 social workers. These graduates of ours are in clinics throughout the metropolitan area including Westchester and Long Island and indeed throughout all of New York State. Some even in New Jersey. Our training program is a vital part of the service of the Guidance Center. Finally, our research program has recently produced a film on the diagnosis of childhood schizophrenia. The The The Under the supervision of our clinical director, Dr. Abraham A. Fabian. It is a training film for professionals and has been most enthusiastically received by schools, clinics, and state health agencies throughout the nation. The film has been acquired by the Manager Foundation at Topeka, Kansas, St. Joseph's Guidance Center, South Bend, Indiana, Vassar College, the Einstein Medical School in New York, and the Departments of Health of New Jersey and Illinois. Of course, our own New York State, whose Department of Mental Health helped finance this film along with the Marshall Field Foundation, has been among the first to have a copy. These are a few among the very long list of agencies which have used our film. As you can see, with the dispersion of our trainees and our film, we cannot rightfully be called a Brooklyn agency alone, but rather a national agency. It is the national community which is in so many important ways served by the Brooklyn Juvenile Guidance Center. We have grown tremendously since that small beginning 50 years ago. And one would think that the Guidance Center has come of age on its 50th birthday. But in this dynamic and ever-changing field, new methods, new avenues of treatment, and new discoveries cause a rebirth almost from year to year. Also, the needs of an expanding and more enlightened community grow along with us, so that programs of last year must be ordered and stepped up to meet the changing and increased community requirements of this year. Our professional staff, therefore, must ever scrutinize old procedures and be ever alert for the new. The community must be ready to provide all additional help by way of contribution of funds and effort to keep its agencies, such as the Brooklyn Juvenile Guidance Center, functioning up to the limit of their potential, modern, efficient, and adequate to the changing needs. As I said before, treatment processes are costly. It takes many hours and many dollars to achieve the result we all look for and want, a happy, fulfilled child, grown adult. It is difficult to resist the temptation to ask you for the money we need here and now. The opportunity is filled with promise for a wonderful response. But our invitation is likewise filled with the promise that funds will not be solicited here, and I will abide by that promise. All I will ask is that when we call upon you in the near future, please, at that time, remember the Guidance Center generously. In the meanwhile, there are membership cards on the table. If you care to fill them out, we would be more than delighted to have you among us. Thank you. Mr. John W. Hooper has been a good friend of many organizations in this borough over a long and fruitful lifetime. He has been president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce, the Brooklyn Chapter of the American Red Cross, the Greater New York Fund, United Hospital Fund, and many, many others. He has been one of the most reliable friends that the Brooklyn Juvenile Guidance Center has ever had. We at the Center have but to ask Mr. Hooper, and the response is immediate and wholehearted. In that spirit, he accepted the honorary chairmanship of this luncheon and gave the luncheon committee his full cooperation. It therefore gives me great pleasure to call upon Mr. Hooper, our honorary chairman, to introduce our guest speaker, Mr. Hooper. President Hellman, Judge Steinbrink, distinguished guests, workers and friends of and for the Guidance Center. I feel particularly good inside of me, really, to have this opportunity of taking part on this suspicious occasion 50 years of a job well done. I couldn't help but seize and accept quickly the invitation that was extended, because I can't think of anything finer than to be acknowledged publicly as being associated with this work. I am indeed honored, sir. I have the pleasant duty of introducing to you our next speaker. I am sure he comes before you with the full realization that the Guidance Center is not just a clinic anymore. It's an educational institution that is nationally known and is contributing tremendously to the youth work of the nation of which our speaker is a specialist. Therefore, I would say that our speaker, the Honorable Mark A. McCloskey, is chairman of the New York State Youth Commission. He was born in New York City in 1891 and was of the class of 1918 of Princeton University. He was a student of Columbia and a graduate of the New York School of Social Work in 1922. He was a director of the National Youth Administration. And incidentally, I had much more here, but he blue-penciled it. He was a director of the National Youth Administration for New York City from 1936 to 1938, and a director of the Bureau of Community Education for New York City's Board of Education for the past 17 years. He is a veteran of the First World War, and in the Second World War was a director of the Office of Community War Services in the Federal Security Agency. He is the holder of the Presidential Medal for Merit. During the war, he was a member of the Joint Army and Navy Committee on Welfare and Recreation in the Armed Forces. He was a member of the President's Committee on Welfare in the Armed Forces. Mr. McCloskey is a trustee of Vassar College and a member of the Advisory Committee to the Political Department of Princeton University. I'm sure Mr. McCloskey, knowing your work and with his tremendous background of experience dealing with young adults, will have quite a message for us. Honorable Mark McCloskey. I'm keeping tab on those that are leaving. Thank you very much, Mr. Hooper. I always have an ambivalent, that's a word to use here, feeling about these introductions. I wish I had a long arm to get hold of the girl in Auburn to send it to you. That's intended for people up in Malone that don't know me, but when I come home to Brooklyn, I expected we'd leave all of that out. And the other is what my mother would say. She didn't always master the English language, but her intents were always good. She would say, sit down now and relapse. And I'm asking you to do that because this has been a kind of a hectic lunch. I thought I missed my vocation when I came in. A whole lot of people rushed up, I thought to say hello, but they were going to sit on the bench. They had to get back to the office. I was holding confessional in the lobby for all those who were about to leave. Then I get up here and I can't make sure whether I'm the Long Island, the Penzi or the New York Central because we lost five minutes back there a half an hour ago. I don't know whether we caught up or not, but just sit back and relapse because I'm going to let you out in a reasonable period of time. I just have a limited number of things to say. The first few explanations I want to make is that there are two institutions to which I'm obligated. And they were the ones that were not terribly prominent in my obituary that were just read. The 20 years that I spent on the west side of New York growing up were a very good school. And the 20 years when I came back from the war and from school were even more important years because they were the years of working and of learning and I know of no place where one could learn more about how human beings live, work, tick and live with them than in a settlement house and that settlement house on the west side. I like the idea of having gone to Princeton and New York School of Social Work, but really my education came from these other places. And in particular it came from 20 years that my wife and family and I spent on 83 acres in Orange County taking kids from the west side and some from Brooklyn and some from the east side where we lived happily, easily, without worrying about pictures, about these things, about running on time, just eating and enjoying the sunshine, growing, getting the wrinkles out of our bodies a little bit brown and having some peace in this turbulent time of ours. Those were two jobs that my wife and I are very proud of, 20 years in the Guild and 20 years at camp. And part of the work of the 20 years at the Guild was a little bit of a clinic. It didn't amount to much. We just had one man who came three days a week. When I think of your 50th birthday, it's almost 50 years ago that we started our little bit of an effort and I'm very proud to be here today and join with you in the celebration and the candle lighting of your 50 years of youth, if you will, because anything that's 50 years old seems to me to be quite young these days. This is an exciting world to be in. If I had to pick the time, you know how people want to pick the time they would have lived, I would have picked this one. If I had to pick my lot, I'd have picked this lot that I have. If I had to pick jobs, I wouldn't exchange any one that I've had for any others. And then necessity, I can't live in any other period of time than this. And I say to you, it's an exciting time to live in and it's a discouraging and a confusing time to live in. All over the world, the fires of the leader broken out or they're banged, the struggling new nations coming along. Our own accession to the place of leadership in the world gives us a sense of power and uncertainty at the same time. And then we have the sociological sciences which have made us turn in upon ourselves and contemplate our makeup. And unfortunately, very often, we overlook the strengths and overlook the power and overlook the virility that there is both in the nation and in its individuals because we turn in upon ourselves and see our ills. And so, while I think this is important to be able to look at ourselves, and I'm grateful for the 100th anniversary of Freud that because he's given us some insights into ourselves and our conduct, we'll incorporate into our knowledge and learning, getting its appropriate place, if you will, in the learning that we have to deal with the business of living. And of course, we're living in this time which makes this lunch what it is, trying to run on schedule and take we living sentient human beings and make us measure into this schedule of time and talking business. And what does it mean to kids who have these moving things going by all the time? The time of the automobile and speed and dashing and the things that go before your eyes on the screen and the pictures and the TV. So then I wonder, very often in this moving time, if we don't need more of the kind of services that you do, and I think of what there is to growing up in our time. All the simplicity that once seemed to be at any rate is gone, and now we have this extremely difficult world, the world away from us and here the world at home, that we have to deal with. And to be very small in that time, it takes quite an effort of the imagination to remember what it might have been to just be as high as a man's knee. And just to get a little bit bigger and a little bit bigger and uncertain about the place, what they call it, the role you're going to play in society and that sort of thing. Awfully hard because the censorship works upon us, our own internal censorship, to blot out the ugly and the evil and the mean and the small things of our childhood and remember some of the better ones, except for some of us who never can leave our past behind any more than I can leave that worksheet behind when I leave Auburn. We're always dragging with us our childhood. I think it was Kant who said you can't take crooked timber and make a straight stick out of it, I deny it. Because the kind of thing that you're doing is to take some of the little crooked sticks and making straight sticks out of them. Man has that in his power to do it. Now, as we look home and begin to look at ourselves, we're very conscious in our time of our ills. And I would like to pay tribute now in passing to our strengths and to remember what they are, and the strength of our children. Because I am terribly aware after a couple of wars of the enormous power that there was in the youth of this land and two great international tragedies of war in our time when we summoned our young people to do their job. And then in the last war where there was no effort on the face of the earth comparable to the productive enterprise of this nation and how this nation goided its loins. The first thing you know I've been throwing double negatives all over the lot. You don't take much time to look back at that, but it's true. We are a powerful nation. Our young are strong. But we lose too many of them. Too many of them, they're lost in two ways. They're lost to themselves because they never realize the thing that's in them. They're lost to their families. The Irish call a heart-scalled that comes to parents who have children that just aren't turning out as well as the children might and as well as the parents want them. Then there's the enormous, aside from the personal and spiritual tragedy of this irreplaceable small human, there is the loss to society, the enormous expense, great economic expense. And I'm inclined to believe that the more we invest in trying to make straight sticks out of the crooked ones, to be straighteners of human beings, I think it's a good investment. And I'm rather proud too, not only of our young people, but looking back over the history of our American institutions, which we spend so much time changing, improving, moving around. This is the greatest reforming nation on the face of the earth. We're never satisfied with things as they are. We're always shaping, reshaping, reforming, and the good thing that we are. It's one of the things that no or few totalitarian states can even indulge in or flirt with, is this infinite capacity of reshaping our institutions. One of the institutions now that I want to speak of for just a minute are our courts for children, in which this country in a way has been a pioneer, in which this city has done a remarkable job. One of the reasons I want to speak of the courts is because of their importance in our whole human scheme of things, and the necessity there is for the courts to have a series of tools at their disposal. Your organization, many others, are important for those who sit in that kind of a court, which it seems to me almost as bad as a psychiatrist, where day after day you must be tortured by the human parade of illness and difficulty that goes by. I cannot go into the children's court except at great expense to my own feelings, destroyed, devastated by a concentrated difficulty. And that's why I'm glad that you're having 50 years of success and want to look forward to 50 years more. I do not say that we look in the dark backward in the deep abysm of time. I look in the dark backward only at limited times, sometimes in the slough of despond, and that's when I have to look too much at those who don't make the grave, those who are unsatisfactory in their behavior, those who can't find their way, those who don't realize their own power. But at other times I am lifted up by the efforts that are made through our public institutions and through the voluntary institutions which support them. And I have been very happy for the last 20 years of my life working over the public that I have in some measure added to the understanding that there is of the ways in which the voluntary and the public agency can work together. And the school system has done a remarkable job, it seems to me, in their conception, certainly in the city of New York, of how neighbors and other organizations can work together with the big public organization. I look forward to more and more of that as we go on. I want to say now one or two things about this horrible word, juvenile delinquency. You think of an enormous blanket that you cast over all the ills of children, as though there was some mini comparison, as though you could take the diseases, the physical diseases of man and begin to separate them one by one. You do, they have a relationship with each other, you're all sick. But the difference between some compulsive kid that's never had a thing wrong with him in his life but who's been building up for maybe 10 or 15 years to do some violent act. It's not the same thing as the kid, because we live in a machine age, wants to drive a car around the block because he has an urge to drive something. Altogether different from the adult who steals a car because he wants to sell it or because he wants to appropriate it for his own use. And there's the kid that does petty thievery. Oh, I get so much comfort out of a piece that I once read about how white collar people steal. I think they got 1500 pillars of society together and they asked all of them if they'd ever stolen anything, two-thirds of them had. They'd all, I think, committed felonies at one time or another. If they'd been caught, dishonesty is only what you do when you're not seen. I just want to point out that they will all suffer from the same ills in some degree. And I just want to quickly pass over this point now, but I ask you to remember that there are a special group of kids that need exactly what the organizational 50th anniversary we celebrate today can give. There are other kids who just need warm love. They just need to have somebody who they're positively sure cares about them. There are some kids who just need to have some kind of an image built in themselves of what they might be. And they can't always get it from the family because we all know, all of us in this room, that there are families into which it's a tremendous boon and privilege to be born. Well, you know that you're going to get affection and nurture and love all the days of your life and understanding and tolerance, and there are other families. God, what the Irish call five cents worth of God help us. They're down on the bottom where they just can't seem to get kids to school. They can't get the food on the table. They just are helpless in this business of understanding anything about it. Well, some of the things that we're doing here in the youth board are trying to get half some of those families. Some of the clergy are really struggling and squaring with those families, refusing to give up on them. Well, just remember now that there are all kinds of acts, some of which all of us have engaged in, a lot that we haven't. This is a very varied thing, and because this business of unsatisfactory behavior, getting off the tracks, is so varied, it requires a lot of varied kinds of help. One of the kinds of help that's become available to us in the last half century is insight more and more into our own conduct. And that's the kind of thing that you do in your clinic. I want to say now that just to try to give you some figure of speech that you will hold this in your head for you. At the end of our hearings in New York City, and some of you were there, some poor deluded man came up pleadingly to Tom Watson and said, Mr. Watson, he said, you've got all the facts now, you've had thousands of people have talked to you about kids that get into trouble, won't you put it into the machine and give us the answer? And I'm sure there are some people who think it can be done that way, except that I deny it. It can't be done that way. You don't treat figures and intangible things that are hard ones, but you feel the material things in the machine, but the human things are not susceptible to that kind of measurement. So I just want you to remember the variety of things that you've got to do, and very often I think that it's this enormous machine age that makes it awfully difficult for some kids to adjust themselves to this thing that's known as the technological processes of our time. I'm very proud of the fact that I've had a chance to work with human beings, and that's why I call attention to the 20 years where I just actually worked with families, lived with families, worked with is a foul phrase, lived with families on the West Side. Could I say now that I hope the social work organization doesn't get so big and doesn't get so complex that it won't be able to let the blood get out to the extremities? There are an awful lot of kids in the city of New York who just aren't touched by the ordinary institution. They are said to be unreachable. I deny that they're unreachable. They can be reached. It's our job to reach them, but I never want to see social work get so complicated and big in its structure that you have a great deal of circulation and use of blood and energy here, but out at the extremities. There's coldness. And I hope that in the next years we are going to use the voluntary resources of our people in a way so that people of goodwill and kindness and affection can come closer to their brethren who need help. Now I know that this is tough words coming, but I have a right to say it having gone to the New York School of Social Work. That's one of the things that the diploma gives me a right to say. Because I want to say to you now that with all the techniques without compassion are as nothing. That unless you have in back of it the great desire to share, and you can do it financially, the pitch has been given here before and I make it again now, your 50th anniversary gifts will be welcome. But unless you give not in this, is that right, Judge, fiduciary fashion? Yeah. I want people to give of themselves, and I think this idea of giving has got to encompass both the business of the dough and the drudgery. You cannot hire your vicarious people to do your drudgery for you in the clinics. You can get some special kinds of technical help from those people. But none of us are absolved from the drudgery that is fundamental in living with human beings. Now it has its delights and its joys, but you can't know them without the drudgery. The longer I live, the less I know about this. I want to make that confession. I'm like my six-year-old grandchild who wrote to a grandmother and said, Dear Grandma, I'm studying time. I know my o'clock's and my half-past's. Well, very often I feel what I know about the human race. Just a little bit of time and just some of the o'clock's and some of the half-past's. But I know that this great, big, strong, powerful nation of ours, assuming its place of leadership in the world, has the sinews and the strength to do what it needs to do for its kids. I'm not going to indulge in the cliché because I see Henry Ward Beecher in a 15-minute slavery maybe I've gotten involved, the slavery of those who listen to after dinner or after luncheon speeches. I'll be done now in one minute. And what I want to say is, will you have hope and will you have faith in both the kids, in yourselves, and in the institutions, that without this compassion that I speak of, all the techniques of is nothing. Without the hope, without looking up to a horizon that's beyond where we see now, we can not do the job that we need to do because of the preciousness of our humans within the borders of this country and of these children. I say this is a difficult job, but I say that nobody is excused from doing it. Here they come, in the words of an old, gray-bearded Brooklyn poet, always the young stranger, coming, coming, coming. Here they come, these spiritual, irreplaceable small humans coming in in greater numbers. As they become greater, the responsibility becomes greater. And I am convinced that we have both the moral power, I'm convinced that we have the financial power, and that more and more knowledge is coming to our hands. And so on the 50th anniversary, I say, as we lit the candle here, that may you get the sinews and the strength that you need to light more candles in the bosoms of small people that will flower into the kind of thing that all of us hope for all our children. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.