The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has not one guest today at City Hall, but 49. 49 European publishers, editors, and writers touring the United States of America on a Discovery flight. These editors and publishers and writers, distinguished men all in their line, in their coverage of the world scene, are certainly receiving a magnificent welcome in the pageantry which the Mayor of the City of New York has arranged for their visit here today. You hear the bands and the various organizations as they are pulling into City Hall Plaza, and right about now I can see the beginning of the cars through the trees of City Hall Park. There's a magnificent bank of flags just passing the Woolworth Building at this time. Our own fire department band is coming into the scene right now, leading in a delegation of firemen, all war veterans, everyone, the police veterans and the police band have already taken their place, and the Army, Navy, and Marines have already paraded into City Hall Plaza. That beautiful bank of flags is about ready to swing now from Broadway into City Hall Plaza, and add color and beauty to this pageantry in front of City Hall. These men come from the various nations of the Old World in order to make a Discovery flight, as the title of the trip is so described, of the various aspects of the United States of America, and they will tour throughout the country. Stopping off, of course, as they do here in New York City, they will be able to recapture in some essences at least, the early beginnings of the great country, the United States of America. They've driven past the spot where the government of the United States began, at Wall and Nassau Street, located now, or occupied rather now, by the sub-Treasury building, where George Washington took the oath of office as the President of the United States. On their way up Broadway, they had the spiritual advantage to witness that three churches envisage their view as they come up that thoroughfare. First, they strike the church there that tended so often to the wants of the immigrants there at State Street and Battery Place, and then on up to Trinity Church at Rector and Broadway, and finally St. Paul's Chapel, a model of Sir Christopher Wren Church. Sir Christopher Wren was architect for Charles II of France, and many of the churches in the squares of London, those that escaped the blitz, of course, are replicas of St. Paul's right here in New York City. That is the smaller chapels of churches like St. Martin's in the Fields, and those churches in London that were developed for the parishes and designed by Sir Christopher Wren, who also designed St. Paul's. St. Paul has the unique distinction of being the actual building that has been standing there since the early 18th century, and was the edifice, the actual edifice, in which George Washington and the first Congress of the United States worshiped immediately after the formation of the government of the United States at Wall Street and Nassau. These are all interesting factors that will be brought forcibly to the minds of these correspondents as they've been parading up for Broadway and through these various sections of the city with the escort of the military police fire and all the other aspects of our great and wonder city that bring to the mind of a visitor at least. We may be a bit accustomed to it because we've seen so many of these receptions. We've been over this ground because we're natives and residents, and sometimes we lose a little of the essence of the grandeur and the development that the brains and the intellects and the great minds have done and created to bring about this great and wonder Imperial City, New York, one of the greatest commercial industrial centers anywhere in the world, where the commerce of the world flows in both directions, because it comes by rail across the continent from the east and goes to Europe by ship from our ports here the other way, and the ships from Europe bring it into the waters here of New York Bay and the surrounding waters, which makes New York City one again, one of the greatest ports anywhere in the world, because of the over 550 miles of pier line that New York City has available to carry through the developments, the commercial and industrial developments of this great and wonder city. Those are the things, the people who work and accomplish to create these great cities, and Merrill Dwyer certainly had every reason to feel proud in escorting his guest today at the pageantry of this city that has grown from the tip end of Manhattan Island and the early Dutch settlement into the great city which we all know and recognize, those of us who have the privilege of being here much longer than our visitors will. Now these various organizations of the military, the police and fire and civic organizations, have dressed the square in front of City Hall very beautifully, and from the standpoint of photography certainly the movies will have a feast here today when they spot this scene for your local news houses, or moving picture houses in the newsreels that are exhibited there. Another interesting factor is that this used to be the section of all the early newspaper publications, and even though the actual spot never had the name until very recently when it was formally christened and the signs put up on the lamppost, Printing House Square is just on the east end of City Hall Plaza, and we still see the early beginnings of the great newspaper publications here in our city. The old world building is a bit of a wreck, but then the Pulitzers gave up that great newspaper and it merged with the New York Telegram. The New York Tribune building is still there in much of its splendor as designed in line with some of the medieval touches that enter into the architecture of the building, the New York Times, the New York Sun that's still in the neighborhood, in the old A.T. Stewart store at Broadway and Chambers Street, and in this way we can recapture the developments of the city itself. Well, the most permanent thing about New York is change, and even the newspapers in the line of progress found they had a move too, much as a lot of people do because of housing situations, and a lot of the newspapers have gone to midtown sections in order to better distribute and more quickly distribute news. A few of the more courageous ones have stayed down here, such as the Telegram, the Post, and the Sun, and other newspapers that are still in the old location, but much to the west and a little bit further away than old Printing House Square, that saw so much of the development of the newspapers, the great newspapers, and the men, the writers, the cartoonists, and all the others who made them great. There's much to recapture in this scene, and possibly our correspondents will realize that no matter what they've been told about New York, it's a mighty different thing when you see it, and it is indeed worth the view and the trip. And as we said before on our opening announcement, the mayor has today not one guest, but 49 coming from most of the nations of Western Europe. They're all represented here. The cars have gone in off Chamber Street and are using the new technique of coming into the back of City Hall first in order that a better and more dressy presentation may be made because they will meet the mayor formally in a little previous greeting to his taking his place here on the roster in front of City Hall, and he will in that way have a chance to meet them personally even before they're presented out here to the radio audience. And as soon as the mayor has met his guests and proved himself to be the genial host that he is and brought the touch of home and hometown and city to these visiting correspondents, the entire group will file out here to the platform which has been arranged by your Department of Public Works to properly present these people to the huge audience here in City Hall Park. It's a well-known fact that this is the important time to stage one of these events because the moment you hear a band in City Hall Park, all the people from these immense skyscrapers surrounding the City Hall know there's something doing over in City Hall Park and we get the huge crowd that we always need to dress this scene and make it an important experience for those who visit the mayor and the city here at City Hall. It's too bad we don't have full coverage by television of this scene because you would get some idea then of the amount of organization and work that goes into one of these receptions, particularly when the mayor of the City of New York is extremely anxious to make a good impression on his guests of the city and the various factors that enter into its true greatness. It saw the first expressions of man's inalienable right to life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and as we mentioned earlier in this announcement, the early beginnings of the government of the United States started just a few blocks down from where City Hall gazes into the church, the porch rather, of St. Paul's Church, at Vesey and Broadway, then a little further down you make a left turn into Wall Street and there a short block from that ancient street of Broadway leading up from the early Dutch settlement right through to Albany, we have the beginnings of the government of the United States. Another interesting contact which the City Hall has with that scene is that the Declaration of Independence was read in the presence of George Washington the first time publicly and to the assembled troops on a spot that is right under one of the windows of the mayor's reception room here in New York City, in the City Hall. The City Hall was not here at the time, of course, because that wasn't started until 1803 and it was completed in 1811 and has been functioning ever since as the seat of the government of the City of New York. Very few people realize that there are over two million dollars worth of paintings alone in City Hall. It is an architectural gem. It is paraded at the Beaux-Arts in Paris as one of the most perfect examples for facade and outline and good proportion as a building. And very few of us realize that in passing it. All we ever say about it is it needs to be cleaned up or something like that. Well, if you stood in the one spot since 1811, why, you'd need a little cleaning up too. But the difficulty about that is it's very difficult to approach an old building like this with the new techniques without in some way marring it. In a previous cleaning some years back, there was much criticism of the method used and it really did more damage to the City Hall at that time than any of the facts of weather or other situations which the City Hall has met in its valiant facing of the lower part of the city. And as the saying goes, on a line with Murray Street. Because when they wanted to locate the building and just where would it stand in City Hall Park, the agreement was it would be built on a line with Murray Street. And Murray Street is just two blocks below Chambers. The streets running Chambers, Warren, Murray, Park Place and Barclay. The fire department are addressing the top steps of City Hall with a magnificent bank of American flags. We've seen those flags at public functions before both indoors and out. And it gives indeed a very beautiful background to the portals of City Hall itself. The various representatives of the military are now taking their places on the rostrum here in front of City Hall. You can realize that it takes the mayor a few moments to greet 49 people and say hello to each one before they come out here. And there must be a sort of welcome and a sense of hominess before they make their public appearance, before the audience that is waiting to meet them here in City Hall Park. As we told you before, for the benefit of those who may have tuned in late, Mayor O'Dwyer has built up a beautiful pageant for this reception here today. Because we very often refer to the beauties and the wonders of those ancient cities and nations of the old world. And we'd like to prove that in our way, in this great democracy of America, we can assert every inch of dignity without any imposition of any kind to any visitor anywhere in the world. And make them feel just as well and just as enthralled by what they see as possibly anything that may be offered anywhere else in the world. The nations of Europe are represented in this program today. I'll try and give you an idea of what nations are represented. If I can hold this mic and turn this into paper at the same time. Well, here they are. Belgium, Denmark, Finland. Then we go to France, Germany, Holland, Ireland, Italy, Norway, Scotland, Sweden, Switzerland. I don't think I've left out any. And Mr. Whelan has just come out on the stand now, and that means that the presence of the Mayor is imminent. The Mayor is now on the platform, and in just a few moments we'll be ready with the real formalities. There's just a few moments of greeting. Mr. Whelan's checking with one of the officials here. The Mayor is still greeting some of the military and acting the genial host that he always is, whether he is at City Hall, Gracie Mansion, or any other point that we have the privilege to meet, the Mayor of the City of New York, possibly the busiest man anywhere in the world. It often causes us to ponder if it's fair to even load up one individual with the cares of state, such as those that fall mostly on the Mayor of the City of New York and the President of the United States. I don't intentionally leave out the Governor of the state, but the Governor has a little quieter time in Albany than the focal points of New York and Washington. I don't know whether this will cause the Governor to move down to the Governor's room in City Hall and become more active in the scene. You know, that beautiful big room on the second floor of City Hall was put there because of traveling conditions at the time in colonial days, and the Governor used to spend periodic terms here in City Hall, transacting the business of the State of New York. And that Governor's room is still one of the most magnificent rooms anywhere in the world, and it's magnificently furnished with all the original furniture from the old Federal Hall where the Government of the United States began. You see the actual desk that George Washington used as President of the United States, the desk of Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, John Quincy Adams. They're all there in City Hall to say nothing of the beautiful Duncan Fyfe furniture, which is part of the furniture in City Hall itself. So when you pass this great building, don't criticize it or don't be sarcastic. It's a wonderful building in proportion in art and in beauty. Now Mr. Whelan is looking around, apparently with an idea of starting something. The fireman's waving flags causes me to do a sort of a St. Vitus dance to get between the folds of the flag as the gentle breeze picks it up and get a view of Mr. Whelan down there in front. We're just waiting anxiously now. I see what they're doing. They're arranging a lot of scrolls that possibly will be presented, and 49 of them make quite a bundle. And that in itself will be quite a lengthy ceremony. And that takes place if they present them individually. The mayor may take a shortcut on that. I don't know whether he will or not. The mayor himself is sitting there calmly and quietly in one of those beautiful Duncan Fyfe chairs we told you about. Duncan Fyfe was a great furniture builder who had his place right on Fulton Street. It used to be called Division Street on the old colonial maps. And he showed how to build wonderful furniture because some of that furniture he built in the early part of the 1800s is still functioning right here in City Hall. The Duncan Fyfe room on the second floor of City Hall, just a little bit off from the Board of Estimate room. A round room and a square room. I mean by that rather contradictory statement. That the room is square but there's a colonnade, a round colonnade within the room. And here's Mr. Whelan. He has just announced the national anthem. There's a wearing a margin for exactly to turn back here, When you see, by the dawn's where he lies. But the proudly trailed, at the twilight's last gleaming. So broken by the patty stars, through the perilous fight, For the ramparts we 한, was so gallantly streaming. And rockets' best way Come on bursting in air It goes to the light To the night To the night To the night All say does that Star-spangled Can I yet wave From the land Of the sea And the home Of the brave Now Mr. Whalen Mr. Mayor Distinguished guests Ladies and gentlemen It is my great privilege To present to you Mayor O'Dwyer 49 publishers Editors And writers Of European newspapers Representing 14 countries That have just completed A 11-day trip Of discovery Of the United States They left a brief time They left one day Had dinner in Shannon Island The next morning Breakfast in New York And that evening Dinner in San Francisco And from that time on They have gone through The United States Climaxing their visit Here today It's a great privilege Sir To present these gentlemen To you Wailing Distinguished visitors Members of our Committee Of welcome Ladies and gentlemen Our official receptions Here at City Hall Are traditionally Devoted to an individual Either from this country Or from another On these occasions We do have a great many Reporters here To record the proceedings Today we are honored By the presence Of more newspaper men I believe Than have ever been here before On a similar occasion With us In addition to the working press And the executives Of our New York newspapers Are 49 more These honored guests Of ours Represent 14 Free nations Of Europe To them I have the honor To offer The warm Sincere greeting Of the city of New York These gentlemen Have come to the United States To report To millions in Europe Exactly how we work And how we think They want to know about our government And our industry They are in short Visiting us as friends Who want to know us better We do hope That their impression Of New York Is a good one And a lasting one On their way to City Hall today They saw our great bridges and highways Our housing projects Our housing projects Hospitals And above all The temple of peace The temple of peace Now rising on the East River That will house The United Nations We hope they will tell their readers in Europe About us And more importantly We hope they will get to know us And tell in Europe Of a free And friendly people Made up of all peoples That again make up the 8 million Residents of New York City They can do this Because they too Are free They represent freedom Of the European press Each of them Is free to criticize The governments and institutions Of all the world Each of them Is free to speak Without fear To the people of his country On this freedom of the press We should be grateful For the newspapers That have given us The wide knowledge Of daily affairs That is so important To the maintenance of freedom Some of the men You see on this platform Have known What suppression means Some of them Have known What it is To have a freedom of the press To have a military tyrant Censor the nation's press But now they are free once more And that freedom is all the more precious to them Let us hope that their presence here will help To teach us its value Let us wish them Godspeed on their return to their native lands With the hope that they will have a kind word to say for us The trust And the belief The knowledge That when they do leave They have left Great friends Behind them Thank you very much Thank you very much Thank you Thank you Thank you Want me to do this now? Maybe Gary might answer It's a great pleasure Mr. Mayor to present The editor who will respond on behalf of his fellow visitors visitors and discoverers, Mr. Frank Gehry, editor of the largest circulation in Ireland, the Irish Independent. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, there are times in one's life when one becomes almost overwhelmed with the situation. I just find myself in that position now. At very short notice, I have been asked to convey to Mr. Mayor and to the City of New York a slight expression of our appreciation at this overwhelming reception that we have just received. We have been having receptions everywhere we went. We have been on the road now for nearly a fortnight and we have done nearly 12,000 miles. But as I told some of my colleagues before they came here, New York would easily beat the best of them. New York has easily beaten the best of them. Many of us here never saw anything like it before, and I doubt if we'll ever see anything like it again. Some time ago, Mr. Mayor, I think this year you sent a representative from New York who toured the various cities of Europe as Father Knickerbocker, your symbol of friendship. I had the honor of meeting Mr. O'Brien in Dublin, and I doubt very much whether he looked more tired then than I must look now. But that time he went as an ambassador from New York, and now, Mr. Mayor, it's rather opportune that the representatives of 14 countries should be assembled here today and to be able to return that gesture of goodwill to you. Mr. Mayor, I do that on behalf of all my colleagues. This tour has been a very marked success. Personally, I believe that it was a brilliantly conceived idea. This thing of bringing representatives from 14 countries in Europe, bringing them over here to a country many of whom had never seen it before, but all of whom found in this land representatives of the country, and many of whom had never seen it before, but all of whom found in this land representatives of their own particular country. It was a brilliant idea, and for that idea, I think it's only right that I should say that Mr. Rick Smith of American Airlines is the man responsible. We feel under a very great debt of gratitude to him, and would like to express that to him in no uncertain way. I doubt very much if there's anything more that I have to say. The tour has done good. There's no doubt in the world about that. We've come here, and we've gone around, and just, I might say, incidentally, that one place we were, I forget now, a newspaper man came to me, and he said, how did you line up? I said, how did you line up? I said, we didn't line up. We stay together. I said, that's strange, he said. No, I said, it's not the second day out. We were calling each other by our Christian names. We're doing that still, and we hope to continue to do it, and if the peoples of the world could do the same, it would be a very, very good thing for the world and for humanity generally. I thank you, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Mayor, will you present the certificates to the distinguished guests? Mr. Mayor, will you present the distinguished guests? What's your name? Belgium. Mr. Whelan has just called Belgium to receive the certificate from the mayor of the city of New York. I'll not interrupt, but I'll try and keep the thing interesting for the radio audience who has no visibility on this truly remarkable scene here at City Hall. And Mayor O'Dwyer is now making the presentation to Belgium, and the newspaper men are demanding pictures, and that's going to take a few more. Ladies and gentlemen, we're now going to make a presentation to our distinguished visitors by countries represented by their Council General and the newspaper guests who are here today. Mr. Council General. I'll get it. Denmark. I'm very happy to make this presentation. There are four representatives of Denmark who are now receiving scrolls from the mayor of the city of New York. Back to the microphone so we won't miss anything. England. Mr. Ritchie here. Mr. Ritchie, please. Mr. Ritchie, please. Mr. Ritchie, please. There's a very large delegation from England. It looks to be ten or twelve. The mayor is now passing out the scrolls to the English delegation. Might we add that this is a reception to 49 members of the various countries of Western Europe who represent the newspapers, publications, authors and all other writers who are so deeply interested in carrying this picture of this flight. this flight. The mayor has just announced Finland. Arvo Ari is the political reporter for the large newspaper there, a large Finnish daily. I won't attempt to give the Finnish pronunciation. And now Finland continues. Mr. Brunilla, Mr. Lindeberg, and one of the greatest perceptions ever given here was to Lindeberg and Mr. Lari Sivo. He's aviation editor. The other man is one of the top reporters and the other man represents a news service. France. The mayor has just announced France. Raymond Castan, top reporter for a popular French weekly. Gaston Armangelis, former foreign news editor of the French press, leading French wire service, and Pierre Grobel, editor of Constellation, well-known French monthly. Germany will be next, but we're still disposing of France because the newspaper, the, uh, our own photographers representing the American newspapers want this picture. It's taking a few moments before the mayor calls for the German representatives. And the mayor is posing and handing out the, uh, certificates in line with the orders of the newspaper photographers. Germany. Now Germany. Kurt Klinger, feature editor of the principal German news agency, Dana. Rudolf, uh, Kungstermeier, editor of Der Welt, the largest, uh, German newspaper. Maximilian Müller-Jabusch, publisher and editor of Der Abend, principal Berlin evening newspaper. And Hans Ludwig Spohr, news and photo assignment editor of Germany's leading monthly magazine. He also represents the affiliated Daily, uh, uh, Dino Zeitung. Now Holland is coming up. Dr. Cornelius Dua Bosch, financial writer for the outstanding Amsterdam Weekly. Donald Cantor, a top reporter for ANP, Netherlands news agency. Willie Levy, a reporter for the Amsterdam's largest daily. And Anthony Sips, editor of the popular weekly pictorial magazine. After Holland will come Ireland. Another country that loves freedom. Commander George Crosby, editor and director of the Quark Examiner publication. Frank J. Geary, editor of the Irish Independent. He made the speech of welcome. Oldest. Fair as having a little joke down there. R. M. Sayers, editor of the Belfast Telegraph. William Sweetsman, editor of the Irish Press. And here he said, sweet steaks. Now Italy follows Ireland. The mayor's having such a good time over there in Ireland. We'll give him a few minutes before Italy comes up. Italy. William DeMazza, editor of the Rome Daily American. And Giovanni Fontana, chief of US for the Italian news agency. How are you, sir? Mr. Colene has been left behind. I'm killed at once. Is that right? All right. You'll do it too, brother. The mayor himself spent quite a long time in Italy. He's very beloved of the Italians. And his administration there of Italian affairs under the after-war conditions was one of the outstanding accomplishments in a career that has seen many accomplishments. He's very fond of Italian culture and spoke most beautifully at the time of... Luxembourg. Judge Giovanna was elevated in the Hotel St. George in Brooklyn. He amazed the Italians with his history of Italy and the cultures of that great town. Now Luxembourg has just come up. Foster Schroeder is the representative, international affairs editor of the Luxembourg's largest newspaper in that country. Norway. Norway is next. Ingemann Penn, bureau chief of the largest Norwegian dailies there. Rita Lunde, a star reporter for the sometimes called the New York Times of Norway. And Pierre Opien, veteran reporter of the oldest paper in Norway. And Torleva Opstad, reporter for the well-known Verdans gong. Scotland is next. Clement B. Livingston, director of the Kemsley newspapers, general manager of the Scottish Daily Record, the Glasgow Evening News and Sunday Mail. Ralph Pride, editor of the Dundee Evening Telegraph. And James M. Watson, editor of the the Edinburgh Evening newspaper. Sweden. Sweden is next. Dr. Carl Evert, Ambled, reporter for the influential Swedish newspaper. Kurt Form, foreign editor of the Swedish news agency, serving 175 newspapers. Eric Lundegaard, front page columnist for 26 years in that ancient land. And William Rohl, veteran reporter for the Stockholm Tignigan, one of the Sweden's biggest morning newspapers. Now Switzerland has come up. This is going much faster. T.F. Anker, managing editor of the editorial central organization of the most influential Swiss weekly. Dr. Carla Motelli, economic editor of the leading Swiss Daily. Yes, sir. Just like this. Turned pages. There's my older boy. That's all. Now the mayor's having a very good time in Switzerland, talking to the Swiss correspondents. New York has very little in common with Switzerland, although in the early colonial days, New York was hill and dale, a goody like Switzerland itself. And one of the greatest projects in New York City was the leveling off particularly of Manhattan Island. It wasn't always as flat as you see it. And those changes were brought about in the original map commission, which started in the early part of the 18th, 19th century rather to design the city. The mayor and Mr. Whalen are conferring just a minute now. All right, the mayor. The mayor. The mayor. The mayor. The mayor. At the close of the presentations to our honored guests, again, I wish to express to them the joy of New York in having the honor to welcome them here today. To express further the hope that on their return home, they will find the conditions of their people better than when they left. And that carrying out the note of the speaker, who represented the newspaper men here, that the understanding between the various countries and the United States that we hoped would happen as a result of this visit, will be an accomplished fact and will be a basic reason and a good reason for having similar delegations come to visit us in the near future. Again, I want to compliment Mr. Smith and his company for the vision that has gone into this visit. We will now, ladies and gentlemen, have a selection by the police fleet club, after which there will be a review. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. When the rangers come to town to settle up or settle down, we're in their heyday because it's payday. There's a bottle, a laugh, a joke, a heck of a night, and then the goat. We know tomorrow we have to borrow. We file. Our job's a great vacation and a darn good time. We're all pals together. Comrades, birds of a feather. Rootin' pals, shootin' pals, scootin' pals, shootin' pals. In rain or sunshine, Pals say they're brother. Pull for each other. When you roll your own, you're not alone. For when you belong to the Lone Star. Rangers, man to man. Da, da, da, da, da, da. We're all pals together. Birds of a feather. When you roll your own, you're not alone. For when you belong to the Lone Star. Rangers, man to man. And now, while the mayor of the city of New York and the distinguished committee that arranged the pageantry, this magnificent reception to the 49 members of the various publications, authors, newspaper owners and so forth who are visiting here today at City Hall, and who have just been honored by the mayor of the city of New York, they all stand at attention now while this magnificent pageant passes in review. Of the mayor of the city of New York, his distinguished guests, and those who have turned out today to welcome these 49 guests. And so with this picture in your minds, we leave you from City Hall Plaza and return you to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Of the city skull, let me turn it in to you. St