Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, we hear a review of just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Tonight we have with us Assistant Chief Inspector John J. Travers, Coordinator of Civil Defense Police Department, and Mr. Nat Friedman, City Director of the Emergency Taxi Corps. And now, Mr. Travers. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Tonight we discuss another aspect of the city's civil defense planning, the Emergency Taxi Corps. The Emergency Taxi Corps has been organized to provide supplementary transportation for the Police Emergency Division and other branches of the city's defense system. The Corps was an integral part of the civil defense system during the last war and was very ably directed by Mr. Nat Friedman. He has graciously consented to again take charge of this valuable adjunct to the civil defense plan, and we are fortunate in having Mr. Friedman with us tonight. The Emergency Taxi Corps did a fine job during the last war, Mr. Friedman, and I'm sure that under your direction they will do the same again. Thank you, Chief Travers. It will be a pleasure to be associated with you. I'm anxious to do what I can to help. We have a big job before us. In view of the importance of transportation in our organization, I'm sure the taxi cab industry will be a great and needed help. And now, Mr. Friedman, will you give us some idea of the organizational setup of the Emergency Taxi Corps? Certainly, Chief Travers. We have a citywide director of the Emergency Taxi Corps and five borough directors. I have been designated as a city director and have designated Mr. William Fahey as borough director in Manhattan. He represents the terminal system, which operates 607 taxi cabs. Mr. George McIntyre has been designated borough director in Brooklyn, and he represents the National Transportation Company, Inc., with 1,600 taxi cabs. Mr. Harold E. Wolfe has been designated borough director in the Bronx. He represents the League of Mutual Taxi Owners, an organization of individual taxi owners consisting of 1,800 members. Mr. Samuel Abramson has been designated borough director in Richmond, and he represents the Taxi Bureau, Inc., an organization of independent fleet owners operating 1,334 taxi cabs. Mr. Salvador Barron has been designated borough director in Queens. He is the president of the United Taxi Owners Guild, an organization of individual taxi owners with a membership of 1,800. Thus, the Emergency Taxi Corps will operate on both a borough and citywide basis. For the purpose of recruiting, however, volunteers for the Emergency Taxi Corps will be enrolled through the local precincts of the police department. Mr. Friedman, will you tell our listeners how the recruiting program is being conducted at the present time? Yes. We have been in touch with the leaders of the taxi industry, and they have already pledged their assistance and cooperation in the drive to recruit all of the taxi cabs and drivers operating in New York City. At the present time, the entire industry is encouraging taxi drivers and owners to enroll at their local police precincts. Taxi drivers are expected to enroll at the precinct in which they reside, and owners of taxis will enroll their cabs in the precinct in which such cabs are garaged. In the case where the enrollee is both owner and driver, he will enroll in the precinct of his residence. Superintendents, their assistants, and dispatches of large fleets will be enrolled in the precinct in which the taxi cab garage is located. Mr. Friedman, will you tell our listeners just what procedure has been set up by the police department to handle this recruiting program? Yes. Each precinct has a civil defense unit which is geared to process volunteers and enroll them in any of the several services they might choose, including the emergency taxi corps. The taxi drivers will be required to sign a loyalty oath and fill out information forms in the same manner as all other members of the civil defense organization. The enrollment procedure is being handled very efficiently and is completed in a few minutes so that people who intend to volunteer need not feel that they must set aside an entire evening to enroll. Cab drivers can drop in while they are on the job and sign up. Since adequate transportation is a basic requirement of civil defense, I feel that the emergency taxi corps will be a very important part of the civil defense team. Can you tell our listeners a little about the manner in which the emergency taxi corps plans to provide supplementary transportation in the event of an emergency? We hope to enroll the entire 35,000 taxi drivers and 11,800 licensed taxis in the emergency taxi corps. In the event of an enemy attack and immediately upon the sounding of the all-clear signal, these taxi drivers and their vehicles will proceed to some 50 mobilization points strategically located throughout the city. These mobilization points have been selected so that taxis will be able to arrive at the nearest mobilization point in a maximum of 10 minutes. What will be the next step after the corps members arrive at the mobilization point? We will stand by at the mobilization point and await orders from the various report centers of the Air Warden Service. We will answer calls for emergency duty throughout the city. Drivers will be dispatched to transport civil defense personnel to the scene so that they may cope with whatever situations arise. It is anticipated that these taxicabs will be able to carry some 70,000 civil defense workers to the scene of the emergency as well as to transport supplies required for medical and welfare services. In the event large-scale casualties occur, many of our taxicabs will be pressed into use as emergency ambulances. Since it is very likely that many street signs and familiar landmarks will be damaged, I believe we are fortunate in having a group of men who know their way around our large city. And we are indeed grateful in having the benefit of their services. In view of the fact that they are so well qualified in their special field, it is planned to use them exclusively as transporters of emergency personnel and equipment during the emergency. They will not be used for any other purpose which would conflict with their primary duty, the provision of necessary transportation. Mr. Friedman, can you tell our listeners what further knowledge and training the members of the taxi corps will receive? Well, Chief Travers, they will receive the specific training required to enable them to translate their particular abilities into effective use in the emergency. They will be provided with a manual containing a list of the mobilization points and giving specific instructions as to their particular duties. The manual will also contain the locations of the various welfare, medical, and evacuation stations. One of the most important problems we have to face in the event of atomic attack is the prevention and control of panic. Can you tell our listeners what your corps will do to assist us in this problem? The purpose of the training program will be to provide the members of the emergency taxi corps with such information as will enable them to retain a level-headed attitude in the face of any crisis that may arise. I think it is agreed that our taxi drivers generally are people of sound stability and are not personally prone to panic. In the pursuit of their duties as members of the emergency taxi corps during the emergency period, they will provide an excellent example and a stabilizing factor to the entire community. Their calmness, level-headedness, and their devotion to duty at that time will do much to prevent general panic. Mr. Friedman, is there any method now in use to distinguish those cabs which have been enrolled from those which have not as yet been enrolled? And is there any method of personal identification to be used by drivers who have enrolled? Yes. Special insignia is now being displayed on all taxi cabs which are enrolled with the emergency taxi corps. Identification will also be provided to all those taxi cab drivers who have indicated their loyalty and patriotism by enrolling with the emergency taxi corps. Can you tell our listeners what progress has been made to date in the recruiting program? At the present time, we have already enrolled approximately 11,000 taxi cab drivers and 6,800 cabs. It is expected that within 30 days the recruiting goal of the corps will be substantially realized. I'm certain our listeners understand the manner in which the emergency taxi corps will assist the public in the event of an emergency, Mr. Friedman. But can you tell our listeners how the public can assist the emergency taxi corps to carry out their functions in the event of an enemy attack? It is of the utmost importance that the general public cooperate with the members of the emergency taxi corps so that it can function smoothly and efficiently. There is a card displayed in every taxi cab to the effect that in the event of an enemy attack, the taxi cab will pull over to the curb and discharge the passengers. It is only after the sounding of the all-clear signal that the emergency taxi corps goes into action. It is important that the public realize that at that particular time taxi cabs are to report to mobilization points and are not for hire. The public is urged to accede to the request of the driver not to enter the cab at such times. I am certain that the people of the city of New York will wholeheartedly cooperate with the members of the emergency taxi corps in all respects. In an emergency, individual convenience must be subordinated to the general welfare. I am sure that the public will understand the need for emergency transportation in the event of disaster and will cooperate fully with the members of the emergency taxi corps. I would like to urge all our listeners to enroll in the air warden service, the auxiliary police, or some other branch of the civil defense services. In the event of enemy attack, everyone should have some civil defense task to which he is assigned. No person can afford to stand by in complete inaction. Each individual must do his share towards maintaining the war potential of our city. Mr. Friedman, is there any parting thought you would like to leave with our listeners? Yes, Chief Travers. I am confident that every taxi driver and every taxi cab in the city of New York will be at the service of the civil defense forces through enrollment in the emergency taxi corps. We anticipate that the taxi cab business will have 100% participation in the civil defense effort, both as to personnel and equipment. I sincerely believe that the industry will provide a shining example to the people of New York City. Every citizen must realize that a defeatist attitude is intolerable and that civil defense is essential to the survival of our city, state, and nation. Thank you, Mr. Friedman, for your splendid cooperation and for being here with us this evening. Thank you, Chief Travers. You've been listening to another in the important series of Reports on Civil Defense, discussions covering specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization, Organization. Presenting his report this evening was Assistant Chief Inspector John J. Travers, Coordinator of Civil Defense for the Police Department, and Mr. Nat Friedman, City Director of the Emergency Taxi Corps. Next Tuesday evening, at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.