Elmer Davis and his weekly war review. The Office of War Information presents its director, Elmer Davis, in the eighth of a series of weekly reports to the American people at home and to America's fighting forces overseas. Each week, Mr. Davis will summarize the progress of the war on the fighting front and will discuss home front problems closely related with the progress of the war. Elmer Davis and his weekly war review. The squeeze is on in Tunisia and the going is slow and hard. The enemy is fighting with great skill and stubbornness and dispatches from the front tell of heavy casualties. This part of Tunisia will have to be taken hill by hill and every hill means a hard struggle. The critical point of the line is in the center where the British First Army is pushing northeastward from Medjizel-Bab. Here, in advance of only a few miles, we'll bring them to flat country much easier for tank operations. Of course, the Germans realize that danger. Here, their counterattacks are most persistent and vigorous. And yesterday, they regained some ground. Nevertheless, the enemy is fighting a losing fight. Allied air forces and British naval forces are knocking off the ships and planes on which he must depend for supplies and reinforcements. And this, with the steady pressure on the front, will eventually break him down. The Pacific was quiet this week. But in Europe, the Russians have started an offensive on the southern end of their front, across the straits from the Crimea. When the Germans retreated from the Caucasus, they held on to some territory in that region which they might use as a springboard for another drive against the Caucasus this summer. It seems doubtful if they can ever again put on a general offensive in Russia, but they may have enough force this summer for regional attacks, and the Caucasus and its oil fields are perhaps the most probable target. The present Russian attack seems aimed at breaking down that springboard before anybody can jump off from it. But while the German armies are finding the going pretty tough, German propaganda won a striking success this week when it succeeded in bringing about a break in diplomatic relations between Russia and the Polish government in exile. The way the Nazis did it is a good example of the doctrine Hitler preached in Mein Kampf, that it's easier to make most people swallow a big lie than a little one. As you recall, when the Germans had beaten Poland in September of 1939, the Russians moved in and occupied eastern Poland, taking thousands of Polish troops as prisoners. In June of 1941, when the Germans attacked Russia, they overran all this territory that the Russians had occupied in Poland and have held it ever since. Now, almost two years later, they suddenly claim to have discovered near Smolensk the corpses of thousands of Polish officers who, according to the Nazis, were murdered by the Russians three years ago. In several respects, this story looks very fishy. At first, the Nazis were quite uncertain about the number killed. They said 10,000, then 2,000, then 5,000, before finally deciding on 12,000. Rome and Berlin disagreed as to how they had been killed. The Japs and the Vichy French got their signals crossed and were telling about Romanians murdered near Odessa, not Poles near Smolensk. The Russians were said to have tried hard to conceal the graves, yet they buried every man in uniform with his identification tag, according to the German story. Suggestions of an investigation by the International Red Cross mean nothing, for the Germans control the area. It would be easy for them to show the investigators' corpses in uniform with identification tags. But there is no way the investigators could determine whether these men were killed by the Russians or by the Germans, as they probably were. The Nazis are known to have slaughtered hundreds of thousands of Poles after the fighting was over. If they found a camp full of Polish prisoners when they attacked Russia, it would have been the most natural thing in the world for the Germans to murder them, too. If not at the moment, then later, when they needed corpses for propaganda exhibits. Remember that when the Germans invaded Poland, they told the world they had found the graves of thousands of German civilians massacred by the Poles. Few people ever believed that story, and it's all the more remarkable that any Poles who remember it should believe this one, especially as the motives of this one are so obvious. The first motive, of course, is to distract the attention of the world from the mass murders which the Germans have been steadily committing in Poland for three and a half years. Murders by now so numerous that they look like a deliberate attempt to exterminate the Polish people. Another purpose would be to rouse suspicion and distrust between Russia and the rest of the United Nations, which would help the Germans in two ways. Directly, it might hamper the prosecution of the war that we are all fighting against Germany. Indirectly, it might help to prop up German morale at home. There's plenty of evidence that among the German civilian population, yes, and even in the army, there's less and less belief that they can ever win a decisive victory over all their enemies. But Nazi propaganda has persuaded many of them that any day now, America and Britain might call off the war, make a compromise peace, and leave Germany free to turn on Russia. And, of course, more Germans will believe that if there's trouble between Russia and any other of the United Nations. Yet this lurid murder story, which so plainly could do no good to anybody but the Germans, had serious consequences. For the Nazi propagandists were cleverly jabbing at a sore spot. The long-standing friction between Russia and Poland over the future frontier between those countries. This dispute is hundreds of years old. The Poles occupied much disputed territory after the war of 1920. The Russians moved back westward in 1939. Two years later, the Germans pushed the Russians out. But statements by Russian leaders since have indicated that when they reconquered the territory they occupied in 1939, they mean to keep it. But the Poles insist on keeping it, too, on retaining their country as it was before Hitler attacked them. To the outsider, it looks as if the time to settle this argument is after Germany is licked. For until Germany is licked, good and thoroughly, it won't make any difference where you draw that frontier line. That the situation has been permitted to get into the present tangle is no credit to either Polish or Russian statesmanship. General Sikorsky, head of the Polish government in exile, is an able and a reasonable man. But he is under constant pressure from a faction of extremists, the sort of man void of any sense of political realities who ruined Poland in the 18th century. But the reason these people were able to push Sikorsky's government into suggesting a Red Cross investigation of this fantastic murder story was that the Russians, for months past, had been completely unreceptive to any suggestions made by the Polish government for better and more humane treatment of Polish refugees in Russian territory. The Poles have now apparently withdrawn their suggestion of a Red Cross investigation. But when they made it, the Russians promptly broke relations with them in a note whose violent language is hard to explain. If Stalin means to go on dealing with the Poles at all, it's certainly poor policy for him to undermine Sikorsky, the most reasonable of Polish leaders. And if, as unconfirmed rumors have suggested, if the Russians should set up in Moscow a rival Polish government in exile composed of fellow travelers, that would do Hitler more good and Russia more harm than anything Nazi propagandists could ever think up. This has been treated by both Poles and Russians pretty much as a matter that concerns them alone. If it were finally to be settled on that basis, Russia's enormous preponderance in size would give the answer. But anything that creates division among the United Nations is the concern of every one of those nations, the United States included, because we must all hold together to win the war. After the war, if the United Nations continue to hold together in some sort of collective security system, there will be less danger that any of the great powers might feel that it had to safeguard its individual security at the expense of weaker nature, neighbors. That is the only way this Polish-Russian issue can be treated as one phase of the problem of world security. Japanese propagandists also had something to crow about today, the coal strike. The Tokyo radio has been broadcasting to all southern Asia that if the miners go out, American steel mills will have to shut down in less than a week. And there's more truth in that than in what usually comes out of Tokyo. Now, nobody supposes that the coal miners want to help the enemy. But how did hundreds of thousands of good American citizens get into a position where, in fact, they will help the enemy if they go out on strike? Well, leaving aside the resentments and the ambitions of John L. Lewis, the trouble seems to be chiefly that food prices in the mining districts are said to have gone right up through the price ceilings. The miners want to catch up with them by getting $2 a day extra wages, but experience suggests that they wouldn't stay caught up very long. That wage increase would be reflected in demands for a higher price for coal. That would raise the price of everything manufactured in plants that burn coal. And pretty soon, the new wage would be worth no more than the old one is now. In the last war, miners' wages more than doubled. But the cost of living went up so fast that the real increase was only about 27%. This time, the government is attacking the rising cost of living. Price Administrator Prentice Brown earlier this evening said that he had 250 price inspectors checking prices in the mining districts. The president has promised prosecution of all violators of price regulations, and Mr. Brown has announced the OPA's determination to roll back the prices all along the line. Meanwhile, the miners' negotiations with the mine owners for a wage increase got nowhere. So the issue was sent up to the War Labor Board. Following the procedure laid down by the president's order of January a year ago and used in thousands of other cases. Used in every case where argument could not be reached by negotiation until this one. But John L. Lewis won't deal with the War Labor Board. He calls it a medieval oppressor, a malignant wielder of the headsman's axe. Why? Because the Labor Board is bound by the law passed by Congress last fall, requiring stabilization of wages and prices at the level of September 15th. The law permits wage adjustments to correct gross inequities, but the executive order of April 8th permits the Board to make such corrections only in cases of substandard wages or under the Little Steel formula. And by that, the miners are afraid they'd get no wage increase. Whether they would or not, they certainly get from the Labor Board a full and fair hearing, as they are getting from OPA vigorous action to push prices back to where they belong. They are getting, in short, all that the government of the United States can do to make their money and everybody's money worth what it was last September as the law provides. Everybody would like to have more money and would like to have that money by just as much in future as it used to in the past. But you can't have both in a war economy. But these efforts of the government to hold the balance even do not suit Mr. Lewis, so he's putting on the squeeze. And if the miners follow him, he can squeeze pretty hard. Armies need supplies and the industries that make those supplies need coal. We are winning in Tunisia because our air force stops the Germans from getting supplies from bases 100 miles away. Our supplies have to travel 4,000 miles. German submarines haven't stopped them. German planes haven't stopped them. But John L. Lewis may stop them. And if he does, it will make quite a difference to the men who are conquering Tunisia foot by foot. We're sending more planes to the Pacific to fight the Japs. But we can't send them long if the factories that make them have to shut down. Southeastern Asia is full of conquered peoples waiting for us to drive out the Japs and set them free. The Japanese radio is telling those people that the situation in America is growing worse daily. I am quoting exactly. But it looks as if the whole thing is going to collapse. How can the Americans ever win? Ask the Japanese broadcasters. How can they ever win if the people quit work and refuse to build weapons of war? Well, that's quite a question. Maybe John L. Lewis knows the answer. You have just heard Elmer Davis, director of the Office of War Information and his weekly war review. In these weekly reports to the American people at home and to America's fighting forces overseas, Mr. Davis summarizes the progress of the war on the fighting fronts and discusses home front problems closely related with the progress of the war. Elmer Davis and his weekly war review will be heard again at the same time next week.