We are speaking to you from the Council Chambers of New York City Hall, where your city station now presents a broadcast of the Mayor's reception for His Excellency, Maurice de Castro, Governor of the Virgin Islands. The official party is just coming into the room, up the long red carpet leading to the dais here in the Council Chambers. In the balcony, at the rear of the room, the Sanitation Department band is playing its greeting. There is a large audience here in the Council Chambers to greet the distinguished guests. Ladies and gentlemen, the reception to His Excellency will open with the national anthem by the Department of Sanitation band. Thank you! Magna Hallelujah Go on! I'm so宣 suited to comment and pentru Instagram. From your country, Mr.っち I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I wish to apologize for the slight delay, but it was a mechanical difficulty that happened in Washington and which we in New York did not have any control of at the time. Mr. Mayor, I have the honor to present to you His Excellency, Maurice de Castro, the governor of the Virgin Islands. Thank you. Your Excellency, my old friend, Mr. Charles, Reverend Friends, ladies and gentlemen. Our guest, Governor Maurice de Castro, has a long record of high service to the government of the United States and to the people of the Virgin Islands. Although born in Panama, his parents were Virgin Islanders and the family returned to the islands when he was very young. He first entered the service of his government in 1918 and rose to the position of government's secretary in 1945. In his recent appointment, he succeeds the Honorable William H. Hastie in a position which is of key importance to the future of race relations in all the Americas. I join all his friends here in New York City in wishing him an outstanding and happy time in his important work. Like many of the territories of the United States, the Virgin Islands have long petitioned our federal authorities for a resident governor. Governor. They asked, and rightly, that one of their own people be appointed to the highest position in the islands. Governor de Castro, our honored visitor, is the first governor who can be considered a native. Governor de Castro, our governor of the United States. He, therefore, symbolizes the need of all people for free self-government, a need that is recognized and strongly supported in our cities and states and territories and in all of the world by President Truman. Governor DeCastro's companion, Director of Police Earl Charles, is no stranger to New York. And here, ladies and gentlemen, I beg your permission to depart for a moment from the prepared script. Almost two years ago, I had the privilege of a visit to St. Thomas. It was for an afternoon. We flew over. We were met by Governor Hastie and by the best-looking Director of Police I had ever seen outside of New York. I had the privilege of spending the whole day there. That is, from the afternoon on. I met their ladies, and I met Mr. Charles' children, and he was lucky that day, because one of them almost left suddenly with me for New York. And I'm delighted to renew his acquaintance again, and his friendship, and to tell him how happy that the memory of that day is. And while it's too soon to talk about another vacation... Well, thank you. You saved me from saying it. You know what I mean. Now, I'm going to tell you something about Earl Charles. He came here to New York City when he was 12. He worked here. He was educated here. He was graduated from our police academy in 1946, a fact of which I'm really proud. He had a brilliant five-year career in the Army during the war, and he left the service as a major of the Coast Artillery Corps. To those of you who do not know, and I'm back on the prepared script again, which isn't half as good as talking to you, I'm sure, I would like to say that the Virgin Islanders are among the world's most charming hosts. I know that of my own experience. Their hospitality, combined with the pleasant climate of those beautiful islands, make any visit unforgettable. I'm especially hopeful, then, that these gentlemen will find warm hearts among us, that their visit to New York will bring them many, many new friends, and that they will take memories of our goodwill back with them to their people when they return. To the new governor, New York City stands for this precious moment in salute. It marks his appointment, marks a great step in the direction that we want the world to take in dealing with human beings. It is symbolic of a movement that marches step by step with true democracy, and true democracy is an objective handed by God to us and given to us with a mandate that we do our part to see it realized all over the world. I give you, ladies and gentlemen, the new governor of the Virgin Islands, Governor Morris de Castro. Mr. Mayor, friends, I am overwhelmed at the heartwarming reception given to me this afternoon by the Mayor of New York, by the citizens of New York, and by my own people here. I have no prepared speech because I am speaking somewhat formally later this week, or rather, early next week. But, as I come to New York this afternoon and appear here at City Hall, I feel at home not only because I am in the midst of fellow Americans, but because I see so many people from the Virgin Islands, my own people, here. I feel at home. I want to thank the Mayor for the unexpected welcome. frankly, my friends, I am a Virgin Islander. I am an humble citizen of the Virgin Islands just trying to do my job in the best way I possibly can for my people. I want to thank the many Virgin Islanders who came out this afternoon, some at the airport, and some here to greet me. I have accepted the invitation to speak in New York after a long period of absence from the mainland. I have been asked at times why I have never appeared among my people here. Well, I haven't been in New York for 14 years, and you can understand what it means to me to be here tonight. I have just been in Washington for about two weeks endeavoring to start my program for the development of our beautiful islands. I shall not report in detail this afternoon because it is late, and I am sure you won't get home. I shall say, however, that I am tremendously encouraged by the spirit, the friendly spirit, the friendly welcome which I received from government officials there, from members of Congress, and others. I think, my friends, that there is a great interest in Washington in the development of our islands under native rule. my appointment by President Truman is the first step in real self-government. The next step, I am sure, will be that which we all hope for and that which we all want, and that is the election of our own governor. Thank you. During the few years ahead that it may be my privilege to lead my people, I shall do whatever I can to provide good and sound government. I shall lead in a program of self-support. I shall lead in a program of such assistance as we can get from the United States government just as other Americans in the mainland get. We, the people of the Virgin Islands, are American citizens. We want and expect to be treated as such. we want to shoulder our responsibilities as American citizens as well as to receive the benefits of American citizenship. Again, my friends, I thank you for this welcome. I frankly believe that the great mayor of New York in tendering me this unexpected reception this afternoon not only wanted to welcome me to his wonderful city, but I think he wanted to show me after being in our islands what New York could do to welcome an official. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Your Excellency and I would say for the mayor's committee for the reception of distinguished guests that we just want to make sure it doesn't take you 14 years to come back to see us again. We will now have the pleasure of being entertained by the police department plea club under the direction of Sergeant Edward Dillon. Sergeant Dillon, would you take over? Thank you. This is my country, land of my firm. This is my country, land of my firm. I pledge thee my allegiance, America the bold. For this is my country, you have and all. What difference if I hail from north or south, or from the east or west? My heart is filled with love for all of these. I only know I swell with pride, and deep within my prayers. I thrill to see, oh glory, faint of breeze. Oh glory, faint of breeze. This is my country, land of my firm. This is my country, land of my firm. This is my country, land of my firm. I pledge thee my allegiance, America the bold. For this is my country, to have and to hold. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll be right back. We'll live and love in my home house. Thank you very much, gentlemen of the Glee Club. At this time, we'll have the presentation of the distinguished certificates by His Honor, Mayor William O'Dwyer. First, to Mr. Earl H. Charles, the Director of the Police in the Virgin Islands. And as I found out in the airport, I think he has about 20 other jobs, but that is the first job that he has. He's Director of Civilian Defense and many others. So, Mr. Mayor, would you honor Mr. Charles by the presentation of this certificate? May we have Mrs. Charles step forward, too, please? Won't you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? Ladies and gentlemen, I have the privilege of presenting the following certificate to Mr. Earl H. Charles, the Office of the Mayor of the City of New York. Know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, to hereby cite the distinguished and exceptional public service, Earl H. Charles, Director of Police, St. Thomas, Virgin Island, whose public benefactions is a true American of the mainland and of the Virgin Island, and an officer of freedom in both war and peace, as a friend of the City of New York, and a fighter for better race relations everywhere, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and the deep appreciation of the people of this city. And this, Mr. Charles, I give you because of my personal knowledge and observation of your work. I know that it's a small appreciation of the splendid services that you have rendered. My best wishes for the happiness of you and your charming lady and your children. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I have also the privilege of presenting to his Excellency the Medal of the City of New York. I'll read the inscription on the reverse side. Presented to Morris de Castro, Governor of the Virgin Islands, by William O'Dwyer Mayor, April 28, 1950. And with this medal, a certificate for distinguished and exceptional public service. Know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, the Honorable Morris de Castro, Governor of the Virgin Islands, whose public benefactions in serving the government of the United States faithfully and with honor for 32 years, and as a statesman whose high position enables him to continue the important work of racial understanding, which has been a part of his life, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of New York City. Your Excellency, on behalf of the people of this city, I have great pleasure in making this presentation to you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I have to make a gentleman. I have no movie. I have no movie. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. The photographers have been taking pictures of the Mayor, His Excellency, the Governor of the Virgin Islands, Maurice de Castro, and the Chief of the Police, Director of the Police, rather, of the Virgin Islands, Mr. Charles. Mr. Charles. Here now is the acting chairman of the mayor's reception committee, Mr. Coleman. Thank you all of you for honoring the city by your presence and honoring the distinguished governor of the Virgin Islands by being here this evening. The program will conclude with the Department of Sanitation Band under the conductor John Celebrate. We will close the festivities this evening. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This has been a special presentation of your city station. You have heard a broadcast of Mayor O'Dwyer's reception to Maurice de Castro, governor of the Virgin Islands. You heard a brief address by the mayor of the Virgin Islands. You have heard a broadcast of Mayor O'Dwyer's reception to Maurice de Castro, governor of the Virgin Islands. You heard a brief address by the mayor of the a few words by his excellency, the governor, and a presentation of certificates by the mayor to his excellency, the governor and Mr. Charles, director of police of the Virgin Islands. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building for the programs regularly scheduled. This is the municipal broadcasting system.