Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. of architectural beauty into blackened leaps and twisted debris and rubble. People of Italy, though they suffered privations and discomfort, never lost faith. They pulled themselves together tactically by the bootstrap against the greatest odds, saddled by a most unjust treaty. Strict of their colonies, their navy, and burdened with huge reparations, they were the first of the peoples of Europe to show substantial returns to a semblance of order and normalcy. Now, transports us, and friends, while we bow before the amazing accomplishments of the Italian people, we must soberly appraise the situation of Italy today. At this very moment, she is the fortress of freedom and liberty in a Europe in which there is still no peace. though beseft with internal problems which threaten her very existence, she has a courage and a strength to reaffirm her steadfast loyalty to democracy. today, thanks to her enlightened foreign policy, which is guided by her distinguished foreign minister, she is an ally of the democratic nations of the West, under the North Atlantic pact. her recognition is some correction of past injustices. that brings to mind that there are other injustices that still need correction. If Italy is good enough to belong to the North Atlantic alliance, it is good enough to belong to the United Nations. America should continue to insist that she be admitted to membership. One of the most important problems respecting Italy, the economic administration, which is endangering the very core of her democratic government, is a problem of her surplus population. Just think of it. 46 million people inhabit a small peninsula in an area about the size of New Mexico. New Mexico has 531,000 inhabitants of the United States. And isn't that enough to prove that Italy needs more living space? And most certainly, she should have that living space in her pre-war African colonies. the Italy of today, which has become the pillar of European reconstruction, and whose democracy has been tested in the crucible of war on the side of the alive, is morally and politically and historically enticeable to those colonies. there is an argument, it's a spacious argument, that England needs those colonies for military bases for the use of the allies realistic embouches. Italy can give the allies not only the military bases, but the men's power needed to defend them. the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are the people who are now, ladies and gentlemen, speaking among ourselves, in the presence of our distinguished visitors, we should go a good deal further in easing this democratic, this demographic problem that's so vitally important to it. we should liberalize our immigration laws to permit the reuniting of families now separated by 4,000 miles. In fairness, we should permit Italy to make full use of her quota which was unused during the war years. look at the kindest immigrant that that would permit to come. The honest worker, just like his predecessor, he would bring with him the skill of the official artisan, the good skills of the fireless and various, the genius, of the patient scholar, the background of thousands of years of civilization. What is more important, the homely qualities of God-fearing loyalty which make good citizens, the kind of citizens as in our last two wars, who willingly gave their sons to defend the lands of their adoption into a cold first safety of the people. Our two people, since that day in history when the immortal Columbus set foot on our soil, we have marched together forward by traditional trenches. This bond has been strengthened by your mission here. May our people continue forever. Their onward march in freedom, in security, and in peace. Viva America. Viva Letali. From the grand ballroom of Hotel Bilkmore in New York City, ladies and gentlemen, we have brought you the speeches of the testimonial dinner in honor of town Carlos court, the minister of foreign affairs of the republic of Italy.