The microphones at your city station are in the ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria, and the occasion is the 52nd NAM Annual Congress of American Industry. And now Mr. Earl Bunting, President of NAM, brings the address, Industry Welcomes Another Challenge. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, out of this well-deserved tribute to our great friend Walter Weisenberger, I got one thought. I am sure you did. One phrase in that tribute said, Keep America a land of promise. In truth, as Father Gannon has so eloquently said here today, we are here today in America in a last-ditch fight for men's minds. And in that fight, let's not forget that our own minds are part and parcel of the state. Because we would be eternally lost if we thought for one moment that we were above the battle, secure in an ivory tower of our own thoughts and our own prejudices. industrial management must set an example by clearing its own thinking of illusions, the rankest of which is that there is any such thing in our land as the average man, or the average woman, or an average business, or an average wage, or an average profit. Statistically, of course, the average is a useful tool. In many fields of endeavor, the statistical average is a convenient and necessary shortcut. But don't let it color our thinking in America today. Don't let's get American individuals mixed up with it, even in our thoughts, or there will be bloodied backs and slave labor from here to Moscow. The average man or the average job simply doesn't exist in a free land. On the contrary, in those lands which have been led to collectivism, no one accepts this ghost. This average tool of the total state is permitted to exist. His thoughts are average thoughts, or he is liquidated. His job is to do as he is told. His average wage is the statistical average of what it takes to keep some, but not all people from starving or freezing to death in his country. And his average profit, of course, is nil. We've heard today that America's economic system, with its individual freedom, is being eyed from various quarters of the world enviously, bitterly, or skeptically. And there is some skepticism here at home. And there, ladies and gentlemen, in a nutshell, is our supreme challenge to make our system work better, not merely for the material benefits we shall gain at home, but for the enlightened economic leadership we owe to the rest of the world. Well, let's see exactly what is happening in our economy, not just on the average, because things don't happen that way in real life. Let's see how and why high prices are hitting flesh and blood people, and what can and what should be done about it. The straight-from-the-shoulder reason why the high cost of living has increased is that while more millions of people are now buying the good things of life, production has not kept pace with this tremendous increase in demand. It's not a good thing that some or any of our people are being penalized by vast increases in the standard of living achieved by other millions of Americans in recent years. Now, no one whose wage has gone up two or three times what it was before the war is suffering from high prices, even though they are up some 65% since 1939. But this condition has put a squeeze on highly skilled craftsmen, much of the self-employed, and on many white-collar workers. The percent of increase in the income of those people is not nearly as great as the increase in the millions of pre-war substandard incomes which have been elevated in recent years. Therefore, this group of people is not impressed when we boast that there has been well over a hundred percent increase in manufacturing wages, contrasted with an increase in the cost of living only about half as great. All they know, all the people in this group being squeezed know or care about is that they're not sharing in the prosperity we talk about. Now, there's one and only one cure for this situation, and that cure, ladies and gentlemen, is to validate much greater demand with much greater productivity. And I would say that any act and any combination of events, however skillfully manipulated by the diehards of a dead deal, which interferes with achieving lower prices, and through greater output and lower unit costs, is bound to bring certain defeat to this country and all of its people, anything which interferes with those processes. President Truman says, in effect, that the only way to defeat the police state abroad is to adopt police state methods at home. I do not believe this. I do not think for a moment that America believes that the way to fight totalitarianism abroad is to adopt totalitarianism here. I know from what President Truman himself has said of the police state, I feel sure that he knows that its establishment here is the most deadly, dangerous alternative we face. Then why do it? Why start it step by step? We've heard it argued that no one proposes a full-scale police state in America. And my answer to that is what foolishness? Who ever heard of just a little cancer? Our problem in America is threefold. First, to reduce inflationary pressures on prices in this country, thereby making it possible, second, to maintain the standard of living of the American public and thus assuring our ability, third, to provide the necessary amount of aid to foreign nations. Three things, three parts of one problem. And there we have three simple, decent, necessary objectives. What's more, here are twelve things that we think we must do to reach these objectives. what we term a twelve-point program of action, a positive program, a program of leadership characteristics. And let's look at this program, and let's realize that if we're going to get out of the woods and reach our objectives, there's no hop, skip, and jump route around the problem simply because the answer may be politically or otherwise unpopular to some groups of people. we've got to take every step in the national welfare courageously with our eyes and our hearts fixed, regardless of selfish group or individual interests. And let's be practical about it. Americans are being asked to conserve, to economize, to buy only necessities so that we shall be able to feed and rehabilitate half or more of this world. And every American worthy of the name agrees to these objectives. But that should go for government too. To paraphrase a copybook theme, let's have some official practicing of official preaching. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. So, ladies and gentlemen, the first plank in NAM's platform deals with government fiscal policies. And it's directed at excessive government spending as a major inflation factor. We recommend, as plank number one in this platform, that government spending should be reduced by maximum efficiency and administration, elimination of excessive government personnel and activities, and postponement of all government expenditures not immediately necessary. Now, after exhaustive consideration, our association is convinced that the overall federal budget can be cut to $31 billion, even providing $4 billion for contingencies, including international affairs and finance. this $31 billion also includes adequate provision or military needs on the basis of presently established national policy. And the second of our platform planks is a realistic approach to the problem of relieving the inflationary pressures on prices by revision of the federal tax policy, which drains away at its source the investment capital needed needed to expand existing industries, needed to create new enterprises, and thus make it possible to produce more and better goods at lower prices. Therefore, the second quank and the second recommendation of the NAM is that funds for further capital investment should be provided by an immediate and substantial reduction of individual income tax rates. Now, let me emphasize that tax reduction is not inflationary. It simply means that you and millions of other Americans can spend your own money instead of handing it over to the government to be spent for you. NAM proposes that fair play be restored as a basic ingredient of taxation, and that doesn't make it a rich man's program or relief for the greedy at the expense of the needy. We believe that allowances for emergency personal expenditures such as large outweighs for medical expenses should be liberalized, and Americans should have greater protection through income tax deductions for moderate amounts invested in life insurance. Actually, ladies and gentlemen, under the NAM's plan, low-income groups would receive the greatest amount of tax reduction, a minimum of 37 percent and ranging up to actually 60 percent reductions in the low-income groups, reductions in the personal income taxes of low-income payers. Now, this would work out, for example, so that a $2,500-a-year man with a wife and two children would be required to pay at the maximum only 60 cents a week in federal taxes, the price of one movie per week. But of even greater benefit to all people of moderate and small means is this, the basic principle of capital formation, the thing we are fighting for. During the tragic 30s, we incurred a staggering deficit in capital formation which is needed before any American can prosper. Because prior to 1930, we had consistently plowed back one-fifth of our gross national product into the formation of new, job-creating, progress-making capital. on this proven basis of what it takes to create prosperous years. During the New Deal decade, our deficit in capital formation amounted to $125 billion. Now, rich or poor, every American's future depends on our making up as much as we can of this loss to our economy and in our reestablishing the 20% formula for future years. This is an impressive and deeply human occasion. We hold it true that for mankind to reap the harvest of human progress, that the people of the world must learn to live together. Our Congress of American Industry is dedicated to this ideal. It is dedicated to the belief that the common ground upon which all men stand is immensely greater than any differences, any conflicts. We call upon all groups and all opposing forces to put teamwork first, with the public interest as the one paramount measure of all that we are, or do, or ever hope to be. At this Congress of American Industry, we shall concentrate on four great areas for heartfelt cooperation. These are teamwork between nations, teamwork between industry and government, teamwork between management and labor, and between industry and the great American public whom we all serve. Ladies and gentlemen, to achieve better tomorrows, we must merit them through man-by-man participation in the jobs ahead. Better tomorrows cannot dawn for any nation which short-circuits the incentive to excel. Americans are not and do not intend to be a mediocre people. Ideologies that put men in chains or merely replace one set of chains with another are meaningless in the advance of mankind. They are backward-moving. Public opinion still dominates American action. It is the sum of all of our wills and habits. It is forward-moving. The American people do not want to go back. We have the dynamics and the vitality to aggressively pursue the objectives of our proven way of progress. Every step that we can take together toward understanding of America and by America becomes much more important if we think of it as not a limited step but as an unlimited start. It is our business here to find the many positive advances which all groups and every individual can take together confidently with complete determination, understanding, and goodwill for a better tomorrow. For the preservation of that atmosphere in which free, private, competitive enterprise will operate in the best public interest. Security and opportunity. security means a steady income based on a steady job. Our steady sales are dependent on the steady income of the men and women who make up the public, the men and women who work for us and work in every other industry. There is no real distinction between capital and labor. They are just tags that are hung on to us. I hate to see those two words in the word management spelled with capital letters because I have never met anyone who could represent labor with a capital L or capital or management. All I ever meet are people like you and me. in a world which is ravaged by starvation and terror and I'm getting into those fancy words in which hope and peace are almost empty symbols. It's small wonder that even in America men are willing to settle for bare security alone and higher humble to follow those who promise it like the children followed the Pied Piper of Hamlet. They forget that the distinctive flavor of the American dream is not security but opportunity. The time is now. There's another post-war readjustment somewhere around the corner maybe not too far away. Are we going to carry our people through it or is someone on the outside going to come forward with a national formula and force us to conform with it? The American dream security plus opportunity. Have we the courage to provide the leadership for it? Is there hope that it can be done? I'd like to close with one line of poetry. He whom a dream hath possessed knoweth no more of doubting. Thank you. Thank you. He's on off Minuten Thank you.
