Your City Station now presents transcribed another important report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, will discuss with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is the Chairman of the Board of Transportation, Colonel Sidney Bingham, who is the Director of the Emergency Transportation Unit of Civil Defense. And now to introduce this, the sixth of these reports on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. This evening we are going to talk about the place of transportation in the civil defense picture. The Director of our Civil Defense Transportation Division, Colonel Bingham, here with me, will give you the details of our planning and preparations in transportation. Colonel Bingham is well qualified to direct our transportation activities. He has been in the New York City transit industry since 1915, and is now Chairman of the New York City Board of Transportation, the first Chairman to come from the ranks. He was overseas in both wars. In World War II, he spent two years in London on the invasion planning staff. After the invasion, he became assistant to the Director General of Military Railways in Europe. Colonel, what will be the major task of the Transportation Division in case of enemy attack on New York City? Commissioner, we all know that New York City couldn't last long without its transportation lines. Our stocks of food and fuel, to name two major items, are enough for only a short time. A stream of these things must always be kept flowing into the city to replace what we use each day. In case of an enemy attack, we must keep these supplies moving in. In addition, we will have to bring in doctors and all kinds of emergency supplies and carry out the wounded. We will use all means to keep the flow moving. If the Pennsylvania Railroad is hit, we'll send trains over Erie or New York Central tracks, or any other tracks that can carry them. If the railroads are too badly damaged, we'll use buses, trucks, ships, or planes. Well, Colonel Bingham, what about repairing damage to the lines? Are you prepared to do that, too? We'll do most railroad repairs ourselves. Using the railroad's own forces, the Public Works Emergency Division will give us what assistance it can. But railroad work is a specialty, and all railroads have their own construction and wrecking equipment. The skilled men now on the railroads will have to be the core around which we will organize for repair work. Highway and street repairs will be made by the Public Works Emergency Division. I think our listeners would be interested in knowing how the Transportation Division is set up to do this job. Would you tell us something about that, Colonel Bingham? The Transportation Division is made up of two city agencies. The Board of Transportation, which runs the subways and the city-owned surface lines, and the Department of Marine and Aviation, which runs the city-owned ferries and docks, plus the privately operated railroads, bus lines, trucks, airlines, and shipping lines that enter New York. We also work with the Port of New York Authority and the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority. You can see that this covers a lot of territory, from Fifth Avenue buses through four-engineered airplanes. It covers many companies and even more individuals. These are highly technical businesses, each with its own way of doing things and its own characteristic language. We soon recognized that we had to break the division down into smaller groups. We have therefore established seven industry subcommittees, each for railroads, airlines, shipping, city buses, intercity buses, trucks, and small airplanes. These subcommittees are composed of top-level executives from each industry. These men know their business and the men in their business. They will be able to make intelligent and practical plans, plans that can be carried out, and they will be in a position to carry them out when time needs. I would like to take this opportunity to thank everyone in the transportation industries for the excellent cooperation they have given the Transportation Division. What is your division doing right now, Colonel Bingham, to coordinate the various means of transportation? We are making a complete inventory of all transportation facilities within 50 miles of New York City. This includes a map of railroads, highways, airports, and waterways, and a listing of all vehicles, repair shops, mobile repair equipment, and so on. In other words, everything is connected with transportation. Most important of all, it includes information about the manpower in transportation, their location, and their skills. They are taking stock of what we have and finding out where it is located and how it is distributed. Before we can make any plans, we must know what we have to work with. It's a big job. Well, I should say it is, Colonel, and your fellows are certainly keeping at it. Tell me, how do you expect to work if an emergency should arise? Requests for transportation services from other Civil Defense Emergency Divisions will come through the Civil Defense Director's Office, your office, Commissioner. One such call, for example, may be for immediate transportation for doctors, nurses, and medical surprise. The Transportation Division will be told who needs transportation, where they are coming from, and where they are to go. From our inventory and plans, we will know what we have in that area and whether we can best move them by train or bus or boat. We will then assign vehicles to carry them. Well, that's very interesting, Colonel Bingham. Now, one of the major tasks that may face me as the Director of the Office of Civil Defense is the evacuation of people from possibly dangerous areas, either before or after an attack. Colonel, how far have you gone in planning for transportation for evacuations? We have gone over the plans made during the last war in this country, and we have studied the British experience. We are now beginning to get the information of how many people we will have to carry, where they will come from, where they will go, and how much time we have to do the job. I am sure that once this information is complete, we can prepare the schedules and carry out any evacuation that becomes necessary. In the meantime, we are studying test problems to prepare ourselves to forestall future difficulties. Uh, Colonel, most of our listeners are New Yorkers, and I am sure they are interested in what our own Board of Transportation is doing to maintain city transit during an emergency. As Chairman of the Board of Transportation, could you tell us something about that? The Board of Transportation has done a number of things. We have made a study of our own ability to repair damage to our lines. Like any other railroad, we have equipment and material on hand to meet emergencies, and we have men trained to do the work. This equipment and manpower is sufficient for peacetime needs. More will be needed if enemy action becomes imminent. We have requisitioned additional equipment and supplies. We are going to train additional men for emergency work. We have surveyed the subways to find the areas best suited for air raid shelters, and have plans for other shelter areas. We have drawn plans for water gates to shut off the river tunnels at points where a break in the tunnel would flood a large section of the subway. We have designed simple straps and brackets that will enable us to hang stretchers in our new buses and use them as emergency ambulances. These are some of the things we have done to prepare ourselves for an emergency. This has all been very interesting and instructive, Colonel. I know that during the last war, you were in London during the Blitz, that you were a member of the British Railway Executive Committee and worked with the London Underground officials. Is there anything in your experience there that you think would be particularly valuable to us here in New York? I think the most important lesson for us from the experience of London is that we must not become panicky. Panic can be worse than bombs. With proper preparation, the effect of enemy air attack against a great city can be minimized. London took a terrific beating, but it survived. Its people carried on with essential production and helped beat the enemy. In one way, we are better off than London. I don't believe that we will ever be subject to continuous bombing night after night for months. On the other hand, there now exist atomic bombs. I hope and trust that the fear or prompt retaliation will deter any enemy from using the atom bomb against us. I'm sure that even if we are attacked, the preparations now being made for our city officials and civil defense organization will enable us to control the damage and do our share towards defeating the enemy. Well, thank you very much, Colonel Bingham, and all those working with the Transportation Division under your command and cooperating with the Office of Civil Defense. You have been listening to the sixth in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his transcribed report this evening was Colonel Sidney Bingham, Chairman of the Board of Transportation and Director of the Emergency Transportation Unit of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another report on civil defense.