Mayor O'Dwyer has just entered the council chamber here in City Hall for the inaugural ceremonies and the swearing in of commissioners which marks the beginning of his second term as mayor of the City of New York. Everything here in the council chamber is on the Kavive. The chamber itself presents an extremely historical scene with the portrait of the Marquis de Lafayette, one of the finest in the world, looking down upon the scene from the days when he himself established the very freedom and the qualities that make this scene possible here today. The mayor of the City of New York has just taken his place now on the roster. There's just a few moments for composition and pictures and we'll hear the voice of the Honorable Vincent Impeletere as the press speaker in just a moment. He's waiting now for a signal. Do you want a signal? Is he waiting? What was he? The Honorable Vincent Impeletere. We will open the program with the singing of the national anthem by Miss Mara Manning, formerly of the Chicago Opera Company. the National Anthem. The National Anthem. The National Anthem. The National Anthem. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed, as the twilights are waving, who broad stripes and bright stars, through the steps of the sky. All the great lights we march, with the valentine's dreaming, the crooked, crooked, crooked, blue, the most vivid, we will shine. The national anthem by Miss Mara Manning, who broad stripes and bright stars, through the sky. The national anthem by Miss Mara Manning, who broad stripes and bright stars, through the sky. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. and ready to do thy will. Save us from violence and discord and every evil way. Defend our liberties and fashion into one united people the multitudes brought hither out of many kindreds and tongues. And that we may rightly use the freedom that is ours, help us to use it, we pray thee, for the promotion of justice, goodwill and brotherhood among all men, that the nations of our troubled world may find a way to dwell together in peace. And all this we ask for the honor and glory of thy holy name, through him who is the Prince of Peace. Amen. Reverend clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, as president of the Council of the City of New York and as chairman of these inauguration ceremonies, I bid you a most hearty welcome. Four years ago, a ceremony similar to this was held in these same historic chambers. It marked, as you know, the inauguration of a democratic administration at City Hall after 12 years of municipal government under other auspices. Today, by virtue of a vote of confidence in the last general election, this same democratic team, headed by our beloved chief executive, Mayor William O'Dwyer, with controller Lazarus Joseph and myself, begins a second term of office. As a team and individually, we are deeply grateful for the opportunity of continued service to all the people of our great city. On behalf of this team and of the entire administration, I want to express a heartfelt thank you for the cooperation and encouragement we have received from our fellow citizens, from our colleagues in city government, particularly the members of the Board of Estimates, and from the civic, business, and spiritual leaders of New York. We are grateful for the faith you have shown in us, and we look forward to the next four years with the sincere belief that we can depend upon that spirit of public cooperation, which puts the interests of the people as a whole as the basic concept and consideration of good government. Such has been the formula upon which this administration has conducted the complex affairs of our municipality for the past four years. It is the identical formula which we will continue to apply in our public trust for the next four years. As we stand on the threshold of another term of office, I feel that we have done much to make this city a better place in which to live. much has been accomplished, but we are still in mid-channel in many, many of these improvements, for they were conceived on the solid equation of long-range planning. Consequently, there is a great deal left to be done. It is most fortunate that we are privileged to continue this work without interruption. It is our pledge today that these programs will go forward with the full stimulus of our individual effort and the cooperation of the members of the Board of Estimates and the other officials of the city who take upon themselves today the responsibilities of office. during these last four years, New York City, as host to the United Nations, has literally become the capital city of the world. We want to keep New York City the capital and the greatest city of the world. And it is in this spirit that we look forward to our new term of office. These next four years will give us the reasonable opportunity to complete the major programs which we have already launched. And it is to this very high purpose that we dedicate ourselves today. As for myself, I want to express my deep appreciation to the people of the city of New York for the consideration they have given me. and my sincere thanks to my colleagues in the city administration for their wholehearted cooperation. Thank you. Let us have the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, President of the City Council, who is presiding at the inaugural ceremonies in City Hall. We will now have a reading from the scriptures by the Reverend Dr. David de Solapool of the Spanish and Portuguese synagogue of the City of New York. The Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon said, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant ruler, and thy servant is in the midst of thy people, a great people, which cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. Give thy servant, therefore, an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and evil. For who is able to judge this, thy great people? And the speech pleased the Lord, and God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life, neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, for thou hast asked for thyself understanding to discern justice. Behold, I have done according to thy word. Lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart. It hath been told thee, O man, what is good, and what the Lord doth require of thee, only to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God. ladies and gentlemen, in 1945, the people of the city of New York elected three members of a city-wide team, Mayor William O'Dwyer, Comptroller Lazarus Joseph, and myself. In 1945, the people of the city of New York told us that the city required an expert fiscal officer. For four years, we have had the benefit of the knowledge, the intelligence, and the courage of a distinguished Comptroller of the city of New York in the person of Honorable Lazarus Joseph, who it is my privilege now to introduce. Thank you. Thank you. Chairman of Pelletary, Mayor, Reverend Clergy, my distinguished friends and colleagues on the Board of the Estimate, ladies and gentlemen, as Vincent just told you, and I don't suppose it's any secret, in November, the people of this city honored me by again electing me as Comptroller of the City of New York. Through this display of public confidence, I am highly privileged to serve as the mayor under your capable leadership for another four years together with those on the Board of Estimate who were elected with me in November 1945 and to those who have just been elected to succeed two very capable men. It will be a distinct pleasure and honor to work with you again in your administration with this new Board of Estimate, an administration that has constantly supported the ideal that governments have created for the welfare of all the people. Four years ago, we took office fully aware of the difficult tasks lying ahead and your administration, Mr. Mayor, faced and resolved these many municipal problems with courage and you, Mr. Mayor, with unusual ability. I cannot recall any mayor of the city who was confronted with so many extraordinary and important civic problems, yet you, Mr. Mayor, met them and solved them. I know personally that at all times you administered the affairs of this great cosmopolitan city with one basic principle guiding your important decisions, the principle of doing what is best for the public generally. This principle is advocated by you, has given the people of this city an efficient city administration. as the controller serving under your leadership, I supported wholeheartedly the policies enunciated in your administration's programs and by so doing, our city administration today enjoys a sound, healthy financial reputation throughout the entire world. Today, however, we must look ahead to the next four years. We are not unmindful that there will be many vital, difficult problems facing this administration and we know full well that we must be prepared to meet them as we have in the past. We are prepared to meet our responsibilities, again realizing that we are working for the welfare of the eight million people of the city of New York. The groundwork for the continuation of an efficient city administration has been set and I sincerely believe that this administration during the next four years, with God's help, will reach greater heights of accomplishment. Naturally, the cooperation of all those who have an interest in the affairs of the government will be needed. We need the advice and cooperation of the president of the council. We need the help and cooperation of everyone on the board of Estimates. All of this is essential to enable us to achieve our goal. Mr. Mayor, may I personally express to you not so much for your official duties as the mayor of the city of New York but for your very great sympathetic understanding of human problems and your ability to lift up those who through misfortune or otherwise could not have reached the goal that they did were it not for your tremendous understanding of the problems of those who need help. May I extend to you on my behalf and all of your colleagues on the board of Estimates our most heartfelt and sincere wishes for many, many years of health and happiness to you and Mrs. O'Dwyer and all your families. And I know that with the guiding help of God Almighty you will accomplish what you have in the past four years. The greatest good for the greatest number. we will now have a selection by the Police Department Glee Club A Great Day. Great Day Great day. Great day. There's gonna be a great day. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Four years ago, a gentleman with a very high degree of personal integrity, courage, energy, and intelligence, offered himself to the people of the city of New York to serve as their chief magistrate. By an overwhelming vote, they accepted his offer. Four years later, in recognition of his splendid record of accomplishment, the people of the city of New York first drafted and then re-elected him to office. In so doing, they said, in effect, we approve of your work as far as it has progressed, but you are only halfway through, and we need, want, and demand that you come back to finish the job. His charm has captured the hearts of New Yorkers for many years, and therefore, it was no surprise to us that recently, the heart of a very gracious, beautiful, and charming lady yielded to this charm and thus gave to the city of New York our first lady. Ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to present the mayor of the city of New York, the honorable William O'Dwyer. The honorable William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, is receiving an ovation here in the council chamber, where it does seem that every atom of space is taken up by people and faces. In this historic room, we see a most interesting scene as the mayor addresses the assembly. This is the assembly. Bishop Gilbert, Dr. Poole, Senior Weldon, my colleagues, the Board of Estimate, the council, the appointments that are going to be made, the appointees that are going to be sworn in, the ladies and gentlemen who have paid us the compliment of being a part of these proceedings. And those who are listening in. And those who are listening in. Thank you, Mr. Poole, Senior Weldon, my colleagues, the Board of Estimate, the council, the appointments that are going to be made, the appointees that are going to be sworn in, the ladies and gentlemen who have paid us the compliment of being a part of these proceedings, and those who are listening in. I know that we begin the proceedings today, we begin the four years administration to come, as closely as we can get to the inspired sentiments in the two beautiful prayers that we heard this morning. From Bishop Gilbert and Dr. Poole. Bishop Gilbert pointed out again that we are a city made up of the peoples of many kindreds, if I quote correctly. What the Bishop said, that in the eyes of one who sent us here and who will take us away, we stand equally before him. And Dr. Poole continued the thought when he said that perfection would be if we could walk humbly with God. Thank you, Mr. Poole Kobe scored and the student. 8 million people in this city. It makes it an important unit, not solo in the State of New York or nicons, but in the world. the world. It's important because here in this city made up of all these kindreds and all these religious traditions, we first of all exist as a unit by virtue of the powers given to us by the state of New York in the form of a charter, and we exist as individuals in our everyday relations with our fellow man and our common obligations to our Creator because of a Constitution that gives us the guarantees that are based on God's law. And consequently, as we start again a new four years, we must keep before our minds a sense of what is most valuable. And I have, of course, only one thought on that. And just as soon as we lose respect for the rights of our neighbors or neglect them, everything else that we do, no matter how well-intentioned or how well-completed, has lost a basic strength because we have abandoned our basic fundamental idea. When we go into four years, before we begin to talk about anything else, we must talk about respect for our neighbors. We must talk about respect for the democratic institutions under which we are privileged to live as individuals. And our city must take its place because of its size and its importance as a leader in the thinking that will bring some contribution to the chaotic conditions of the world. And we, in our city, as we are in our state and in our nation, have full confidence that when we follow the precepts of divine teaching, when we follow those delightful principles of government based on divine thinking, which is, in effect, our beautiful Constitution, the closer we follow it, the more we take it to our hearts, the more that we who have been elected to responsible positions dedicate ourselves to promoting its interest, the greater is the contribution that we make, individually and as a city, to the peace and contentment of the world, and to the guarantees of future peace to children unborn. After that, we go into the simple proposal of how to get the best results in the complicated job of keeping houses, keeping house in this city. We have today the job of reappointing many of those who have justified these appointments because of the excellence of their work as the head of the park. We, too, will not have all of those who have come down through the troublesome past with us today. And one word of praise, of great praise, to Commissioner Powell of the Department of Sanitation, who was 40 years with us, had done a splendid job, but had finally come to the time when he thought that he was entitled to arrest. And I say a sad farewell, except that it isn't as drastic as that, but still heaven. I say goodbye. To the deputy mayor of this city, John J. Bennett. John J. Bennett, a soldier of two wars. John J. Bennett with a long life of public service. John J. Bennett upon whom I leaned so heavily for the past three years. John J. Bennett, a soldier of the past six years, John J. Bennett upon whom I was the last one to go to theinois of the past six years. John J. Bennett, at his own choice, going to take another very important post. John J. Bennett, I say goodbye to you only in the limited sense of goodbye. It's a farewell. It's a nurevoir. I hope to see you over and over again and to still lean on your advice, and your kindliness and your encouragement. We're going to miss Jim Burke as borough president from Queens. As Jim is within listening to my voice, Jim, I give you personally every good wish for you and your family, for your health, for your happiness, your choice too. And it was one of your making. May God bless you and give you and your family the happiness and the years that we wish you. You'll have a lot of it. On the board of estimate two, we'll miss Hugo Rogers. There was one man who actually served our board of estimate with a tenacity, with a faithfulness, and an energy that the public does not thoroughly understand. He brought to his work on the board of estimate the training of an engineer and the training of a lawyer. We're fortunate to have Hugo in another capacity helping in that highly complicated and important work of solving our traffic problems as counsel to the traffic commission. But Hugo, you did a beautiful job on the board of estimate. You worked three and four hundred items on every calendar of the board of estimate. No one was more familiar with each item. Not only the ones that affected your borough of Manhattan, but those that affected the general interest of the city. And we say again, a limited farewell to you. And I'm very happy that I can lean on you for what you can give and what I know you will bring to the work of the traffic commission. Now the board of estimate, the board of estimate has two new men taking the place of Jim Burke and Hugo Rogers. Neither one is a stranger to us. In the case of Maurice Fitzgerald from Queens, as Commissioner of Public Works in Queens, and in his legislative work in Albany, the whole city, not Queens alone, the whole city knows, Murray Fitzgerald knows his interest and knows what he can do based upon what he has done. Murray, we welcome you as borough president of Queens to the board of estimate. We're also going to have a new member from Manhattan, a gifted son of one of the great men whose name has been great and will be great forever in the political history of this state, and that's Bob Wagner Jr. Thank you. Not only has young Bob been through the mill at Albany in legislative work, but he has given in the four years that have now come to a close as a part of this administration, every part of that fine talent which he has to give. I know that in the board of estimate, he's going to be of not only outstanding help to the borough of Manhattan, but the whole city will benefit by this, the coming of Bob Wagner to the board of estimate. Now there's one man that we're going to, two men we're going to swear in today, that I would like to mention, especially. I don't know if we have Sidney Bingham over here, have we, is here? Good. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that those who are listening in to me, as well as those in this room, understand that a very important service in this city to its welfare, to its health, to its business, to its general welfare, is transportation. Now, it is important, isn't it? Well, it's so important that when there is an opportunity to appoint a chairman, I appointed a man that I thought was the best man in the city for that job, and that was Bill Reed. Those who screamed that we were running this city for the benefit of political machines a few months ago, tried to say that Mr. Bill Reed had been a terrific, independent career man all his life, up to the time that I appointed him to chairman of the Board of Transportation. The indication was that he changed at that point, and he became just as bad as I am. General thought. Well, the truth is that while it sounds, it's something for campaign purposes, the campaign is over. I forgive everybody. I forgive everybody. Now I'm thinking of eight million people, and I'm thinking in terms of those services that make this city a great city when they're well done. I, of course, will ask the whole city to understand that we did not take over a perfect machine in transportation, but we did everything we could to make it as close to perfect as we could make it. And my first thought in that was when I appointed a man who had spent 35 to 40 years of his life giving service to this city as a career man, as the chairman of transportation. That's what happened at the time that I appointed Bill Reed chairman. I am now taking today Bill Reed from that post, and I'm going to appoint him as deputy mayor to fill the place made vacant by the promotion of John Bennett. Again, I would like to call attention of the people to this fact, that if anyone can show me a better man, one who will be more dedicated to the interests of the city as a whole without any contact with partisan politics, one who has developed a keen mind in the business of the city to a point where he has no fear, if I call attention to the people now, to the fact that the deputy mayor of this city was going to shoulder many of the burdens that have almost wrecked me in four years and John Bennett too. And actually asking the man to come in and take a part in one of the toughest administrative jobs that I have ever come in contact with. He has willingly and gladly accepted that. I'm very proud to announce that the deputy mayor, after the next half hour when the oath was administered, will be Mr. William Reed, career man, extraordinary, and one of our greatest public servants. And I'll take advantage of this moment to present him to you. Bill, will you stand up? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now I must mention again who will take Bill's place as chairman of the Board of Transportation. Ladies and gentlemen, a little boy, born in New York City, raised in it, educated in it, started to work many years ago in our subway system, graduated from one school after another in engineering, was kept very quietly undercover in our system between wars. and in the war of the recent past. But when war came, the federal government, the army, the army engineers, the experts in railroading, did not forget nor ignore his presence. And in the war of the recent past, when it came to that day for which the world waited, that B.J. Day, that landing on the Normandy beach, all the problems of two and a half to three years of planning for that landing, had been worked out from many angles. But ladies and gentlemen, one man more than anyone else, designed the plans of approach, designed the very engines that hauled the munitions, designed the methods, by land and sea, of making that contact, with food, supplies, and all the problems of logistics. The one outstanding contribution to that was made by that little boy who was born in New York City. Learn his railroading right here, in our own transportation system, and that Sidney Bingham, Colonel Sidney Bingham today, carries something that he will carry to his grave, and that is a vicious wound that he received in that work at Normandy Beachhead. In Rome in 1944, I had the privilege of of meeting and knowing and working under a man who was his superior officer, General Gray. And General Gray said to me when I was leaving Rome, coming back to Washington, if you ever run across Sidney Bingham, there is one of the greatest railroad engineers in the country. London has consulted him on its problems, Sweden, San Francisco, and there are now all kinds of invitations to ask me to permit him to consult with other communities in their railroad problems. I have, will have the privilege of administering the oath as chairman of the Board of Transportation to Colonel Sidney Bingham. And if he's here, I'll ask him to stand up and take a bow. Now, ladies and gentlemen, one last word. A little later on, in a message to the Council, which incidentally in our past administration we have made formally every year, a message outlining the conditions of the city, outlining what we have done, outlining the program, what must be done. year by year, we have made that report to the city council, not as customary in scraps of paper on the backs of envelopes, but a formally printed document, so that year by year, we ourselves can be called to account by the people of this city if we have not carried out the programs that we planned and announced. In the course of the month of January, I shall again, as the law requires, make another report, this 1950 report to the council. And in that, there will be detailed the various problems of running the city connected with its departments and all its administrative headaches. also its plans for capital improvements. Consequently today, I'll ask your forgiveness if I do not go into those questions at all. I have a thought that I would love to express to the people of this city. Believe me, in the spring, I had believed that I too should pass up the great honors of being mayor and hand over this burden to other hands. that was my proposal. God disposed that in his own way. I find myself this morning before you and the people of this city, charged again for another four years, or as many of them as God will spare me, to administer, with everything I have, the affairs that affect eight million people within the city, and the relationships of the city to the other agencies of government. this morning, I beg for my creator, the grace, in every instance, to be able to see what the right thing to do is. And I beg from him, in my interest, in the interest of my city, the strength, and the courage, once I have seen it, to remain on the highway, and never deviate. One iota, in fact, or in spirit, from the dictates of his holy will. God bless you, all of you. You have just heard the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, address the huge audience, and I say huge because every available molecular space has been taken up in the city council chamber here in City Hall, New York. Now, the Honorable Vincent Pelletieri is back as chairman, and we'll hear from him in just a moment. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, for those very inspiring remarks. But, I don't want you for a minute to think that your job is anywhere near finished this morning. There's a lot of people here interested in the next part of the program. Mayor O'Dwyer will have to go to work again, because he delivers the orders, but the men that you're about to meet are the gentlemen who will be asked by him to carry out his orders. So, now, Mayor O'Dwyer, I will ask you to swear in your new appointees. Mayor O'Dwyer, the city of New York is now taking his place before the rostrum, and you'll possibly hear, yes, over the microphone. He's close to the microphone. Mr. Reid and the mayor. Do you, William Reid, solemnly swear how they can support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, and可 with the best of your ability. I do, so I appreciate it. Congratulate New York. Get over here. The mayor is now about to swear in his executive assistant, Honorable William Donahoe. Thank you. I'm calling it this time. Those infernal television lights are right in my eyes, and I can't see who's up. The mayor is not close to the microphones. President Pelletere is, and he doesn't announce who, but I can see now that it is Louis Kahn. Louis Kahn, assistant to the mayor. Commissioner Minetti. G. Joseph Minetti. John Tierney is now being sworn in. That's the Clinton International Room. Let the actor walk away. To généralize an investment, Michael Foley. We begin to confess his personal opinion. George Boletere continues to laskection. Imagine below the adolescents that they end up standing группerv PH AnnPO Louis. Don't talk about this school. Upon Campbell Pablo comcastingщ Detail it, canada says McMinnar is now being sworn in, or achieving that book. Mayor of Jess Horn and his lady secretary. I can't see a thing with those searchlights. John J. Bennett. Former Deputy Mayor John J. Bennett is receiving a great ovation as he has just been sworn in by the mayor. Thank you. Commissioner Moses. Robert Moses. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. John McGrath, the Corporation Counselor. The mayor is having a busy job posing these various officials for the cameramen because they're in there issuing their orders as usual, but it's a mighty fine thing to have these pictures for historical reasons later on. Tom Patterson, the Director of the Budget. One of the most important commissioners of all the budget. That's where we all get our money. Thank you. Thank you. Frank Quayle, Fire Commissioner. General Tom Farrell, Chairman of the New York City Housing Authority. For the last four years, I was not quite satisfied with the speed with which our low-cost housing programs and unsubsidized programs were going. Neither was Bob Moses, the coordinator. Neither were the members of the Board of Estimates. Finally, I asked for permission from the legislature to change the setup in the Housing Authority, which would permit us to have our own, uh, channel. And that was granted. Then I looked around for a chairman who really knew construction, who had a long, uh, history of the administration and construction work. We found a man who had been the employee of the state and had the reputation of a truly great engineer and a great construction man, one upon whom the United States government and the entire Allied command depended upon for the building of the Burma Road, one who had been the United States engineer and the very close to the development of atomic energy, one who, as much as any one person in the entire world, actually produced the atomic bomb, one who has been requested by the United Nations, a request that I was only too happy to grant, that he still be used as a consultant on a worldwide basis and the development of atomic energy. This one man made himself available to us in an hour of our crisis in housing. The fact that you will have 193,000 people taken from slums and put into good housing within the next few months, the fact that there is a program for 500,000 persons to be removed from slums, due to many people, many thoughts, many planning, but the man who actually has delivered that program was not appointed on a basis of politics. He was appointed by me, and I must assure you, I was never more happy over the privilege of any appointment than I was. The day that I was notified that General Tom Farrell, fresh from the Army accomplishments of worldwide importance, was willing to come and do this job for us. And it is with that sense of gratitude to him that I now administer the oath as chairman of the Housing Authority. Now that he has the With that sense of gratitude and glory, that you may be grateful in this seize theami right system that is in the窓СState 1997 at the refugee border. And you may not forget that him no longer going to be the one against the frames but the curse Colonel Sidney Bingham. Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, Commissioner of Hospitals. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you'll agree with me. There isn't any department in the entire city that is more important than our hospital department. I want you to be fairly familiar, if you can be, with the dilapidated condition under which we found our municipal plant and now with the program of $150 million worth of improvement that we're going into. Naturally enough, when Dr. Ed Berniger, whom we hated to see go, but again there were reasons why Dr. Berniger should leave, good ones. And I looked around. I searched the country for an administrator of hospitals that would measure up to the challenge that's presented by our present day hospitals in the municipal plant and the new program into which we're going. The best minds in the medical world, hospital administration world, helped me. They gave me lists of names. Every single one that sent me in a list of their proposals on a nationwide study, every one of them mentioned high on the list the name of a man who grew up in our hospital system, who never left our hospital system except when he was taken by the Army, sent overseas where he was in charge of not only hospitalization but health, where he came out after a distinguished service during the war, came back to his civil service job in our hospital department. I was very proud when I was able to find the man that I'm now going to again appoint as commissioner of hospitals. And believe me, his city, his city, yours and mine, ought to feel very happy that in charge of an institution devoted entirely to the care of our needy seekers, that we have an administrator like Marxist Koch. I'm going to now administer the oath to him, but I want you to get these facts about you. . Andrew W. Molrain, commissioner of sanitation. . Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to reappoint and administer the oath again to Mr. Andrew W. Moraine as Commissioner of Sanitation. I want you to know that he's a career man, that he's just completed his 28th year as a member of the Department of Sanitation of the City of New York. Raymond Hilliard, Commissioner of Welfare. Commissioner Hilliard is not a New Yorker. He comes from Illinois. No one can ever charge his appointment to politics because one of his weaknesses is he's a Republican. However, I'm working on him, ladies and gentlemen. I have great pleasure in the privilege of administering this oath. John M. Murtaugh, Commissioner of Investigation. Thank you. I don't know that this appointment should be charged as a personal one to me because it isn't. It's based upon his public service. But I knew his father and his mother before they ever saw America. His father is a distinguished member of the Fire Department of the City of New York. Injured in the performance of duty so seriously that it was only his spirit and his fate that kept him alive to see Jack and his brother graduate from law school at the head of their class. Both twins, by the way. I served with Jack Murtaugh overseas and here in the air corridor in the war. And he's turned in. An unpleasant assignment, but he's turned in. As Commissioner of Investigations of the City, one of the finest, most satisfactory jobs I've ever seen done in that office. Of course I'm proud, doubly, tribly proud to administer this oath. Possibly one of the handsomest commissioners in New York is Commissioner Murtaugh. Thank you. Stephen J. Carney, Commissioner of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity. The mayor is having a good laugh, so we'd better listen to this. Ladies and gentlemen, there comes a time in the history of every man when he finds himself in a position, every man of consequence, when he finds himself in a position that might make him or break him. A man who finds himself today the Commissioner of the Department of Water Supply is in such a spot. Seriously, this is a young man of great talent, civility, outstanding character, this Commissioner of the Department of Water, Gas and Electricity. Nothing that has happened could possibly be charged to him in any way. Even the political opposition wouldn't say that. But what we all do say is that when the crisis came, he knew his facts. He understood its importance to the people of the city. He gave up everything he had in energy and intelligence to bring the message home, to take such steps as would alleviate the crisis. And he's still working to further bring order out of this troublesome situation. I certainly must say to him now, in the presence of his lovely wife and children, that this city is deeply indebted to Steve Carney for the way in which he has handled this dangerous situation to the lives and health of the people. Bernard J. Gilroy, Commissioner of Housing and Buildings. In the question of housing and building, ladies and gentlemen, in this city, due to the shortage, due to the inheritance of slums that we have, this city has been very lucky to have a career man who's been 24 years with the city, 12 years with the department guest of building and housing. And I'm going to administer this oath again to a man who knows more about this department than anyone that I know, upon whom not only do I lean heavily, but the people of this city who need him, Bernard Gilroy. Albert Williams, Commissioner of Correction. And formerly a deputy commissioner of police. Also a career man, 33 years a member of the police department before he became commissioner of correction. Quality. Thank you, Baptiste Show. Very shortly. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Jerry Finkelstein, Chairman of the City Planning Commission. Ed McCaffrey, Commissioner of Licenses. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1921, I was assigned to a job that I wasn't very well equipped to do, and that was a secretary to the late commissioner John Daly, who was rather hard on stenographers. I was not a good stenographer. And John Daly would have thrown me out the window if it wasn't for his secretary then, who was very kind to me and solved many of my problems with his graceful approach and his kindliness. He's here today. And then the youngster that I'm going to swear in as Commissioner of Marine and Aviation, his son, I met in the Air Corps during the war. We served very closely together. I'm going to ask Ed Kevin, I'll send you to come up and stand by young Ed when I swear I'm in. Will you come at it, please? This makes a very interesting picture where we have the father and son, the father standing beside the mayor while he swears in Commissioner Cavanaugh of Marine and Aviation. And the cameras click, and we'll have a history picture for all time. Anthony Mascarella, Commissioner of Markets. That wonderful market service on your city station programs every morning at 8.45 with Mrs. Gannon tells us what's in the markets in line with the Basic Seven. It's through those means that we maintain our good health through good nourishment. Commissioner Anthony Mascarella is now being sworn in by the mayor. John Splane, Commissioner of Persons. Spencer Young, City Preserver. William Boylan, Chairman of the City Tax Commission. Vonett Nova, Tax Commission. Edwin Riley, Tax Commission. Edwin Riley, Tax Commission. Edwin Riley, Tax Commission. edwin Riley, Tax Commission. Edwin Riley, Tax Commission. Herbert Rosenberg, Tax Commissioner. Joseph Faye Kennedy, Tax Commissioner. Jay Walner Thompson, Tax Commissioner. John V. Downey, Tax Commissioner. Nathaniel Kaplan, Justice of the Court of Domestic Relations. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kaplan and myself started in together. Brooklyn, over 27 years ago, I have so many things to thank him personally for in the course of these 27 years. So much of kindness, so much of understanding, so much of help. As Secretary to the Board of Education, you'll all agree that the Board never had a better Secretary. As Chairman of the Youth Commission, a position that he will continue to hold, it has been agreed throughout the whole state of New York, that no one has brought more understanding, more scope, more graciousness to this important work than that capital. And now, after all these years, you'll understand the sense of pride I take in appointing him to the Court of Domestic Relations. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. posição The Maestro The Maestro The Maestro The Maestro Thank you. Thank you. Hyman Cohen, City Magistrate. James E. Mulcahy, City Magistrate. Charles Krieger, Chairman of the Board of Tax Assessors. Harry Goodwin, Member of the Board of Tax Assessors. Harry Goodwin, Member of the Board of Tax Assessors. Charles Morello, Member of the Board of Tax Assessors. Charles Koster, Chairman of the Temporary City Housing Commission. Charles Koster, Chairman of the Temporary City Housing Commission. Chairman of the Temporary City Housing Rent Commission. Nathan Sorkin, Member of the Temporary City Housing Commission. Nathan Sorkin, Member of the Temporary City Housing Rent Commission. Thank you. Herbert Wexler, Member of the Same Commission. I'm not making any mistake this time. Joseph E. O'Grady, Director of Labor Relations. Joseph E. O'Grady, Director of Labor Relations. Joseph E. O'Grady, Director of Labor Relations. Joseph B. Camille McKee, Commissioner of Commerce. Commissioner of Commerce. Ladies and gentlemen, I approach this one, the administration of this oath, with a great sense of gratitude. In 1932, the then-acting mayor, Joseph P. McKee, had more confidence in me than I had in myself. He appointed me as city magistrate, and now I have not only the honor of administering the oath to him, but I have a still greater privilege that he has consented in the past and still consents to serve the city without salary in a Department of Commerce that's devoted to the best interests of our town. His willingness to serve in this capacity is a part of the life of Judge McKee. Thank you, Mr. Seymour. Seymour N. Segal, director of radio communications, and also a career man. T. Wiley of the City Traffic Commission. T. Wiley of the City Traffic Commission. T. Wiley of the City Traffic Commission. T. Wiley of the City Traffic Commission. T. Wiley of the City iniciest T. Wiley of the City Application. T. where are you located? T. Wiley of the City Operator, the City Nebraskissist T. Wiley of the Cityства, the Cityanium Association, the City Human Services. T. Wiley of the City我, of the City celle leaving the City of Toleran Пupy including the City T. Wiley of the City van C. wiley of the City of Transport College, and see what you're here sintomo Ladies and gentlemen, in the course of a lifetime, every one of us, from time to time, but not too frequently, meet an outstanding figure, an artist, in the field of art, a voice in the field of vocal music, in engineering, in construction, in the various lines of endeavor that men follow. In the field of public health, Dr. Harry Mustard came all the way from a small village near Charleston, South Carolina, crisscrossed back and forth through the country in his relatively short life, and ended up, as he thought, at Columbia, where I had the honor and the good fortune to find him two years ago. He consented to be our health commissioner. We all blithely go along our daily chores, doing our daily chores, little thinking of what a problem health is in a city such as ours. The problem of health had always been some kind of a football until Harry Mustard took it over. And with the touch of the expert, he brought order, ease, and harmony to the machinery of that department. He has initiated outstanding programs in the interest of the health of our people. He has brought the department of health in this city in a short time to where it has now and does enjoy preeminence in health institutions throughout the country. I would be most regretful if Dr. Mustard, who is leaving us as health commissioner, would be a total loss to us. But he, luckily, and thank God for that, he is going to remain as a member of the Board of Health as a part of his contribution to this godlike work in our city. It is that over that I am going to administer now to him. And for what he has done for the city and for me personally, this is an opportunity to you and to those who are listening in to express to him my deep gratitude. Thank you. William Meyer, member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library. Rabbi I. Usher Kirschblum, a member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library. Rabbi I. Usher Kirschblum, a member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library. Glتيume over there at 10 PO Ms. George R. Walbach, member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensboroughúnnjsb Reginaou Mandalfounder of the Queensborough inputs and borrows the Essência of the Google suit, the one of usher as officials say, David Austinной Conference, family of figures, act of the overlook of all standard and conduct, that's indeed an opportunity to deliver as a part of our par on our city. Whoever is very supportive of the Uglyoa Deshaugnel is a member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library. Albert Poore, architect member of the City Art Commission. Gilmore D. Clark, landscape architect member of the New York City Art Commission. George Rosling, member of the Teachers Retirement System. Commissioner Vito Landa, member of the Teachers Retirement System. Robert Dowling. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to administer a note as a layman member of the Art Commission to Mr. Robert W. Dowling. I think at this time I have an opportunity, which doesn't occur frequently, to publicly note the many interests affecting public welfare with which Mr. Dowling is deeply concerned. Not only has he, in his own right, a busy day as one of our great planners, builders, financiers, but his deep interest in the history of our city, state, and nation, his deep interest in the welfare of this city, his chairmanship of the Citizens Budget Commission, for example, his advice to me whenever I ask him for it, his good advice, his sound and solid advice, his availability at all times to help. Bob Dowling, in my opinion, is one of New York's greatest citizens, and he has not been injured by the fact that he is a native New Yorker, as were his parents, and those that preceded them. I am now about to administer a note to a man that I believe is one of the outstanding citizens of the city. Thank you. It looks as though the mayor has completed the list. However, it's a little consultation now. If there are any additions, you'll hear the mayor speak, or President Impelletary. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two commissioners that you will notice are not being sworn in here today. One is Commissioner William O'Brien of the Police Department. Now, so that everybody in town doesn't go into a tailspin and a dither, especially to keep everybody who would like Bill's job away from me, and in the interest of kindness to the whole world that is decent, and in the interest of serving notice on those who are not decent, I'd like to make this announcement that the reason for not swearing in Bill O'Brien as police commissioner today is that he holds a term office which does not expire until 1951. If God spares me in 1951, on the 21st of February, and Bill will be willing to accept it, Bill O'Brien, one of the outstanding police commissioners in the history of the city, will be sworn in by me. God willing. Thank you for me. Thank you for me. Thank you for me. Now, I hope that settles the rumors before they start. The second one who is not being sworn in today is Fred Zumuhlen, the Commissioner of Public Works. The reason for that is that Fred's home under doctor's orders with a heavy cold, and that matter will be taken care of just as soon as everything is all right. Fred, if you're listening in, you've done a marvelous job as Commissioner of Public Works. The construction program under you has progressed so quickly, so speedily and efficiently, and I'm very proud of the work you did and very proud of you. And let me tell you something, Manhattan College today is doing a dance up there on the grounds because you are their great star graduate. And an old classmate of yours, Dave Martin, is around here, also from Manhattan College. He brought me the message that you couldn't be here. Get up as soon as you can, brother, and come in and get that over, because we have a lot of work to do, you and I. God bless you. The mayor of the city of New York apparently has closed the session here in the chamber, the council chamber in City Hall, with the tribute to Commissioner Zumuhlen, a man who has received many praises and encomiums from the mayor in many engineering assemblages and technical assemblages here in our city. The mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, that ends my part of the proceedings. I have just one thing to say. On this platform, in addition to Murray Fitzgerald, Bob Wagner, as most of you know, each borough has a borough president. And they form that very troublesome block in the Board of Estimates because each borough president wants all the available money for his borough. Larry Joseph's job is to tell him that there isn't any money there. Vincent's job is to examine the ceiling while the argument goes on. And my job is to get in and straighten it out. Now you can understand what a really tough assignment that would be for me if it weren't for the fact that I have understanding, experienced, top-flight men with me in the Board of Estimates. Believe me when I tell you if our job isn't well done at the end of the four years, it will not be because the members of the Board of Estimates are not experienced, intelligent, and energetic. Many of them with years and years of experience in city government that antedates mine by so long that I wouldn't like to tell it to you. They're here, all except one. The one who's not here is Borough President Neil Hall of Staten Island of Richmond. And, well, this is a good day to remember poor little Richmond, way down at the other end of the fog. And if that fog lifts between now and midnight, Neil will come in and say hello. And if it doesn't, he'll still be in Staten Island as isolated by that fog as if he were up in Greenland. That means that we as a city must understand the problems of the people in Staten Island. They are part of the city and a very fine part of it. There's great development coming someday to Richmond. And this city has to give and continue to give as much sympathetic help to the people down there as possible. Now, Neil isn't here. And on his behalf, while I'll say what I know, he'd want me to say to the people. That he's going into the next four years with his head high, his chin up, and his eyes on the stars, just like the rest of us. I did not introduce to you a very troublesome character who comes from the Bronx. The borough president of the Bronx, Jim Lyons. Nor did I present from my home borough, and I left that for last because it is my home borough. I didn't present the borough president of Kings, of Brooklyn. But I'll present him to you now. I'll present a man who has served in the legislature and has served in, served this city, always in capacities that call for the high degree of integrity that he enjoys. The reputation that he has is second to none. I'll give you a great borough president, a great member of the Board of Estimates, a great public servant, a clean, hard-hitting, intelligent, and well-informed man in government business. The borough president of Brooklyn, John Cashman. Applause Thus says my word come to an end. God bless you everyone. Applause Please remain seated, ladies and gentlemen. The program is not concluded as yet, but will be very shortly. After that arduous job, I think the mayor is entitled to hear a selection from his favorite glee club, accompanied by the Department of Sanitation Orchestra. The police department fleet club will now render, dear hearts and gentle people. We have, dear hearts and gentle people,¨. The space. By the medida of the operating room of the wes países, monuments are będzie selbst droite. And standing up in the room of the מכ's EA. His who is not separated, that it flags that it manages it in its current<|sv|> as well. The amount of よторов went by Plaques today. The amount of getan would be cultivated and the capacity of damns, a very Could be cultivated. But then at the main Obviously they are a selection from waterします, This time goes out today because of their cooking system william the power Michelin하 herkes점, To ensure that the city of Woodland and the people say we will tuimaensit them in diapers, and to make you more diverse타민 on earth was the most intang iconic fluor depri Studies anocalypse ahms according to each other. I love those dear hearts and gentle people who live in my hometown. Because those dear hearts and gentle people will never ever let you down. There's a good book from Friday till Monday. That's how the weekend goes. I've got a dream how I'll build there one day with naked fence and rambling hope. I feel so welcome each time that I return that my happy heart keeps laughing like a crown. I love those dear hearts and gentle people who live in love in my hometown. I love those dear hearts and gentle people who live in my hometown. I love those dear hearts and gentle people who live in my hometown. I love those dear hearts and gentle people who live in my hometown. I love those dear hearts and gentle people who live in my hometown. We can go. I've got a dream dream house. I'll still there one day, to take entrance and rattling home. I feel so welcome, each time that I return, at my happy heart, is smiling like a star. I love the dear dear heart, and gentle people, to live and love in my hometown. To live and love in my hometown. Ladies and gentlemen, will you please rise, while the benediction is delivered, by the right Reverend Monsignor, Christopher J. Weldon, representing his eminence, Francis Cardinal Spelman. Almighty and eternal God, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, humbly, but with filial confidence, we invoke thy blessing upon our great city, and in particular, upon those duly elected and appointed officials, here this morning, who are setting out on a new term, in our city's government. Through the psalmist, David, long years ago, thou didst call to our minds, how good and how pleasant it is, for brethren to dwell together in unity. In this fair city, practically since its inception, thou hast blessed our forefathers, with an understanding and exemplification of this same principle. May thy goodness and wisdom continue to abide with us, collectively and individually, with these officers of our government, and with all our citizens, that each may understand, acknowledge, and carry his or her full share of the responsibility for successful, peaceful community life. May the example of our coming from many regions of the earth and from many races, of our speaking many tongues, of our cherishing many different traditions, and yet living together in mutual respect, fraternal love, and civil concord, be an inspiration to the representatives of the United Nations, now abiding in our midst, and through them, to their peoples throughout the whole world. May we continue to enjoy the goodness and pleasantness of brothers, under thy fatherhood, living together in unity and peace, for our own greater individual, personal development and happiness, our nation's greater success and prestige, the world's greater peace and coordination, and especially for the greater honor and glory of thee, our God and Father, through Jesus Christ our Lord. Amen. Please resume your seats. The ceremonies will conclude in just about one minute, if not less. Will you please remain seated for just a moment? The purpose of this moment's delay is that the mayor of the city of New York is to be photographed with the new board of estimates, the two new members of which, the Borough of Queens and the Borough of Manhattan, are represented for the first time in this group picture, here on the rostrum where ordinarily the throne of the president of the city council is located. I said throne, didn't I? You know what I mean exactly. The great chair under the canopy here in this beautiful colonial room in city hall. It's so beautiful and so formal that we're likely to revert to traditional terms in describing it. And looking down on this scene is the portrait by a great scientist, Alexander Morris of the Marquis de Lafayette, one of the most authoritative portraits of the French noblemen who helped George Washington and the cause of the founders in establishing the greatest nation on the earth and enforcing for all time the greatest document, the Constitution of the United States, which granted to all men the inalienable right of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Almost in the same colonial atmosphere, this beautiful room, the council chamber, one of the most beautiful anywhere in the world, with Thomas Jefferson looking down upon the scene, well, in this historic precinct we have brought you the ceremonies. And now President Pelletarian. Ladies and gentlemen, the ceremonies are now about to conclude. May I ask you all please to remain seated while Mayor O'Dwyer, the clergy, and the members of the Board of Estimates leave in a body to the Department of Sanitation Orchestra selection. We're in love with a wonderful guy. May I end so to save time, there'll be no reception line at the conclusion of these ceremonies. When the mayor leaves and the members of his cabinet leave, these ceremonies will come to an official conclusion. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. President Impelletarian. The Honorable Vincent Impelletarian, President of the City Council, presided as the officer here in the City Council chamber today, where he was host to the mayor, the new members of the Board of Estimates, and the swearing in of the various commissioners by the mayor of the City of New York, all of which were brought to you by the microphones of your city station, which completely covered the scene. And in this picturesque environment, on this very historic day, starting the beginning of a new half, of the second half we might say, of the 20th century, we take leave of you with the very best wishes for a prosperous, happy, good civic 1950. We ask the blessing of God and the best wishes on the mayor, his cabinet, the City Council, and all concerned in the government of this great and wonder city of 8 million people. A very happy New Year from the City Council chamber in New York City Hall. We return you now to the studios.