The Northwestern University reviewing stand. How big should business get? Only large enough to be of service to the nation and small enough to ensure against monster empires of industrial and commercial monopoly. Well, isn't it hard to generalize and give a satisfactory answer to that question? So much depends on a particular industry. What we really do want is, of course, to preserve and enforce competition. No exact guide is available. We are torn between wanting the advances and efficiency that come with size while maintaining the market control over business. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, the reviewing stand analyzes the role of big business in our economy. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the factors that make big business big and their impact on our pocketbooks and our way of life. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our first speaker today by transcription is Dr. Morris Adelman, professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Dr. Adelman. The question, how big should business get, is really three distinct questions. Bigness in the individual business concern, bigness of the concerns in their respective markets, and bigness in general. As to the first, if we say that a business, an electric power business, a drug retailing business, a furniture manufacturing business, and so on, if we say that a business ought to be big enough to do its job most efficiently and not a bit bigger, it's obvious that the size we want will vary enormously from one branch of industry to the next. We know that in many industries, businesses must be big in order to be efficient. Whether or not they need to be as big as they actually are is something else again. The first problem of bigness, therefore, is the relation between size and efficiency. The second problem is that of bigness in relation to a particular line of industry. If the firms in any line of industry become very large, then they also become very few. If they are few, there arises the possibility of behavior which, in a general sort of way, we call monopolistic. There may be agreements or informal understandings or just plain inertia and unwillingness to rock the boat, resulting in higher prices, restricted output, and excess capacity. The lack of aggressive competition would also be reflected in an indifferent attitude toward new and better products or methods, resulting in technical stagnation. However, the number of competing sellers is only one of the factors which make a market more or less competitive, and it is not necessarily the decisive one. For example, the highly concentrated rayon textile industry has shown much more improvement and has, over the years, brought prices down much further than the very unconcentrated cotton textile industry. The concentrated oil industry has a much better record than the unconcentrated coal industry. If we look at the field of retail distribution, we do well to remember the old wisecrack that the farmer's only friends are God and Sears Roebuck, meaning that there was no price competition in retailing until the big retailers introduced it. Of course, this does not mean that there is no connection between having only a few sellers on the one hand and having restriction of competition on the other, but the connection is not a simple one, and it is often canceled out by other factors. Again, like the relation of size to efficiency, we know much less about this subject than we should. From the individual business, where the problem is size and efficiency, we proceeded to the whole industry, or the whole market, where the problem of bigness is the number of concerns who divide the market among them. Now let's turn to the problem of bigness in the economy as a whole. This is essentially a political problem and a highly important one. One hundred years ago, when we were a nation largely of independent small businessmen, mostly farmers, some men could dimly foresee what we are today, a nation of employees, where a small number of very large enterprises own a large fraction of the total business wealth. And men like John C. Calhoun in this country and Karl Marx in Europe could agree, however little they agreed on anything else, that such a society could never last, that economic power could not be concentrated and political power diffused at the same time. Now one hundred years is a short time in history, and the profits may turn out to be right in the long run. That is your problem. But it is a problem because so far they have been wrong. Democracy has been preserved, and the standard of living of the people has greatly improved at the same time that business has become bigger. Whether and how this can go on is, to repeat, your problem. Let me conclude my introduction with two hints. In the first place, we ought to keep our three problems distinct in our minds. For example, if we dislike big business simply because it is big, and we have a perfect right to, let's not confuse the issue by talking about monopoly or efficiency. Secondly, we do not need to worry about any dramatic upsurge in business forcing a quick decision upon us. Business is much bigger than it was fifty years ago, but so is the country as a whole. There is probably, we do not know how much, more concentration today than in 1900, but there is nothing automatic about the increase of concentration. In such important fields as steel, oil, meat packing, sugar refining, aluminum, radio, and television, there is less concentration today than in bygone years. The Second World War, contrary to a widespread impression, did not make business more concentrated. If anything, it was the other way around. In a word, the problem of bigness in business is important, one of the most important of our generation, but there is no emergency. there is plenty of time to stop, to think, and to listen to such discussions as the one you are about to hear. Thank you, Dr. Edelman. Continuing the reviewing stand discussion are P.J. Sletterdahl, editor of the journal of the National Association of Retail Druggists, James R. Hawkinson, professor of marketing, and R.B. Heffelbauer, professor of economics, both of Northwestern University. Now, I suggest we begin here, gentlemen, with your reactions to Mr. Edelman's remarks. Uh, Heffelbauer, how do you feel about it? That was a very good summary of the issues. I just want to underline one or two points. First, that there is a difference between relative size and absolute size. And when we talk about big firms relatively, just counting the number of sellers or concentration in those terms is not prima facie evidence of competition. Here I take it, however, we're interested first and foremost in the multi-product, big line, big companies, that are giants overall. Hawkinson, do you have a word here? I like his approach to the problem in that he says we shouldn't censure business just because it's big and that we must be sure we understand that, uh, the distinction between, uh, monopoly and size. Sledderdahl? There's one point I'd like to emphasize that he made. That the behavior of giant business enterprises can involve the freedom of the people of the nation. If the corporations become too large, they tend to create an agitation that may lead to regulations in the direction of fascism or communism. Now, you use the term too large, which leads me to, to ask, uh, Heffelbauer, what you mean by bigness in business. How big does business have to be in order to be big? That depends in part on how you measure it, whether you measure it by assets, sales, or number of employees, and there is no single measure that is good. And then, since big is a relative term, do you mean that is big compared to competitors or big overall? Don't we really mean companies that are big in both a relative way and an absolute way? That's right, Hawk, and it's important to bring out that most of the companies that are big absolutely are engaged in several lines of businesses and may not even be large relatively in any one of them. There is a distinction here that I'd like to make. Big business may be large because of production conditions, and then there is the point that goes on farther where the corporation becomes a monster enterprise that gives it too much power, economic and otherwise, over the people of the nation. That's correct, Mr. Schletterdahl, but the difficulty is how do you measure or indicate whether they are too large or they have this power over the economic and political life of the nation? I concede that studies have failed to develop facts that enable us to follow a pattern of conclusion in connection with size. How would you sum that up, Parkinson? Well, I would say that we certainly don't know just what has caused big business to develop as it has, but there are several reasons why today we do have both relatively large and absolutely large businesses businesses in this country. One of them is, as I see it, that some of our manufacturing and distribution operations require quite sizable ventures in order to be efficient. The real issue, Edelman said, is whether they have gone beyond efficiency. But my difficulty is how do you measure efficiency? Do you measure it simply in terms of cost, or do you want to include improvement in product, the adaptation to new methods of doing business such as the chain stores introduced? And frankly, when we come to compare efficiency by size, I have found no studies which are satisfactory. Hawkinson, aren't we interested when we talk about the effectiveness of a corporation in really three points of view? The service to the consumer in the way of price, the service to labor in working conditions and in wages, and service to the investor in the way of returns on capital? Aren't all of those elements in determining the efficiency of a corporation? The difficulty, Hawkinson, is that after we drop the idea that the market tests those things through the give and take of the market, that we do not have any satisfactory way of measuring efficiency. I would agree with you, Heffelbauer, that we don't have enough studies to make conclusions as to what specific size within a particular industry a business should be. Well now, which leads me to ask a question that you have already suggested, Hawkinson. What causes have operated to produce big business in America? I take it that this term bigness is a relative one from what you've said. Both relative and absolute, I'd say. It would depend on the industry. But there are a number of causes that have operated. I'd say one is efficiency and consequent survival in a struggle. I quite agree with Hawkinson on the last point and that can often be brought out by distinguishing between companies that have grown by consolidation rather than those that have grown from within. And the latter have come up through some kind of a market test and it seems to me the onus is on others to prove that they did that by inefficient methods. I think there's been another factor involved in the growth of corporations. It's one of greed where managements have expanded through the use of various predatory powers that they developed and unscrupulous methods were employed to bring about expansion. That certainly was true prior to World War I in the growth of the great trusts of that era and has been well documented. The danger is that we may generalize from that earlier experience to the present without examining the present. And isn't there a danger too that we fail to distinguish between companies that are big and are not monopolies and companies that are big or small but are monopolistic? I think that is true. However, in a study of the development of corporations it's necessary to take into consideration the political factors that were involved in the expansion of the corporations. For a long time we know that the corporate structures of the nation exercise much more influence than it was safe to have any small group possess. Of course the question is how effective big business is politically. I think a more dangerous thing, Mr. Slatterback, is that big business may be so concerned about its public position that it will not operate efficiently. further than that, it seems to me that interference politically isn't just the domain of big business. I think you see that in the case of organizations of retailers, labor unions, or others who attempt to do the same thing that a monopoly business does. I fear that trend for the simple reason that it will deprive us of the basic values that made America the greatest nation in the world. Coming back to predatory practices, Mr. Slatterback, would you say those are restricted to large business, or is it that competitive competition often offers the opportunity for predatory action by large and small business? What do you mean by predatory practices such as what? Answer that, Slatterback. Unscrupulous methods that are employed. For example, we know that companies went together into combinations to control prices. that they coerced the suppliers, in many instances, to enter into a level of prices. There are many that could be cited. But in the first place, I'm not sure that those are always well documented. And secondly, don't we have legislation that's effective for dealing with situations like that, that at the same time, tends to preserve competition? The documentation has been extensive, and they are on file in the records of the Department of Justice. Thousands of cases could be cited to show that the larger companies were inclined to use the methods that included economic power. in reviewing the summary statements from the Federal Trade Commission, you will notice that there are instances of a number of small companies, not just big companies, that engage in predatory practices, and the Department of Justice has had to crack down on them. Is your point really, Mr. Sletterback, that the exercise of use of predatory practices by big concerns is particularly harmful, and that is your real concern about it? I can, I, uh, conceive that it is for the reason that it creates agitation for more government, and with the expansion of the government deeper into our life, we move away from the fundamentals that were the creative forces in the development of America. I fear big government. I quite agree with you on that, Mr. Sutterdahl, but one point that I want to, uh, to bring out here is that in many industrial areas, we will have such large companies that they always potentially can engage in these things. That's a fact we have to accept. Then isn't the main problem we have to be concerned with is adequate enforcement of the law against predatory action by these concerns. I agree with that, and the present laws are inadequate. There must be additional legislation to prevent the expansion of the gigantic corporations through the acquirement of the assets of smaller companies. Did you have a point, Hawkinson? Well, I was going to say that I'm not sure that, uh, just by more legislation to, um, uh, attempt to direct the large corporations are we going to get, uh, away from the whole problem of more government interference in business. I think you can have that from the operation of a large number of, um, companies. Now, all of this, all of this, uh, talk has arisen in response to my question, what causes have operated to produce big business in America? And we've been talking about these, uh, predatory practices, as Mr. Schlederdahl puts it. I'd like to ask this, to what extent has efficiency and operation produced these, these, uh, large, uh, concerns? That is, uh, I'm thinking of some of the great retail grocery concerns, for example, who, uh, apparently give us, uh, what we want for less money. I think it's generally recognized that, um, the large grocery chains have been very helpful in improving the efficiency of all retailers, big and small, independent, and chains. That the gross margin, which is a good measure of the service to the consumer, has been declining, and I think due largely to the effectiveness of the chain, retail chains. I quite agree with Hawkinson, but they have done so without driving the independent store out, because there is room for different kinds of business operations in most fields, particularly in retailing. How do you feel about this question of efficiency in relation to bigness, Schlederdahl? Well, the term efficiency is hard to define. However, I'll take it in its uglier sense. It means the use of centralized authority, such as, uh, economic power, to bring about the elimination of competitors. You can, uh, I came, when I came here to the studio, I passed near a very efficient setup. It was the zoo in Lincoln Park. The animals were prisoners of keepers there, and they were in cages. It was an efficient operation. And I fear that the trend is toward that kind of an economy. I must enter a strong objection to Mr. Schlederdahl's definition of efficiency. It certainly refers primarily to the cost with which a service is performed, as well as to the quality of the service. Unfortunately, I think sometimes, when we talk about predatory actions, we mean because somebody can do the job cheaper than we can, and sells it for less, he's engaged in predation. That certainly is the substance of competition, not predation. Furthermore, I'm not sure that the little businessman is being driven out. There are many fields in which he seems to persist. For example, in the field of retailing, in spite of the practices attributed to the A&P, we have many small retail grocers. And I'm quite sure that people are willing to patronize that type of business, even though the charges are somewhat higher in some cases. And furthermore, some people are happier if they run their own businesses, even if they are only marginal producers and don't secure as much money as they would if they were working for someone else. I think also there's another whole area that we've not mentioned, not mentioned, and that is whether today absolutely large business is required to carry forward research and technological advance. I'm not saying that companies have to be as big as some of them are now to do that job, but certainly they cannot be what we ordinarily call small business. Well, now, we've been discussing here the causes operating to produce big business in America. I think our main purpose is to evaluate big business in the public interest. What criteria should be applied in evaluating big business in this sense, in the public interest? What factors should be considered, Heffelbauer? Well, frankly, I think we're in a confused state of mind with respect to that. We use the term efficiency, but when we begin to examine it, we find that it doesn't mean merely cost. When we try to set up something that has meaning and concreteness to it, we find difficulty. If I were to suggest any single standard, it would be that we must not let business get so big that no longer is it governed by the market, and instead major decisions are made by business managements that have a wide zone of discretion. I take the position that in various fields that the corporations through combinations have become too large, that they have control over a size of the segment that is detrimental to the public, and much of that has been attained through boycotts, blacklisted situations, price wars, and various other predatory operations. Detrimental in what way, Mr. Slatterdahl? Detrimental in that they contribute to agitation towards larger government, more regulations, and a deeper penetration of the government into the life of the nation. Do you think they deny the small operator an opportunity? Are you concerned about that? The small business today is in a precarious condition. The immediate future is hazardous, and the signs that we see now point to the realistic situation that within the next 20 years, if the trend continues and centralization of the corporations operate as of the present, that the system of small business will be destroyed, or it'll be reduced to a minor position of influence in the economy of the nation. I'd like to make two points on that. First, I'm not sure that just because you have big business, you need a lot more legislation. Frequently, small businesses ask for legislation, as well as big businesses. The service trades, for example, have been asking for legislation to protect themselves. Then, if we talk about the concentration of economic power, it seems to me we don't really know whether there is a concentration. We have to think of it in terms of the whole economy, the national wealth, the national income, and the cost of living, all as factors in the situation. Well, there's always the possibility that what is done by large business opens the door for small business. Certainly, your own group of retailers, Mr. Slutterdahl, have imitated many of the methods established by the chains. Certainly, the scientific advances of the large food manufacturers and chemical manufacturers have opened doors to small companies. I'm not saying that that's a fully satisfactory answer, but it's a factor to be considered. I agree with you that it is necessary to consider that factor. Defenses, of course, are natural in human nature. When you see a giant force come against you, you'll use the methods that you find closer to you to defend yourself. And we have seen big, small business put in a position where it had to fight in order to survive. Take the drugstore today. With the rise of the overhead and the market situation connection with the products that are available on the market, you have the independent drugstore on the fringe of extermination. The margin of profit is too narrow and that the economic situation that involves the suppliers and taxes and other factors, the druggist, and that holds true to also with the smaller grocer and other retailers, that he today is in a desperate financial position. Is that because he is less efficient than under this circumstance? It's because he has to contend with forces of control over him that come from the industrial and commercial enterprises that have him in a position where he must accept their dictations. Well, how would you gentlemen propose to control the problem of bigness in business? What would be your approach to it, Heffelbauer? Well, I think it should be dealt with under the same general framework that we have dealt with the problem of monopoly. It's a problem of having adequate legislation and an adequate action by the appropriate enforcement agencies. At the moment, I do not see anything that needs to be done of a very extreme sense in the field of legislation. Certainly, we do not want to weaken our antitrust laws. Well, gentlemen, in conclusion, it is hardly necessary for me to remark that we hold quite different views on this question, how big should business get, in the degree that business bigness means efficient, low-cost operation, we seem to approve it. But we deplore unfair practices which squeeze out the little fella and deny him an opportunity. Neither efficiency nor unfairness is inherent in bigness. Our antitrust laws should be administered to increase competition and keep prices down without prejudice for or against bigness in business. Is that a fair summary, Heffelbauer? Well, I'd say there are two points on which we don't know enough. The relationship of efficiency and size and what makes really effective competition. But Mr. Schlederbeck's point about this being finally a question of how our democratic system is going to operate is fundamental. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, How Big Should Business Get? If you are interested in this problem, why not send now for a printed copy of the broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Morris Adleman, Professor of Economics, Massachusetts Institute of Technology. James R. Hawkinson, Professor of Marketing, and R.B. Heffelbauer, Professor of Economics, both of Northwestern University. And P.J. Schlederdahl, Editor, Journal of the National Association of Retail Druggists. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand turns to the question which this year is being discussed across the nation by high school debaters, thousands of them. We ask should the president be elected by the direct vote of the people. Our guests will be Ed Gossett, United States Representative from Texas. Maynard Krieger, Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago. Norman Thomas, author, lecturer, and former candidate for the presidency on the socialist ticket. And Roland Young, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week. Should the president be elected by the direct vote of the people? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The Northwestern University is of Texas North Texas, the Quality Network Club. The Office of Texas andissions on the阪林 of Chicago. The horrifying За executiond ¡Chall II. The Renee lureيرсь of W and GIudio Bay. evidenced depends on Jews and sides of the nation who represents Melba emissions. But tremendous artistiness. The증 esca II. grandmotherched Union, river imagine, Mr. signal الس Prime has previsto and desearthansa.
