Gentlemen, the National Broadcasting Company is about to bring you an address by the President of the United States. Mr. Truman left Washington by train this morning for New York to speak to the annual gathering of members of the Associated Press. NBC's microphones are now set up in the Grand Ballroom, the Hotel Waldorf Astoria here in New York. And in a few minutes you will hear the President, who will be introduced by Robert McClain, President of the Philadelphia Bulletin and President of the Associated Press. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. McClain. Mr. President, one of the events we are happy to mark here today is that 99 years ago there began the first cooperative effort in the collection of news by newspapers under the name of the Associated Press. We are also entering the 53rd year in which the Associated Press has functioned on a nationwide scale as a mutual, non-profit cooperative. Today its operations embrace the whole world. Its correspondents are situated in every part of the globe, and its services supplied to newspapers and radio stations in 44 countries in both hemispheres. If it is not the largest cooperative in the world, it is the most unusual. For indeed it embraces in its membership newspapers whose publishers hold varying political, religious, economic, and social views. They are agreed on one thing. That the news report which the Associated Press gathered and distributed to its members and others shall be as objective, as impartial, as accurate, and as complete as possible. And with due allowance for human error and frailty, that we believe it to be. In the general discussions of newspapers and the press, which have received so much attention recently, there have been certain misconceptions to which newspaper men feel impelled to take exception. One is the group of various media, even including motion pictures, along with a printed word, under the general heading of the press, whereas each fulfills a distinctive and different function. There appears, as well, to be on the part of critics, a preoccupation with the function of persuasion. This function is, after all, only a secondary function of newspapers whose primary function is to inform. It is in this field of information alone that the Associated Press operates. Its membership consists of approximately 1,300 newspapers whose representatives are here gathered, and who are honored by your presence here today, and in whose name I extend your welcome. Gentlemen, the President of the United States. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Billy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate most highly your pleasure to welcome you. Thank you. Thank you, Billy. Thank you, Billy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate most highly your pleasure of welcome. Dr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciate most highly your partial welcome. I appreciate the toast very much, and I thank you for it. It's a very great pleasure for me to be here today, and I'm going to make some statements which will affect the whole nation from this platform. Freedom in the American tradition is always coupled with service. The American press, a free press, must never forget its obligation to the American people. Its treatment of the recent war and its discussion of our present foreign policy are examples of the finest effort of a free, responsible press. Thank you. Without abandoning constructive criticism, the press, with rare exceptions, has carried the facts fully and fairly to the American people so that they could be the judge. We are now at a stage in our national economic life when the American press can render similar service. The manner in which the American press makes clear to our citizens the problems that we face in maintaining our prosperity and the reasons why it is essential to advance that prosperity can help determine the future welfare of every family in the United States. We all want continued and ever-increasing prosperity. It is a simple, normal, human desire to want to improve the standards of living of all our people. The desire for better living conditions is not the only reason, however, why continued prosperity in this country is essential. We know that the freedom and integrity of the United States are safe only in a world of free people, living at peace with their neighbors and engaging in free and friendly commerce. Hence, it is our policy to aid the free peoples of the world in their efforts to maintain their freedom. Many of these peoples are confronted with the choice between totalitarianism and democracy. This decision has been forced upon them by the devastation of war, which has so impoverished them that they are easy targets for external pressures and alien ideologies. By providing economic assistance, by aiding in the tasks of reconstruction and rehabilitation, we can enable these countries to withstand the forces which so directly threaten their way of life and ultimately our own well-being. But we can provide the necessary assistance only if we ourselves remain prosperous. And only if we maintain and increase our prosperity can we expect other countries to recognize the full merits of a free economy. We know that our system of private competitive enterprise has produced the highest standard of living the world has ever seen. By steadily raising this standard, we can demonstrate to all other nations the vitality and superiority of a free economy. Our system of private enterprise is now being tested before the world. If we can prove that it is more productive and more stable, more generous and more just than any other economic system, we shall have one repair. But if we ignore the needs and church the responsibilities of our economy, we shall lose both our power to help others and our capacity to inspire others. Economic trouble in the United States would provide agitators with the opportunity they seek. It is necessary that we develop a new realization of the size and strength of our economy. Our tremendous production during the war astounded the world. It was a phenomenon which no one thought could endure after hostility's feast. We are beginning to sense the fact, however, that our peacetime economy can not only equal our wartime economy, but can surpass it. The progress we have made is demonstrated by comparing the present time with the year 1929, which was the year of highest economic activity before the war. The physical volume of industrial production is now 71% greater than it was in 1929. The physical volume of agricultural production is now 32% greater. Civilian employment is now 10 million greater. Our national income, including individuals and corporations, is now running at an annual rate of $176 billion, contrasted with only $83 billion in 1929. Now, what have these great gains since 1929 meant to all of us? The average income of individuals in this country was $654 after taxes. Today, it is $1,090 after taxes. Expressed in dollars of equal purchasing power, the increase has been from $825 in 1929 to $1,090 today. This means, on the average, for every man, woman, and child in the country, an increase of 32% in the power to buy goods and services with current income. This is the measure of the rise in our standard of living in less than one generation. This is not a record of war production. It is an unparalleled record for peacetime goods and services devoted to the needs and enjoyment of our people. This is not a record of the world. But I must say in all frankness that the economic skies are not entirely clear. One cloud is shadowing our economic future. One cloud is shadowing our economic future. That cloud is caused by the sharp and rapid rise in prices. Some say this cloud is certain to burst. They are sure of a recession or a depression. I do not share their belief that either of these is inevitable. I believe that we as a nation can prevent this economic cloudburst. But it requires soft, preventive steps. Price increases have been felt by every American family. No one needs to tell them how much the cost of living has increased. House furnishings, for example, have gone up 25% above the 1945 average. Clothing has gone up 24%. Food has risen 31%. Just before I came down here from the apartment upstairs, I was informed that the latest figures show that the food rise has been 36%. That the press of this country will accept this opportunity for service in the same high spirit which it has always served our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard an address by the President of the United States. The President of the United States. And now, our national anthem. A الت or the American racial anthem, our national anthem holds the Kansas also the number of questions for service individuals. Which it has absolutelyworked andne CEO. The President, of the United States. And now, our national anthem will carry out your list of information, which is most grateful for the<|es|> keyword. The original anthem. She's seen at the USA. Who is the leader of the President of the United States. Our final anthem. He has been Remembering at the International District in the Department of theiamo on John May. His name isə thankfully foreros in the United States. The American葉 какosocial hubides. Thank you. Thank you. I'm very happy to join with His Honor the Mayor and other city officials in urging the fullest support of the public for the current drive to raise $2 million for Catholic Charities throughout the Archdiocese of New York. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mozart started his musical career at the age of four. We might say that Anna Marie Corato starts us at seven. And now we hear another piano solo and this time another student. We hear the waltz coubli by Franz Liszt performed by Elaine Tarallo. We may be among you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.