From the sky top roof of the Hotel Statler, your city station is about to bring you the proceedings of the 25th anniversary convention of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers. The gathering will feature a welcoming address by the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York. To introduce the Toastmaster, Frederick H. Zermulin, past President of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers, we will turn our microphones over to Mr. Charles B. Molyneux, who is first Vice President. Mr. Molyneux is now talking. Empirical sciences that we have found that body of knowledge which is a necessary foundation for any profession. In the 19th century, these empiric sciences made great advances and our intellectual forebears, the fathers of engineering, have done a wonderful job in collating and correlating the work of the empirical sciences and making them in such a way that we could use them for the direct comfort of man. We as engineers have taken that chore in hand and with the evolution of our work and the growth of the way we have done things and the contributions we have made, have worked out a science that is really the fund of knowledge for a great profession. Using that fund of knowledge, we have, through the years, developed a group that have done the thing in a way that really means much to all of mankind. That has taken time and our real professional recognition and professional consciousness has developed along with that and at the time when that seemed to be in its fruition, the New York State Society of Professional Engineers was founded. We have been among the first in our country to really recognize the professional needs and professional merits of our science and our contribution to mankind. And we are very happy today to realize that this society has seen 25 years of active service and progress in its contribution to mankind. For the continuation of our festivities today, I am very happy to announce that we have secured the services and good wishes of our one-time president of this society, a man who has made a great mark as an engineer, a man who has done a great deal to bring engineering to the foreground in our city, our state, and in our nation. And I'd like at this time to present who will be your chairman, Toastmaster for today, Mr. Frederick Zemehlen, Commissioner of Public Works for the City of New York. Thank you very much, Toastmaster Molyneux. Mr. Mayor, distinguished ex-presidents and guests on the dais, my fellow engineers, their ladies, and our friends. My principal purpose in accepting the honor of being Toastmaster at this occasion is to introduce our principal speaker. In introducing him, I should like to tell you or give you a few pertinent engineering facts concerning the design and construction program of new public improvements in the city of New York, the city of which our next speaker is the mayor. To my mind, nothing reflects more adequately the tireless efforts, the administrative ability, and far-seeing civic understanding of our honored guests and to relate these pertinent design and construction programs. As you know, the Department of Public Works, of which I am very proud to be the commissioner, is the engineering and architectural arm of the City of New York, responsible for the design and construction of facilities for almost all of the various city services and various city departments. It is significant to note that during the Fort Wright administration of our present guest of honor, my department established the highest production record in the history of this city. our present design and construction program is the largest on record. This program, accelerated by the then acting mayor during the four months of 1950, brought the year's production to an all-time high of more than $39 million of actual construction work and also a completion of designs of another $75 million worth of construction. Even more important is the fact that the utmost dollar value is being received by the taxpayer for these public improvements through sound contractual relations and reduced construction costs. This can only be achieved through the most careful administrative planning and diligent application of the very best techniques in our profession. In addition, my department continued its role as the nation's largest housekeeper, maintaining and operating public buildings, sewage disposal plants, and bridges, physical property valued at better than a billion and a half dollars. With pardonable pride, I should like to point out that the expense budget of my department and its vast plant is about $12 million a year, or just 1%, a little less than 1%, of the entire city's budget. Now, gentlemen and ladies, none of this would have been possible without the splendid guidance, the cooperation, and the vigorous action of the mayor of the city of New York. It is my honor and pleasure and privilege to present to you, his honor, the mayor of the city of New York, Vincent Aaron Pelletari. Thank you. Commissioner Zermullen, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am happy to welcome the mid-century convention of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers. We are indeed honored that you have selected our city for this meeting. In doing so, you have chosen the scene of some of the greatest engineering triumphs in the entire world. There is probably no other area more extensively developed and so very replete with examples of engineering achievements. I know that I speak for all the people in our city in voicing our appreciation of your organization's success in promoting and guarding the professional standards of engineering which are so very vital to the safe and progressive development of our city. To your everlasting credit, engineering standards in our state have been raised to the high level deserved by your profession. It is the good fortune of my administration that among the founders, rather, and the very active supporters of the movement, we have the able services of such distinguished engineers as the chairman, our public works commissioner, Frederick Zermullen, our chief engineer of the board of estimate, John Riddell, and Bronx borough works commissioner, Arthur Sheridan. There are many other fine engineers in city service, too numerous to mention, who are also members of your organization. I am proud of my association with your profession, and I am glad for whatever help I have been able to give in fostering our city's vast public improvement program mentioned by Commissioner Zermullen. It is, of course, an ambitious program, and yet every bit of it is necessary. That is, if we are to adequately meet the need for expanding services that are required for the welfare of the people and the commerce of our city. Our people must be properly housed. Our children must be well-educated and decent, up-to-date schools. Our hospitals and health services must be expanded. Our port operations must be modernized. Our transit must be streamlined, and our traffic problem must be alleviated. Many obstacles lie ahead. It must be remembered that the rising cost of living also applies to the cost of government. A $1 rise in a $10 household grocery bill means a rise of a million dollars in the city's grocery bill. In fact, and I know it's not necessary to point that out to a group of professional engineers, the cost of every item used in the operation of our city has just bounded upwards and upwards and upwards. Our hospital and sewage treatment construction program alone involves an expenditure of nearly a half a billion dollars. The city's budget limitations, shortages of essential materials, the rising cost of construction, and general inflation are but just a few of the problems which must be faced. Unfortunately, however, inflation, while imposing additional burdens on the city, does not at all commensurately increase the city's tax revenues. And yet, increased revenues are necessary if we are to carry out our responsibilities to the people. My administration will be measured by what we do to keep our city operating at a high level of efficiency in the trying days to come. I have accepted this challenge and I mention it here today at this Convention of Professional Engineers because, in my judgment, it is also a challenge to the engineering thinking of our city. I am fully aware that much more than concrete and steel, brick and mortar, will go into the making of public improvements and public service. they might be better measured in the heartaches of civic planning, the headaches of administrative problems, and the skillful application of modern engineering techniques. Addressing you here today, I have the comfortable feeling that as long as men in your profession apply their knowledge and high standards of engineering. No problem will be too complex or insurmountable in the development of our city's resources. One of these problems, which I should like to leave with you today, is a matter of grave concern to all of us as individuals, as communities, or indeed, as a free nation. I refer to the important contribution which your profession can make towards civil defense. Too often, civil defense is considered only in the light of bomb shelters and preparations before a possible enemy attack. Nothing is so vital to the security of our nation, however, than preparedness to restore physical facilities and to continue normal community functions after an enemy attack. Whether at war or at peace, the military forces of our nation are only as strong as the determination of the people to carry on the activities of production and government which an attack on cities and industrial areas is intended to disrupt. We must remember that the enemy, whether just contemplating or actually waging war, counts the cost of attack in terms of results achieved. Obviously, a city well prepared for defense offers a less inviting target. Your training and your experience are most essential in the planning necessary for rehabilitation and reconstruction of stricken areas. All of the equipment and all of the personnel at our command will be of little value for civil defense unless we take the same approach a consulting engineer would take before undertaking a large construction job. you and your organization can be a valuable assistance in this type of planning. Some of you are specialists in fields which are closely related to the type of rehabilitation and reconstruction work now being planned by our city civil defense organization. if you have not already done so I urge you to become affiliated with whatever division of civil defense you feel might best make use of your engineering know-how. The Public Works Emergency Division under the able direction of Commissioner Zermullen is an excellent example of one of the divisions of city defense setup in which your services are being eagerly sought. Civil defense is not the sole responsibility of your government but rather a community effort wherein everyone must do his proper share. We cannot let our enthusiasm fluctuate with international developments. This is everyone's job and our American freeway of life may depend upon it. Let me congratulate you and your society for the contributions you have made in the progress and the development of our city. I wish you the continued success you deserve and should there be anything within my power to make this convention more pleasant and more productive please call on the office of mayor and I will see to it that that is done. Thank you for your invitation. Thank you. You've heard the welcoming address of the Honorable Vincent R. Pelletere, mayor of the city of New York, to the 25th anniversary convention of the New York State Society of Professional Engineers. And now until we return you, return to the Hotel Statler for the symposium on the engineering industry at three o'clock. we return you to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.
