All right. This is George Lent of the Bureau of Public Information of the Board of Education. The following announcement concerns pupil attendance during the bus strike. Number one, with the exception of Staten Island, all New York City high school pupils, both public and parochial, normally beginning their class sessions before 10 o'clock, are not to arrive at their high schools until 10 o'clock on Monday, January 5th. However, buses picking up the physically handicapped children will operate as they have in the past. Two, junior high schools and elementary schools will open at the usual time, but children traveling to these schools on the subways or the L should not arrive before 10 o'clock. Three, wherever possible, older children should be encouraged to walk to school on Monday. Four, during the school day, announcements for the information of the principals will be made on the hour over the school radio FM station, WNYE, beginning at 10 o'clock Monday. The following is a comment of Dr. William Jansen on this announcement to the schools. He says, I have been authorized to include the parochial schools in this announcement. The main purpose of these directions is to relieve the rush hour traffic by reducing to a minimum the number of school children riding on the buses and subways during the rush hour. Inasmuch as there is no strike on Staten Island, schools will operate as usual. The overwhelming majority of our junior high and elementary school children walk to school. And the regular school buses under contract to the Board of Education will run as usual. However, we do have a considerable number who travel to school by subway. And these children will be excused until 10 o'clock. Most important, no New York City school will be closed on Monday. Although there is no bus line on strike in the borough of Brooklyn, it has been deemed advisable to delay the opening of the high schools in that borough because of the heavy load on transportation lines from other boroughs. Since transportation conditions will vary from area to area, individual adjustments will be made during the week. And that's what Dr. Johnson has to say about it.
