Mr. Moses, members of the Bridge and Tunnel Authority, distinguished guests, neighbors, did you register yet? Did you? All right, that's good enough. If you didn't, you're going to miss a great chance on voting for that $150 million that we hope to get this year, if you vote right, for hospitals. We've got a lot of people of low income in our city. You've got over 5.5 million. Now, among them, you are bound to have an awful lot of sick people from time to time that need our help. There is no way of handling many of these cases except in the city hospitals. Our city hospitals are not good. They're the best we can do, but some of them are not good. They're too old. You can't manage them right. We've got to get new hospitals. We've got to give New York City the best municipal hospital plant in the world. The only way we can get it is if you'll do the right thing on Election Day, if you'll vote yes on that hospital amendment. January the 1st, we're on our way if you'll give us the money. You, you've got to do it. I'm glad, ladies and gentlemen, to be here today for this purpose. You know, hospitals for the sick, but there's such a thing as good housing, such a thing as good parks and recreation to keep people well and keep them out of the hospital. What we're doing today is something that no one has thought of for a longer period of time, has dreamt of more than Commissioner Bob Moses. It's like other things, many other things that you, more than I can count, more than you know about or I know about in this city, that Bob Moses has done so that people will live better, so that people will have fresher, cleaner air to breathe, so that they'll have elbow room, so that these little children that are here, God bless them, will grow up under surroundings that are better for them than their forefathers had. He's done it, and today he's doing it again. Do you know that that 125-acre park that a year from next summer you'll be enjoying, right over here in Wards Island, you just couldn't get to it, could you? There's the park. You're here. There's a little body of water in between. You just couldn't get to it. Now, it hasn't been completely developed. It will have ballparks. It will have playgrounds for the children. It will have open spaces. It will be just the kind of a park that the children in these homes that are now here and all the new ones that we're going to get when General Farrell gets going in this neighborhood, just the kind of a place on a warm summer's day that the mothers would like to take the children to. And if Dad wants to get a little mouthful of fresh air, he can take it in too. So you'll begin this way. You had to have a bridge as well as the development of the park. The city now will take care of the development of the park. The question of the bridge, the bridge and tunnel authority, without one cent out of your pocket, without one penny from the taxpayers, will put up this $2 million bridge to connect, as Hugo Rogers said, almost to take you from your apartment right into the park. Just a footprint. This is something for which I, on behalf of the city, now officially express again, as I have so often before, my gratitude to Bob Moses for one improvement after another, for the benefit of the people. And in this particular case, to join with him the other two members of the bridge and tunnel authority, Mr. Charles Meyer, Mr. George McLaughlin, and that great executive director of the bridge and tunnel authority who has been such a great help to me and the rest of us for the last three years, Mr. George Spargo. Ladies and gentlemen, my thought is that, just one, we'll have to get going with the bridge. It will take a year and a half, or maybe a little more, before it's ready for you. We begin it today. No time will be lost. When Bob Moses once sinks the shovel on the ground and breaks it for an improvement, no time will be lost. You'll get your bridge at the earliest possible day. With the bridge, you'll get your park. Now, the next thing that I hope for is that you and the children and the children that are yet to be born will get all the enjoyment out of it, all the health out of it, that we'd like you to have. Now, if you get that much, you've got to settle for that because we want you to really enjoy it. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.