Today is UN Day, the seventh birthday of the United Nations. From Paris to Poussin, from Los Angeles to Tel Aviv, from Oslo to Karachi, all over the world, people are celebrating the seventh birthday of the United Nations. The bow bells of London, the chimes of St. Peter's in Rome, the chimes of the great cathedrals in Europe, bring out a message of hope for lasting peace. The chimes of goodwill. Okay. What should I do as a mercess return to oli, this is projet of de polity…. Well, I appear to be inspired, but find a message. We Anasta Film Hospital, Producer Class 후, William Academy, Iowa Tourśmy Publicly entitled New York City Hall From the Council Chamber of New York City Hall, Your city station brings you this special broadcast of the ceremonies in honor of the seventh anniversary of the United Nations. Participating in these ceremonies this afternoon are Mayor Vincent R. Impalateri, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, Mr. Guillaume-Georges Picot, Assistant Secretary General for the Department of Economic and Social Affairs of the United Nations, and other city and UN officials. The All-City High School Chorus under Peter J. Wilhouski's direction will appear, as will a group of children from the Hunter College Elementary School who have prepared a founding of the UN pantomime. Mr. John Golden, Chairman of the New York City Committee for UN Day, will distribute the awards for the Junior High School Essay Contest, and the Junior Red Cross will give a music album presentation under Howard Bowie's direction. The UN birthday cake will be cut by Mrs. Vincent R. Impalateri, who is co-chairman of the New York City Committee for UN Day, as part of the special birthday celebration for seven-year-olds who were born on the same day as the United Nations Organization. The amassing of the national colors by the Fire Department of the City of New York will take place in just a few moments, and after that, our chairman, Grover A. Whelan, who is chairman of the UN Committee of the City of New York, will introduce the program. Now I see that the amassing of the colors is about to take place, the audience is rising, and the firemen are carrying the flags into the room. The UNiceshorse who biraz 확achten is going to be in all the season, because they have a lot of이고 bells have been in all of the unfํated folds of the world. The UN ni deliverance, the lieutenant joinery has burned and Recovery characters twice in the quarter of Rey. And the employee.'sindeer personal around the director of the City of New York, the scientific dusty Bundestages running times and temples, theária-ắmblay which is called New York City of New York City to see the flag of the Jennifer Leigh. Theboard is dedicated Curtain consuming for knowing that the whole RO0 was an heel voilà additional andанизating the police staff will bringmed, which is stated, that Bo�트 that Ronald guer pil пал a little bit. Thank you. National Anthem. National Anthem. National Anthem. National Anthem. National Anthem. Go ahead. Will the audience be seated? It's a great privilege for me to present to you today at the ceremonies at the City Hall, the seventh birthday of the United Nations, the Honorable Vincent R. Impoletare, Mayor of the City of New York. Thank you. Mr. Whelan, Mrs. Roosevelt, Mrs. Impoletare, Mr. Golden, Reverend Clergy, ladies and gentlemen, and particularly today, the children that we honor. Now, at the recent opening of the General Assembly, I stress the deep-seated faith of our people in the aims and the ideals of the United Nations, whose seventh birthday we observe at this ceremony today. It is significant that we have as our guests in this beautiful councilmanic chamber children who were born on October 24, 1945. A year before, it was my great privilege, as acting mayor of the City of New York, to give the welcoming address to the formal opening of the General Assembly of the United Nations organization in Flushing Meadow Park. Much has transpired since then to dim, perhaps, our original optimism for bringing understanding and amity to peoples throughout the world. However, our faith has never been shaken that this will and can come only through the pooled idealism and strength of freedom-loving people throughout the world through the United Nations, which has chosen our city as its permanent headquarters. We are honored, indeed, to have you children, the citizens of tomorrow, here with us on this very important occasion. Grover Whalen, our presiding officer and chairman of the City's United Nations Committee, our city's distinguished man of the theater, Mr. John Golden, Mrs. Impelitary, who with Mr. Golden serves as co-chairman of this United Nations Day, and Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, who's been in the forefront of what United Nations means throughout the entire civilized world. We're very happy to have you here today, indeed, Mr. Golden. Thank you. Thank you. I want to express the thanks of the people of the City of New York to all of these gentlemen and ladies for their thought and foresight in arranging this most unique seventh birthday observance. It is my privilege as Chief Executive of the City of New York to read the official proclamation designating the period of October 19th through October 25th, 1952 as United Nations Week and today as United Nations Day. Proclamation. Proclamation. Proclamation. Proclamation. Whereas the annual observance of United Nations Week takes place this year from October 19th through October 25th, culminating in the official observance of Friday, October 24th as United Nations Day. Whereas the United Nations General Assembly has head of awe by unanimous action set aside October 24th as an anniversary to be observed in all member nations by the dissemination of information concerning the aims and the accomplishments of the United Nations. And whereas the United Nations is man's best hope for lasting peace and the realization by peoples abroad that Americans support the only existing recognized international forum will do much to accelerate the time when there will be permanent peace and goodwill and whereas the City of New York is the world capital, having the permanent headquarters located here and is an international meeting place. Now therefore I, Vincent Aram Pelletari, Mayor of the City of New York, to here proclaim the period of October 19th to October 25th, 1952 as United Nations Week, and Friday, October 24th, 1952 as United Nations Day in the City of New York, and urge all New Yorkers to observe October 24th as the seventh birthday of the United Nations by sending greetings to relatives, friends, and acquaintances who are in other United Nations countries and by showing their faith in the United Nations and their friendship for other peoples by appropriate demonstrations. I also call upon local, civic, educational, social, and religious organizations, as well as newspaper, radio, television, motion picture, and other communications media to cooperate in informing our citizens about the United Nations. Let every bell in this community ring out at 12 o'clock noon as a reminder that UN plus U equals peace. And witness were of, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed. Vincent Arum Pelletari, Mayor, and I'm now happy to hand the original proclamation to Mr. John Golden, Chairman of the United Nations Day. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Founding of UN pantomime by Hunter College Elementary School children. Right now the UN pantomime is about to begin. The children are coming out into the chamber here wearing very gaily colored costumes. Each costume represents the flag of a different nation. The narrator of this pantomime is Billy Knight, who is about to speak to the audience. He's coming up to the microphone. This is United Nations Day. The seven year olds of Hunter College Elementary School are going to try and show you how the biggest and greatest organization was formed. At first, brother fought against brother and nation against nation. Many of the nations fell dying and wounded to the earth. The four founding nations at the four corners of the earth tried to think of a plan to raise the fallen nations and bring hope to the world. Their dream was to bring together all nations into one brotherhood. So the United Nations was born. And now Billy Knight has left the platform. And in just a minute, the rest of the members of the cast will be coming out. I have with me here, Dr. Florence Brambau, who is principal of the Hunter College Elementary School, which is presenting this pantomime. And I'm going to talk to Dr. Brambau about what is happening here. Dr. Brambau, could you tell us what the children are doing now? They are now discussing among themselves what is the cause of war. They are fighting. There are fisticuffs going on. They are having a great deal of fun fighting among each other. In a few moments, these children will fall down on the ground. They are indeed fighting and they seem to be enjoying it. I think the nations that they symbolized didn't quite enjoy it that much. But the children are now down on the ground. How old are most of these children down on the ground? They are approaching their seventh birthday. They were born during the year that the United Nations was formed. I see. And now the children are on the ground. What is the symbolism here? All but four. Great Britain, China, the United States, and Russia are standing with their heads in their hands, pensive, trying to think of a way to restore these nations. They are walking around gazing at the fallen countries. I see that. They're walking around. Now comes a little girl in pale blue. This is the birth of the United Nations. She's wearing a United Nations flag costume, isn't she? And she's carrying a little United Nations flag with a laurel wreath around the globe. And she is the idealistic dream of the Four Nations. Is that right? That is correct. That is what she is doing. She is part of each one's mind picture. And these children are each deep in thought, representing the nations, trying to work out a solution of their problem. And the little girl representing the United Nations is wandering among the four children. How long have the children been rehearsing for this, Dr. Brumbaugh? Oh, just this week. Because they wrote the play themselves a year ago. At the time UNESCO was at Hunter College. They had forgotten all about it, but they revived it for this. Well, they're doing a wonderful job. I wish the audience listening in could see the serious faces on the children now. And now the dream of the United Nations, a little girl representing the United Nations, moving much faster among the other four children, representing Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom and China. She's doing a little dance. Quite an attractive child. And she has some flowers in her hair. And now the children all are reviving the other nations. The children who have been down on the floor are all getting up. I guess this is to symbolize that the hope of the United Nations and the workings of the United Nations brings nations which were repressed by the ravages of war once again to a greater day and hope of a better future. How many are there participating here? 27. 27 children. And now the children are singing. I don't know if we can pick that up on the microphone. What is the song they're singing? Brotherhood. You know people call me. Tell your father. Tell the story. Play your love your country. You know. Join me in the final story. Another big one. And now as the audience applauds, the children leave the room. children leave the room. A very impressive pageant from a very nice group of boys and girls. And now back to Grover Whalen. It's a great pleasure for me to present the distinguished New Yorker whom the mayor has appointed as chairman of the United Nations Day, the Honorable John Golden. Well, this is the fourth time I've been up here having the great privilege, the great honor, to represent New York City with my co-chairman, the lovely, charming wife of our mayor, Mrs. Vincent Impeliteri. She, you might be interested to know, has given a great deal of her time and thought to different gestures that we could make that would help to make this day a better one. I had no idea of addressing you at all today, but I'm inspired by the exhibition that I've just seen to tell you a word or two about a man who has always shocked and surprised me from the time I met him some 40 years ago and then he was about 30 years of age, Grover Whalen. I have said before that the theater, of which I'm one of the personalities in New York City and have been for a great many years, the theater missed somebody when Grover Whalen didn't go into it. And this morning, this evidence of this exhibition with these youngsters that you've just seen is another vital proof, a magnificent evidence of what that Grover Whalen is as a showman. I regard him today as the greatest showman in America. This... Don't be afraid, he deserves it. This man, too, has to earn his living selling something. I think it's perfume. I wouldn't intend to give him a plug, but it's Cody's. He works at that job, too, and works very well at it. They haven't thrown him out, though they might have, despite considering the fact of the minutes, the hours, the days, the years that he gives to the City of New York. I give you my word, I had no intention of even mentioning the chairman of the Welcoming Committee to New York, Mr. Grover Whalen, until I saw this lovely thing by these youngsters, this fine evidence of dramatic competence that you've all been thrilled by. And I want to say again, before I forget it, that I remember when there was a little doubt as to just exactly where the United Nations was to locate. And I remember that same Grover Whalen getting busy on the job in those days. And I think it's due to him, as much as to any other single individual that I might name, that the United Nations headquarters is right in this town. Grover Whalen brought it here. Now, as for a speech from me, nobody wants to hear it, and I don't want to make one. So that settles that part of it. I suppose by the fact that Mr. Whalen introduced me at this moment, he intends me to, he intends it for me to hand out the prizes, or would he let me do just something else that the Mayor has suggested, and then let me come back again. The Mayor has suggested that since Mrs. Roosevelt came up here with me, and she hasn't been regularly put on the program, that I might interrupt whatever I had to say to give her a few minutes to say a word or two to you. And so, it is with great pleasure that I introduce to you the First Lady of the World, Mrs. Franklin Roosevelt. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And friends, I'm certainly not going to make a speech, but I'm going to say that I am very grateful to Mr. Golden and Mrs. Impelitari for the interest they have taken in UN Day. And I am particularly glad that this contest, this essay contest, is carried on so that our young people think about the United Nations and write about it and realize that it is a part of their lives, that it will affect their lives and that they must learn about it. They can't know a great deal, perhaps at present, but the more they study, the more they will learn. And I had no intention of making a speech, but I'm happy that on this birthday of the United Nations, the mayor is kind enough to come and join in making us all think about the United Nations and what we must help the United Nations to do. Because the United Nations is machinery, but we, as citizens of the United States and other citizens of their countries all over the world, are the ones who make the United Nations function and accomplish something. And we must never forget that it is in our hands and it is our responsibility. Thank you very much. Now I turn it right back to Mr. Paul. Now comes the task that I hope will be a pleasant one. Although, as I said to them yesterday, I feel rather unhappy about the youngsters who are only going to get a medal. I mean, there's one little girl who has been selected to get the $100 prize for having written an essay on why I am for the United Nations. This contest is organized at the New York Board of Education by a Miss Mary Kennedy, a superintendent of the Board of Education, who takes a particular interest in it and devotes considerable time to the work of selecting from, as I understand it, 27,000 youngsters who have sent in little pieces of paper saying why they're for the United Nations. That's quite a number of pieces of paper that they have to go through. So, she and four other ladies on the board or principals or something associated with the Board of Education selected these. Then Mrs. Roosevelt agreed with them. Mrs. Impelletary too agreed. And so, we've selected one little girl to get the $100 check. I shall not tell you her name. In plays, we keep our climax to the last act. And so, I'll begin by having these young ladies come up here, or boys come up here, and I'll ask the mayor, if he will, to do as he's done before, in each case to join me. Will you, Mayor Impelletary? Before I go on, I'd like to say that I've watched the mayor Impelletary for some time. The generosity with which he's given of himself and of his time should breed an affection in the people of the city of New York for this gentleman, who is trying his very most earnest and best to keep this city right, to keep it honest, to keep things clean, and to make you appreciate that there is at least a man who's coming down here, going to work, and acting as a mayor, keeping on the job almost 24 hours a day. I've stopped by his house and seen the lights burning there at night. You've got a good mayor here. Now, as I read the names, will you please come up? I'm going to ask, oh, I want to tell you something. I hope it doesn't amuse you too much. You see, I've got some money here. I came down without a nickel. This money I borrowed from the mayor. I actually did. He has loaned me this money. And they are little bills, and I won't tell you the denomination. I won't tell them to you. The children may find out what it is. Each child, as I mentioned, his or her name, will please step up and have the mayor pin a medal for having written, out of 27,000 entries, an article worth the attention of their principals and of the Board of Education of the City of New York. And she now, or he now, is about to have a medal pinned upon him, a little gold medal, that I think he'd be glad to get. I'll ask now, Miss Ellen Cohen of Junior High School, 73 Queens. Now the medal is being pinned to the little girl's blouse, and the mayor sends her along to her seat, and the next person will be coming up. Let's go along now and take Marie Gambetta of Junior High School, 99 Manhattan. Pearl Moed, Junior High School, 118 Manhattan. Judith Stein, Junior High School, 234 Brooklyn. Albert Warman, Junior High School, 113 Bronx. Albert Warman, Junior High School, 113 Bronx. Albert Warman, Junior High School, 113 Bronx. Clara Shapiro, Junior High School, 118 Manhattan. Well now, Clara, I thought I'd take you about this number. Here you are. She doesn't get that. She gets something very much better. Clara Shapiro now gets a check for $100. She is here. Now the photographers are beginning to take pictures of Mr. Golden, the mayor, and Clara Shapiro. Clara, of course, is beaming. She's wearing a red dress and has some lovely yellow flowers on her dress. The photographers are taking the pictures and will resume with the award presentation in just a moment. As Mr. Golden remarked, 30,000 students in the Junior High School Division of New York City wrote these essays on the subject, Why I am for the United Nations. The contests were judged by a committee of high school, rather junior high school principals, under the direction of Assistant Superintendent Mary A. Kennedy. The 11 best essays were chosen from all the entries, and the winners, of course, are receiving their medals and presentations now. The first prize winner, of course, is Clara Shapiro, who is now talking to the press photographers and to the mayor, and they're continuing to take the pictures. The names of the judges who judge this UN essay contest are Dr. Moses Nagelberg, who is chairman of the committee, Dr. Herbert V. Nussi, Mr. Samuel Ettinger, Mrs. Elizabeth O'Daley, and Mr. Joseph L. Lightgat. Now Mr. Golden is about to resume. I'll read it backwards, you see. Robert Selinka. Robert Selinka. Junior High School. 73. Junior High School. 73. 73 Queens. Miriam. Oh, Miriam. Frasier. Frasier. Junior High School. 43 Manhattan. 43 Manhattan. I liked her very much. Gloria Matelon, isn't it? Junior High School. 65 Manhattan. 65 Manhattan. Carrie DeBerry. Junior High School. 136 Manhattan. Can't clap and hand out first spots. I want to say before I give out this last one, because we'll be finished at that time, then I won't have any more questions. that none of these are third, fourth, fifth, or sixth or seventh prizes. I want to say before I give out this last one, because we'll be finished at that time, then I won't have any more to talk about, that none of these are third, fourth, fifth, or sixth or seventh prizes. I want to tell you youngsters who participated in this prize, that you were none of your third, that we had a lot of trouble deciding who was second to that first one. And you were also near, so nearly so good as the first one, that you well deserved a close second plus. Now the last one to bring up is Arthur, thank goodness we got a man in here, Arthur Sherman. Junior High School, 79. 79. Bronx. That's all. Thank you. And now, in just a moment, Mr. Whelan will come back to the podium, and here he is. The United Nations is represented here today by an Assistant Secretary General for the Department of Economic and Social Affairs, Georges Pico. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Chairman of the United Nations Committee of the City of New York, Mr. Chairman of United Nations Day, Madam Co-Chairman, Mrs. Roosevelt, ladies and gentlemen. It is with a deep sense of honor and responsibility that I have come here today on behalf of Secretary General Trickvilly and the Secretariat of the United Nations. I am indeed happy to bring to the people of the city of New York the warm greetings of these 3,500 citizens of 60 countries whom you have made to feel at home in your midst. I am happy to be with you on this day which is dedicated to the observance of the foundation of the United Nations Organization, and which is being celebrated for that reason around the globe in different ways, in different languages, and I should say with various national foreign accents in each of the 60 countries. We are actually commemorating today the coming into force of the United Nations Charter on October 24, 1945. That document, drawn up by the representatives of 50 nations assembled at San Francisco, set forth the principles of a new world order. In it, we are embodied the ideas and ideals of a world tired of fighting and looking towards a peaceful and constructive future. It provided for machinery, the United Nations organs, and its secretariat to build that future. If we face the present honestly, we have to realize that we have made but little progress towards the achievement of the security and lasting peace the signers of the Charter envisioned. There is, however, another and more optimistic way in which we can analyze today's situation. The United Nations has not been a static organization. Persistent efforts, even in the face of many major failures and setbacks, have resulted in some degree of achievement in almost every field. To cite a few briefly, there is the action in Korea, which represents the first example in history of collective military measures by an international organization. A total of 22 states have participated in this action, and 40 have given economic and financial support. The Security Council, charged with working out peaceful settlements of disputes, has helped to stop fighting in Palestine, Kashmir, and Indonesia. Positive steps in the economic and social fields, taken under the initiative of the United Nations and its specialized agencies, include technical assistance to the underdeveloped countries. Over 1,000 experts have gone out to help member countries to develop power projects, increase agriculture production, and improve their standards of living. Over 2,000 fellowships and scholarships have been provided to nationals of such countries. The International Refugee Organization has helped displaced over a million refugees and displaced persons to find new homes. The United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund has helped to feed, clothe, and bring medical and other welfare services to over 60 million children in many parts of the world. The World Health Organization has helped to stop an epidemic of plague in Egypt, has vaccinated thousands against tuberculosis, and is daily contributing to a universal bettering of health standards. The new headquarters of the United Nations, towering among your skyscrapers, built through your help, is, I like to think, one of the most concrete portents of the successful future of the organization it houses. As Secretary General Trickville Lee, last week told the opening meeting of the General Assembly, now holding its seventh session, now here it stands, aspiring in graceful lines, but solid upon the Manhattan Rock, this great hall in which the General Assembly is gathered today. In this, I hope, there is a good omen for all men of good will. We of the United Nations will always feel a particular debt of gratitude to you, people of New York, for your generous contribution to our new and permanent home. Your authorities, first under Mayor O'Dwyer, and later, under Mayor Impeletere, have cooperated with us from the beginning. Through their good offices, many improvements around our site have been carried out. The approaches have been widened. Franklin Delano Roosevelt Drive has been reconstructed. The tunnel has been built under First Avenue, and we have been granted additional waterfront rights. The generosity and worth and hospitality of the city of New York have meant a great deal to the United Nations during the past seven years. We thank you heartily. The Howard Bowie on behalf of the Junior Red Cross Music album will be presented to Mayor Impeletere. The observance of United Nations Day has great meaning to the young people of our city. And on this solemn occasion, I wish to present to you, the Mayor of New York, this album of music recorded by the All City High School Chorus. It is a gift to the young people of the world from the Junior Red Cross, which represents 900,000 school children in the public, private, and religious schools of our city. This album of music was prepared as New York's participation in the Junior Red Cross International Music Exchange. Through this exchange, the students of America have joined with the students of other countries in the building of international goodwill. The building of friendship with the youth of other nations today is the surest way to have friendship between the adults of tomorrow. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It now gives me great pleasure to introduce the All City High School Chorus under the direction of Peter Wilhowski, director of the Music Department of the New York City School System. The chorus will present to us the Battle Hymn of the Republic. The Crystal monkey won the building, Special thanks to uncover the The glory of the God of the Lord. He is rambling out the wind. He's where the great so bad will soar. He has moved the faithful lightning of his terrible smithson. His truth is magical. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. His truth is marching on. I am seated in the watchpires of the hundredth century town. They have built in him and also in the evening news and down. I can read his righteous sentence. In the dear and caring heart. His day is marching on. Truth is marching. Truth is marching. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. His truth is marching on. Christ was born a cross. Christ was born a cross. The sea. With a glory in his bosom. That transfigured you and me. As he died to make men holy. Let us die to make men free. While God is marching on. Glory, glory, hallelujah. This truth is marching on. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. Glory, glory, hallelujah. His truth is marching on. Amen. Amen. You have been listening to a special broadcast coming to you from the Board of Estimate Chambers of New York City Hall through the facilities of your city station. The ceremonies in honor of the seventh anniversary of the United Nations joined representatives of the UN, of New York schools and organizations, as well as city officials in the celebration. The Honorable Grover A. Whelan presided as chairman of the UN Committee of the City of New York. With the speakers, Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, Mr. Guillaume-Georges Picot of the UN, Mr. John Golden, and others. And now Mrs. Impelletary is about to cut the UN cake, and in just a few moments, the children will have their birthday celebration. This has been a special UN Day presentation of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.