New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce, a series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, in place of our dramatization, we will feature a question and answer session based on past programs in the series. Our moderator is Miss Edith McGinnis, Manhattan Borough historian, Aunt Edith on the Know Your City program, and Executive Secretary of the City History Club of New York. And now, here is Miss McGinnis. Thank you, Martin Waldman, and good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Our Young City History Club historians for tonight are from PS 151 Manhattan. They are... Helen Tapler Gertrude Messner Pauline Muller Walter Locks Emery Buckinger Lillian Kazuma Helen Chinesky Marilyn Sickenberger Robert Teitel Bob Leinweather And the questions that we ask on our program, New York Queen of Commerce, tonight, were prepared by L. Porter Moore, the Executive Secretary of the Greater New York Civic Center Association. Now, the first question is, when will New York City celebrate its 300th anniversary? Who would like to answer that? Helen? On Monday, February 2nd, 1953. Yes. Now, what name was given to this city on Manhattan Island in the beginning? What was the first name given to the settlement, I should say? New Amsterdam. Yes, and then it became the City of New Amsterdam. Now, how did the colony of New Amsterdam get its right to be a city? Who granted the right for the colony to become a city? The Netherlands government and the West India Company. Yes. Now, who was the governor of New Amsterdam when it became a city? Walter? The Governor General, Peter Stuyvesant. Mm-hmm. Now, Anne-Marie, can you tell us when the New Netherland colony was first settled by the Dutch? Hmm. 1623. The French-speaking Walloons sent... Came over to... Came over to Manhattan. Yes. From the Netherlands. Good. Now, how many colonists arrived about that time, Lillian? About 120. Mm-hmm. Now, I wonder, Helen, can you tell us where the first permanent settlers landed on Manhattan Island? Near the present South Ferry Station in Battery Park. Yes. Now, Marilyn, where else did the early colonists found a settlement in New Netherland? Another settlement was founded in Albany up the Hudson. Good. Now, last week we talked about some of these things, but we're going to review them tonight again. Now, Robert, I wonder if you can tell us what the upstate settlement was first called? Fourth Orange. Good. Now, Bob, about how many years before this settlement had Henry Hudson discovered our Hudson River? Well, about 13 years before the New Netherland was settled, on September 12, 1609. Yes. Now, can you tell us, Helen, in what year that Manhattan Island was, or, and our New York Bay was first discovered? The year, not the month or the day, just the year. In 1524. Yes. Now, Gertrude, can you tell us who was the first to discover our harbor, and also what country employed him? But first, what's the name of the explorer that first came to our harbor? Giovanni di Verrazzano. Yes. And what country did he represent? He was in the service of the French king, Francis I. First. Yes. And he called this area, I don't suppose you know, he called this area Anguillem, in honor of the birthplace of King Francis I. He was born in Anguillem in France. Now, I wonder if you can tell us, uh, what explorer, or rather what trader, first stayed overnight, or spent, uh, perhaps a winter on Manhattan Island. Uh, let's see. Pauline? Captain Adrian Block. Captain Adrian Block. Yes. And they remained about a year. Can you tell us in what year they came? Would you say it was 1614, 1814, or 1514? Through the winter of 1614, 1615. Good. Now, um, Anne Marie, I wonder if you can tell us why they had to spend the winter on Manhattan Island. Their ship ran aground and burned. Yes. Now, um, Lillian, how did Block and his men return to the Netherlands, finally? Well, they built a new ship on Manhattan, the first sea-going vessel to be launched here in New York. Yes. Now, um, Helen, do you know the name of this ship? The Restless. Yes. Now, um, about, uh, 38 years later, when, uh, the Dutch Governor Stuyvesant proclaimed the settlement a city on Lower Manhattan, uh, can you tell us whereabouts on Manhattan Island this proclamation was made? Marilyn? From the Governor's Quarter in Fort Amsterdam. Yes. Now, where was Fort Amsterdam located in those days? Where was it, Robert? At the s- at the site of the present United States Custom House at the Fort of Broadway in Battery Park. Yes. As a matter of fact, after you make this broadcast, you can walk down to see that site. It's not far from here. Now, Bob, can you tell us when the Dutch, uh, uh, built Fort Amsterdam? Well, it was about in 1624, nearly 30 years before the settlement became a city. Yes. And Helen, do you know about how many people lived in the city of New Amsterdam about 300 years ago? About 600 people. Yes. And how many people live in our city today? Who can tell us that? Yes, Dan? About 8 million. Yes. That's some difference. We certainly have grown, haven't we? Hm? Now, Gertrude, I wonder if you can name at least one other important event in our city's history, which took place 300 years ago. The first New York City Hall was occupied. Yes. Now, where was this first city hall located, Pauline? At, uh, 73 Pearl Street in downtown Manhattan. Yes. Now, um, do you know what the building had been used for before that time, Walter? It was a combined tavern and warehouse. Yes, and I don't know if you, uh, remember that Governor Keeft had the tavern built. Do you know why these, the tavern was built? Well, in those days it was the duty of the governor to entertain all of the traders and visitors that came to the little city, or the town at that time, in his home. And business grew so that he just couldn't entertain any more people, and so he had the tavern built to entertain the visitors to the city. Now, on what date did the City Council of New Amsterdam first occupy the City Hall, or Stott Hayes, as it became, when New York became a city, or New Amsterdam became a city? Annemarie? Uh, February 24th, 1653. Yes, and we'll be celebrating it rather soon, won't we? Now, how many years did it serve, or how many years did the Stott Hayes serve as a city hall? For only 46 years. Mm-hmm. Or until 1699. Now, Helen, I wonder if you can tell us what materials we used to build the second city hall. From the defensive whale torn down by the British in 1699. Yes, now what was this whale? What did the, uh, what did the, the Dutch build, uh, what was this whale anyhow? What would, what would you call it? A wall. A wall. And, uh, why did the Dutch build this wall? Can you tell us that, uh, Marilyn? Well, they feared both the Indians and the British. Yes, and, uh, what was this wall made of? Who can tell us that, what the wall was made of? It was of sharpened tree trunks, earth, and stone. Now, um, did the Dutch ever have a wall across the island before this, do you know? Well, they did when Governor Keeft was governor, and at that time they built a little wooden wall in order to keep the cattle from roaming into the woods and also to keep wild animals from roaming into the settlement. Now, um, during what colonial wars did the English build another wall across Manhattan Island? In 1755, when the French and Indian Wars threatened New York. Yes. Now, where was this wall built? Gertrude? Paralleling the, the present Chamber Street in downtown Manhattan at present City Hall Park. And as a matter of fact, the building in which we are now sitting is built over Chamber Street. It straddles Chamber Street. When you go down, I want you to notice that cars can drive right through the building along Chamber Street. Now, um, where was our second City Hall erected in 1699? Pauline? At the corner of Wall, Broad, and Nassau Streets. Yes. Now, I wonder if you can tell us what other government agencies occupied our second City Hall, Walter? In addition to our New York City administration, the building was for the time the capital of both United States and the State of New York. Yes. Now, Annemarie, can you tell us what our second City Hall was called from 1789 to 1790? What was it called? It was named Federal Hall. And why was it called Federal Hall? It was what? The first capital... Capital... Capital of the United States. Of the United States. Of the United States. Very good. Now, Lillian, can you tell us what were the two most important events in our national history to take place at Federal Hall? The inauguration of George Washington as first president and the first session of the Congress. Yes, and we've all been reading about another inauguration, haven't we, this week? So that we're particularly interested to know that the very first inauguration took place here in our own city. Now, how long did our city use our second City Hall, Helen? A total of 113 years, from 1699 to 1812. Yes, that was quite a while, wasn't it? Now, as we mentioned before, in 1953 we're going to celebrate the 300th anniversary of some very important events in our city's history. Now, let's review them. The birthday, which is 1653 also. The fact that we had our first City Hall in 1653. And also the first defensive wall to be built across Wall Street also will be celebrated now, this year. Now, I wonder if you can tell us if we can celebrate any events that took place 150 years ago. Who could tell us that? Marilyn? The laying of the cornerstone of our third City Hall. Yes. Now, what work had to be done to create the site of our present Civic Center? The establishment of our present Civic Center. Well, yes. But who, what had to be done in order to build that Civic Center? The land had to be filled in. What pond had to be filled in, Bob? Hmm? What's the name of the pond that we had to fill in? The incorrect pond and marsh had to be filled in. Yes, and that's very near us today. Well, I guess that's all we will have time for today anyhow. And now back to Martin Waldman. You have been listening to a question and answer session based on your city station's dramatic series, New York Queen of Commerce. A moderator has been Miss Edith McGinnis, Manhattan Borough historian, and Edith on the Know Your City program and Executive Secretary of the City History Club of New York. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education Station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us next week for a dramatic episode in the series, New York Queen of Commerce, presented as a transcribed feature over the Municipal Broadcasting System. National Park without special Annie Weight burning digo deprived of the Community Unit, The National Park calling the University of New York Institute opens the mansion under the address of hisaceutical Queens portfolio and bed잔. And more on March talking as well as possible, both municipalities are included in Rome and to further review.