Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the City Department just what steps have been taken by the department's concerns to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Thomas P. Cassidy, a Civil Defense Supervisor, assigned by the New York Telephone Company as a Civil Defense aide to the office of Commissioner Wallander. Now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Once more, our civil defense report to the people of the City of New York will cover the very important subject of communication. Tonight you will hear what has been accomplished so far in this direction, and we plan to mobilize on a standby basis in order to be fully prepared for any conceivable emergency. His Honor Mayor Vincent Impollettieri said recently, and I quote, We have no assurances that the international crisis as it exists today will pass away without further tragic incident. We have no guarantee that aggressive nations will grant the people of this city immunity from atom bombing. We do know that there is a conflict in Korea, which is not called a war, but where thousands of our young men are being killed, wounded, and captured by communist armies. Our own experts of this country figure that New York City will be the number one target in any war which we may engage. I am citing this to you in order to bring the importance of civil defense to any among you who might prefer to stand with your head in the sand, hoping that the storm will blow by. To me, civil defense is the most essential function of every place in our city, and in the event of war, transcending all other activities in importance to the life of our city. Atticate defense will require the interest and effort of hundreds of thousands of our people on a voluntary basis. Since there can be no absolute military defense, an efficient civil defense is vital to the future security of our city because it will provide the means whereby this city, if suddenly attacked, could get up off the floor and fight back. The civil defense program for this city must be in constant readiness because for the first time an enemy has the power to attack our cities in strong force, and for the first time in our history that attack may come suddenly with little or no warning. Granted a few minutes' warning, casualties could be reduced over 50% through proper organization and training in civil offense. Unquote. Now to report on the subject of communications, I have with me in the New York City studio, WNYC, tonight, Mr. Thomas P. Cassidy of the New York Telephone Company. Mr. Cassidy is assigned to my office at City Hall as a communications coordinator and is an aide on the headquarters civil defense staff. Mr. Cassidy, what is your definition of civil defense communications? Communications, Commissioner, is the nerve system of civil defense, tying together all the protective services of our city and provides the means of alerting, organizing, and integrating these services into an effective home front organization. In any civil defense setup, quick and accurate communications is absolutely essential. Well, let us suppose part of the communications system is damaged. How would communications function? Even though our existing communications systems are efficient, they can be damaged in part through enemy action. Therefore, we are planning to cover every contingency and sound, flexible plans are being developed so that in any emergency communications in some form will be available. What are the various means of communications that you are planning to use, Mr. Cassidy? Our plans, Commissioner, embrace all forms of communications and break down into four main categories. One, wire communication. The telephone, telegraph, tele-typewriter, field telephones, including walkie-talkies. Two, wireless communications. The radio, AM and FM, and television broadcasting stations, the ham amateur radio, mobile radio telephones, and coastal harbor radio. Three, courier or messenger service. Four, other communications such as carrier pigeons, semaphore, flag signals, and blinker lights. Well, that's fine, Mr. Cassidy. Tell us about the report control centers that you have been setting up. We are now setting up 27 civil defense report centers throughout the five boroughs. In the event of a bombing, the report center will receive the initial reports of damage, casualties, fires, and blocked streets from air wardens and police officers. The report center relays the reports to the proper protective services who arrange for the dispatching of local police and fire apparatus, medical aid, public health officers to check radiation, public works personnel, and others. Well, that's interesting. Now, how large is a typical report center, and how is it equipped? Well, the typical report center is about 800 to 1,000 square feet, and is equipped with about 30 or more telephones in desk-type or sound-absorbing booths. All of the telephone lines are direct wires to the telephone company's central office, as no switchboards or wiring arrangements of any sort are used. About 10 of these telephones are in sequence for incoming calls, and 10 have been specifically assigned to handle outgoing calls. The other telephones are assigned to police, fire, welfare, public works departments, and medical services. Are the report centers spread out over the five boroughs? Yes, every center is two and a half miles or more away from another center, and all are underground in basements or sub-basements of steel and concrete constructed buildings. Any windows? No windows. All the locations are inner rooms, and ventilation is provided by blower systems. Well, tell us when these centers will be opened and operating. One center is ready to operate at the present time, and all other 26 locations have been selected and approved, and are now in the process of being set up. All of these will be opened very shortly. Well, please tell us something about the one center that is ready to operate. Uh, it's functioning now. In fact, last night, over 50 volunteers at that center participated in an exercise, a dry run, you might call it, and it functioned quite satisfactorily. Well, good. Are there other communications facilities in a report center besides telephones? Yes. Each center has a fire alarm telegraph signal box, a police radio receiver, an air raid warning signal alarm, an amateur radio transmitter and receiving set, and a loop to the municipal broadcasting station, WNYC. That certainly gives us lots of coverage. Are there other communications centers? Yes. There's a control center for each borough, and one as a citywide center. What about the five borough control centers? How do they function? Well, the Civil Defense Borough Control Center functions as a command post for the entire borough. All of the city's protective services are represented in borough control, and operations are directed and controlled on a borough-wide basis from the center. How does borough control know what is happening? All reports of air raid or sabotage damage called into the report center is called over to borough control by the report center after local protective services have been dispatched. And borough control plots these reports on charts and maps and knows at a glance what has happened and where. Does the borough control center help the report center in any way? Yes. If all facilities are exhausted in the report center area, whether it be ambulances, police personnel or equipment, fire apparatus or personnel, the report center advises borough control, and additional help is obtained from other locations within the same borough. In the event the resources of the borough are nearing depletion, the borough control reports the matter to the next and highest ranking center, the citywide control center. Before you leave the borough control center, Tom, tell us more about these centers. Well, the locations selected are non-target areas in each borough, and all are located in sub-basements of substantial steel and concrete constructed building. Each borough control center is miles away from the other borough control centers. There are about 80 to 100 telephones in the typical borough control center. In addition, the centers are equipped with a police department, a tele-typewriter receiver, a fire alarm box, an air raid alarm signal, a police radio receiver and transmitter, an amateur radio transmitter and receiver, and a loop to the municipal broadcasting station, WNYC, that ties in all radio stations within the city by means of a wire network. How are the city protective services represented at a borough control center? A borough control center requires about 10,000 square feet of space. It is divided into a message room and a room for each protective service. Fire, police, hospitals, radio, welfare, transportation, evacuation and public works. The main battery of incoming and outgoing telephones are in the message room, and in addition, each service has several telephones in their respective service rooms. All of the telephones are direct wires to the telephone company's central offices. No switchboards, and most of these are in special booths. And now tell us about the citywide control center, Mr. Cassidy. Well, this center commissioner is also underground in a large steel and concrete structure, and is about the same size as the borough control center, namely 10,000 square feet. It will have about 75 to 100 telephones and all the other means of communications previously covered for the borough control center. Do all the telephone lines in the borough control or city control center go to the same telephone company's central office? No. The telephone lines in the control centers run to different telephone company's central offices, so that in the event of damage to one central office, all the lines in a center will not be put out of action. Furthermore, the telephone equipment terminates in the very latest type of telephone company's central office dial equipment that is not easily affected by the building being jarred in the event of a bomb burst. Tell us how the city control center will function. Well, the top command of each of the city protective services will be at city control. If the resources of any service in a borough are nearing depletion, the city control center is notified by borough control, and help is obtained by moving in services and equipment from the other boroughs. In the event aid is required from the state or nearby cities, counties, or other states, the director at city control arranges to obtain the help. It appears that quite a number of telephones will be needed for all these civil defense centers. Yes, that's true. Thousands of telephones will be assigned and used by civil defense forces. Are alternate communications centers planned? Yes. Each report center will have four alternates. Another report center in one direction will be the first alternate, and another center in the opposite direction will be the second alternate. As each center is at least two and a half miles away from another report center, a bomb burst could not knock out a center and its two alternates. The third alternate is the borough control center, and the fourth is the city control center. Each borough control center will act as an alternate for another borough control center, and the citywide center as the last alternate. In each borough control center, we have provided an additional group of incoming and outgoing telephones that are held in reserve to be used as an alternate for any other control center or any protective service in case their headquarters or borough communication facilities are knocked out. It seems, Mr. Cassidy, that the communication problem is well cared for by the many report and control centers. I think our listeners would be interested in hearing about the role communication plays in our air raid warning system. Well, I'll try to explain it, Commissioner. Let us assume that the long-range radar detectors of our military forces have detected a flight of unidentified planes heading for our section of the United States. Later, an aircraft observer several hundred miles or more from New York City reports to his regional information center from a specially designated telephone that he has seen or heard the flight. Within several minutes, other observation posts likewise report these planes. They report the type of plane, how high, the direction of flight, and other details. The military forces, being unable to identify the approaching aircraft, order combat planes to intercept the flight, and at the same time order an air raid alert. Well, how is the elate given to New York City? The signal, New York yellow, is telephoned from the military forces over special equipment to the warning center for New York City. In the air raid warning system, three colors are used to indicate the degree of warning. The yellow signal means suspicious planes are approaching and is the preliminary warning giving fifteen minutes or an hour or more ahead of time, we hope, before the public sirens are sounded. This is a confidential signal and cannot be given to everyone. The other two colors used for air raid warnings are red or public siren signal, and the white are all clear. I shall explain these later. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Cassidy. Your report on civil offenses that affects communications has been very interesting, and I'm sure our listeners have gained much from it. Thank you very much. Thank you, Commissioner. You've been listening to another in the important transcribed series of reports on civil defense, in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense organization. Presenting his report this evening was Mr. Thomas P. Cassidy, a representative of the New York Telephone Company, assigned as civil defense aide to Commissioner Wallander's office. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.需