Extra! Extra! Hear all about it! The Junior Journal is here with news and hobbies and book reviews for boys and girls and news they choose to hear all about it! The Junior Journal! Extra! Extra! Get your Junior Journal here! Paper! Read all about the big... Say, that looks like... Oh, yes, it is. Hello there, Mr. Junior Reporter. Hi. Why, it's me, Junior. Junior? Well, my goodness, I hardly recognized you with those great big eyeglasses on it. Oh, since Mr. U.C. Sights' nephew, Little Will C. Sights, talked my parents into buying a television set. A television set? Little Will sold your family a television set? That's right, Mr. Junior Reporter. He's selling them in order to work his way through telescope school. Well, I've been wearing eyeglasses since we made a decision to get television in my house. I have more friends who come to visit me. They've been very nice, as nice as they can be. Since we made a decision to get television in my house, I stride my eyes so I can see between all of my friends who crowd around my screen. So we made a decision to get television in my house. So now I wear glasses just so I can see if it's Hoppy, Kukla, Fran, or Ollie. Since we made a decision to get television in my house. A family decision must be made. That is whose favorite show is to be played. Since we made a decision to get television in my house. Goodness, Junior, you mean just because of television you're now wearing glasses? I'm afraid so, Mr. Junior Reporter. Golly, you know, I saw that radio and television exhibit at the RCA Exhibition Hall at 36 West 49th Street just the other day and, well, it was wonderful. I know, but... I can't see anything wrong with television at all. Yes, Mr. Junior Reporter, but I... Why, there's a booth on one side where you can actually see yourself as you'd appear on television. I've seen that too. And there are viewing boxes all around so that your friends can see you on television also. Yes, but... And there's the teletype machines. You know those teletype machines? The special machines that radio stations use to gather all the news of the world. Yes, but... And, of course, the most fun is to push a button and see a panorama show of how radio began go right on before your very eyes. I know all that, Mr. Junior Reporter, but I still... Oh, excuse me. I see a man over there who wants to buy a newspaper. But, Junior, that's not a man over there. It's an old lady. Oh, why, so it is. I'll get used to these glasses yet. See you later, Mr. Junior Reporter. Paper lady, come in and buy a junior journal. My goodness, the way Junior talks, you'd think the television were terrible. You know, personally, I can't see anything bad about it at all. It seems like a... Well, my mistake, I do see something. It's Clarence, the hobby mail truck, and... Oh, my gosh, he's all dressed up like a cowboy. Oh, Clarence, slow down. Oh, boy. Clarence, stop. No! Hold it. That's much better. Now you stop this tomfoolery right here and now or... Easy now there, Mr. Hobby Mailman. Now, calm down, calm down. Oh, hiya, Mr. Junior Reporter. Clarence been acting up again? Acting up? Why, he's been chasing Freddy the fire truck all morning. What for? Because Clarence thinks that Freddy's an Indian. An Indian? Oh, I'm confused. I'm worn out. Well, what makes Clarence think that Freddy's an Indian? Oh, well, I'd better start from the beginning. Well, that's a good place. Yeah. Well, sir, it all began when Little Will Seasights came around and talked me into buying a television set for that empty corner in the post office garage. Little Will sold you one, too? What do you mean, two? Oh, nothing. Go ahead and tell me what happened. Hmm. Well, sir, since then, whenever you look at Clarence, he stalled right in front of that confounded shit with his headlights just glued to the screen watching that new cowboy show. Uh, the six-cylinder playhouse. Oh, yes, that's the one with Run Along Chassidy. Hey, that's it. That's the one. Well, sir, Run Along has become Clarence's hero. It's even got to the point where Clarence won't ride around with any ordinary U.S. mail sign anymore. His has to say, Wells Fargo. Oh, yes, and I noticed that he's wearing a ten-gallon radiator cap. That ain't the half of it, Mr. June Reporter. I've been riding side saddle for a week now. Ouch. You said it. Why, I've even had to put reins on the steering wheel. I'm telling you, that mail truck doesn't know his own horsepower. Oh, gee, that sounds bad. Bad? Heh. Why, just the other day we were riding past the story fair milk bar. Clarence insisted that it was a gas saloon. And, why, he just rolled right up to the counter, put his front wheel on the brass rail there, and ordered a high octane. Oh, my. And poor Freddy the fire truck. Oh, yes, what about him? Well, sir, Freddy had to put out a fire early this morning. And as he was leaving the place, Clarence saw the smoke rising and thought it was Indian smoke signals. And what with Freddy being colored red and all... What do you mean that... Crank'! ...