The programs regularly scheduled for this time, Staten Island Today and Keys to Wise Buying, will not be heard this morning. Your city station presents a special broadcast of the 87th Anniversary Convention of the New York State Federation of Labor. We take you now to the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Commodore. Radio's microphones are in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Commodore, and the occasion is the meeting of the New York State Federation of Labor. Mr. Martin Lacy, Chairman of the New York City Central Trades Councils, will introduce the regular order program. Mr. Lacy. Honored guests, delegates, and friends, the next speaker I am about to introduce is well-known, Farneer. And to many of you by his first name, though he has risen to one of the highest positions in the gift of the American electorate, he has kept his mind and heart close to the interests and aspirations of the working man and woman, from whose ranks he sprang. I have had the privilege of working closely with him in the cause of organized labor, and on many occasions I can testify to his understanding and sympathetic attitude, wherever and whenever our problems are concerned. I take pleasure and pride in presenting to you the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, better known as Bill O'Dwyer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Lacy. Your Eminence to Murray, distinguished visitors from outside of the city, and members of the Convention, the 87th of this state, AFVL. I have the pleasant assignment this morning as Mayor of the City of New York to welcome this convention. I have had a similar honor possibly hundreds of times in the four years and few months that I've been Mayor. I have had no greater sense, however, of a feeling that I am addressing a group of ladies and gentlemen who are going to hold in our city, in this room, building, a convention of the utmost importance to the people not only of the city, the state, the nation, and perhaps the world. I have lived long enough and had sufficient experience throughout that living to have come to an unbiting conviction that there is only one thing important in the whole world this morning, and that is that democracy will not only exist in our time but be guaranteed to the world that comes after us when we're gone. I have also analyzed the pious pronouncements of the last quarter of a century to know that democracy's future rests upon labor properly organized, properly arranged, and dedicated to the Constitution of the United States and democracy throughout the world. In this room, in the representative capacity of each woman and man, you, through a chain of command within the ranks of organized labor, go all the way down to the home, to the father, to the mother, to the children. It is through your efforts, plans, education, fight for decent working conditions, fight for proper standard of living. It is through your influence that the masses of people will be educated to a point that they will understand those fundamental important issues that can so easily be confused by loose talk. You are the ones that represent the masses of people. It is through you they look for guidance. In my job, and I, too, represent something, and that is the elected official, whether it's in the local community, in the state, or the national picture, or throughout the world. I, too, have a responsibility, and that one, with God's help I am discharging here this morning. And that responsibility is to keep an ear, attuned to the need of the masses of people that you represent, those who look to government for guidance, for support in their legitimate aspirations. I have the responsibility of over and over again saying that any time labor is unfairly attacked, it is the duty of the elected official, in recognition of the great overall principles involved, to stand up and be counted where that recognition is tied in with the basic principles of our Constitution. This morning, as the mayor of this city, I have the honor, the privilege of standing before you in full recognition of what this convention means and will mean to ask that the heavenly thought will be with you in your conferences, that your views, your plans, will be geared to the great world issues of today. that New York City through me has also the honor and the privilege of welcoming within our gates the 87th Convention of the AFL of the State. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You just heard the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, make the address of welcome at the Hotel Commodore to the 87th Convention of the AFL in New York City. The mayor is now taking a few moments for personal greetings and in a few moments and in a few moments we'll hear Mr. Lacey come back again as chairman to make further introductions. There's a very distinguished table here of guests and principal speakers and the mayor is making the rounds and saying hello to everybody. Naturally, his speech is over and he will make us exit in a few moments because naturally he has other important duties in our city. and now Mr. Lacey's about ready to make an announcement as soon as the sidewalks of New York are thoroughly covered. Now Mr. Lacey. Will the wardens clear the door there and allow the entrance to be cleared, please? Before introducing the next speaker I would like to as chairman opening chairman of this convention state that we accept the challenge as is placed before us by the mayor of the city of New York and accept all responsibilities. Honored guests friends and delegates to our great labor movement. The next speaker of whom all of us are proud is a product of the city of New York. As president of the New York State Federation of Labor he has continued its policy of constructive beneficial labor laws for the working people of our state. and he has ably served the labor movement in many capacities and his conservative yet progressive characteristics have added great prestige to this federation. It is an outstanding privilege for me as president of the Central Trades and Labor Council to present to you the president of the New York State Federation of Labor my friend your friend Tom Murray. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman Reverend Clergy guests fellow delegates and our foremost mayor of New York City governor and the governor just really stood up and a foot The governor of the state of New York has just come into the ballroom he tried to slip in but he couldn't get away with it and he's asking Mr. Murray's pardon for interrupting his speech but Mr. Murray will continue now in just a moment. I wanted to come in and hear Tom speak so I busted in now instead of when I was supposed to be here. That's all right that's a welcome under the interruption matter. Again as your president it is my great privilege and pleasure to extend a hearty welcome to this vast assemblage of delegates and friends in attendance at this 87th annual convention of the New York State Federation of Labor. The regular attendance of delegates at this year's gathering is eloquent witness to the growing strength and prestige of our State Federation of Labor which today speaks for more than one and one half million members of the American Federation of Labor in the Empire State. For the third time since this convention was founded in the early 1860s the annual convention is being held in the city of New York. The outpouring of delegates and friends to the conventions of recent years has been so great that only a few cities in the state can now accommodate. It is fitting of course that we should meet in New York City during the year marking the 100th anniversary of the birth of Samuel Gofferts the founder and first president of the American Federation of Labor. Though he became a distinguished national and international leader of labor Sam Gofferts due his early inspiration and experience from the young and dynamic trade union movement of the city of New York. This city is rich in memory and associations of that grand pioneer of American trade unionism. He was born in London 1850 and brought to this country at the age of 13 when the Civil War was raging. This conflict apparently made a deep impression upon his mind as he later devoted and dedicated his active spirit of life to the freedom of all people of America. One of the outstanding accomplishments of Samuel Gofferts was his success in having enacted a Clayton Amendment to the Sherman Antitrust Law which restrained the courts from interfering with the free rights of labor by injunction of processes. It was declared by Goppers to belabor Magna Carter. It established Labor's Bill of Rights under a constitutional law and was the first national widespread acknowledgement that working men and women of this nation had a right collectively and individually to work or refrain from working without court interference and a recognition that in their employment they were entitled to pursue the constitutional guarantee of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. Trade union democracy and a free trade union movement were the twin gospel which Sam Goppers preached from one end of the country to the other. Those fundamental principles will be exemplified in the proceedings of this convention. We will keep every in mind that the deliberation and decision of this vast assembly arrived at after free discussion will have a profound effect upon the future welfare of the wage earners of this state and their families. The New York State Federation of Labor is the oldest in years and service and is the largest in members and accomplishments of any state federation of labor with the American Federation of Labor. It was brought into being to oppose tyranny and oppression and as an instrumentality to establish industrial freedom and liberty for the working men and women of the Empire State. On March 7, 1864, Frederick Hastie of the 12th Senatorial District comprising Ninsler and Washington counties introduced in the legislative session a proposed bill making it a misdemeanor for groups of working men to combine for collective action for their own protection, reiterating in the chart that membership in a trade union constituted a conspiracy punishable by one year's imprisonment and a fine of $250 upon conviction. This bill was killed in committing on the protests of the trade unionists of New York State and their many friends. As a result of this experience, the New York State Federation of Labor was founded. Since its formation, it has been in the forefront in advocating liberal and progressive legislation to improve the condition of the workers of our State. As a result of these continuous efforts, New York State now has the finest liberal, progressive, humanitarian laws of any State in the Union. Founded as we were to fight and oppose journeys, we pledge ourselves to the continuance of this policy and to the principle of freedom, liberty, and democracy for the workers of our State. The struggles over the past 86 years have won very substantial gains and have placed on the statute books of our State the great mass of social, economic, and welfare legislation so badly needed by the workers of the State. We entered into 1950 with the formation of an international labor organization of which the American Federation is an integral part and of which all the trade unions of the world are members. Meeting in County Hall in the British capital, 261 representatives of almost 50 million workers in 53 countries formally established the International Confederation of Free Trade Union. This organization was formed to combat a so-called international organization that was dominated by Soviet Russia and its communists that built. Unions which were not free unions but were the puppets of the communistic overlord and controlled and directed by them. It is to this organization of the free trade unions of the world that mankind and the workers throughout the world must look for freedom, liberty, and democracy in the conduct of their trade unions and the pursuit of happiness in their personal lives. Working side by side with the American Federation of Labor, we feel assured that its ends will be accomplished and that the workers of all the people will eventually destroy communism and those whose purpose, desires, and efforts are to conquer all free democracies and enslave all the workers. Again, the year of 1950 is significant in that the American Federation of Labor has set it as the year which is to accomplish its goal for the election of a liberal congress. Following the political nonpartisan policy of Samuel Coppers, rewarding your friends and the defeat of your enemies, the American Federation of Labor has entered into the political field to carry this philosophy into effect. This state Federation of Labor, with every other branch of the American Federation of Labor, has been forced into the political field to protect our organization and the right of the workers of the country, which have been weakened and endangered by the infamous Taft Hartley Law. To carry out our aims, we have formulated Labor's League for Political Education. But in order to accomplish these aims, we must have funds. The Taft Hartley Law prohibits the use of money in your union treasury for political purposes. Therefore, each and every member is called upon to make a voluntary contribution. Your contribution can and will, in my opinion, help to elect to the Congress of the United States representatives who will legislate for all the people. In the early part of this month, the American Federation of Labor called into conference its leaders from every city and state of the United States to prepare its way for the campaign of November 1950. Secretary Hanover, as your representative, attended this conference and took part in the deliberations and discussions. We are all in perfect harmony as to our duty and our responsibility, and we of New York State shall continue in the field of politics under the guidance of the Laborers League for Political Education to bring about the results sought by the American Federation of Labor. There will be no let-up. Our work will be continuous and aggressive, and I now, on Europe ahead, assure the American Federation of Labor that we will wage a campaign in this empire state, which will go down in the history of the state as labor's effort for freedom and liberty. At last, for the year of 1950, we have Korea. As president of our State Federation of Labor, I want to publicly commend President Truman and the United Nations on the immediate and drastic action they have taken in the defense of South Korea. And in their determination to stop the communist herd from overrunning the countries of the free people of the world, the president struck a resounding blow for world freedom when he ordered American aid to the abattled Republic of South Korea. By his this forthright action, he served blunt notice on Russian imperialism that the United States will not tolerate further communistic inroads into Asia or anywhere else. The American Federation of Labor, our parent body, has long recognized and proclaimed that there can be no compromise with communism or with communists either in world affairs or on our domestic issues. New York State Federation of Labor has year after year denounced communism and communists or fellow travelers at its convention. It has continuously in its program, adopted year after year, assailed those who would lend support to any communistic doctrine. Labor's sons have always been found in the forefront in the defense of our country and of liberty and democracy wherever and whenever needed. They will be found on the battlefield, in the factories, workshops, and the miles. Laborers down the world in its production of war implements in World War II. The die has been cast. No one can tell whether this Korean flagration can be sealed off or whether its flames will engulf the world. I think I speak for all American Federation of Labor Members in this state when I pledge that we stand ready once again to perform every task and shoulder every burden necessary to bring victory in Korea or in any other part of the world where we must come to death quips with the monster of world communism. It is our hope that this present conflict, which we are certain will end victoriously, will eliminate any further attempts on the part of Russia to enslave the free people of the world. The New York State Federation of Labor is fully appreciative. of Governor Dewey's attitude relative to the problems of labor, and it is my pleasant duty at this time to make this public acknowledgement. The State Department of Labor plays a most important part in the enforcement and the administration of labor laws now on our statute book. This department is headed by a most liberal industrial commissioner, who with his assistance is fully appreciative of the problems of labor. The continuance of the New York State Apprentice Training and Training Council has been of great assistance to veterans who have been attempting to rehabilitate themselves back into civilian life. The administration of the state compensation law, the unemployment insurance law, and other beneficial legislation, has shown an earnest determination to administer the laws liberally in the interest of the workers of our state. It would not be fitting for me were I not to express at this time, on behalf of the New York State Federation of Labor, our acknowledgement and appreciation of the splendid services of Commissioner Edward Corsi and his associates in the administration of the Labor Department of the state of New York. I am happy to report that the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University has functioned splendidly throughout the year and has become a great asset to us and an instrumentality presented into the labor field people with understanding of the problems of the workers of our state. The State University of New York, of which Vice President Dunley is a member of the Board of Trustees, have progressed favorably and great things can be expected for labor out of these magnificent educational institutions. The State Commission Against Discrimination recently celebrated its fifth anniversary with our own Bill Edwards. As chairman, the commission has administered the law in a manner which has a wholehearted acceptance and cooperation of the general public and has resulted in a tremendous increase of opportunities for all workers of our state. The New York State is Displaced Persons Commission, on which your state federation has appointed two of the nine representatives, has done one of the most outstanding jobs of any agency of its type in the nation. Approximately 45,000 displaced persons have settled in New York State, and I am happy to report the majority of these have become members of organized labor. In fact, many of our trade unions have waived initiation fees and admitted to the membership people who belong to the European Democratic Trade Union. I will not undertake to review the record of our last legislation committee. That will be taken care of by our evil and energetic secretary, Harold Canaver. We have another job to do, one which is too often overlooked. The legislative leaders of the New York State Federation of Labor cannot properly carry on their functions without your backing. election. When we in Albany call for your support in behalf of opposition to some legislative action or proposal, we expect you to contact your assemblymen and senators and let them know as to how they should vote for the progress of labor. We shall present to the convention our platform prepared by the executive council as the basis for our work for the upcoming year. I cannot close without saying a word of praise and to compliment the local committee of the Central Trades and Labor Council upon the efficiency and scope of the convention and the radio and upon the warmth of the reception that the State Federation of Labor has given here today. As we have much to accomplish at this initial session, I will close my remarks with an appreciation of the attention given me in presenting life to you this morning. Honored guests, delegates, and friends. During the 86 years of its existence, the New York State Federation of Labor has played host to many distinguished governors of our state at its annual convention. The Federation has made it a custom to extend invitations to those governors whose administrations have been marked by a sincere concern for welfare of the wage governors who make up the vast bulk of the state's population. On that basis, we have invited the present governor to our convention of recent years and to this convention. We are fortunate and privileged that he has found it possible in the face of his many duties to be with us today. Governor Dewey has always displayed an understanding attitude towards the problems and needs of organized workers of our state. He has consistently maintained a friendly and receptive relationship with the legislative representatives of the New York State Federation of Labor. His door has always been open to us. Much better official legislation, such as the State Disability Benefit Law, would not be on the statute books today were it not for his leadership and support. It's a great honor and a privilege to present to you a good friend, the New York State Federation of Labor, and an outstanding administrator and chief executive, the Honorable Thomas C. Dewey, Governor of the State of New York. Mr. Murray, your eminence, and so many friends. This seems like old home week. I'm afraid I'm going to disappoint you this morning because I am not going to talk about the important and significant matters that we've had in common in the past year, the past years. There are other aspects of our society and of the world today which are so far overshadowing everything else in the world world that I want to take them up with you and them alone. A distinguished friend sat at my desk the other day and he said to me, I was in France at the outbreak of the Second World War. Not until that fateful hour did the French government mobilize its full arms strength and call for full conversion to war production. The leaders of the opposition made appropriate statements supporting the government. France was ready, belatedly, to work and to fight and she lost. I have a horrible feeling, my friend went on, that the whole world is now in the position I lived through in France 11 years ago. Ladies and gentlemen, that man was right. The people of France had been concentrating on their own individual welfare. When they did mobilize, they had neither the weapons, the trained leaders, nor the national determination which flows from facing reality, hard, cold reality. There was a failure to understand that the true nature of the desperate struggle that faced them was desperate until it was too late and black totalitarianism engulfed France and all Europe. In my solemn judgment, ladies and gentlemen, the free world stands in similar peril today. The threat is immediate, urgent, and perhaps desperate. We are standing, all of us, every single one of us, on a beachhead perhaps and perhaps as small as that pitiful little piece of land our young men are occupying and bleeding and dying on in Korea today. My purpose in speaking to you today is to say with all the earnestness at my command that we of the free world must wake up, that we must realize today the true nature of the onslaught against us by a new and more powerful totalitarianism. We must face reality if we're going to survive. Eleven years ago there was no single aggressive power controlling one-third of all the people of the world. In fact, the shoe was on the other foot. Germany, Italy, and Japan all added up together were only one-tenth of the people of the world, and yet they came perilously close to taking the world. Now I do not know the timetable of world communism. I am the last person in the United States whom they would take into their confidence. And I rather doubt whether anybody outside the Kremlin knows that timetable, and they may not have made up their minds yet. We may still have something to do with making up their minds if we're fast and tough. But some things are desperately obvious if we will only look. For four years I've been saying that everybody I could get to listen to me, that this crisis was rushing toward us at headlong speed. I've been saying, and I've been sneered at for it by a very large number of people, that national unity in this country was the most important thing of all because we face a very grave crisis. I said it two years ago, three years ago, four years ago. I say it to you today. Two and a half years ago, I said in a formal address, I described exactly what is happening today in Korea and what has happened in China since. And I said it day in and day out for two and a half years. I now say to you that while no one can tell the timetable in terms of days or even years, it is equally obvious that the communist schedule includes a similar attack on Formosa. If we defend Formosa, as we have announced that we will, then America will be put in the position of being at war with red China. The problem of military supply and again providing American youth to do much of the bleeding and dying is very grave indeed. United Nations support is questionable in the case of Formosa, since Great Britain and India have already recognized communist China, which may or may not include her claims to Formosa. On the other hand, if we do not defend Formosa, which our government has recently committed us to do, then that commitment will be found to be worthless and we shall lose still more of the confidence of the free world, which has become very shaky indeed. We have a very serious problem. That problem of Formosa is critical and it should be raised at the United Nations right now, rather than when it may be too late. The communist timetable obviously includes the invasion by satellite nations from Bulgaria through Greece to the Mediterranean. The communist timetable obviously includes an invasion of Yugoslavia, which may come at any time. The communist timetable obviously includes Tibet, where advance guards have already arrived. It includes Indochina and ultimately all Asia, the Philippines and Indonesia. They can do all this, my friends, without even showing their own hand or having one Russian soldier out of Russian borders. Everything. can be done through the fighting and the dying of satellite slave peoples. Russian troops need not need to come into action at all until they launch their attack on Iran, which also appears to be on the schedule and may be very high up. That attack will presumably go on through Iran, through Iraq, and through on through Israel into the Mediterranean again. The purpose would be to isolate Turkey and to grab the huge, colossal oil resources of the Near East without which Europe might not survive. The grand prize on the communist timetable, short of the world, is of course the industrial capacity of Germany and Japan. They feel that once they've got Germany and Japan, they then no longer have to fear American industrial production. It is regarded as certain that the Soviet Union has 200 divisions all ready for action. It's no secret that we have not 200, but 10 divisions, which represent the present limit of American armed strength. when and whether the Soviet finds it desirable to launch your 200 divisions through Western Europe, only time and expediency will tell. Now, those are the forecasts. Looking at our own situation for just a minute, we must assume that the Soviet has bombers which could reach the Northwest and the Northeast in this country and return to Russia, I assume we could retaliate if we were ready and had a place to land our planes. It is also believed that the Soviet could easily conduct what is called Operation Hot Springs. Charming idea. They send planes to bomb the great industrial plants and cities of this country, and then they have the pilots bail out and spend the rest of the war comfortably as prisoners of war at Hot Springs. Needless to say, we could not make similar plans with any confidence that our pilots would be similarly treated. It's reliably reported that the Red Korean forces contain large numbers of veterans of the successful communist conquest of China, including many Korean veterans of Soviet armies. This raises the specter of an invasion of Alaska. Believe me, this is a real one. Are we any better prepared to resist such an army which would be of any magnitude the Soviet willed? The first wave of Chinese satellite troops could be sent over and they might or might not succeed. I do not know. Then there would be the second wave and, if necessary, a third wave. At whatever cost in American blood we could defend the first. I do not know about the second or the third, but then there would still be tens of millions of able-bodied Chinese males to send on after those. If Alaska should fall, if the Soviets should acquire air bases and land bases for the hordes of Asia on the North Atlantic continent, it is difficult to be very optimistic about our future. Now, what is the condition of the free world? Obviously, the United States is the leader, yet apparently it was not even a contemplated part of our strategy to defend Korea. I understand, and I am sure it is true, that there were absolutely no plans for the defense of Korea when we moved in and no available adequate arms or trained manpower. I now raise the question whether, after this prolonged notice, there are today detailed military plans for the defense of any of the other sections of the world in which aggressive action is obviously going to occur and to which we as a nation are irrevocably committed. Even with the programs the President has now advanced, our effort and that of our friends is too much if we are living in a world at peace and far too little if we are living in a world at war. If there are any tanks of adequate size or inadequate numbers, why haven't some of them reached Korea after five weeks? If we have enough anti-aircraft guns and train crews in the entire United States to defend one single city, then the rest of the country is better defended than New York. And that's all I can speak about with authority. If there is any civil defense organization in Washington, what has it done? As near as I can find out, the state of New York through General Lucia's play is organizing the most effective civilian defense in the entire United States and this is entirely, mind you, without coordination or leadership from our national government. After our civilian defense program was launched, I thought you might like to know about what happened, a very nice young man called me up on the telephone. He was supposed to be in charge of civilian defense in Washington and he asked me not to make any plans which would be inconsistent with those of the federal government. So I said, which plans of the federal government? And he said, well, we hope to have some by September. And I said, look, have you got a guarantee that you can enforce that we won't be attacked in the meantime? And he said, no. I said, well then, if you don't mind, I'm going to go ahead doing my best to protect the people of New York and I'll be glad to lend you our plans when they're finished if you want them. meanwhile, our national government ended its fiscal year 30 days ago with a billion dollars appropriated by the Congress for the defense establishment lying in the treasury unappropriated, unallocated, and unused. I give you this summary of our position without the slightest interest or desire at this time to assess responsibility for it. I am not attacking the administration and I am not attacking the Congress. I haven't the slightest interest in how we got where we are. I am desperately concerned with where we are and where we are going. I state all of these facts to you because I believe our country and the whole free world are in imminent peril and as I have said so many times over these last four years the whole concept of human freedom is in danger of being wiped off the face of this earth. I do not ask total mobilization now. I do ask total planning which is now absent vastly accelerated production of arms and trained cadres to operate them so that if and when we do mobilize we will be wholly effective. We will never again never again have months or years in which to prepare. We must be physically ready at all times and even more importantly spiritually ready to resist a peril that we really understand. no one knows whether that peril is simply the ancient oriental device of inflicting a thousand cuts. As you know no one of those thousand cuts is fatal but over a long enough time the victim dies. It may be this threat against us it may be the thousand cuts or it may be all out atomic warfare which may be waged. It makes very little difference which kind of peril it is so long as we recognize and recognize immediately as a nation and as a free world that the time has come for national unity on a single objective and for sacrifice and unity throughout the entire free world. This I know the Soviet Union has expanded in five years to the point where she now controls 800 million people that's one third of the world's population. With each succeeding Soviet conquest more and more people of the free world have begun to doubt their capacity to stay free or even the desirability of remaining free and resisting. Just for one example it's been dismaying to see the failure of American diplomacy over the last decade in the Near East and to find Arab nations including Egypt already seeking to be neutral as if there were such a thing as neutrality in this struggle. If we weaken or if there is any increase in the flight to neutrality elsewhere in the world then I say in all solemnity to you freedom is lost. Listen to this you who may still believe the United States could live alone in a world or could survive without friends we all of us in the United States of America are only one fifteenth of this world. We need friends and we need friends who have confidence in our leadership and faith in our ideals. We need friends in vast numbers who believe as we do or we will not survive. If every male American between sixteen years and seventy years of age bore arms our numbers could still not even match the hordes of the Soviet satellites to say nothing of the Soviet herself. Up to now every conquest of communist aggression has been achieved by spending the blood of Soviet victims her satellites. Today young Americans are dying in Korea fighting the imprisoned misguided youth of North Korea. It is absolutely essential to the existence of human freedom that everyone opposed to communism unite to do his share. I do not now advocate arming a resurgent Germany or Japan. Of course I don't. But with all my heart I advocate inspiring their young men together with the remaining free peoples of the world to join us in the defense of their own liberties. How do you do that? Why the United Nations is the agency for the leadership of that force. It must not be thwarted by any maneuver or strategic retreat that Mr. Malik may propose on behalf of the Soviet Union tomorrow when he takes the chair. While we still have a preponderance of friends of freedom in the United Nations it should be asked to lead in calling for the building of a mighty force of those who believe in this single cause. This force for freedom should be recruited from every nation and every people who are willing to defend freedom against communist slavery. Specifically for example the Japanese constitution prohibits the maintenance of an army but it does not forbid individual Japanese serving the world organization for the preservation of peace. I am confident that under United Nations leadership and with a full understanding of the necessities the people of the free nations of the world will respond to a call if it is extended to them. I ask you to listen to me with all your hearts and minds in an appeal which may be premature by five or ten years. or it could be this could be the last thirty days in which we have to act. No one knows how much time we have. The only hope we have of making this appeal premature perhaps unnecessary prayerfully hoping that it could all look silly ten years from now will be if we respond with a sense of urgency and sacrifice to the nature of this world threat. The only way to avoid the dire things that are being plotted against us and our fellow human beings is to act swiftly in all areas at once with a boldness and skill which has not yet been brought to bear. I beg you to listen to me on this subject because this is not solely a task of those in public office whatever it may be. There's a limit to what public officers can do without public support. I ask you to listen and respond because you are the elected officers of organized labor in the state of New York and you have a mighty influence among our people and among the leaders of labor throughout the free world. There are of course no leaders of labor behind the Iron Curtain. It will not be popular for you as elected officers to accept a call to sacrifice but it's the duty of elected officers to make unpopular decisions and to provide leadership. You have a rare opportunity every one of you in this room. In your hands lies much of the stability of our economic system without which we cannot meet the long continued drain upon our limited national resources. If you say to me how long will this last all I can say is it must last until we have assured our freedom and the possibility of armed attack has disappeared. it will not be over by Christmas as some people are hoping. It will go on for a long time to come. You may ask how much must we sacrifice. I say to you whatever is necessary. We couldn't sacrifice enough for freedom. If we should sacrifice most of our physical possessions we still would not be reduced to the misery of the people behind the Iron Curtain. Recent evidence of mass buying by our people is a tragic display of selfishness and lack of understanding. When we're in trouble we customarily help our neighbors we don't steal from them. We don't go out and try to grab food and clothing they need. Moreover the only sure way to create shortages is to buy more than we need now. We're all in this together and five pounds of sugar in the cupboard won't make any difference in the job of saving freedom. I'm saying all this and I may be called an alarmist in fact I already have been. I'm not an alarmist I'm a realist. If our way of life is in danger the most important thing in the world is that we face it squarely and honestly not hysterically. Then we should tighten our belts compose our souls and go to work. I recently talked with a girl from Czechoslovakia. Her father was a successful farmer and a veterinarian on the side and she and her two sisters had lived with their parents throughout the second world war and then the communist domination rose and they left to keep their freedom abandoning everything they had in the world. They walked out with just the clothes on their backs because they felt the breath of liberty slipping away. I say to you that no physical poverty which any of us could suffer could equal the spiritual poverty of the loss of liberty. I've spoken of our own necessary industrial mobilization. More important is to rally the whole free world but even more important than military strength is that we mobilize spiritually to help our neighbors. The peasant family which has been divided in Korea some killed some sent to slave labor cries out for our aid. They cry out in Korean and we may not be able to hear it but they're God's children too. Other voices are crying from behind the iron curtain. We can't help them today but if we're not prepared to help our brothers and sisters of the free world we shall be earning any tragic fate that may befall us. There will be no peace of soul for any of us unless we respond to the call of suffering people as Americans always have responded. There will be no security or peace until we've learned that unity and sacrifice are the only road we can follow. We shall never save ourselves unless we first save others. The hour is very late. I do not know how late. Whether we still have a day or a year or three years or ten years not a second should be lost. Our government our people the United Nations and the spokesmen of the real of the free world should rally now. If we do all of us I don't know how much we'll save but at least we'll save out of this world our consciences our souls and we may have an even chance to save human liberty. Thank you Governor. We've heard the Governor of New York State the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey address the AFL conference and convention here in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Commodore. He's introduced by Mr. Murray President of the New York AFL and Mr. Martin Lacey of the Central Trades Union Council here in New York City acted as chairman in the inauguration of the program. The Honorable William O'Dwyer Mayor of the City of New York opened the program with the address of welcome to the AFL convention here in the ballroom of the Hotel Commodore. That is all from the Commodore. We return you now to the studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you. Thank you.
