The famous artist program usually heard at this time will not be presented this afternoon. In its place, your city station is bringing you the dedication ceremonies of the 300-bed James Ewing Hospital for Cancer at First Avenue between 67th and 68th Streets in Manhattan, which will be affiliated with the Memorial Center for Cancer and Allied Diseases. Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, Commissioner of Hospitals, will preside, and among those scheduled to speak this afternoon are Dr. Cornelius P. Rhodes, Director of Memorial Center, Mr. Reginald G. Kuhm, Chairman of the Board of Managers of the Memorial Center, Mr. Alfred P. Sloan, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research, Dr. Elise Strang-Lesperanz, Director of the Kate DePue-Strang Cancer Prevention Clinic, and Commissioner Frederick H. Zermuhlin of the Department of Public Works, under whose jurisdiction the 10-story, $5,700,000 hospital was constructed. The principal speaker this afternoon will be Mayor O'Dwyer. Cardinal Spellman will give the invocation and benediction. And now, to begin our program, we turn our microphone over to Commissioner of Hospitals, Dr. Marcus D. Kogel. Please rise for the national anthem. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Emanence, Mr. Coyne, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. This afternoon, we are privileged to have a Prince of the Church with us at the dedication of a cathedral of healing. And with the psalmists, we say, except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. It has been said that in no activity does man approach nearer to God than when he ministers to his fellow man. It is in the spirit of the church with us, and it is in the spirit of dedication. It is in that spirit that the James Ewing Hospital is being dedicated today. And it is in that spirit of dedication that I am privileged to call upon his eminence, Francis Cardinal Spellman, to pronounce the invocation. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yes I. Thank you, Father. One loving living father in heaven whose breath is life to man's body whose spirit is health to man's soul. Bless Quem escuchir this house of healing this temple of mercy and laboratory of discovery New York City's new haven for the helpless gain to seal the James Ewing James Ewing Hospital as a home where thy glory dwellest, thou who gloriest in mercy deeds, curing the afflicted and destroying dread diseases. Keep thy merciful presence abiding within its walls, quickening with divine and human hope and health those that enter here for care and cure. Bless those that labor here in this hospital, with thee and for thee in thy workshop of mercy. For thine is the light finding dark causes. Thine is the love supporting great labors. Thine is the life renewing doomed bodies. Thine is the hope girding worn spirits. Thine is the glory conquering disease. O eternal God, designer of nature's mysteries, it is thou who prepare his thoughts in men's minds, unlocking to them the secrets of the universe, unloosing for them the forces of life, revealing to them the laws of health, inspiring scientists to wondrous discoveries, performing through them thy ministry of healing. We pray thee, God of mercy and of science, that this house of healing ever may be a saving sanctuary, a lighthouse casting beams of blessings abroad, glorifying thee with miracles of resurrection, lightening hearts with comfort and hope. On this dedicatory day of this, thy new temple, devoutly we thank you, Lord of life and of love. Humbly we beg thee, great master of science, teach us to use knowledge to cure and to save, helping to build a better world for tomorrow, for a man's happier, healthier life and for peace. This is thy will, O God of mercy and for health and for life. And indeed all upon other who are able to relieve peace, art and for work, gain to be a happy city of auctions, sing us withrekly Humbly we beg thee, great master of science, teach us to use knowledge to cure and to save, helping to build a better world for tomorrow, for a man's happier, healthier life and for peace. This is thy will, O God of mercy and science, thy holy will that we pray may be done on earth as it is in heaven, for man's earthly welfare and for man's eternal salvation. Amen. We are met here this afternoon to dedicate the James Ewing Hospital devoted to the treatment of and research in neoplastic diseases. This meeting is a real historic occasion for our city. How urgently this hospital is needed is evident from the fact that as our population increases in age, the incidence of cancer also rises. Nor is cancer limited to those in the afternoon of life. It strikes the helpless infant, the adolescent child, and men and women in their most promising and productive periods. It casts its malignant shadow upon every home. In New York City alone, the disease has increased from a mortality rate of 136 per 100,000 during the decade between 1930 and 39 to 185.8, approximately 186 per 100,000 in 1949. Presenting a challenge which calls for the massing of all the knowledge, the skills and techniques that science is possessed of, plus all the humaneness and the love of mankind that can be encompassed within the spirit of civilized humanity. And it is this great harmony of skills and attitudes that we shall find here at the James Ewing Hospital. This hospital which we are dedicating today, and the Francis Delafield Hospital which will be dedicated later this month, are partial answers to the challenge of the second greatest cause of death in the city of New York. Moreover, they are an earnest indication of the cooperation that exists in our city between the municipal and the voluntary hospital system, and with all the medical colleges. And they are the answer to those who preach that there can never be a real report between government and voluntary effort. Here we have a formula. In the best democratic traditions, government and voluntary effort, united by mutual trust in an all-out offensive against the greatest of all of man's enemies. Sympathy for the sick and an understanding of their problems are a measure of the greatness of a man. He to whom the woes of his fellow man appeal, and more than that, he who understands their problem is by these standards a great man. No man is a great man, but even a greater man is he whose sympathy and understanding go beyond emotions and resolve themselves into practical effort for the alleviation of these woes and the resolution of these problems. By these standards, no man is greater in our city than its chief executive, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. I come now to what is to me, and I am sure to all, a sad note in these ceremonies to say farewell to our mayor. The city's thousands of sick will miss his kind understanding, his zeal, to better their lot. The city will lose a great administrator. It was under Mayor O'Dwyer's administration and under his guidance that our great hospital construction and reconstruction program was gotten underway. This beautiful new edifice, the second cancer hospital that we will dedicate up at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center next week, the 570-bed tuberculosis and chronic disease hospital on the grounds of Kings County Hospital, which we intend to open the latter part of this year. The 2,000-bed Burdus Cola Memorial Hospital on Welfare Island, which will be opened early next year, forever will be monuments to a great chief executive. Beyond that, the $150 million hospital construction and reconstruction program, the greatest in the history of our city, would not have been possible without the very real help of our principal speaker, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of our city. Thank you. Dr. Corgle, Your Eminence, Dr. Rhodes, distinguished ladies and gentlemen present at the opening of this hospital, I'm grateful to Dr. Corgle for putting me on first. I have a few things that are absolutely screaming from City Hall and I must leave at once. Dr. Corgle, Your Eminence, Dr. Corgle for putting me on first. To come here today and see this cancer hospital actually swinging into action against one of the greatest enemies to public health is gratifying. And this is a good time for me to make a point. A hospital program doesn't develop overnight. Ladies and gentlemen, the first thing I did in 1946 in breaking ground was breaking ground for this hospital. It has taken all of these years to make it into a growing concern. I express now the gratitude of the city to the Memorial Center for making the ground upon which this hospital rests a gift to the city. I also gratefully acknowledge all the help that all the volunteer hospitals have done for the city and are doing. You have no conception of the difficulty of meeting the demand for medical care for the indigent poor. Even though I tell you that we raised the budget for our city hospitals from $37 million in 1946 to $81 million this year. Believe me when I tell you that that only touches lightly the problem of handling the needs of our needy citizens. The volunteer hospitals, a great, great series of institutions. The ones that his eminence the Cardinal gives. All the other hospitals of a volunteer nature that take our cases. We have raised the contribution that we make to them for city cases, but it falls far, far short of what it costs them to give this service. Ladies and gentlemen, now that this one is open, we are adding a few beds, approximately 300, to hospital care of cancer. Delafields next week will be for the same purpose. As Dr. Kogel told you, the program of improving our hospitals has been big. The need has been great. The 570 beds for tuberculosis over in Brooklyn will be ready in October. And as he mentioned, the Burd S. Kohler, 2,000 beds over on the island, which you can see, will be ready by next spring for chronic disease. Then, not only then, will you have arrived at a point in our public hospitals where you can take the chronic disease patients out of your wards, where at the present time they're in inconveniencing and making difficult the administration of our municipal hospital plan for acute medical cases. Then you can begin to see the improvement. The $150 million program for rehabilitation and new construction will follow. It will make a total of $192 million in six years that we have allocated for this work. The $150 million should be spent. Dr. Kogel would not want that responsibility. It's too much. Dr. Berniker, who proceeded, Dr. Kogel wouldn't want it. So what we did was to set up in the law a committee, a board of civilian people. Dr. Kogel, who proceeded, is a board of civilian people in the hospital administration made up of that type of people. We appointed a board staggering out their terms so that you'll always have a continuing hospital board to deal with our municipal hospitals. Dr. Kogel, not only for the construction program, but to elevate and maintain the high standards that this board has been trying to get in their individual capacities over a number of years under the whole medical profession once. This board has been set up. This is the only guarantee that Dr. Kogel and myself can give to the people of this city, that the program will be carried out without letter of faith in the solely dedicated to the interests of the needy state of the city. With that, my gratitude again to Memorial Center, to Dr. Roe, to all in, had anything to do with making it possible to add to the facilities of the city for cancer patients with cancer research. Dr. Kogel, who made a good God who made it possible, continue his blessings on it and everyone connected with it. So that when it brings its message of hope to the soul who is without hope, so that it gives a laugh to a human being who has forgotten in his dread how to laugh. That is the work that God surely will bless. Thank you very much. There must be something magnificent in the ideals of this center which can command the services and the means of the community. And the means of such outstanding men of our country as Mr. Reginald G. Coombe, chairman of the board of managers of the Memorial Center for Cancer and Illyed Diseases, and his associates, and the thousands of others whom they, in turn, inspire to serve. And there must be something also in the inherent makeup of these men and women which prompts them to give of themselves so unstintingly. It's Uhmlsky. Thank you very much for this love of joy, so thank you R Douglas, as a living friend and family will be well taken too short… Certainly I entirely do not create a good wonder to you this land of a half human, every grows, every gro 저희… This land of a huge thanks to all mankind as in a long time I highly dinheiro, without hope… Know держ 사uku at all my fırs and the damn nearer heroes. To all women, mayw all of lying people approaching the chances of the några to each other to be good, It is my pleasure to ask Mr. Coombe to speak to us and to fellow man. It is now my pleasure to ask Mr. Combs to speak to us. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lillian, all you ladies and gentlemen who have come here today because of your deep interest in the problem of cancer as a public health problem. We are gathered here today to dedicate for use the finest hospital which the ingenuity of man could devise and construct in aid of those who suffer from cancer. It is the property of the city of New York, conceived by the city for the benefit of its citizens in consultation with a professional group which has been devoted to the study of cancer as a specialty for the past 66 years. The building stands upon land deeded to the city for the purpose by Memorial Center so that the Ewing Hospital may lie adjacent to and contiguous with the three other units comprising Memorial Center, the Sloan Kettering Institute, Memorial Hospital Proper, and the Strength Prevention Clinic. Including those at the Ewing, Memorial Center will now have under its care nearly 600 bed cases of cancer and in its clinics many thousands of ambulatory cases coming regularly for treatment. In welcoming the city through the Ewing as our partner in the work to which we at Memorial are dedicated, I should like to tell you briefly of the philosophy, policies, and problems of the center in which the Ewing now takes its place as a vital unit. Our primary task is the study of cancer in man. Hence, the very heart and core of our center lies in the human cases to which we give the most effective therapy possible within the limits of human knowledge. We believe human knowledge must be fluid, not static. And that therefore the techniques of therapy resulting from it should also be fluid, becoming constantly obsolete as increased knowledge introduces improved methods. It is our conviction that a staff of experienced and intelligent men and women observing and treating the greatest number and variety of human cancer patients ever assembled at one point cannot fail to expose some of the present secrets of the disease and in so doing bring about a vast amelioration of it. With this objective, we have assembled two general classifications of staff personnel, the research workers of the laboratories and the clinical personnel charged with care and treatment. It is not wise, however, that these two groups should work in isolation one from the other. They must be in constant contact so that the ideas and philosophies of one may flow into and be interchanged with the ideas and philosophies of the other. Then and only then will the research staff become constantly aware of the need for the development of agents of practical use in treatment. And in turn, the ideas of the clinician not become vested in the infallibility of techniques of treatment accepted at standard at any given time. An investigative attitude of mind must prevail. We cannot isolate ourselves and our work from others, for it must be made available wherever cancer is to be treated. Hence, in addition to the functions of research and of care, it is our obligation also to teach all we know in both of these areas. Thus, the research worker and the clinician must have a little of each of the other in him. And both must have the ability to pass his techniques and findings on to others so that they may go out and apply them at points elsewhere beyond our walls. So that the function of teaching may be carried on under the aegis of a top university, there has just been established at the Sloan Kettering Institute a graduate division of Cornell University Medical College. Greatly strengthening our educational possibilities, this will also bring about a closer collaboration with one of the outstanding general hospitals of the country, just across the street, the New York Hospital. In a sense, therefore, two great medical centers, one in general medicine and one specializing in cancer, have pooled their knowledge and their efforts for the benefit of patients at the Ewing Hospital. These splendid buildings, equipped with the most modern of apparatus and facilities which you see about you, have come into existence at great cost. Four parties have joined their resources to this end. They are you, the general public, Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr., Mr. Alfred B. Sloan, Jr., and now the great city of New York. To operate Memorial Center costs over $5 million annually. And that does not include the cost of operation of the new Ewing Hospital, which will be met by the city. Since neither Memorial Hospital nor the Sloan Kettering Institute nor the Strang Clinic are heavily endowed, approximately $1,600,000 for resaved and $200,000 for the hospital, or a total of $1,800,000 must be raised annually from outside sources. The United States Public Health Service, the American Cancer Society, the New York City Committee, the Damon Runyon Fund, the Atomic Energy Committee, the National Cancer Institute, and other professional donors provide a substantial part of this. The rest must come from you, the general public. Now I mention this because I think you should realize, counter to the general opinion that prevails, that Memorial is not a wealthy institution. Yet I know that the public, believing our way to be for its benefit and of high standards, will continue its support. Lego Looks and its standards of care and its... ...you have done your public service, and us a great honor. I can assure you, Dr. Rhodes and his able staff will do their utmost to discharge the responsibilities you now impose upon them for the best care obtainable of your people sent here to the Ewing because of cancer. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Coombe. A hospital is probably the most complex and complicated of structures in the building art. No structure demands more care, more foresight, precision and planning than one which must meet the exacting demands at once of a sick patient, the doctor, the nurse, the pharmacist, the social worker, the engineer, and other professional and non-professional people who serve them, and at the same time provide facilities for research in the basic and auxiliary and medical sciences. The progress of hospital building has kept pace with the progress of medicine and medical research. The hospital has evolved from the simple domiciliary structure of almost recent times into the magnificent institution which we are dedicating here today. and coordinating all of these activities that have brought to fruition this physical plant has been the Department of Public Works of the City of New York, whose Commissioner, the Honorable Frederick H. Zamulin, it is now my privilege to introduce to you. Commissioner Zamulin. Commissioner Gamble. Stella Gamble. Your Eminence, Dr. Colwell, Distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen, much more than the formal dedication of a hospital is now involved that is to attend this birthday for this beautiful modern structure modern structure filled with the promise of new future cures and relief for the suffering is concrete and steel evidence that we are well on our way with the largest hospital construction program in the world to give to the people of the city of new york the very finest possible medical care it was only relatively a short time ago that mayor o'dwyer and his administration were faced with the problem of providing long overdue hospital facilities for this city we not only needed new hospitals but our existing hospitals most of them more than 50 years old are badly in need of modernization and repairs the war and a subsequent shortage of materials and labor high construction costs the city's limited financial limited finances and the fact that the overlong deferred public improvements also were needed to meet the city's school housing health and other requirements didn't make the job any easier to his everlasting credit mayor dreyer faced the problem squarely and promptly soon after assuming office he set in motion this 42 million dollar hospital construction program that could be undertaken immediately it soon became apparent that the tremendous program and the construction needs of the city would require much more than the sorely pressed capital budget and debt limit could sustain mayor dreyer sponsored the legislation by which you people last year were able to approve a 150 million dollar bond issue outside the city debt limit to be used solely for hospital construction as commissioner of the department of public works which is charged with the design and construction of hospitals i am proud to report to you people that the entire program is well underway our latest report for the first six months of this year shows that four structures already have been completed completed at a construction cost of 17 and a half million dollars and that we have under construction at this time five hospitals to cost an additional 53 million dollars to give us a construction program thus far this year of over 70 million dollars we also have underway a hospital design program calling for 127 million dollars of hospital construction another 10 million dollars of hospital construction and the other 10 million dollars will be used over a five-year period for the modernization and rehabilitation of some of our existing hospitals the mayor and his administration may be well proud of this program the mayor may be well proud of it as a personal achievement since his announcement that he would accept another post in the service of his country many have been eloquent in their tribute to his record at this time i should like to add my own tribute and sincere thanks to the mayor for his cooperation and guidance which have enabled my department during his administration to break every production record in the history of the department but no words at my command can match the lasting tribute contained in the building that we dedicate here today speeches are soon forgotten the mayor to the mayor to the mayor to the mayor to the mayor to the mayor to his hometown he will see public improvements such as this hospital as a living testimonial and a more eloquent tribute than i could voice to him today i should like also to point out at this time that none of this hospital program would have been possible without the forward thinking and planning of our most able hospital commissioner dr cobert and his predecessor dr bernicke and his entire medical staff also to the members of the board of estimate who may well share the triumph at this moment as evidence that they have served their city well now let me tell you a little about this structure it is impressive appearance is in complete harmony with the other buildings in this medical group covering the entire square block structurally its hidden strength and quality equals its outer appearance the entire building is founded on rock and the frame is of structural steel with floor slabs of reinforced concrete its exterior walls of brick rise above a granite base and a slate facing to the second floor the 12-story building with two basements has a gross volume of two and a half million cubic feet equal to nearly 5 000 single family houses and its cost is five million six hundred thousand dollars the site as you have been told was provided by the memorial hospital the memorial hospital it occupies the entire west end of the block of the sloan-kittering institute this 275 bed cancer hospital was designed by the architectural firm of skidmore owns and merrill under the direction of my department in direct charge of the work was the director of the bureau of architecture director of the bureau of buildings appointed jay farrow assisted by albert bauer architect for hospitals on design and william barry chief of the construction the plans were started way back in february of 1946 and were completed in 10 months excavation was started in january 1947 and today you see the completed structure which embraces the latest developments for the medical and physical well-being of patients important it will double the present cancer facilities of the department of hospital now as a practicing engineer and architect i want to thank all the employees of my department whose skill and toil went into the making of this public improvement they may well share the pride the plaudits and the gratitude that accompany the completion of any large construction job well done and now dr cogel it is my privilege as a commissioner of the department of public works to officially turn over to you this fully completed hospital ready for service thank you very much commissioners and newland very happy to accept this magnificent structure the influence of a great teacher upon his disciples is a chain reaction of goodness not alone are they affected by it but they in turn radiate the knowledge and skills which they have acquired to their own disciples dr lesperance was closely associated with dr ewing for many years as an associate and as a student it is a pleasure for me to call upon her to tell us something about dr ewing the great teacher but greater still the kindly human being who is so intensely and personally interested in the welfare of all of his patients i it is my great privilege to introduce dr lesperance the director of the cape the pew strang cancer prevention clinic dr lesperance the completion of this magnificent institution is a fitting tribute to the memory of a great man in the field of cancer it does not fully indicate the far-reaching effect the dynamic personality of this simple dignified man the power of the medical man had on medical men and women who were fortunate enough to come under his influence his untiring energy and enthusiasm his desire for perfection his vision of the great future in the study of cancer made him one of the most inspiring figures in medicine during the past 50 years every great man is entitled to have his shadow and i enjoyed that rare privilege of this close association from 1910 until his death in 1943 with one of the most brilliant yet human individuals i have ever known dr james ewing those were the years of his greatest activity as professor of pathology at cornell university medical college writing his masterpiece neoplastics diseases planning the future of a great cancer center which would develop through expansion of the activities of the small hospital on 160 anyone who attended the conferences there during this time felt the vast power and vision which ewing brought the cancer problems his energy and capacity for concentrated mental work were bounded he felt that a task once undertaken must if humanly possible be finished he wrote me one summer i spend my mornings at memorials where cancer runs this uninterrupted course in large numbers at night i take approval meals and read or write on my book till nearly midnight i admit it grows tiredly but i am going to keep it up until this book is finished or finishes me the next day few who read this standard work on neoplastic disease realize that every detail of this book was done by ewing himself his aim was to gather together in one volume a short but complete study of neoplastic disease holidays and sundays were spent at the same driving pace and he said it is small wonder that this continuous tempo should have culminated in severe characterisms of facial neuralgia he often said this is the price i have paid for my book his loyalty to his friends was remarkable for once you were a friend of ewing's he accepted that friendship as an obligation to minimize your failings and emphasize your good qualities he was prodigal of his time to those who came for information or help in any or all problems i have seen him spend an entire afternoon with a troubled student or an anxious patient there was very little in ewing of the austerity considered requisite in the public picture of a scientist for he thoroughly enjoys in frequent relaxation such as swimming tennis motoring or a stimulating game a bridge in all of these pastimes he excelled today we see one of his dreams realized the establishment of a hospital for the prevention and treatment of cancer a complete research institute and now a hospital for chronic cancer cases it is unfortunate that he could not see this dream come true but we who were closely associated with him know that his was the vision and his was the faith that laid the foundation of this world-famous cancer center this beautiful building is a tribute to his greatness as a scientist and a physician but the tribute that can never be destroyed the joy is carried in the heart of those who knew him as a man of vision integrity and courage whose kindness and loyalty were priceless possessions to those who were privileged to know him as a friend the city of the memorial center for cancer your city station has been bringing you the dedication ceremony of the james ewing hospital for cancer located at first avenue between 67th and 68th street guest speakers have included marcus d coble commissioner of hospitals who has acted as chairman the honorable william o'dwyer mayor of the city of new york reginald g coom chairman of the board of managers of the memorial center for cancer and allied diseases commissioner of the department of public works cedric h jermuelen and finally the last speaker elise strang lesfranc director of the cape de puce strang cancer prevention clinic are the first place and now we invite you to stay tuned for symphonic martinez which will follow in just a few moments we return you to our studios in the municipal building in downtown manhattan this is the municipal broadcasting system