On this beautiful day in the month of May, the Borough of Brooklyn, New York's greater borough, has turned out in a Loyalty Day Parade, one of the traditional factors each year at this time. And under the auspices of the Kings County Veterans of Foreign Wars, a magnificent pageant has been arranged here in the Borough of Brooklyn. And it is now our distinct privilege and pleasure to present the Senior Vice Commander, and the Vice Commander Thomas M. Regan of the Veterans of Foreign War of Kings County. Vice Commander Regan. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen of Brooklyn. It's a beautiful day here in Brooklyn. I'm not going to try to give you a description of the parade, but believe me, it's beautiful. The schoolchildren are out in all their glory. The Catholic Youth Organization and all the other schools have turned out to give us a helping hand and showing our appreciation for our one American way of life. Without further ado, I'm going to present to you our County Commander for a few words of the brief history of the Loyalty Day celebration in Brooklyn. Mr. Vincent J. DiMettino, Commander of Kings County Council Veterans of Foreign Wars. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It is with great pleasure that I address you on this fifth anniversary of Loyalty Day. To those in the audience who are not familiar with the origin and purpose of Loyalty Day, let me explain the reason behind this celebration. Five years ago, a group of patriotic Americans, members of Brooklyn Council, veterans of foreign wars of the United States, met to determine what could be done to stem the growing apathy of the American public toward the very principles and ideals for which untold thousands of Americans laid down their lives in two world wars. It was alarming to us as citizens, just returned from the field of battle, that May Day, originally a day of tribute to the men who made labor unions possible, had been taken over by a group of individuals whose only thoughts were for personal aggrandizement and to promote ideas and ideals foreign to our American way of life. We knew that this small group, mainly communists, would never integrate in the melting pot that has made America great. Hence, a plan of action was enacted. The plans that were formulated were not anti-anything, for we knew that being anti-without constructive remedies would not alleviate this or any other condition. It was therefore decided that May Day should be rededicated to the principles of Americanism and that our celebration would not be anti-but only pro-America. One member of this group said we should call it Loyalty Day, for loyalty to the American flag, a belief in God, and the American way of life were the only prerequisite necessary for anyone to join. This group then enlisted the aid of all other major veteran organizations, and in conjunction with fraternal, religious, and civic groups, had held the first Loyalty Day parade on May 1st, 1947. Some 70,000 loyal Americans paraded while untold thousands watched. Today, this parade has surpassed even the fondest dreams of the originators. For more than 200,000 marches, comprising a cross-section of our borough and neighboring communities, are participating while many thousands watched and many more thousands sit at home and listen. Originally a Brooklyn dream, it spread like wildfire throughout the entire United States. Today, 44 states celebrate Loyalty Day by official proclamation from their governors. We in Brooklyn Council, veterans of foreign wars of the United States, the birthplace of Loyalty Day, feel proud to have been instrumental in bringing this about. For we feel that the dreams, ideals, and principles which our forefathers demonstrated when they formed this new nation in 1776 are truly exemplified by the many thousands participating here and throughout our nation today in a common bond of friendship. This parade is a demonstration of the true feelings which the people have. Perhaps not every marcher is in step, but in democracies, no one is taught from childbirth how to march. Each participant today is an individualist, and each has the same opportunity to achieve whatever he sets as his goal. Mere words are not enough to describe the sight before my eyes as I speak. These many thousands joining with Brooklyn Council, veterans of foreign wars, and their rededication of faith to their country and to God truly express America and her beliefs and ideologies. These 75,000 children from the Catholic Youth Organization, from the Catholic Youth Organization, which comprises the first section of this parade, gives me peace of mind and knowledge that so long as we have youngsters such as these who are steeped in the basic rules of democracy and the principle of God, that these United States and our ideologies of democracy shall always remain unchanged. For here today, you have seen the future leaders of America, and I say to them, good luck, God bless you, for yours is a heavy work burden in the world today. Thank you, Commander D. Matina. At this time, I'd like to present the Honorable Charles Breitbart, Justice of the Municipal Court, who was one of our reviewing officers. Judge Breitbart. It's all right this way. Mr. Chairman, dignity, ladies and gentlemen, we are witnessing here the greatest demonstration of loyalty to the cause of freedom and liberty, and it is a manifestation against communism, against the octopus which is spreading its tentacles over the free nations of the world in an endeavor to strangulate and destroy them. Communism is an atheistic ideology rooted in the philosophy of the police state and denies the basic right to individual liberty and freedom, the right to worship God in accordance with one's dictates. All of these letter prerogatives are part and parcel of our American way of life. The communists have built an organization founded upon this honor, tyranny, and deliberate policy of falsity. They are now infiltrating into our public schools. Evidence exists, as shown recently at the teachers' hearing before the Board of Education. The communist influence is present in our public schools. There is danger of indoctrinating our immature and undeveloped children with foreign ideologies. We know very little what goes on behind the Iron Curtain. They know all about us. We get the feeling we are like sitting ducks waiting to be knocked off. We do know that Stalin dictates the policy of the American Communist Party, a complete and comprehensive filing system is kept in Moscow, which affords the commissars of Moscow a detailed picture of everything that happens in America, not only in their own party, but every face of American life that may be important to them. There is no doubt that Soviet generals are now masterminding the Chinese campaign in Korea, killing our sons and dear ones. Do you realize what would happen here if the communists succeeded in the attainment of their objectives? If every American faced the reality of what fulfillment of the communist objective would mean to him, he would be inspired to work harder to protect and preserve the principles of Americanism. Let us, therefore, take proper, constructive and efficient means to frustrate the designs of the communists in America. It is an unprecedented problem, but we can do it. Men, women, and children of America, the necessity to preserve all our freedoms places a duty of each of us to do his or her bit in order that the government of the people, for the people, and by the people shall not perish from the earth. The loyalty demonstration shall be Americans' pledge of undying devotion, loyalty, and allegiance to our country. It is the answer to the communists, reds, and fellow travelers that America is strong and unyielding to an atheistic and political ideology which seeks to annihilate and destroy our nation and all the free democracies of the world. And to you, veterans of foreign wars, and to all the veterans and to my fellow Americans, I offer my tribute and felicitations for this splendid foresight and initiative in making this reality to be the greatest manifestation of true Americanism. Thank you. Thank you, Judge Breitbart. Ladies and gentlemen, of the City of New York, at this time, I would like to present to you our Senior Reviewing Officer, Major General Leon W. Johnson, Commander of the Continental Air Force of the United States with headquarters at Mitchell Field who only yesterday received his latest decoration, the Distinguished Service Medal for his service when he commanded the Third Air Force in England. He is also a holder of the Congressional Medal of Honor and a real true American. At this time, I give you Major General Leon W. Johnson. General Johnson. Mr. Burrow, President, organizers of this Loyalty Day Parade, ladies and gentlemen, it is a moving thing and very touching when we see young America on the march in the right direction, and I'm deeply touched by it and proud to be here. Brooklynites are fanatically loyal to Brooklyn wherever the world they get together, and in the Army, Navy, and Air Force assemblages around the world, there are always loud cheers for the local boys and girls when the word Brooklyn was mentioned. The loyalty of you fans to the Brooklyn Dodgers is almost a national phenomenon, almost as great as that of a Texan to the Lone Star State. You're not so conscious of your loyalty to America, probably because you take for granted that you and all others are loyal. But unfortunately, we do know from experience that there are disloyal forces at work in our country. So if you like the Brooklyn Dodgers, if you like Brooklyn, if you like New York, and if you believe in your country, give it the conscious loyalty you give your ball team and your city. If you want to go off on a tangent and be radical or do something unusual, make sure it's an American tangent, not one inspired from Moscow. America, the land of the free, envied around the world, is not free by God-given right. It is free because you and your forebears fought to assure that freedom. Be alert. Make sure that we don't lose that freedom from within. As was said many years ago, my country, God grant that it may be right, but my country, right or wrong. Thank you. Thank you, General Johnson. At this time, I'd like to make a few remarks myself. The music that you've been hearing in the background has been the, for the courtesy of the police department, band Fife Drummond Bugle Corps of the city of New York. And the only red we see around here today is the red in the United States flag and the little red dot that I see here on the microphone. I don't know what it's for, but it's here. We have in the reviewing stand here today, Commissioner of the Board of Transportation, the Honorable G. Joseph Minetti. I'm going to ask to give his impressions of what he sees here today. Honorable G. Joseph Minetti. Thank you very much, Mr. Regan. This is a great demonstration. It's a tremendous demonstration. Skies are clear. The weather is perfect for parade. We all should congratulate the veterans of foreign wars for a job well done. The officers of the VFW and Tom Regan, the chairman of this Loyalty Day Parade. The credit for this great demonstration goes to them. It seems to me that all of Brooklyn has turned now as the witness this annual Loyalty Day Parade sponsored by the VFW. This is a wonderful demonstration of Americanism, of patriotism, of loyalty to our country and to our flag. It's a great sight to see the youth of our great community in this line of march with civic, fraternal and veterans groups. To me, I would dare say that this is the greatest Loyalty Day Parade ever held in Brooklyn. It surpasses any of those that we've witnessed here from the steps in front of Borough Hall in previous years. And all the credit to this great demonstration must go to the veterans of foreign wars. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Manetti. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, I have the supreme privilege of presenting to you the number one citizen of Brooklyn, the Honorable John Cashmore, Borough President of the Borough of Brooklyn. President Cashmore. Thanks very much. We have seen once again why Brooklyn is the greatest city's greatest borough. But today, even this time doesn't seem to do full justice to our people. Actually, I believe I am entitled to say, in all honesty and sincerity, that Brooklyn is the greatest and most patriotic community in the whole United States. What other community, if any, could produce a demonstration to equal this in numbers, enthusiasm, and reverence to God and country? Today, countless thousands of our children are marching. Altogether, I believe, between 150,000 and 200,000 people have turned out for this demonstration. Our people are proving once again, as they have done so often, their wholehearted patriotism and loyalty to our country and all our sacred ideals. We are demonstrating, as far as the 3 million people of Brooklyn are concerned, that our loyalty is undivided. We want no part of communism. We oppose and resist it and will fight it to the very limit. Today, let me suggest this challenge. If the slave masters of Soviet Russia aren't afraid of the truth, let them open their muzzle press and radio and allow their people to have a fair and honest account of this demonstration and all that it means. Let movies and photographs of this great parade be shown to the people of Russia so that they may know we are united against communism. But I can predict with absolute certainty that nothing of this kind will be allowed in Russia. The Soviet rulers won't dare because they're afraid of the truth. Soviet Russia has crushed all freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of the press, and freedom of assembly. Red China has become one vast concentration camp. American missionaries, including some from Brooklyn, have been hunted down, imprisoned, and tortured. All of us know what we have to do to resist communism, aggression, in Korea. This is the evil we must fight, communism. By this demonstration, we show we are aware of its dangers and are united against it. On behalf of the borough of Brooklyn, let me thank and congratulate all who have had a part in this demonstration and all who have helped to make it the great and magnificent success that it is. the honor of the borough of Brooklyn. Thank you, Commissioner. And now, Vice Chairman and Commander Thomas M. Regan. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time, I give you the Honorable Clarence Wilson, magistrate of the City of New York. Clarence, Judge Wilson. Friends of the on-scene audience, we are witnessing here today at Borough Hall, Brooklyn, a fine demonstration of love and loyalty and respect to our flag and to our country. However, this would be of little meaning unless we extend that same love, loyalty and respect to each other, members of our own community. We are, as a nation, leading the world and we must lead the world by a united home front. We need this home front in order to properly lead the world to the power of peace, righteousness and success. We know that we are threatened from abroad. All the things that are dear to us stand in danger. But with a united home front, we may not fear any results. We know that we shall prevail, but we must be alert, cautious and always ready to strike at home and abroad. May God help us to live up to this duty task. Thank you, Judge Wilson. At this time, ladies and gentlemen of Brooklyn, I would like to present to you the Grand Master of the Free and Accepted Masons of the State of New York, Mr. Richard A. Rollins. Mr. Rollins. My fellow citizens of Brooklyn, I want to tell you how glad I am to be back in my birthplace, Brooklyn. I've been tremendously impressed with this parade this morning. It's a great demonstration of that great country of ours, America, the only country today where people can get out and parade voluntarily without being ordered to parade. I'm tremendously impressed that these children and those participating are able to determine for themselves what church they shall go to, what they shall do, and have the right of free speech and free assembly. I congratulate Brooklyn on this splendid demonstration. thank you, Mr. Rollins. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the representative of the governor of the state of New York, the Honorable John Ryan, Assemblyman Brooklyn. Mr. Ryan. Mr. Chairman, honored and distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to be here with you once again on this fifth anniversary of Loyalty Day. I am particularly pleased because this is an affair in which I have had some part from its inception back in 1948 and at a time when the light of freedom is blinking out in one country after another across the face of the world, it is good to know that here in America our people are still dedicated to maintaining that torch of freedom and holding it high. There are those amongst us who would extinguish that flame, but we know now that there are many more who have dedicated their lives to the issue that that flame shall never die. The veterans of foreign wars of the United States are to be congratulated on the splendid demonstration that they have staged here today and so too is every organization, civic and fraternal, church and social, which has joined in making this day the grand success that it is. So long as America has sons and daughters that can unite like this in a proclamation of their beliefs in their country and its institutions, that country need have no fear of the future, whatever it may bring. Thank you. Thank you, Congressman Ryan. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the man who was responsible for the coordination of the Catholic youth in this parade, the Reverend John H. Walker of the Diocese of Brooklyn Catholic Youth Organization. Father Walker. What deep significance underlies the purpose of this tremendous patriotic demonstration of the Loyalty Day Parade, the thousands of marching Catholic youth have been stepping in cadence not only to the martial music of the bands we have heard, but their steps are living again the unforgettable and sacred memories of our first early Americans. What so proudly was hailed then is again being given faithful tribute in the heart of Brooklyn today. But now more than ever before, there is need for pause amidst this stirring demonstration to consider first causes. These young people are proclaiming to the world loyalty to God and to country, two devotions that are inseparable in a state where human beings are acknowledged to possess a soul as well as a body. And just so long as young America adheres to the firm foundation that man is endowed by his creator with certain inalienable rights and that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, only then will America be the home of the free and the brave. The great numbers of Catholic youth marching today have given us a shining example of not merely praying for peace, but acting for peace. A vertical line goes directly from the heart of each marcher to God Almighty. Peace will be affected only when every man has drawn this same vertical line. For the boys and girls in today's demonstration, the parade is a lifting up of heads from the daily tasks of home, school, and jobs in order to unite their prayers and actions for peace. Such direction of purpose cannot help but bring about an effect upon the whole of the human society. Their actions pledge their allegiance to freedom and justice, to ultimate peace and brotherly love among all the nations of the world. Thank you. Thank you, Father Walker, for those inspired words. At this time, I would like to present to you the Commissioner of the City Planning Commission, General John J. Bennett, the City of New York. Honorable Bennett, Mr. Bennett. This is indeed a thrilling sight to see these thousands and thousands of young Americans marching by the grandstand here professing their faith in America. It's good to know that patriotism is at a high pitch these days when we are passing through such troublesome times. I congratulate the Brooklyn Council of the Veterans of Foreign Wars on organizing this splendid demonstration. It makes me feel proud that I am an American. We owe everything that we have to America, to its system of government, to its American way of life. We should thank God for it and ask Him to preserve America and American institutions for all of our children and their children and generations to come. Thank you, Mr. Bennett, General Bennett of the City Planning Commission of the City of New York. At this time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you one of the greatest friends the veteran has ever had in the United States. The Honorable John J. Rooney, Member of Congress. Honorable Mr. Rooney. Commander Regan, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all could be here to witness this marvelous demonstration of loyalty to the government of the United States. The program has a very impressive slogan. Beneath the American flag is the saying, keep it flying today and every day till the end of time. If we continue to inculcate in the children of our nation the desire to actively demonstrate their loyalty to their government, we shall never need be afraid of demonstrations such as recently took place in Tokyo, in Berlin, and yes, even here in the city of New York. Thank you very much for the opportunity of appearing here, Commander Regan. Thank you, Congressman Rooney. Ladies and gentlemen, the day here is God's gift to Brooklyn. It's a beautiful day. the children are smiling and happy. We have thousands upon thousands of them. The voice you hear in the background is that of Fast Commander Sidney A. Levy announcing over the public address system to the assembled citizens of Brooklyn here watching the parade. As the units go by, he's identifying the units and who is leading them. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you could be out here to see this beautiful demonstration of loyalty for the American way of life. The children, as they pass the reviewing stand, cheer everybody that they see. They're so happy to be here that it's almost heart-rending to see these future citizens of our country. May they have a future that will be better than anything that we've ever had in the past or in the... And I'd like to thank each and every one of these gentlemen who have given us the... of their time and their inspired words to come out here today. The committee has worked hard and tirelessly to take the burden off everybody else's shoulders, including my own. And we're trying very, very hard to keep this celebration in Brooklyn something that is on the higher planes. I'd like very much to have just a word or two from the man who has been my right arm in this entire endeavor, Mr. Sidney Levy, past county commander of Veterans of Foreign Wars in the United States. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the greatest emblem of patriotism that this country and this borough has seen in many a day. Thousands and thousands of people marching out of loyalty to American flag. Thank you. Thank you, past commander Levy, and my personal thanks to you for the assistance that you've given me in this splendid endeavor that's taking place here today. It's a spectacle that will long be remembered by the people of Brooklyn and I'm sure by the veterans of foreign wars will be along in my memory as one of the most cherished days of my life. Thank you very, very much. And I'll give you back to the announcer of the station of NYC. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Vice Commander Thomas M. Regan of the Kings County Veterans of Foreign Wars and the magnificent pageant here on Loyalty Day in the borough of Brooklyn at Borough Hall. That is all from this historic spot and now back to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.