As Ms. Cuthbert said, we are extremely fortunate today in having Mrs. Roosevelt as the representative of the public who are the consumers of nursing services. Perhaps no one has a broader and warmer interest in satisfying careers for men and women and in the importance of adequate nursing care. Mrs. Roosevelt, listeners from coast to coast would be interested in hearing what you think of the importance of the practical nurse training program and how much you feel its success will aid in civilian defense. Do you think the person we have been talking about would help to fill the critical need for more nurses? Oh, I don't think there's any question about that, Ms. Tarrant. It seems to me that one of the really important developments of the last few years has been the training of practical nurses. As nurses have been scarce for one reason or another, as their training has become more specialized and more difficult, really, it has become necessary to train a type of person who could be useful in a home where there was illness, for instance, that lasted a long time, where there were minor illnesses and illnesses particularly among children perhaps, which did not require the skilled and highly specialized nursing of a trained and registered nurse, but did require care and knowledge and a certain amount of training. And I remember very well I considered myself, when I had a family of small children, a very good trained nurse, trained by a nurse who'd been with me a great deal. And I think the kind of training that I had was probably a little less good than a practical nurse has, but I was very useful in my own home at that time. And I've known a number of practical nurses. In fact, during the war, one of my friends, colored friend who'd been with me as maid for a long time, decided that it was up to her to take the course, because she ought to be able to do something for the war. She's taken the course, and instead of going, coming back to me, she has remained in the hospital where she took her training, and always says that if I ever need the kind of nursing that a practical nurse can give, she is going to come and take care of me. I think she would be a really very excellent person with anyone who had a long illness, or as old people sometimes need, care that is little more than can be given them by anyone in the household. So that I should think that the value of a practical nurse, both on the hourly basis and on the basis of whole time, would relieve the strain on the regular nurse, and with the trained nurse, and on the family of any patient to a tremendous extent. So I am very happy to back the training of practical nurses and their youth. All right. Is that pretty much what... Thank you.
