Those of you who are up on your reading recently read of the action of Congress in reducing from 75,000 to 5,000 family units its program of federal assisted housing. Well, of course, when you look into that figure, why you realize that New York is completely out of the picture in any such program. And the reaction here in New York has been swift and prompt. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelletari, has called a meeting in City Hall, and outstanding and ranking citizens in all the various branches of civic life have responded to the Mayor's request for this meeting here in the Council Chamber. The Honorable Philip J. Cruz, Chairman of the Housing Authority in New York City, is Chairman today for us, and we're just awaiting the arrival now in the Council Chamber of our very busy Mayor. The Mayor is protesting, of course, that action by Congress, and he will read, or someone will read possibly in the course of this broadcast, a most interesting telegram from the President of the United States. And I see Mr. Cruz is standing now at the Rostron, and if you'll bear with me just a moment, I'll ask him if he wants to take it right now, because if so, give it in. Ladies and gentlemen, will you kindly be seated? We'll be on the air in about two minutes. And now we take you to the Rostron and to our Chairman, the Honorable Philip J. Cruz. Mr. Mayor, members of the New York City delegation to the Congress, members of the Board of Estimate and the City Council, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, this is an unusual occasion. Seldom in the history of this great city has there been a public meeting of this type, which has received such a spontaneous and cooperative response from the elected officials, these people who represent New York both at home and in the nation's capital. It is an unusual occasion. It stems out of an unusual event, which has a direct bearing on the lives of thousands of New Yorkers. The mayor has graciously asked me as chairman of the Housing Authority to preside over this meeting. This is not the authorities' meeting. This is a meeting called by the mayor with the full support of the Board of Estimate, the City Council, and the City representatives who recognized in the proposed cut to the Federally Assisted Public Housing Program a direct blow to a great many citizens of New York. I direct your attention to the enlarged maps of the five boroughs in the front of this room. The areas marked in solid red are the locations of approved federal projects planned for construction in 1951 and 2. These projects, plus others still in the preliminary planning stages, may all be stopped dead in their tracks. I will not take your time further, but would call on the distinguished gentlemen on this rostrum, who will tell you of their reaction to the recent news out of Washington. First of all, I want to introduce to you the chief of our city government, one who throughout his entire public career has endorsed and actively supported the Housing Authority's efforts. I refer to none other than his honor, Vincent R. M. Pelletieri, mayor of the city of New York. Mr. Cruz, members of the New York delegation to Congress, I'm so happy to see the New York delegation so well represented at this meeting, my colleagues on the Board of Estimate, members of the New York City Council, ladies and gentlemen. I think everyone here knows why I call this meeting. You know that the House of Representatives last month voted to limit the federal low-rent public housing program for the coming fiscal year to 5,000 apartments. 5,000 apartments to be started throughout a country with a population of 150 million. We are here to do what we can to have it changed. We are here to do what we can to have it changed. For my part, I am far less interested in simply putting myself on the record than I am in doing everything humanly possible to help get the limit raised. Every additional low-rent apartment which gets built means that another American family of low-income will be given the opportunity to move into a decent home, an opportunity that it otherwise would not have. Fortunately, there is still time to help, for the Senate has not yet acted on the appropriation bill in which the cut was made by the House. And the most effective way we can help is to bring the facts of the public housing program and what this unwarranted cut will do to it under the revealing glare of public discussion. One of our newspapers here in town has the excellent motto, Give light and the people will find their own way. I know that we can put equal faith in our Congress. When the Congress passed the United States Housing Act of 1949, it authorized the construction of 135,000 public housing apartments annually, up to a total of 810,000. Very wisely, it gave to the President the authority to raise or lower the number of units to be started each year within certain limits, so that adjustments could be made for changing economic commitments. The President, taking into account the demands of the National Defense Program, recommended that for the coming year, 75,000 apartments be started. This in itself represents a considerable reduction in the program, but it is a reduction necessitated by the defense demands, and all of us recognize the need to pull in our belts in the interests of our national security. This was not enough, however, for the people who always oppose the public housing program. They sensed a golden opportunity to destroy the program under the guise of patriotism and economy. Not to whittle away at it with a scalpel, as the House Appropriations Committee had done, in further reducing the 75,000 apartment recommendation of the President to 50,000 apartments, but to really put the axe to it. Although I have been in public life for a long time, I can tell you I was completely shocked when I read in the papers of the ruthless action that left not a housing program at all, but merely a pittance. And I was not the only one shocked. Some of our newspapers persisted for several days in writing of the 5,000 apartment limitation as applying to the City of New York only. The newspapers could not believe that such a pitifully small quota could be meant for the entire nation. I do not pretend to be a housing expert, nor to be able to tell you what this cut will mean to other sections of the country if it goes through. But I can tell you what it would mean to New York City. The housing authority had planned, and the Public Housing Administration approved, 20 projects providing some 24,000 apartments for New York City's share of the first two-year federal program. Despite the tremendous amount of preliminary work necessary to put a new program into effect, four of the projects with 5,700 apartments are already well into construction. Two others will be started before July 1st, and all the others are in active planning, many of them in the final stages. Additional projects providing approximately 30,000 more apartments to fill out New York City's share of the full program are under study and preliminary planning. The authority expected to start construction of 14 projects providing about 16,000 apartments between July 1st of this year and July 1st of next year. That is, of course, during the fiscal year of 1952. And about 10,000 apartments during each of the next three fiscal years. What will happen now if the 5,000 apartment limitation remains? We will be lucky if we can start even one project. An average project in New York City consists of about 1,000 apartments. For New York to get a single project under the present limitation would mean that it would have to be assigned one-fifth of the entire national quota. Now you can understand why I, as your mayor, am so terribly concerned over this very bad situation. The apartments that do not get built or that will be indefinitely postponed are not just the statistics in the Housing Authority office. Each one represents the best and probably the only chance of some family of limited means to get out of the slums or out of a boarding house room or the overcrowded apartment it shares with relatives and to move into a decent home and a suitable environment for rearing their children. Families are still sending in apartment applications to the housing authority at the rate of almost 2,000 each week. In the first three months of this year, the authority received more than 26,000 applications. And more than 90% of them indicated apparent eligibility for public housing. Despite the high levels of building of the past few years, there remains a critical shortage of decent housing available to families of low income. As you all know, veterans and servicemen receive first preference for public housing apartments. But the many thousands of them still living under the worst possible housing conditions will receive small comfort from being entitled to preference for apartments that cannot be built. The kind of legislation that most severely penalizes those in the greatest need is not the kind of legislation calculated to strengthen our country in the global struggle of ideologies and force in which we are today engaged. New York City's entire low rent public housing and slum clearance program, all the wonderful progress we are making in this direction, is in danger of being ground to a halt if the crippling blow at the federal program is not parried. For four years, this city struggled with the housing crisis, virtually with no federal assistance. Since 1946, we have built 38 large-scale permanent housing projects, all but four of which have already been completed or opened, without one single penny of federal aid. We built them under the state aided program, and under the city's own program of housing, without cash subsidy. But the state aided program is limited, and the city has virtually exhausted its resources under the law. No substantial progress can continue to be made, without adequate federal assistance. No substantial progress can continue to be made, without a doubt. Instead of gradually eliminating our slums, we will have to stand by and watch them grow, gnawing away at the city like a cancer. Families of limited means, for whom the private builder admittedly cannot provide, will have to face the future without any hope of decent housing. The veteran of Korea will return to carry his bride over his mother-in-law's threshold. Is this really the best we can hope for? I refuse to accept that. I am confident that the Congress, with time for sober thought, will permit an adequate level of public housing construction, honestly commensurate with defense needs. Anyone who says that we cannot prepare ourselves except that the expense of the low-income family is selling this country short. A short time ago, ladies and gentlemen, when this crisis developed, I sent a telegram to the President of the United States. Yesterday, I received an answer to that telegram, which gave me a great deal of satisfaction. I am certain it will give a great deal of courage and satisfaction to the friends of public housing who are present. And I'd like to read it to you. It's addressed to me as mayor here at City Hall. It is a great source of satisfaction to me to learn that you are to lead the citizens of our largest city in a special public meeting to protest the proposed cut in federally assisted public housing. The curtailment of the federally assisted public housing program at this critical time would cripple the program for national defense in many parts of the country and thereby impede and imperil the national security. Nothing contributes more to the efficiency of our defense program than wholesome dwellings at reasonable rentals for those working in that program. Federally assisted public housing is fought by one of the most powerful, far-flung, and relentless lobbies that this country has ever known. To satisfy their selfish grief, they would restore the old law of tooth and claw, and the defense workers would be their helpless victims. The purpose of these selfish interests is to kill public housing. I hope the public meeting you have called will arouse the citizens of the largest city in the country and the entire nation to a realization of the danger which threatens us all if the real estate lobby succeeds in killing public housing. Keep up the good fight. Signed, Harry S. Truman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you for your presence. I know that during the course of this conference this afternoon, many other worthwhile suggestions, many other worthwhile offers of cooperation will come forward. But I particularly want to thank each and every one of you for your interest and the patience that you've displayed by taking time out on a warm afternoon to join with us here at City Hall and spark-plugging this program to see to it that Congress re-reconsiders and then gives us the kind of a federal housing program that's realistic and that can really do a good job for the people of our city and of the entire nation. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. I know we all appreciate your wise and energetic leadership in calling this meeting and sounding the keynote in your remarks. The authority has been fortunate since its founding in 1934 in enjoying the full support of the city government, and we hope that we have lived up to the great public trust that it has assigned to us. The mayor had invited Senator Rives and Lehman to this meeting. Both of them had commitments of long-standing that made it impossible for them to attend. But one thing you can be sure of, they strongly share our sentiments regarding the proposed cut in the federal housing program. Some of those who are closely following the fate of the amendment to the Appropriation Act, which may scuttle the federal housing program, believe that the House of Representatives may get another chance to vote on the amendment. It is gratifying to see the strong delegation of New York City congressmen who are present today. I wish time would permit me to ask each one to say a few words. Mayor Impeliteri has done the next best thing and asked four men to speak for the New York City delegation. First of all, may I introduce to you the Dean of the New York City delegation, a man who has faithfully and ably served as fellow New Yorkers in Congress for the last 28 years. I refer to none other than the Honorable Emanuel Seller, representative from the 15th Congressional District. Mr. Seller. Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency the Mayor, my colleagues in Congress, members of the Board of Estimate, members of the City Council, and citizenry in general. There's an old saying that the wheel that makes the most noise gets the most grease. And I think the time has come when the City of New York and other metropolitan areas affected by this drastic cut, as was explained to you by the Mayor, must make some dignified noise so that we can get some of this grease. Some years ago, I attended a group at the King's County Hospital. Unfortunately, that group were veterans who had been crazed as a result of their harrowing experiences in the war. I was in a room about a fourth the size of this one. And there were about 30 of these unfortunate veterans. And they were endeavoring to learn trades. Some had hammers in their hands, others saws, others awls. And I said to a small undersized attendant, Aren't you afraid that these veterans might unite, might organize and do you violence? He said, firstly, I'm not armed, but I'm not afraid. But aren't you a bit timid they might organize and hurt you? He says, never a fear. He says, don't you know that crazy people never organize on anything? And is not the conclusion inescapable? Unless the good people of this town and their leaders organize, we must be crazy. If we don't organize to have reinstated into this appropriation bill the original phrasings of the 1949 Act, was provided for 135,000 federally assisted low cost, low rent housing units per year, with the right of the president, after taking counsel and advice from the Council of Economic Advisers, to reduce the number to 50,000 or increase it to 200,000 units per year. I can assure you, Mr. Mayor and the other dignitaries, president and fellow citizens, that I and my colleagues in the House of Representatives will render unremitting toil to see to it that the number of individual units permissible shall be upped to what it was, 135,000 a year. We would be derelict in our duty if we would do less. And we pledge you most earnest support in that regard. And I say that advisedly, Mr. Mayor. Unfortunately, an unholy coalition was working in the House, and they sought to wield the so-called economy axe, I would call it a meat axe, which they were wielding in the dark. And they struck right and left. They went so far as to cut the appropriations for the Displaced Persons Commission. They cut appropriations for another, many of the other departments of government, for the Maritime Commission. They act without rule or reason. And we have to see to it that common sense prevails, the good people of New York will have their fair share of federal housing dwelling units. And see to it that the mice-infested slums will be no longer existent in this fair city of ours. And I can assure you that the action of some of the benighted members of the Appropriations Committee, which action was followed by the membership of the House, unfortunately, gives great comfort to those who seek to instill confusion and chaos in our body politic. And we must remove that kind of argument from the lips of those who seek to destroy our form of government. Now, what do we do from here onward? What is the parliamentary situation? I understand that the Senate Appropriations Committee, Mr. Mayor, the subcommittee of the Senate Appropriations Committee, in pub-line fashion, has accepted the House version of this bill. The Senate itself has not acted. I had hoped that Senators Ive and Lehman would be here. But I hope the message from this Assembly Room will be brought home to them, most forcibly so that they can do all in sundry to get their colleagues in the Senate to do that which is right and just to New York City and the other metropolitan areas. And he can point out, or rather they can point out to their colleagues, that the President recommended a reinstatement up to 75,000 dwelling units a year. And I'm sure with the eloquence of those two Senators, we might get the provisions reinstated, the proper provisions reinstated in the Senate version. But in any event, it's also essential to have the House conferees, who are appointed to meet with the Senate conferees on a bill of this character, this sincerest disagreement between the two houses on the bill, on the specific appropriation bills, to have that conference committee properly instructed. And we, the members from the New York City delegation, will do all that we can to see to it that the House itself instructs the conferees of the House to bring us back 135,000 dwelling units. These maps, which are before you, eloquently tell a tale. They indicate to you how the boroughs will be affected. As I understand it, there has been approved and planned for construction for the years 1951 and 1952, in the borough of Manhattan alone, 3,385 dwelling units. Rather, in the borough of Brooklyn alone, 3,385 units. That's my borough. If the situation developed by the House Appropriations Committee prevails, and we only get 5,000 dwelling units, that means New York will only get 1,000 units. Brooklyn, as planned, is supposed to get 3,385. Manhattan, as planned, is to get 9,516. The Bronx, 700. Queens, 1,318. And Richmond, 600. In all, there's planned and partially constructed, as I understand it already, in the whole city, 15,519 units. And if this situation prevails, as the House Appropriation Committee desires it, New York will be cut drastically. And it would be very unfortunate that we have that state of affairs. And I'm against it. And I want to do, and I pledge you now to do, all that I possibly can, to get a fair deal for the city of New York. Thank you, Councilman Seller. One of the key men in the fight to restore the housing cut will be the next gentleman I introduce to you. A member of the Appropriation Committee of the House of Representatives, and a Congressman since 1944, he has made a notable record in Congress. I take pleasure in introducing the Honorable John J. Rooney, representative from the 12th Congressional District. Mr. Cruz, your honor the mayor, my colleagues in the House of Representatives, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, citizens all of the city of New York. At the outset, I want to get one matter straight. When my colleague, Mr. Seller, mentioned the House Appropriations Committee, I want you to understand that he was referring to a majority of the House Appropriations Committee and not referring to the gentleman from New York, Mr. McGrair from Bronx, or for your speaker. Over the years, it has been the New York City delegation in the House of Representatives, which has fought for public low-cost public housing. The Act of 1949, which permitted the construction of 135,000 units per year, was the result of sweat and great effort on the part of the members from the City of New York. I want you to understand that the House Appropriations Committee is a body exactly twice as large as the City Council of the City of New York. The House Appropriations Committee is a body of exactly 50 members. At no time has any member of your delegation from the City of New York done anything to oppose public low-cost housing. This is not a political matter as far as we are concerned. We have been ably joined by the gentleman from New York, Mr. Javits, on this very question. And I must be fair, he has been a vigorous advocate of the program ever since he has been a member of the House of Representatives, as have every one of my colleagues from the City of New York. Congressman Seller has already informed you of the action of the subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Appropriations, wherein there has been restored the number of 50,000 units instead of the number 5,000, which was adopted as the result of an amendment offered on the House floor. I'd like to refer to the mentality of those members of the Congress who vote in opposition to housing, which we need so very much here in the City of New York and in the large metropolitan areas throughout the country. Number one, you have the most vigorous and well-heeled lobby against public housing. For years now, I have fought, and I recall at the moment that I dubbed Mr. Bodfish, who was the head of it from Chicago, as Kingfish Bodfish. Kingfish Bodfish and his crowd, every time there's a public housing bill on the floor, or before the Banking and Currency Committee of the House, are the most eager beavers that you've ever met. This time, they have been assisted by groups which have the mentality which would oppose immigration into this country, which would oppose legislation for the benefit of our veterans and servicemen. They're the same group, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know what more I can say on the subject, other than to point out that the delegation is doing everything that it possibly can to have restored a decent number of units in this program. You've heard the telegram is read to you by his honor of the mayor from the President of the United States. I, for one, am following his program in this regard 100%, not only as a member of the Committee on Appropriations, but as a member of the House and on the floor of the House. I shall conclude by saying that I intend to stay with this matter to the last. I was a member of a group, together with Congressman Seller, who lobbied the senators on the Senate Appropriations Committee. And evidently, we've been successful to some extent because that Senate subcommittee, under Senator Maybank, has reported out the 50,000 units, which was the original amount inserted by the House Appropriations Committee. With these few words, I pledge myself to continue the fight on behalf of such a sorely needed program, needed by every one of the citizens of the City of New York. Thank you. Thank you, Congressman Rooney. If for no other reason, the next speaker's courage and fortrightness has earned him a place on our program. It was Congressman McGrath who got up on the floor of the House of Representatives to strongly protest the action of his fellow members at the time of the vote on the amendment. We are fortunate that Congressman McGrath is here, and I am happy to introduce him. The Honorable Christopher C. McGrath of the 26th Congressional District. Mr. Chairman, fellow members of the House of Representatives, Your Honor the Mayor, distinguished members of the Board of Estimates, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the Gossett Amendment, which cut the number of housing units from 50,000 down to 5,000. And I am very proud today of that vote. I am sort of impressed at this meeting today because your chairman remembers another meeting up in the northern part of the Bronx, where I faced 2,000 howling people who denounced me because of my stand in favor of public housing. And I want to say that the support which I received from the Housing Authority of the City of New York was very strengthening at that critical time. Now, I recognize that in housing we have two problems. We have one the economic and one the social. And if we were to analyze it solely in terms of the dollar sign, it would be very poor economics to cut out our low-cost housing program. The cost to the taxpayer is almost negative when one considers in terms of dollars the value that comes back to the city of New York or any large city in a low-cost housing program. The other is the social aspect of the question. And we believe that the family is the basic unit of all civilization. And that if you destroy that basic unit, and if you destroy the family, you will in turn destroy the country. Now, what is happening in these cases? Family after family is caused to be separated. And I refer specifically to the veteran. I sat for 13 years in the municipal court. And that court, as you know, was nothing but landlord and tenant problems. When I was elected to Congress, I opened up a little office where the people could come in. And I was amazed that practically every problem that's presented is one involving housing. Men come back who have served you and served each and every one of us. Some served for five years or more. And they come back and all they're asking is a home in which to bring their wife and to raise their family as decent Americans. And when this unholy alliance was formed in the House of Representatives, I'm sad to say that many of them were members of my own party from the South. When they united with the reactionary group from the North and were able to push that amendment through in the tricky and the almost unparliamentary way of a part of an appropriation bill where it had no place because that was basic legislation and should have gone before another committee. And we on the appropriation committee like my friend John Rooney know that at no time should we ever legislate. Our job is the expenditure of money and to see that it's wisely spec'd. Ah, but the gentleman from Texas, long ago, last January when he opposed the one-packet appropriation bill, apparently had some motive in mind because into his subdivision or subcommittee he wrote in this rider and then got a rule from the Rules Committee so that a point of order had to be waived. And I am proud today that your representatives from New York City, no matter what political party they belong to, had no part in that deal. Congressman Rooney and myself opposed it in the committee and we will continue to oppose it as long as it comes, improperly in an appropriation bill. Now it'll get down and let's approach this thing practically. The Senate subcommittee has now recommended 50,000 units. That must be passed upon by the full appropriation committee in the Senate. And under the leadership of Senator of Congress and Seller, we're pretty much convinced that the Senate will go along with that amount. But then when it comes to the floor, the members of that body can, by amendment, increase to any amount that they think is proper in the circumstances. And I think that should be our line of attack. And I know with the cooperation of the mayor that the members of the Senate at least can get this matter on the floor and that they can try to up it to 175 or 200,000 units as the case may be. If we accomplish that, I can say to you that every member from New York City will be on the floor ready to support our conferees and we will attempt to instruct them to accept the higher figure which will come from the Senate. And so I say in closing that from every human interest, from even the dollar sign, we owe it to the people of our city to urge the Congress to right this wrong and to give to every returning veteran and to everyone living in a crowded home the right to live as decent American citizens. We take this opportunity to inform late comers that you're listening to the meeting called by the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York, protesting the cut in the housing for federal assisted housing in Washington. And now back to the rostrum over WNYC. Mr. Cruz is speaking. ... has been particularly active in support of public housing. I have referenced the Honorable Jack Javits from Manhattan. Mr. Chairman, Mayor and Pelletary, city officials, my colleagues in the Congress and friends, I am deeply indebted for this opportunity to address you. I think it demonstrates the all city point of view which the mayor is anxious to bring home here today and that he has invited representatives from all parties without consideration whatever of political ideas for the purpose of fighting this battle which is a battle for all of us. Might I tell you that this is not an easy thing to win and I think we'd better understand that. On the day preceding the day upon which this vote was taken, which has been referred to so much this afternoon, the House of Representatives within full debate with everybody present and quite a battle going on, had an opportunity to decide whether it would consider so important a matter as a cut in public housing on an appropriation bill, as Judge McGrath has so truly said, a very unparliamentary proceeding and one designed to bypass the Banking and Currency Committee which normally considers this problem and which indeed considered the Housing Act of 1949 and brought it to the floor. Now at that time, after a considerable debate, the House voted 231 as my best recollection to 159 to consider the bill and then and there the decision was written. After that it didn't make much difference. At that particular stage and in those 24 hours, the opponents of public housing had won and they could have cut this to nothing on the floor the next day if they chose to. They just chose to cut it to 5,000 for reasons of their own. So that this is a tough struggle and I compliment the mayor upon the fact that he realizes that and proposes to marshal New York in full for this fight because it's an important one. It took years to pass the Housing Act of 1949 as you all know. And it took the concentrated effort of church groups and veterans groups and civic groups and cities like the city of New York and the full effort of the New York City and other city delegations to even make progress with this bill and get it through the Congress. Let us not forget that we dealt with discharge petitions, calendar Wednesdays, all kinds of political maneuvers and that even though we knew the majority was with us solidly, it took some three or four years to get this bill through and that no public housing bill had been passed prior to then since 1937. So let us understand that we're in a real scrap and that the enemies of public housing who are numerous and well armed with money and influence have decided that this is the time to gut public housing under the cover of economy and under the cover of the defense mobilization program. Now as the mayor has truly said, nothing could be a greater disservice to the American people than to destroy a program so intimately connected with the welfare of the family, so vitally essential, especially at a time when general building has to be cut down in aid of the defense mobilization as public housing. You ask the poor family to go out and die for their country and especially the veterans, but we've got a puny 135,000 units out of a million that's built in our country now normally and yet we won't go along with the common people of our country to build to give them that minuscule of A. It's perfectly shocking and absolutely unbelievable and it seems to me it indicates too the great lethargy and inertia and indeed blindness which has overcome the House of Representatives in the face of this great emergency of life and death which we face with the communists from the East. Now my friends, it took bipartisan support to pass the Housing Act originally. It could not have been done unless there were men of goodwill on both sides of the aisle, both Republicans and Democrats who would support it. And in order to undo what has been done in the House of Representatives this last month of May, it will again take bipartisan support. Don't take anybody or anything for granted. I heard a report the other day from a colleague of mine from the South in which he said they're beginning to feel the pinch down there on public housing projects. And maybe he's not so sure about the way he voted on this amendment and that he was very likely to change his mind. We have got to be very, very active. We have got to be very vigorous. We've got to scratch the bottom of the barrel for every vote and beyond everything we've got to scratch the bottom of the barrel for every vote regardless of party. Now it hasn't been mentioned yet here today and I know it's nothing but an oversight and I consider it a great privilege to tell you that not only the speakers are here, not only these distinguished men including my dear friend John Rooney who said such nice things about me and our senior Mr. Seller and our fighting friend Congressman McGrath, and also a number of my other colleagues whose names, if the chairman will permit me, I'd like to mention. Mr. Anfuso of Brooklyn, Mr. Clemente of Queens, Mr. Dollinger of the Bronx, Mr. Donovan of New York, the Upper East Side, Mr. Fine of the Bronx, Mr. Heffernan of Brooklyn, Mr. Keough of Brooklyn, Mr. Klein of the Lower East Side, Mr. Powell of Harlem, and Mr. Quinn of Queens. Now we're all together and the fact that we're speaking... The fact that we're speaking doesn't mean a thing. We're a team and the fact that I'm speaking is only because I happen to be the only one here today who's not of the Democratic Party. But we're a team. We're going to do this together and we're going to marshal the same bipartisan support that we did before. And as for me personally, I found a couple of names on the list that voted for this amendment of the very same congressman on my side of the aisle who had voted just the other way on the Housing Act of 1949. And they're going to have to prove to me why if they don't change their votes the next time this comes up. Now just one other point. The senators aren't here today. That's very unfortunate, but I think we know where they stand. Irving Ives was in the original fight for housing with all of us in connection with the 1949 Act. I think we can count on him four square. There's certainly no question about Senator Lehman. And then in Jersey, we've got two powerful allies in Senators Smith and Hendrickson. Again, who happened to be Republicans, but that doesn't matter in this particular fight. This is an all party fight. Now we've got to work in the Senate. We've got to use our heads. There's no use in making you a lot of glib promises today. And I'm so glad my colleagues didn't deny one as to just exactly what we're going to do. Just bear in mind that we're going to work hard, that we have our eye on the ball, that we know what this means, and that we're not going to quit until we win. Thank you very much. Thank you, Congressman Javits. I think I'd be remiss unless I called on the congressman from my own home borough, Queens, both who have been friends over a long period of years of public housing. I have the pleasure of introducing to you T. Vincent Quinn. Mr. Cruz, the Honour of the Mayor, my colleagues in the House of Representatives, ladies and gentlemen. The afternoon is late and it's warm. And I believe that everything that should be said in connection with the public housing has been well and adequately said by the speakers who preceded me. I don't care to impinge any longer on your time other than to say I will stay in this fight until it is successfully concluded. I voted against the Gossett Amendment and I shall at all times be in favor of public housing. Thank you, Congressman Quinn. I would like now to hear from Congressman Clemente. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, my colleagues, members of the Board of Estimate, members of my former colleagues in the City Council, I'm very happy to be here again in this hallowed hall where I received my baptism as a legislator, under the able leadership at that time of the President of the City Council, Vincent Aron-Pelteri. Mr. Congressman Quinn has said, the need, the crying need for housing has been cast in a dire light here today. I have no need to belabor the point. But as Congressman Quinn stated, I voted against the Gossett Amendment along with my colleague James Delaney of Queens. We will continue to vote against the Gossett Amendment and be for public housing as we have been for years. I thank you for the privilege of being here today and hope to God that we restore this cut back from 5,000 to 50,000. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. There are several congressmen here who I'm sure you would want to meet. By their presence, we know how concerned they are for the welfare of their fellow constituents. Will the following gentlemen kindly stand and take a bow? Congressman Anne Fusso. Congressman Dollinger. Congressman Keough. Congressman Dollinger. Congressman Keough. Congressman Keough. Congressman Keough. And Congressman Heffernan. Congressman Keough. Almost immediately after the House action on May 4th. Oh, I'm sorry. Will Congressman Klein. I'm sorry, Congressman. Congressman Klein. Congressman Klein. Congressman Klein. Congressman Donovan. Congressman Donovan. I regret I didn't have you folks on the list when we made it up at the start of the meeting. Almost immediately after the House action on May 4th, the city councilman, the city council rather, unanimously adopted a resolution urging Congress to reject legislation resulting in the curtailment of federally aided public housing construction. This prompt action was due to the insight of the council. We have in the next three speakers outstanding examples of devoted public servants who have enthusiastically supported our housing program. The first is the acting president of the council, the honorable Joseph T. Sharky. Mr. Sharky. Mr. Chairman, Mayor Impeletere, distinguished members of the Congress, fellow citizens. The proposed cutback of the public housing program to 5,000 apartments for the entire country would be, if adopted, the greatest defeat for public housing since its inception. Mr. Chairman, this meeting has been called by Mayor Impeletere to focus the searchlight of public opinion on the congressional action of May 4th, when the limitation on public housing was voted as a rider to the independent officers appropriation bill. Mr. Chairman, unless that bill is amended to eliminate the restriction altogether or to substitute a realistic figure for the number of construction starts to be permitted, the public housing program under the Housing Act of 1949 in New York City will be brought to a virtual standstill. Mr. Cruz, Chairman of the Housing Authority, Mr. Cruz, Chairman of the Housing Authority, told me that as of today, there are 16,000 apartments in various stages of approval and 29,000 additional apartments not yet scheduled under the federal program. These 45,000 apartments would be indefinitely delayed. The cutback cannot be justified on the ground of defense expediency, for the nation has machinery already established and functioning to evaluate public housing construction in that relation. The National Production Authority has already placed the necessary curbs on the program. The action of the House of Representatives is therefore totally unnecessary and discriminatory against low-rent housing without any regard to defense needs. I should like to further amplify this point by calling to your attention the fact that during World War II, the Housing Authority was called upon by the federal government to build one housing project, well about houses, for enlisted men in the Navy, Coast Guard, and Marine Corps. It converted Edward Markham houses in Staten Island to war housing, using it for the duration for workers in the nearby shipyards. At Fort Green houses, it converted apartment buildings to barracks that were used for enlisted men in the Army and Navy for waves and Navy nurses. War workers were also quartered in that project. A large number of servicemen's families who could no longer afford their homes when the head of the family was drafted, and the family was required to live on a military allotment were provided for in public housing apartments at rents within their means. It would not be surprising if the occasion should again arrive when the Housing Authority would be required to make similar provisions to help the country's defense efforts. In fact, the Housing Authority has already made commitments to help provide homes for Navy and Army families. The same entrenched interests who steadfastly oppose the rent laws in this city are trying to impede the housing program at Washington. The position of the city administration has already been made clear. Mayor Impeletiri wired the entire congressional delegation from New York City after the action of the House of Representatives, urging that the cutback be eliminated. The City Council passed a unanimous resolution to the same effect immediately upon receipt of the news from Washington. Some of the New York Press has taken the same position. I know of no opposition to our stand in this matter. It seems clear to me that New York City wants and needs its public housing program to continue. We would be short-sighted, to say the least, if we age the continuance of the construction program at the expense of national defense. It would be equally short-sighted if this nation allows the cutback to stand, thereby curtailing the construction of homes for low-income veterans of World War II, for the families of men now in service, for the veterans of the Korean War. The public housing program should continue. It must continue as long as it is compatible with national defense. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Sharkey. The second speaker is the acting majority leader of the Council, a representative of the Borough of the Bronx, and one who has a long career of public service. I am happy to introduce Colonel Charles E. Keegan. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, distinguished members of the House and the Board, and ladies and gentlemen, the facts that have been related here this afternoon have been so shocking that I noticed they stopped our City Council clock. I hope they won't stop you and your interests. I think you've had enough discussion of the subject and you understand it enough and your interest is great enough or you wouldn't be here. But you will not be doing your job if you just end when the meeting ends. I urge every one of you when you leave here to make yourselves missionaries, and every association or club or unit or organization to which you belong. talk up the interest in this and get off letters to the members of the committee in the Congress, in the House and the Senate, the appropriations committees of both houses, and use whatever official stationaries, organization, resolutions you can get up to indicate to them that the people of this city, which contributes a far superior sum than any other divisional unit in the United States, will not take this from a gang of lobbyists who are more concerned with their own dollars than they are with the future and welfare of our country. Thank you. The next speaker will be a member of the Council, Mr. Isaacs. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, fellow officials and fellow citizens, Mr. Mayor, it is hard to add anything to what has already been said this afternoon on the subject before us, and that is the curtailment of the housing program in such a rational fashion. In fact, it would be almost difficult to add anything important to what the mayor himself said when he outlined so clearly the program devised by the Housing Authority for the City of New York, approved by the Planning Commission and the Board of Estimate, ready to go ahead, which will be almost literally wrecked and destroyed if the Congress of the United States does not restore the full quota of housing which had originally been proposed for this nation. Just to give you the example of actual figures, bringing it right down to a small area of this city. Congress has voted a total for the entire year, the entire fiscal year to come, of 5,000 houses. For the entire country. In one small area of Manhattan in East Harlem, the Housing Authority now has underway three projects. Three projects fully planned, ready for launching the Triborough Houses, the Jefferson Houses, and the Washington Housing Development. Three projects to provide a total of 5,108 houses just in that one small area of New York. And you've already been told of the many other projects planned for this city, none of which can go ahead if this Congressional Wrecking Program stands. It's for that reason that I'm delighted that the mayor of this city called this meeting today, assembled such a large number of citizens, and such a large number of officials duly elected to office by all the parties of the city of New York. I'm delighted that this nonpartisan meeting has been held to spur on the effort to compel Congress, to persuade or compel Congress to change its program. And if not to restore the entire total of 135,000 houses originally planned, at least to give the 75,000 houses which the President has asked for. I, for one, can testify that the vast majority of people in this city, Democrats, Republicans, and others, are all behind the full program, and that program should be restored. Thank you, Councilman Isaacs. To minority groups, public housing has been a great blessing. The authority has been fortunate in having on its board for many years a prominent Negro citizen and a staunch advocate of public housing. Mr. Frank Crosswaite is well known as a lecturer, author, and labor leader. I am glad he could be here today to speak briefly to us. Mr. Crosswaite. Mr. Chairman, His Honor of the Mayor, and fellow Americans, First of all, let me promise you that I am not going to make a speech. Of course, those of you who know me know that making speeches have occupied the greater portion of my adult life. But I have only enjoyed making speeches when I was addressing men and women whose views differed with mine. Upon this occasion, I see no reason for a lengthy speech on my part. We are all in thorough agreement that the Congress must restore the original position of importance which public housing occupied in this nation. I think we can blame ourselves to a large extent for what has happened in Washington on May the 4th. You see, if those of us who accept public housing as one of the inevitable steps that America must make as it marches forward and upward, if we had utilized our time and our talents in defending and explaining public housing, that act would have never occurred on May 4th in Washington, D.C. I am convinced that most of the men and women of the world prefer to look back. They can see clearer when they look backwards than when they look forward. As we look back today, while I stand before you to address you briefly, I am thinking of Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. What must be the thought running through the mind of Adam and Eve if they can see that today in the United States of America, in a land where men can push buttons and get light, in a land where we have developed television, radio, the telephone, and all the other instruments of progress, in such a land the question of public housing is a problem. Was that question a problem to Adam and Eve? If they had thought it would be, they would have remained in that garden in spite of the apple, in spite of the orange, or any other fruit there because they didn't have the problem of finding a place in which to live. We have got to have that act restored. Third, public housing is one of the steps we are making in progress. A lot of people, you know, opposed unemployment insurance. They opposed the right of working men to organize a union and thus secure a larger measure of the things of life which they produced. But in spite of that opposition, we have made progress. We, in the City Housing Authority, are determined to carry on our work. Our work, which is predicated not upon the idea of color or religion, but we are looking at this question from the angle of the needs of our fellow men. For we understand that if our children can grow up in a decent home with decent surroundings, they'll make better Americans and more willingly die to defend the principles of democracy upon which America rests. Thank you, Mr. Crossway. Labor has a great stake in the public housing program, not only because of the employment of a large number of workers in the construction of new housing projects, but also because many of them obtain much-needed homes in public housing. We have two outstanding representatives of the great organized branches of labor. First, let me call on Mr. John Brennan, secretary and treasurer of the Building and Construction Trades Council of Greater New York. Mr. Chairman, your honor, Mayor Impoletari, distinguished members of the House of Representatives, and distinguished city officials, ladies and gentlemen. The chairman was, in my opinion, just stating a fact when he said that the Building and Construction Trades worker has an enormous stake in the construction developed with the public housing program. The Building and Construction Trades Council of some 125 local unions in the city of New York was supporting actively at 1949 when the Housing Act was adopted. They are now in that same position, supporting the full 135,000 units to be constructed in the next fiscal year. There is more to this cut in this housing program than meets the eye. A cut in this housing program means unemployment to the extent that the program is cut, dislocating the economy of our city. What will happen will be that a man who is unemployed will migrate to areas where he can find employment if and when the housing program gets back to normal, you will face a shortage of the skilled mechanic who has not come back to the city of New York but stayed in the areas where he found employment. We found ourselves in that self-same position after World War I and World War II. And I would be remiss in my duty if I did not put the Building and Construction Trades Council on record here today as to what this cut means not only to the public housing program but to the reduction in the skilled forces and the construction workers in this city. Mr. Mayor, on behalf of the Building and Construction Trades Council, we pledge to you to join with you and the other outstanding organizations that are in this fight are wholehearted cooperation and support. Thank you. The CIO has also consistently supported public housing. No one is more suited to speak for the CIO and Morris Uchevitz, Secretary-Treasurer of the New York City CI Council and International President of the Transport Workers Union. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, forgive me if I use some strong language on this but it seems to me that if this action of May 4th that if I ever saw a subversive action this is it in the true sense of the word. It would almost seem as if the real estate lobbyists and the reactionaries in Congress are trying to prove that the Congress that the Communists are 100% right and that in the United States in our democracy the very basic needs of the people are ignored for profit. Now we know that's a lie. The job now is to undo the destructive and terrific damage that has been done by the real estate lobby and the reactionaries of both parties. And I think we must recognize that it was both parties that are responsible for it. CIO has always been in the forefront of this fight for public housing. For the CIO Council with its 500,000 members here in New York City I can honestly say that we know what public housing and what the Public Housing Authority has meant for New York City. And you can tell what the lack of it will do if you come up to my office which has been turned into a rental office for young CIO veterans and their families who can't find accommodations elsewhere. And Mr. Cruz knows the amount of time we spend bothering him and the other people in the Housing Authority to try and help our own people. If there is that much tension in our own group, it's easy to imagine the tension in the entire city of New York on this question. That's why I call this act of the reactionaries of both parties in Congress a subversive act, a truly subversive act. I congratulate the mayor, Mayor Impeletere, on assuming the leadership of this fight. And I want to pledge you, Mr. Mayor, the full and wholehearted support of CIO. And if you, sir, should choose to send a delegation to Washington, an official city delegation, I can only tell you CIO will be very happy to join in. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Yuschevitz. We have with us Mr. James C. Quinn, Secretary-Treasurer of the Central Trade and Labor Council. I would like Mr. Quinn to say a few words. Mr. Chairman, in honor of the Mayor Impeletere, members of Congress, members of the City Council, and citizens of the City of New York, may I at this time say to his honor of the Mayor and also to Mr. Cruz that I have been designated by the American Federation of Labor to come to this meeting called by Mayor Impeletere to say to his honor of the Mayor that the eight million members of the American Federation of Labor are heartily behind this program to have this 135,000 unit put into effect. I say to you that the American Federation of Labor in 1949 was one of the organizations in the forefront to have the Housing Act established in this United States. As I listened this afternoon, I do not want to repeat, but I know that if all of the organizations in the City of New York and throughout this United States will tell Congress how we feel, that they will amend what was done in the Congress just a few weeks ago. And on behalf, Mr. Mayor of the American Federation of Labor, we pledge to you our full support in this program because the workers of our unions and our organizations, like the workers who are not organized, are looking to you for housing in this great city. So I say again that we pledge you, through the Central Trades and Labor Council and the American Federation of Labor, our full support. I thank you. How does the average tenant feel about public housing? What difference does it make to one who moved into one of our projects? Mr. Rudolph Migliore is here with us to say a few words on the subject. Mr. Migliore lives with his family in Jacob Rees Houses, which is located in Manhattan on the East River Drive. I am very pleased to introduce Mr. Migliore. Chairman Mr. Cruz, Mayor Impeletere, and members of the committee, I would like to bring out what the New York City Housing has done for me. Actually, it's a foxhole dream come true. I was living in a small house with my parents, four rooms. I have three children. By living in the New York City Housing, I have five rooms now. We have adequate room. We live in a beautiful apartment, which the New York City Housing requires that I pay according to my means. To match my apartment in another community, I would probably have to pay well over $100 a month, which at this time I cannot afford. Again, I don't see what else I could add to stop this housing, other than what the other members have brought out. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Migliore. Up to now, outside of the three representatives of labor, we have only heard from some of the top public officials who are personally and officially interested in restoring public housing to its proper role. We are grateful that they could come and so eloquently state their views. There are many citizens who would like to have expressed themselves and whom we would like to have seen on this afternoon's program. Time, however, would not permit. And so the mayor invited a man who can be said to represent many progressive and interested groups. IRS Robbins is the executive vice president of the Citizens Housing Council. He is also chairman of the Emergency Committee to Save Public Housing. Both the council and the committee have broad representation from labor, social welfare, church planning, minority, and other groups. Well known as an attorney, a housing official for many years, he is an expert on housing and planning. Mr. Robbins will conclude the formal meeting with a call to action, and I know what we want to hear from. Mr. Arnold Robbins. Mr. Cruz, Mr. Mayor, public officials, and plain people like me. Mr. Crosway said something that inspired me to do some thinking. I'm always interested in something new in housing and planning. And when he projected Adam and Eve into public housing and television, I think that the staff members of the Eden Housing Authority would have some problems. What is Mr. Adams' estimated income? Would he be eligible for public housing? And would either he or his wife be permitted to appear on television? I don't know. I'll leave it to you. I have just four simple points to make. The first is that the hand of the anti-public housing lobby has never lost its skill. Aged in the wood and punch drunk with victory, it thinks that it has killed off the public housing program. Out of an estimate of 850,000 homes to be built in the United States in the coming year, they have generously permitted the building of 5,000 public housing units, or less than two-thirds of one percent of the total new homes to be built in the United States. Two, in the last year in the New York metropolitan area, the cost of constructing a single-family home has risen from $9,300 a unit to $12,500 a unit. Without any act of Congress or the esteemed House of Representatives, it has become much harder for a family not of low income but of moderate income to obtain a decent home in this vicinity. Three, getting back to the hand that has never lost its skill. The public interest groups need to organize and to keep organized on a city, state, and national basis. That's the basis in which the anti-public housing lobby is working. We in New York City haven't been troubled with individual referenda on every public housing project. We haven't had ripper bills in the state legislature which would have prevented the construction of public housing by various devious means. We have a no-care subsidy program, Mr. Mayor, which we should be very proud of. It's the kind of thing that would give other cities the horrors. And we need a great deal more of it. But we must be organized not merely when the emergency arises but constantly. So that the elected representatives of the people will be able to resist the die-hards who will never be convinced that public housing is here to stay. The watchdog groups that are represented here today and who are represented in the emergency committee to save public housing must be a permanent part of the American scene. Last, the fight to restore public housing is just beginning. Everyone in this room knows what has happened. But in the country at large, and to a great many people in this city, it is not yet the paramount issue that it really deserves to be. Now there are a great many things that can be done. I suggest three. The first is that there be a series of town meetings of this kind in every one of the 871 communities in the United States that have a stake in this present federally aided public housing program. The mayor has set an excellent precedent and it would be very easy for other cities to follow. Two, I suggest that the conference of mayors hold an emergency meeting of all its members right in Washington within the next two weeks so that the mayors of 871 communities can converge upon Congress and convince them that they mean business. Mr. Chairman, as my third point, I want to say that I see no point in adopting a resolution here today. This is a group consisting of many organizations, many individuals. It would be much more effective if everyone went back to his organization or organizations and sent resolutions to their representatives in Congress and convinced other individuals to write to their congressmen. We are being heard from, but the barrage must be kept up. I hope that the people of New York City and the United States will resolve that never again will they be caught napping, nor will they permit their representatives in Congress to be caught napping, and that by acting through the groups in which they participate, will make it their business to let Congress know that the housing program must not be curtailed. On the contrary, it must be strengthened until the stated purpose of the Housing Act of 1949 is achieved. That is, until every American family has a decent home. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been a long meeting, but a vital and interesting one. It makes me proud to be associated with the Housing Authority, for we have had a living testimonial of the importance of its work. I want to thank again each and every speaker. Mr. Robbins has told you what must be done to convince the Congress of the need for public housing. From here on in, it is up to you as individuals and as representatives of organizations. Speaking for the mayor and for myself, I wish you Godspeed in your work. Thank you. Radio's microphones have been in the Council Chamber in City Hall, where we have witnessed the tremendous and important response to the summons sent out by Mayor Impelitari for a meeting to save public housing, based on the action of Congress on May 4th, curtailing public federal assistance to housing. Philip J. Cruz, Chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, acted as chairman in today's proceedings in the Council Chamber, and introduced the distinguished members of Congress and civic leaders and members of your city government, who came out so fully and so thoroughly for the restoration of the Federal-assisted Public Housing Project, and its restoration to a fact and a procedure in meeting the situation that is so important to great cities, particularly a city like New York. That is all from City Hall. We return you now to the studios and join the program now in progress. WNYC, the voice of New York City.