From the Empire Room of the Hotel Biltmore, the Mayor's Committee for Unity is tendering at this time a testimonial luncheon to the Honorable Edmund Borgia Butler, and a very distinguished company has gathered here in the Biltmore to pay tribute to Mr. Butler and his lady, Mrs. Butler. The first speaker will be that distinguished citizen of Brooklyn and great merchant, the Honorable Major Benjamin H. Namm. Mr. Namm will now be the first speaker. Thank you very much, sir. Ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience, it is my proud privilege as treasurer of the Mayor's Committee on Unity to introduce the chairman of our committee, who will in turn introduce his honor, the mayor, who has graciously come here to the Hotel Biltmore to attend our eighth annual meeting and also to confer a well-deserved honor upon one of our members. This member is the Honorable Edmund Borgia Butler, and although it is not my privilege to introduce him, I have been asked to present his charming wife, who has given us so freely of her helpmate's time and effort. And so, Mrs. Butler, will you please rise and wave a greeting at your unseen audience? Thank you, Mrs. Butler. I have been also asked to state some of the history and the underlying philosophy of the Mayor's Committee on Unity. I have never heard, Mr. Mayor, of a better description of unity as it is carried on in our great city than in the words used by you shortly after you assumed your office. You said, and I quote, To achieve unity, we must promote the body and the spirit of civil rights in our community. I have been deeply interested in this city-sponsored effort to promote the body and spirit of civil rights ever since the first Mayor's Committee on Unity was established by Fiorella H. LaGuardia. Although I was not a member of the committee at that time, I was then heading up another of his important committees, I will never forget what he said when he announced his intention of appointing a committee. Up to the present, he said, and this was back in 1944, Unity has been everybody's business. But, he added, I discovered long ago that everybody's business becomes nobody's business. And so, he concluded, I'm going to make unity my personal affair by appointing a committee of my own to handle these problems. He then thought for a moment, and he added these two significant words to handle these problems, he said, For me. Yes, these two words had a double significance. The achievement of unity is essentially a grassroots job which just has to be done at the community level. It is also a personal job, especially in a community as large as ours. What Mayor LaGuardia was saying in effect was this, I will make of this problem my very own, and I will appoint as a member of my official family, a group of citizens who will help in its solution. Just as soon as the first committee was appointed, various things began to happen. Mayor LaGuardia was deeply interested, as we all know, in the apparent discrimination against Negro baseball players in the big leagues. Judge Edward Luzanski was promptly asked to start discussions with Branch Rickey. He did so, and as everybody knows, the Jackie Robinson story then had its beginning. Ever since then, the Mayor's Committee on Unity has been active in its concern with city services, especially in congested areas. It has also been extremely active with the various tension situations which inevitably arise in intergroup projects. I would like to state publicly, as Treasurer of our Committee and on behalf of our members, that Mayor Impelletari has consistently given us his unqualified support. Thanks largely to this support and the wholehearted cooperation of all city department heads, we honestly believe that New York City's unity activity compares favorably with that of any community in the country. There's an old saying to the effect that a committee is as good as or no better than its chairman. The members of our committee feel that whatever success we have achieved is due in large measure to the leadership of our chairman, the Honorable Arthur Wallander, who has achieved an enviable record of lifelong service to his city, starting as a lowly cop on the beat and finally becoming our police commissioner. Until recently, he served as director of our city civil defense program. And during all of those arduous days and months, by working many hours on Sundays and extra time, he continued as chairman of our unity committee. We all hope that he will continue to do so for a long time to come. I have the great honor of introducing our chairman, Commissioner Arthur Wallander. Thank you very much, Major Nam. It's my pleasure now as chairman and on behalf of the members of the unity committee and myself, of course, to welcome you, Mr. Mayor, and thank you for the interest you have shown and the support you have given to the work of the committee. You have been a bulwark, Mr. Mayor, and we do appreciate it. We appreciate, too, the confidence you have reposed in us through lending your unqualified support to us at all times. You have found the time out of a very busy schedule to come here today to join with us in honoring one of the charter members of the committee, Mr. Edmund Borgio Butler. We have come to lean heavily on Mr. Butler for his wise counsel and have found him a person of boundless energy and unflagging devotion to the cause of promoting better understanding and mutual respect among the citizens of our great city. We are indeed honored to have you here to join us in paying a well-deserved tribute to one of New York's first citizens, Mr. Mayor. It gives me a great pleasure, ladies and gentlemen, to present to you the Honorable Vince Norum Pelletieri, Mayor of the City of New York, who will make a presentation to our honored guest. And now, his honor to the mayor. Commissioner Wallander, our guest of honor, and Mrs. Butler, ladies and gentlemen, the Unity Committee, ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience. It's a great pleasure for me to be invited to participate with you at this luncheon today, honoring a personal friend of mine of long-standing, very long-standing, because I knew Mr. Butler, your guest of honor, a great number of years ago when I was a student of law and Professor Butler, as I knew him in those days, was a distinguished professor of law at Fordham University. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For me, it is a very special privilege to be here at this luncheon and to have the opportunity of thanking all of you who have labored together to make the Mayor's Committee on Unity a very inspiring influence to greater understanding for all the people of the City of New York. Your efforts take an even greater significance when measured in terms of the diversified complexion of our population. My pleasure at being here today increases with the knowledge that we are here specially to do honor to a colleague of ours whose life has been a fine expression of the commandment, love thy neighbor. Our honored guest, Mr. Butler, is a man rich in goodness. And rich in his unselfish service to his fellow man. He is truly a citizen of great worth by spiritual and moral standards whose daily performance of work is an immeasurable contribution to the community. Only last week, and this only points out what Judge Lozansky said informally a short time ago, I don't know how Mr. Butler has time to give to so many worthwhile civil projects. This luncheon is one example of it. Here today, he's active in the cause of the Mayor's Committee on Unity. Only a few days ago, he took time out from his own busy life to come down to confer with the mayor and members of another committee in a completely different sphere of activity, but all calculated to do good for the people of his community. And in that instance, it was the neglected children of our city. I think he devoted something like two and a half hours to that conference at City Hall. And that's only one of a great many other things that your guest of honor does day in, day out, in the interests of the people of the city of New York. Since his graduation from Fordham University, he has had a distinguished career, marked by serious effort and accomplishment in many fields, and has had a very rich experience in city affairs. Time, of course, does not permit me to go into detail. But I would like to point out on this occasion, particularly, that for the past eight years, Mr. Edmund Borgia Butler has been a devoted and an active member of the Mayor's Committee on Unity. He has participated actively in the work of the majority of the subcommittees connected with the various projects in which the committee has engaged. And he is presently the chairman of one of the most important subcommittees, the Subcommittee on City Services. This subcommittee has conducted hearings in the five boroughs of the city of New York, which have provided an opportunity for citizens to give their evaluation of the quality of city services in their particular neighborhoods. These hearings have been attended by representatives of city departments with whom the findings will be discussed and after which recommendations will be made. Mr. Butler is presently performing a very important service to the city of New York through his chairmanship of a committee consisting of representatives of several civic organizations interested in assisting the police commissioner in establishing in-service training for police personnel in the area of human relationships. This committee meets under the auspices of the Mayor's Committee on Unity, which has been instrumental in bringing together those organizations in the community interested in the training of police personnel. Mr. Butler has also been chairman of the Personnel Committee of the Mayor's Committee on Unity. He is one of a committee of three who selects the committee's staff. As Mayor of the City of New York and in behalf of all the people of this city, I congratulate you, Mr. Butler, on your record of achievement over the years. You have made us realize how much good it is possible for one individual who has the purpose and determination to accomplish it to actually go to work and do that kind of a job for his community. I want to express, rather, my personal appreciation to you for your valuable services. I've been the beneficiary of your help, your cooperation, your courageous effort, and at all times of the very rich knowledge that in my six and a half years at City Hall, during the time that I was president of the council, during the period of time when I was acting mayor, and since ascending to the office of the mayor back in September of 1950, I always knew that there was one man in the city of New York who had no axe to grind at all, who I could always call on the telephone, and within minutes, I knew that he was one gentleman in the city of New York that would put aside his own business interests and the interests of the welfare of his community, and on this occasion, Ed, I want to say to you that I very, very deeply appreciate the kind of cooperation you have extended to me. But not only on my own personal behalf, on this occasion, I have the privilege of representing eight million people who appreciate the kind of citizen that you represent, and it's in a representative capacity that it's my privilege to present to you, on behalf of all the people of the city of New York, this award for conspicuous merit in civic endeavors. I might point out that it represents a permanent official record so that your name will always be honorably recorded in the archives of our city. my congratulations, my thanks, my appreciation, and my appreciation to Mrs. Butler for having permitted you to give the community the kind of service you have rendered. May I ask you to step up to receive this beautiful scroll of the city of New York for a distinguished and conspicuous public service. The city of New York has just presented this beautifully illuminated scroll to Edmund Borgia Butler as a tribute to his great service to the people of the city of New York. It's just a moment now of general appreciation and applause before Commissioner Wallander speaks. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor, that fine eulogy of our very dear friend Edmund Borgia Butler. And I think it's time for him to speak for himself. And so, without further ado, I present our esteemed colleague and friend, Mr. Edmund Borgia Butler. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, and ladies and gentlemen, I've often been present at affairs of this kind and wondered what one thought about when things were being said very complimentary but very difficult to take. Because if you are honest with yourself, you have grave doubts. Mr. Mayor, in the first place, I want to thank you for your personal comments but particularly for your being here. It's beyond my comprehension how a person whose life is so busy as yours can take the time which you do in many instances to come to affairs such as this. Because, as you say, I have had an intimate connection with the city of New York. In fact, it dates from June 6, 1934. And I have seen mayors suffer and presidents of councils and formerly of the board of Alderman. I have often wondered why a man was willing to be mayor of the city of New York because he can never be right. And I wish to pay tribute to you for your extraordinary cooperation with us and with every work with which I have personally been connected. I'm deeply appreciative of what Judge Lozanski said to me a few moments ago. In fact, he has always been an inspiration to me personally because I have known him longer than he has known me because being a practicing attorney in the city of New York, the presiding justice of the appellate division in the second department is a very important person. and I have known him and have been an admirer of his for a great many years, not only of his work as a judge of the court but also of his devotion to the community. And since others have thanked Mrs. Butler for her kindness in releasing me, I must pay tribute to it because were it not for the fact that she has been willing to share of the time that we have and the short time we have together, it would not be possible for me to do what I have done. And it is also very important that I should take notice of the fact that through all of these years I have had partners who are very understanding because meetings have a habit of coming up at the wrong time. And you are all set as I was today to try a case two weeks ago but it was reached this morning. Fortunately, it was settled. It requires a great deal of ingratiating talk with judges to suggest to them well now, I know that the case was marked ready but wouldn't it be nice if you let me go attend such and such a meeting? Mrs. Butler's brother who was my partner was who died some years ago made it very easy for me to devote the time that I did and I receive a great deal of credit which in truth belongs to him and to my partner since his death and to someone who is here today who was referred to as my secretary but who was in fact the manager of our office and who directs our activities, Ms. Wolfe. I must also pay tribute to the staff of this organization and particularly to Mrs. Alexander who I take credit in part for having selected originally. I first knew Mrs. Alexander in the days when I was secretary of the emergency relief bureau and of her great tact I can pay tribute because upon one occasion I recall doing a little investigating of some of the work of the emergency relief bureau and observing Mrs. Alexander trying to convey to the administrator of that district office that I was there and who I was and why she should keep quiet without any success but it was a good try. The staff has done a marvelous job and if we have any success we should pay tribute to them. To our first executive director Dan Dodson whose birthday we celebrate today and to the others who over the years have worked with us and that of course brings me to a very pleasant obligation which I think anyone speaking for the mayor's committee on unity should be glad to perform and that is to recognize the tremendous contribution which was given to this committee by its first chairman Charles Evans Hughes Jr. He devoted an enormous amount of time to the work and he brought to it a conviction of the worthwhileness of what he was doing and that sometimes is an extremely difficult task. I discussed at some length with some of those who have financed the work of this committee in the beginning and particularly I refer to David Hyman of the New York Foundation. We were trying to extract some money from him and he said to me will you tell me why there should be a mayor's committee on unity and why should this committee continue? Well I said I'll put it to you this way Major Nam should appreciate this a well established commercial organization always has a complaint department and that complaint department serves to allow the people who are annoyed at what is going on to register their complaint someplace where someone will listen to them. One of the things that the mayor's committee on unity has contributed I said to David Hyman is the fact that we are a place where a person who has a real complaint who feels that he is unjustly treated may go may present his case with the assurance that it will be considered impartially and honestly we have no axe to grind this committee is a perfect example of unity and I pay a great deal of tribute to Judge Lysansky's remarks before where he said that people can get along and differ the one thing that I want to pay tribute to the members of this committee is that they differ there are a lot of people who think that unity is having a rubber stamp that each person will have certain the same thoughts the same ideals the same ambitions and the same methods of accomplishing their ambitions and that of course is not unity this country did not get where it was through a melting pot which fused people into a pattern because I think that the city of New York is a perfect example of a place in which more different people live people with different cultures different ambitions different desires different cultures they get along together and one of the contributions I think we take more out of the meetings of the mayor's committee on unity than we give and one of the things that I take out of it is the fact that if I did want to discuss certain questions I could get into a violent argument with everyone at this table but I find out that that's wholly unnecessary and that is one of the things which is extremely difficult to get across to people it's the attitude of mine where you look at a person and you see the good things in them instead of trying to pick a fight because always put yourself on the other side of the fence and if you are honest with yourself you see how many reasons why they wouldn't like you and so this committee is in itself a demonstration of how people should get along now you all know those of you who have participated in these meetings that when a question comes up there will from an absolutely unexpected source be complete opposition and the last person on the committee you think would object to some program or some position that the committee should take but they do now we talk about it it's a place where we meet where we agree to disagree on certain subjects because none of us are like a very good friend of mine who said he never got in any trouble because he never had any politics and he never had any religion now I think we are here every different creed not every color but most of them and certainly every different shade of politics if we ever began to discuss politics I don't think that any of us would be talking at the end of the time but it's perfectly possible for people with different backgrounds different ambitions different religions different cultures to meet on a common ground to perpetuate the ideal of American democracy which is the ideal of people who came from all over the world who came and settled here who had certain definite ideals a creed a belief in God and the creation of man and the granting of inalienable rights to man and this has been a place where people of all races colors and creeds have been able to come and live together now the difficulty that we have in society today and I say this that the city of New York in my judgment is possibly one of the best places for people to live other than its physical problems with which the mayor occasionally has to deal as for example traffic or some other thing which should not be mentioned in pleasant society but people do get along together in New York people do live together so that they do not recognize the differences as for example people in New York want to occasionally offend each other because they do not realize the differences and they'll make some remark which is a heritage of ignorance or of experience or something of the kind and they will make some disparaging remark about another simply because they don't realize that there is any difference people who never offend on that score are usually the ones who have the most ingrained prejudices the prejudice is always there so they're extremely polite to the minority groups I think that of all the work that I have ever been engaged in the one that I have gotten the greatest thrill out of was seeing how you could get along with people that normally you would wonder why they should be together I think this committee has done a great deal in demonstrating the fact that you can live together now one of the things that we have never been able to solve and I don't suppose we ever will be is how to present and to demonstrate to the city of New York and to the country generally that it is possible for people to get along together that the majority in one particular locality may be a minority in another that what difference does it make whether in this particular locality there are a majority of Irish the race from which I descend or in another particular place the majority of them are Jews or Negroes now if you are honest with yourself and if you really believe in the principles of American democracy as announced in the Declaration of Independence it should be possible for you to live in any community the point that we want to demonstrate through this committee apart from the fact that we act as it were as the complaint department of the city of New York we should like to demonstrate to the people that it is practical for people to live together without regard to the accidental differences of their position in society their race their creed their culture their religion and that's what they tried to do when they founded this country and if we call ourselves Americans that's what we should be doing and that is what this committee in my judgment is formed as a demonstration of its possibility I don't think that we'll ever accomplish the result that we would like because only through education only through actual experience experiences such as we have had can you realize how stupid it is to get mad at somebody because per accident of birth he belongs to a different race a different color or he is of a different religion if you talk to him and that reminds me of a man who used to say the late Colonel Wilgus who was the head of the works division of the emergency relief bureau a very great engineer and whenever we were having trouble with the various departments and the mayor has these troubles we used to have to get along with the state temporary emergency relief administration and the federal emergency relief administration he used to say now if you will come and have your rascals sit down with my rascals you will find out that we are human beings and the whole thing will be solved and I think that is the essence of the committee on unity may I again thank all of my associates on this committee for their kindness to me today because I must say that this award could be given with equal honesty to every member of the committee and again my your presence here today a great sacrifice to you thank you very much Mr. Butler for that very inspiring address we all agree with the tenets of what you said and this concludes the business meeting for this day thank you all for coming radio's microphones have been in the empire room of the hotel Biltmore where the program under the auspice of the mayor's committee on unity presented this testimonial luncheon to Edmund Borgia Butler for his tremendous record of service in many degrees of service as Mayor Impelitari indicated in his address here at the luncheon the Honorable Arthur Wallander was introduced by that distinguished citizen of Brooklyn and great merchant Major Nam and we heard the remarks of the chairman on unity for the mayor's committee Arthur W. Wallander himself director of the people a man who has time for everything as a tribute to a great citizen of New York City and a great assistant and friend of the mayor of the city of New York the Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari and now that is all from the empire room we return you to the studios this is the municipal broadcasting system