Ladies and gentlemen, I regret to announce that at the last moment, the mayor found fit to postpone his attendance here, and instead he requested his deputy mayor, Colonel Bennett, to take his place. Up until one o'clock, he assured me and everyone else he'd be here. He did want to come here to lay this cornerstone. Colonel Bennett, our guest, ladies and gentlemen, today marks the cornerstone lane of the $4 million Betts Avenue incinerator. This ceremony can best be described by saying that Mayor O'Dwyer is today not only laying a cornerstone, but also laying a tombstone for the garbage cemeteries which have plagued the borough of Queens for many, many years. Today also marks the launching of a $25 million program for the construction of five new incinerators planned by this administration to handle the refuse output of this great city. It should be noted that this output amounts to almost 5 million tons yearly, enough to pile the Yankee Stadium area a mile high. For the benefit of those ardent Queensites who believe that this borough, of which I am a proud resident, is short- exchanged on public improvements, let me point out that five of the new incinerators, Queens is getting two. The Betts Avenue plant is scheduled for completion next March, and the existing Flushing incinerator will serve the entire north side of the borough with a population of over three-quarters of a million people. However, to take care of the south side of Queens, a site for the south shore incinerator has already been approved, and the Department of Public Works is working on the design. This plant will also have a rated capacity of about 750 to 1,000 tons, and may do more. For all of this, I say to you that the residents of the growing borough of Queens have no one to thank but his honor to the mayor. As Commissioner of Sanitation, I perhaps know better than anyone of General O'Dwyer's keen desire to dispose of garbage by incinerators instead of landfills. As early as 1946, February 46, one month after he took office, Mayor O'Dwyer directed me to open all incinerators that could be used at once. From this observation he told me, from his observation, he told me that he was entirely dissatisfied with the practice of dumping garbage and refuse practically in the backyards of the homes, and he was determined to stop it. He ordered a modernization of old incinerators and the preparation of plans for five new destructors throughout the city. When I expressed the alarm at the course of such a program, General O'Dwyer said, Bill, you arrange for the preparation of the plans, and let me worry about the source in which to obtain funds. Despite all the financial problems that beset his administration, Mayor O'Dwyer did manage to find the money, not only for the incinerator program, but for the replacing of obsolete sanitation equipment to the tune of over $9 million. Therefore, I am delighted that he is with us today, or rather he sent, I regret he's not with us today, that he sent Colonel Brennan instead to lay the cornerstone for the first of the five new plans. I am confident he will be with us to see the completion of the program he had ably instituted. Thank you, Mr. General. Now we'll hear today. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you Honorable Colonel John J. Bennett, Deputy Mayor of the City of New York. Commissioner Powell. Commissioner Fitzgerald. Mayor O'Dwyer had expected to attend these ceremonies. However, I'm sure that you know that in the busy life of a mayor of the City of New York, very often matters arise without any previous notice to prevent the mayor from doing always the things he would like to do, such as attending this ceremony. That was the case today, and therefore he was unable to come. He's asked me to extend his apologies to you, as well as his regrets. On the other hand, he wants you to know that he's a very happy man, despite the fact that he's not with you in person. Because this ceremony today marks the beginning of carrying into effect another one of Mayor O'Dwyer's programs. It also marks the redemption of another promise which the mayor made to the people approximately four years ago. You know, at City Hall, one of the first problems that we heard about was how obnoxious to the people in Queens were landfill operations. Immediately sending for Commissioner Powell, the mayor learned what the true facts were and told Bill Powell and the people of the city and especially the people of Queens that the days of landfill operations in the City of New York were soon to come to an end. And that as far as it was humanly possible during the four years of his administration, I'm talking now about his first administration, that steps would be taken to provide the alternative to landfill operations. And I refer to modern, up-to-date, destructive plants. So today we gather on this spot to witness the cornerstone laying of a new plant, one of five, which when completed will make it possible to dispense with landfill operations. A lot of money is involved. Twenty million dollars for the five, five million dollars for the one that you see here under construction. But may I say to you that when the present administration came into office, it didn't have all the money in the world. And certainly it didn't have all the money that it was necessary to find in order to do two things. First, to keep up with current necessities of city administration. And secondly, to make up for the neglect and the failures of a previous administration. To give the services which the people of the city of New York were entitled to and which they demanded. Now it is true that a war intervened and made it impossible to continue on building various plants. It made it impossible to get a lot of equipment. But that's only one part of the story. Many things such as this plant should have been planned and under construction many years before. The whole impact of current operations, the resumption of normal building operations after four years of war, and the catching up with that neglect formed a terrific impact on the present administration. Now when people say that we were behind in the building of schools, that our hospitals were inadequate for the sick of the city, when they say that our housing was inadequate, those problems are not something that just arose since January 1st, 1946. Those problems, or at least a large part of them, were bequeathed to the old Dwyer administration when it came into office on the 1st of January. So these have been four strenuous years. I want to mention rather briefly some of the other programs which the present administration has had to meet during those four strenuous years. May I say to you that we do not want you to feel that we think that we've finished the job, but we've made an awfully good start. And I promise you for the mayor that he'll finish all of those programs in the next four years when he's returned to City Hall for his second administration. As you know, sewage disposal has been a serious problem in the city of New York. You know that our harbor waters and our adjacent waterways are full of filth. But we're making a start on that. We're well on the way on it. New buses had to be gotten for our transportation lines as well as new subway cars. Health centers had to be provided. Hospitals had to be brought up to date. And still a lot remains to be done, as you will hear in the course of the next couple of weeks, because we want the people to vote on an amendment to the Constitution this fall. so that the city of New York may issue $150 million of bonds for hospital construction outside the city debt limit. That city debt limit, you know, limits our ability to spend bond money. We've got to go outside the limit now to get those $150 million to bring our hospital plant up to date so that no needy, sick person in the city will be turned down when he or she desires admission to a hospital. Our housing problem has been terrific. I'm sure you must have read in last Monday morning's papers about the strides that the Oatwire administration has made to meet the housing problem. We still have 150,000 families in this city with their applications on file with the city housing authority. people who, through no fault of their own, cannot find suitable houses within which to bring up their families. We've had to build parks, build new streets, build playgrounds. As to schools, the mayor promised in the first part of 1946 that the school plant would be brought up. This year we will have started the erection of 52 new schools. And may I say, Mary Fitzgerald, that the great bulk of them has come out here to Queens. That has been the problem. All of these programs have had to be started. And may I say to you that nobody has fought for these programs as far as they affect Queens harder than the borough president of Queens, Jim Burke. And may I say to you, fighting alongside of them in the Board of Estimate at all times for the people of Queens, for the many improvements they needed. For the Betts Avenue destructor plant, alongside of Jim Burke, has been fighting the commissioner of works in this borough, Maurice Fitzgerald. He's a great fighter and he'll continue to fight for the people of Queens for the next four years in the Board of Estimate. I'm very happy to come and represent the mayor today on this happy occasion. I'm sure that you all appreciate, from the few details I've given you, the enormity of the problem which faced the O'Dwyer administration on January 1st, 1946. However, a start has been made. The mayor has redeemed all his promises on all of the programs which I have mentioned to you. He's asked me to say to you that in the next four years, he'll complete those programs and keep the city up with its current demands. That is one of the problems of city administration. Measured by the progress of four years, we all the citizens of the city have a right to be thankful that we have a mayor and an administration first of all responsive to the needs and the demands of the citizenry of the city. Secondly, with a courage and a determination to meet those problems, to solve them, and to bring the city to the point where it ought to be able to give the kind of service that the citizens of this community and this city are entitled. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.