Pals of the PAL. This program is one of the many activities of the Police Athletic League, an organization dedicated to the promotion of a friendly relationship between the youth of New York City and the police department. The PAL encourages respect, appreciation for good citizenship. The Police Athletic League is supported by private funds derived from associate memberships, donations, and the proceeds of an annual benefit show. All the young people participating in this program are members of the Police Athletic League. Well, I think I'll just settle down in this easy chair now and kind of catch up with my reading. Hello, Mr. McManus. Oh, hello, Mary Mercer. You know, Mr. McManus, I think I ought to borrow that expression from Shakespeare and ask someone to lend me their ears. Sorry. Can't help you out, Mary. There's no more lend-leash, you know. Well, I ought to do something because my own ears seem to be deceiving me. Well, what makes you think that? Well, didn't I just hear you say you were going to settle down in that easy chair and catch up with your reading? Well, yes. Yes, but as long as you're here, maybe you could read to me. Perhaps then I could doze a bit, too. Yes, sir. That's what Papa McManus needs right now. A good rest. Look, Papa Mac. Have you ever seen or heard the letters P-A-L before? P-A-L. P-A-L. It seems to me I have seen them before somewhere. Maybe they were in that alphabet soup I had for lunch. Well, one more question, Mr. Mac. Do you know what P-A-L stands for? Now, look, Mary. Just when Papa Mac is settling down for a rest, do you have to stand asking me riddles? If you're so smart, what does P-A-L stand for? Right now I say it stands for Pops Allergic to Labor. I don't mind working, Mary. I'm just tired, that's all. I didn't wake up until 10 o'clock this morning. 10 o'clock? When did you go to bed? Thursday. Well, do you realize, Mr. Mac, what today is? Realize what today is? Of course. It's a nice sunny day in, I think, September. Mind you, I don't want to be dogmatic about it, but that's my opinion. Well, everyone has a right to his own opinion. But do you realize what the hands on that clock say? Now, wait a minute. Are you trying to get me in wrong with the boss? Get you in wrong with the boss? What's that got to do with it? Well, just this morning, he told me I didn't know the right time. I can't start an argument about it while we're on the air. Well, I'll bet the boss will like it if you'll just let me state three facts. It's Saturday afternoon. It's just a little after 4.30 p.m. And PAL stands for Police Athletic League. Saturday afternoon? 4.30 p.m.? Police Athletic League? Well, why didn't you say so in the first place? I've got some welcoming to do. Right, Mr. Mac. If you'll just pick up that script, here's a good chance to catch up on your reading. Okay, Mary. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to this week's edition of our PAL radio variety show as Harvey Davis and his instrumental quintet open the program with Fish for Supper. Mind you, I don't want to be dogmatic about it, but that's my opinion, and it isn't because of the hot weather that Fish for Supper is being my opinion. We've got fish for supper First one can and another We've got fish for supper First one can and another We ain't got no menu But our fish will send you We've got fish for supper First one can and another Last night we had bread and fish Tonight we got fish and bread Tomorrow night we're gonna change the dish And have a plain fish instead We've got fish for supper First one can and another We've got fish for supper First one can and another Can't use fish for supper Fifth one can and another They've got fish for supper First one can and another So I can use them To yourese Bigero And another Even a piece of sushi And another Sure Pegero Push for supper Master Father Thank you inclusion In Incredibly Tell I would Can And 그러면 Quiz ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶ Last night we had bread and fish ¶ Tonight we got fish and bread ¶ Tomorrow night we're gonna change the dish ¶ And have plain fish instead ¶ We've got fish for supper ¶ First one kind and another ¶ We've got fish for supper ¶ First one kind and another ¶¶ ¶ I don't know whether Maestro Arthur Ford is as tired as I was at the beginning of this program. Up to now, all he's done is play the theme song. Still, what time did you wake up this morning, Maestro? Oh, about 11 o'clock. And when did you go to bed? Wednesday. Hmm, Wednesday. Are you sure you don't accompany yourself with a little slumber music while you're sawing wood, Maestro? Yes, I do, Mac. And between playing that accompaniment and sawing that wood, I sure tie myself out. Okay, Arthur. We're able to give you a bit of a rest now because it so happens that Anna Blanco is going to accompany her own pretty little self as she sings, Please Don't Squeeze the Banana or the Orange's Island. Riley the cop would always stop on the corner at Tony's fruit stand. He'd help himself to anything on which he could lay his hand. Riley did this quite often. Plenty of fruit he would soften till Tony got sore and inwardly swore and then began to shout, Hey, please, no squeeze of the banana. Because when you do that, then you make a flat. Hey, please, no squeeze of the banana. Because when you squeeze the plump, you put them on the bum. You touch this, you touch that, you touch everything. You push this, you push that, you never buy nothing. So please, no squeeze of the banana. If you squeeze the officer, please squeeze the coconut. Hey, please, no squeeze of the banana. Hey, please, no squeeze of the banana. Because when you do that, then you make a flat. Hey, please, no squeeze of the banana. Because when you squeeze the plump, you put them on the bum. You touch this, you touch that, you make me for a fool. You push this, you push that, why don't you squeeze of the fruit? Please, no squeeze of the banana. If you squeeze the officer, please squeeze the coconut. Hey, please, no squeeze of the banana. Because when you do that, then you make a flat. Hey, please, no squeeze of the banana. Because when you make the reach, you break them off the beach. You push this, you push that, you must have up the stand. You squeeze of this, you squeeze of that, someday I'll break your hand. So please, no squeeze of the banana. If you squeeze the officer, please squeeze the coconut. Squeeze the watermelon. But please, no squeeze of the banana. After that warning by Anna about not squeezing the banana, one of the kids here in the studio with an accordion will probably be afraid to practice. And now the maestro goes back to work as Dorothy Rebarba and Stan Cowan cooperate to bring us Wanting You. My heart is aching for someone And you are that someone You know the truth of my story You must believe what you see I told me someday love someone From somewhere there'll come one One who will feel the same story That you're telling me Wanting you Every day I am wanting you Every night I am longing to Hold you close to my eager dress Wanting love In this heaven I'm dreaming of Makes this heaven seem far above And ye hope that I'll gain My quest Dreams are vain But I cling to the nearest chance That you may hear me Dreams are vain For whenever I wake For whenever I wake I never find you near me Wanting you Nothing else in this world will do In this world you are all That I am All I adore All I adore All I adore All I adore All I adore All I adore It's too bad I'm the sort of fellow Who doesn't know the right time Because I have a hunch It's about time for Dorothy Rebarba To sing all by herself now If it is Mr. Mack I'm all ready Oh hello Dorothy You'd really think I hadn't said hello to you before But it's in the script So I stuck to it Well I was just saying That not being able to figure out What those clock hands are signaling I just can't be sure Maybe if you step out into the roof garden You can tell the time there Stepped out into the roof garden? How do you expect me to tell the time out there? By looking at the sundial By looking at the sundial? What's that? That's an instrument that reflects the sun's rays And by studying the shadow on its face You can tell what time it is