We report immediately to our 31st Street garage. When we got there this morning, we found that the overflow of the river had gone right into the garage. The first thing we were notified of was two of our main pumping stations. One is the paddock at the pumping station. That's down there in Ralph and Plotbush Avenue. It was out of business. These pumping stations pump over hundreds of millions of gallons of sludge and sewer in 24 hours. We got that one fixed up by hooking up gasoline engines because the electric power had failed. That was rather ingenious. How early did this happen? That happened this morning around 1130. And then at the same time, our Avenue V and 86 Street pumping station went out of business. We finally got that working because fortunately we had enough electric flashlights down there to correct the condition. We've got those both back in shape. And by that time, our men started to arrive. Well, we only have two telephones in our garage, but we notified the police and they cooperated beautifully. And we invented a new idea by asking them to loan us one of our two-way radio cars where we brought that right into the garage. We would send these men out on the emergency calls. We knew that we couldn't do very much outside of repair or temporary damage. We couldn't use these wooden horses because they would be blown right over. So we got tin cans and filled them with Belgian paving blocks or whatever material that was heavy enough to hold them down and tied ropes and put lanterns on them. Well, that sounds like quick thinking. But now, could you give us your impression of the overall situation? On the overall situation so far, to my knowledge, and I've inspected this place, we had a five-alarm fire down there in Greenpoint. That's at Morgan and Division Place. Fire Department, of course, was right on the job. We saw that we couldn't help down there very much outside of keeping the sewers open so as the water wouldn't back up and get into the cellars in that area. And from there, by then we noticed down here on Bedford and DeKalb, there was a phone call. There was one church steeple that completely went over, and I guess that was 60 or 70 feet in the air. That was made of solid brick. That tumbled down in the street. Well, we had that street roped off. Then we got a phone call in from Rockwell and Lafayette. That was another church steeple. And we went down there and saw that condition was beyond repair. We turned that over to the fire department, and then we needed an immediate service down on Vanderpool Avenue. I think, if I remember correctly, the number was 578 Vanderpool Avenue. There were five cold-water flats there where the cornices had flown clear off the five flats. Well, Mr. Burrow-President, it seems to me that you prevented a lot of damage by your action in making this survey and being out there on the spot before anything disastrous could happen. That's my impression. Would you say, generally, that with the help of government and private agencies, that the situation is well in hand for anything we may face in the future? Well, I would say from the way the men cooperated, as far as Brooklyn is concerned. Now, of course, we've lost 1,500 to 2,000 beautiful trees here, and most of them are blown over into the highways. Yes, but we'll... Well, of course, we've got our men out now pulling those trees to one side to try and stop any accidents that may occur to people not realizing the trees are still coming down. Well, that's extremely interesting, sir. I want to thank you very much for talking with us. All right, John. We've been talking to the Honorable John Cashmore, Burrow President of Brooklyn, who has just completed a survey of storm damage in his burrow. I want to thank you very much for talking to some members of her tribe, from my husband, who has been in the bar for some years holdingبر man.