Good evening. From the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria, WNYC is about to bring you the broadcast of the annual American Fashion Critics Award Ceremonies. Among the guest speakers for this evening will be the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Grover Whelan, General Carlos Romulo, Eugenia Shepard, Fashion Critic for the New York Herald Tribune and others. The American Fashion Critics Award, founded by Coty, incorporated in 1943, is presented annually to fashion designers whose work during the year has had a significant effect on the style circle. Winners are chosen by a jury composed of 78 fashion editors of national magazines, newspaper syndicates, and metropolitan newspapers who keep close watch on fashion developments throughout the year and who then meet to clarify their findings and make their selections. The designer chosen as a winner of the year's award receives from Coty a thousand dollar government bond and a bronze trophy called a Winnie. This is a symbol of fashion designed by the noted American sculptor Malvina Hoffman. Winners of citations or special awards receive a silver plaque. At this moment we're awaiting Mr. Grover Whelan who will open the program. Following Mr. Whelan will be for the jury, Eugenia Shepard, chairman of the American Fashion Critics Award of 1950 and a woman's page and fashion editor of the New York Herald Tribune. For the City, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere will speak and then the presentation of the eight annual awards will be made by Brigadier Jim Carlos Carlos P. Romulo. We'll hold off, of course, giving you the awards right now and while we're waiting the appearance of Mr. Whelan, we might mention some of the previous recipients of the American Fashion Critics Award. When in 1943 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the first award went to Norman Norell of Traynor Norell, the second awards to Lily Dachet and John Fredericks. 18 citations to specific fashions which provided strong influence for the year 1942 within wartime restrictions were made to Adrian for his V-line suit silhouette, Hattie Carnegie for the short evening dress, Claire Potter for her grand trend setting ruffled blouse, to Charles Cooper for the drawstring drape, the mainbocker for the lumberjack suit, Claire McCardle for her pop-over dress, an ingenious work dress for housewives, Valentina for the skirt with trouser pleats, and the additional citation to the Chesterfield coat to all designers who helped launch this practical wartime fashion. Here at the Waldorf Astoria, the guests have been late in arriving, necessitating a slight delay in the beginning of our program, which is about to begin in just a moment. At this moment we see Mr. Whelan chatting with Mr. Romulo and Miss Shepherd, preparatory to coming up to the stage and opening the program. We might mention that leading off from the stage, going directly into the grand ballroom, there's a zigzag platform of about shoulder height. Along this platform will be presented a parade of the different fashion winners, which will go back to as late as 1943, including a review of the winners, which we already have mentioned. If there is time during our broadcast, we will hope to bring this Eugenia Shepherd to the platform, to our microphone, to give a description of this very remarkable fashion parade. And now, Miss Shepherd, Mr. Romulo, and Mr. Whelan have mounted the podium. And in just a moment we will begin, and the first voice you hear will be that of Mr. Whelan. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Whelan. Mr. McComboough, and Mr. dodgy, add your打sed. As you доп'em. Mr. Cum Lae. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention? We are very sorry that we have to go on because of our airtime immediately with our fashion show and with the program for the evening. In the first place, I should like to tell you about the American Fashion Critics Award. This is the eighth annual presentation. It was started during the war as an institution that would encourage the designers of America to use the materials that were at hand for the fashioning of garments and styling of women's clothes. We found that during that period, there was a very interesting epoch that took place in connection with the design of clothing. And the materials at hand were limited, as you very well know. And regardless of that, the fashions continued to grow with more interest, more design, and more charm than they ever had before. We have a competitor in back of me. Can I stop that? Wait a minute. Wait a minute. He's just giving instructions to the lights. But between listening to him and trying to think myself, it was quite a combination. However, the distinguished designers of America that have been chosen by the jurors who are free and untramble. Of course, you couldn't do anything with fashion editors anyway. Cote, who originated the ward, pledged themselves to a non-aggression program. In other words, we were not going to move in on the jury in any way, shape, or form. And the jury was to make their own decision, regardless of whether we liked it or not. And those decisions have been made, and they've been made apparently with the entire consent of the fashion industry of the United States. And tonight, it's a great privilege for me to introduce the chairman of the present eighth annual jury of the American Fashion Critics Award, Eugenia Shepherd, who is the fashion editor of the New York Herald Tribune. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Good evening. It makes us very happy to share our annual award party tonight with so worthwhile a charity as the Children's Memorial Cancer Fund. The American Fashion Critics Award, sponsored so generously by Cody, is eight years old tonight, as Mr. Whalen has told you. This means that it is almost hoary with age and tradition in our fast-moving fashion world. Starting with 1942, the award has recognized many talents in the field of American fashion design. The bronze Winnie sign and symbol of the award has gone to designers of custom-ordered clothes and hats, which many women may admire but few can afford to buy. It has singled out moderate and budget-priced designers for their inventiveness and flair. Citations of merit have gone to designers of mix-and-match costumes, of raincoats, jewelry, and shoes. Each of these past winners, along with the new ones, will be represented in the fashion parade that comes later. To the 77 members of the jury, representing different publications and news services, fashion is a live and exciting thing. Perhaps we know it too well and see it too closely to be able to sum up a year's thinking and doing in a single prize. Tonight, the jury proposes to award two winners and two citations to stand for the past year in fashion history. They will go to designers in vastly different fields. The connecting link is that all these designers have remembered beauty in a design era that concentrates on being functional, useful, and double-dutiful. One of the winners will go to a designer of custom-ordered clothes, so individual, so interestingly cut, and so lovely to look at, that they were given an exhibition of their own recently at the Brooklyn Museum. A second award will go to a West Coast designer who came back here last year. Her recent fashion collections have startled both critics and customers with their lively and imaginative ideas. Citations will go to a husband and wife team who designed fine shoes, and for the first time in history of the award, to a designer of lingerie. His Excellency Brigadier General Carlos P. Romulo has kindly consented to give the awards to the winning designers tonight. Mr. Whalen, will you introduce General Romulo? General Romulo. Thank you. This is a great pleasure to introduce Carlos Romulo to an American audience. He has been one of our great friends through the years, and a soldier, a diplomat, and a stylist. Now, there's a combination, that last one. I understand that all the clothes, the beautiful clothes that his wife wears, he selects. I doubt that. But his wife gave him credit for it tonight. And I wish Mrs. Romulo would stand up so that we can see the gorgeous gown that she has on at the moment. Mrs. Romulo. In his very young life, he has accomplished much. His wife was in the underground, the Philippines, during the war, and there was a price on his head and equally a price on hers during World War II. But he was with a great general, General MacArthur, during all this period. And for General Romulo to take time out tonight to make the presentations is a great compliment to the American Fashion Critics Award, that now this evening celebrates its eighth annual presentation. Aside from that, he is the Foreign Minister of the Philippines, the fourth President of the United Nations, and then in addition to that he is Chairman of the Philippines delegation. All in all, he is one of the most terrific personalities and the greatest orator we have of our day, barring none. So before he makes the presentation, he must make a speech. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. General Romulo. in sick with my audience behind this microphone. Before dinner tonight, one of the winners of the award asked me, how did you get roped in on this affair? Well, to tell you the truth, I was not roped in on this affair. Grover Whalen is a very persuasive individual, and when he invited me to come here this evening, I accepted with alacrity, because I came here to see, not to speak, as I am sure all of us came here to see, and not to listen to speeches. But I was wondering what is my qualification in coming here tonight in a fashion show, to award winners, in a fashion contest, so to speak. Well, I'm first of all a husband, and all the husbands here know that we are interested in fashion, especially when the bills come. And I'm a man, and I'm interested in fashion, because that is the only inspiration that a man has when pulchritude is before him. But more than that, I too come from Lake Success, and in Lake Success these days, we are working very hard, against odds, in fact, in order that this world may have a surcease from the exhaustion and the weariness it is going through. And we need to relax. But more than relaxation, there is something in every man's life that lifts him above the beast, and that is admiration for beauty. And it has been said that American people are mechanical-minded, that they are material-minded, that they can invent the atom bomb, the jet planes, but they don't have the spiritual values. And this affair tonight denies that, that we should have for eight years now in the United States, this Critics Award for that which is beautiful, for that which is fulcretudinous, speaks very highly of the value that the American people that the American people put on the imponderables and the intangibles of the soul. And so I come tonight to pay tribute to that sense of beauty of the American people. And a people that admires beauty, like a people with vision cannot perish. In fact, a people that admires beauty, as you are showing it here tonight, is invincible. And I came from Lake Success to pay you tribute for that this evening. Having said that, I feel it's now my pleasure, my privilege and my honor to award such prizes as have been decided upon by the jury to those who have shown to the world the creation of imagination, of American imaginative, of American imaginative, of American aesthetic sense. I thank you. Thank you, General Romulo. We are now ready for the serious business of the first award. The first winner is a man who has stood for the beauty, General Romulo mentioned, through many years. The judges have chosen him because his original conception of shape in clothes has had a profound influence on fashion trends on both sides of the Atlantic. Because his adventurous color sense and the engineering skill he applies to cut and construction have made his clothes completely timeless. Because through the invention of a different shape dress mannequin, he is bringing new and important shifts to the business of making wholesale garments. This man is Charles James. Charles James. At this moment, General Romulo is handing to Mr. James, this very beautiful mannequin, bronze mannequin. And on the middle of the stage, pictures are being taken as they're posing as they're posing. Each one holding this evidently heavy piece of metal work, which is indeed very beautiful. Mr. James shakes the hand of Mr. Romulo and Mr. Whelan. bronze mannequin and on the middle of the stage pictures are being taken as they're posing each one holding this evidently heavy piece of metal work which is indeed very beautiful. Mr. James shakes the hand of Mr. Romulo and Mr. Whelan and perhaps he will say a few words we're not sure. No, he's leaving the stage. Now again to Ms. Shepherd. The second award goes to a designer whose gay and witty approach to sports and street clothes has brought a new vitality to fashion during the past year. The jury has chosen her because her unexpected use of fabrics such as sheer coats and tweed aprons and her adaptation of oriental fashions for contemporary American wear have been of outstanding importance because her top to toe designing in the moderate price bracket has been a real contribution to American fashion. fashion. She is Bonnie Cashin. Ms. Cashin now steps through the curtain onto the stage and the second mannequin or Winnie as it's called is presented by General Romulo. Again the cameras are reeling as you can hear perhaps in the background and they both pose for a moment. I wish I could adequately describe incidentally the gown that Ms. Cashin is wearing. It's certainly beautiful. And they're struggling over the carrying of the mannequin. But finally the gentleman in Romulo carries it part way and then Ms. Cashin carries it the remainder of the way off the stage. And you hear the applause. Now once again Ms. Eugenia Shepherd. For a citation this year the jury has chosen a husband and wife team of shoe designers. Because in their sponsorship of the naked looking shoe that still holds the foot securely they have had an impressive influence on shoe fashions throughout the world. Because of the high standard of artistry and workmanship that reflect their creative talent. They are Mabel and Charles Giulianelli. The couple Mabel and Charles Giulianelli again are receiving the presentation from Carlos Piramulo. We can't quite make out what the award is. It's a very attractively bound, leatherette bound box. We see that there's going to be another presentation. We have a last citation this evening. The jury has voted for this designer because she has brought new excitement and sheer beauty to traditional lingerie fashions. Because of her original handling of nylon tricot, specifically in her permanently pleated nightgown. She is Nancy Melcher. She is so beautiful. She is strong. With a memorial. Thank you. Now we will have the fashion show. I'm going to turn the commentary of the show over to Florence Pritchett. Miss Pritchett is a well-known television star, but she is on home territory tonight because not very long ago she was a member of the American Fashion Critics Award jury. Miss Pritchett. While Miss Pritchett is giving a description of the fashion parade to our general audience, we have the pleasure of bringing to our own microphone Miss Eugenia Shepard. Unfortunately, it is not possible for our listening audience to get the picture of the parade as it would be described by Miss Pritchett. So Miss Shepard has very kindly consented to come here and compete with the loudspeaker system and to give us, our listening audience, some kind of a picture of what is going on. How do you do, Miss Shepard? Good evening. Believe me, it's much more pleasant sitting down here than it was up on the stage. We're starting our show with an evening dress by Norman Norell of Trina Norell. It's a white, very slinky dress with a low flounce about knee length. Now we have a costume by Lily Dashay. It's a brown ensemble with a big brown hat. And we have coming up a hat by Mr. John, John Fredericks. A little turban with a long veil that completely covers the girl's head. Following that is a hat by Mr. John. It's a Padre hat of a fuzzy gray beaver. It's rather hard to make these things sound real. I'm sorry you can't be here to see them. Here we have a Claire McArdle costume in contrast to some of the exotic things that have been coming out. This is a sports costume done in brown wool. And now we have one of Sally Victor's chess man hats that sit on the top of the head and look like little chess players. The girl who wears the hat carries a great big white fox muff as big as she is. Now we have something from Deep Country designed by the Phelps Associates. A practical looking work apron over long pants. Adrian is one of our most dramatic designers. And he's represented tonight by a Spanish Toreador's coat that's bright red and lined in black velvet. Tina Leeser has also gone Spanish and has a bolero costume of black velvet outlined in black ball fringe. Now this is quite a change. Emily Wilkins designs for the teenage crowd. And she's showing a pale yellow ball gown tonight. Very bare but with a little stand-up rough around the neck. Now we have a Burmese lounging costume. You'll see what variety there is in the show. And as I said earlier, how many different kinds of talents have won the prizes. Now we have a white top coat by Vincent Montesano. Indicative of the fact that lots of women are going to be wearing white on the street this winter. Omar Khayyam's ball gown is white and covered with crystals. And here comes a very handsome black gown. Short evening gown. Black velvet top. And a billowing black skirt by Nettie Rosenstein. Now we're getting into the suits. Here comes an Adele Simpson suit. Red nipped in at the waist. And with an attractive little leopard collar that stands up. Here's an evening dress for the Debs. A white bengaline dress with mink band around the top. And a matching white evening coat. It's really lovely and very young. Now we have something that looks like a candy box. Pale pink. Evening dress sparkling with crystals all through the top. And worn with a little hat to match. Here comes Hattie Carnegie's dress. Miss Carnegie won the prize two years ago. She's represented by a lovely pink ball gown. Like a flower with a green stem. The green stem in this case is the green velvet bodice. Here comes something new in furs. It's a white koi poo coat by Esther Dorothy. One of the weird furs that Miss Dorothy dreams up. Maximilian, another furrier, is showing a fitted coat of black broadtail. One year, prizes were given to three furriers. So here comes the third. A wraparound mink coat. Very pale blonde mink from Joseph DeLeo. Nothing is more beautiful than mink. Here comes a coat by Trigere. This is a short evening coat made of charcoal. Wool moire. It has a very low belt in back. Indicative of the fact that waistlines are dropping. Here comes another. A pair of black shoes by David Evans of I. Miller. Very cut out, perforated shoes. Naked looking like most of the new shoes. The girl is wearing a fur coat wrapped around big mink cuffs. Combination of black and brown. So prominent in the fur market this year. Now we have a slight pause to get our breath, I guess, before the modern part of the show comes on. Now the three winners' fashions are about to be shown, so everything has got very quiet. Nancy Melcher's nightgowns are to be shown first. They are pleated nightgowns of nylon tricot, and they're going to be shown in half a dozen pastel colors. The girls modeling them have on wigs dyed to match the nightgowns. They're dancing on the runway now. The colors are blue, mole, pink, peach. They're perfectly lovely, and the girls' hair just matches them. I'm sure this is something that the audience is going to like very much. The nightgowns are cut like Grecian robes with double cords around the waistline, very low front and back. And the girls really look like something in a dream as they come out on the runway. The skirts are full and all over pleated. Miss Melcher's nightgowns are really beautiful, and I can see that she deserved the award. After this, the next act is going to be the Giulianelli shoes, which will be shown with fashions designed by Trina Norell. Norman Norell is the designer for the firm. You'll hear the audience now applauding the nightgowns. And now here come the Giulianelli shoes. The shoes are daytime and evening. The Norman Norell costumes are both daytime and evening to go with them. Mr. Norell this year is doing 1920 type evening gowns, very short and glittery, which will go well with the Giulianelli's cutout shoes. Now here come the Norell fashions. Just a little delay here. As the curtains are parted, they're going to be shown against a black backdrop. The show is very beautifully staged, and I wish you could have seen the curtain, the outer curtain, which was designed specially for the event. It's pale blue with American Fashion Critics Award in sequins on the front of it, and a big white eagle. Now here come the shoes. First, there are bright blue satin sandals being shown with a sheath dress of black sequins that looks very much like the 1920s. The dress is cut down to the waist, both front and back. The model has a black tulle stole wrapped around her, and she's really very startling in appearance. Now we have some scarlet sandals worn with a Norell evening dress, short again, that's wrapped clear to the hip line where it flares out in a pert little flounce. When I say wrapped, it's really suave, so that you hardly know how she moves down the runway. Now we have some daytime afternoon pumps, completely cut out and lacy through the back. They're worn with one of the Norell midi dresses made of silk. The model wearing the dress has it belted in this time, but one of the newest looks of the season is the same midi dress worn without a belt and almost no waistline like the 1920s. Here we have a street suit of a polished calf skin in a luscious color that the Giulianellis call cognac. It's a very warm brownish shade. The pump is low at the sides, but it's closed toe and heel. The Giulianellis believed in closed fronts and backs for their pumps. And here we have a flat, a real flat, made of a reptile skin that's cut out at the sides, but still has the clothes, toe and back. And the climax of this scene is gold sandals, perfectly beautiful gold sandals, just a series of crossed straps. And the model wearing these is in a dress of gold fringe that glitters head to foot as she walks. There isn't much dress, I must say. It's all made of the bead fringe. It's very low cut to the waist and back and almost up to her knees, which will give you an idea of the latest silhouette for evening as the top style designers do them. Now they've pulled the red, white, and blue curtains again. And we're going to have Bonnie Cashin's fashions. There are plenty of those that will interest the audience, I know, because she's going to show both beach fashions and casual daytime things. Her whole collection this time is based on the American point of view. That covers a good deal of territory. First thing to be shown is Bonnie's sensational bathing suit. She calls this southern exposure. It has what I call a dropped waistline. The waistline drops clear to the hips and leaves a completely bare midsection, except where the little pants are attached to a tiny little narrow belt in front. Believe me, this suit is going to be a sensation on summer beaches and on southern beaches this winter. It's made of navy blue jersey. You can hear it's getting quite a hand from the audience as it goes out on the runway. Now we have one of Bonnie Cashin's toga coats that has a flowing coat, cape back. The front of it wraps and fastens with a string belt. It's worn over a characteristic Bonnie Cashin dress. A long jersey, slinky dress with long, tight sleeves. Bonnie Cashin likes a long, narrow silhouette, what she calls skinny sleeves. Now we have a costume with a coat that she calls her little rebel coat. This is going to be big news for spring. The coat, like her toga coat, has a cape back and a cutaway front with a slightly military look, like a Confederate soldier's uniform, I guess. And here we have another little cape jacket of Bonnie's. Her toga, which is cut short this time, done in mocha-colored wool and trimmed with braid. Here's one of her characteristic jerseys, which many women have worn and enjoyed. It's high up at the throat. It has long sleeves. And it's done in a wonderful, creamy white. That white that I said a little while ago was going to be so popular this winter. Now we have Bonnie's shell coat. This is an idea that she picked up from the Orient. In China, it seems they wear as many coats as they need. So Bonnie here has provided a first shell coat. And over it, when the weather gets cold, a woman puts a coat that harmonizes with the shell in color. She shows several versions of this coat tonight. She has one with a toast-colored shell and a black overcoat. Now here come her aprons. She's particularly famous for these aprons. And tonight she's showing a whole collection of them, all worn over basic black jersey dresses. The aprons tonight are made of unexpected fabrics. Here's one of cream-colored organdy outlined in lace. The next one to come along is going to be checked. Oh no, she's going to show one here made of heavy gold hand-loom drapery fabric made by Dorothy Libus, whose fabrics are usually used for windows or covering couches. Bonnie has doubled up this fabric into the cutest little apron you ever saw. The third apron is made of red and black check tweed. And it again goes over one of her black jerseys with a rather low neckline and short sleeves this time. This is the perfect costume Bonnie Cashin feels for a woman who's entertaining informally in her own apartment. Now we have a whole series of sports dresses, the kind of things she likes to do and does best. One very tricky one has a turned-under harem hemline, I see. Another is a navy blue worn under a bright red toga coat. All the models are wearing hats that Bonnie Cashin planned, although she didn't make them herself. They're big hats with droopy brims that turn down all around. These, in Bonnie's mind, go with the general silhouette she sponsors, the long skinny silhouette, the long tight sleeves, and then this big droopy hat on top. The hat was the type of thing, again, that was much worn and liked in the 1920s. The dress going down the runway now is a sports jersey, but it has a surprise neckline. It's low in back and has long streamers that fall to the hemline. Now I believe we're having a kind of final roundup of Bonnie's clothes. We have some more of our oriental fashions coming up that are very provocative, I can see. Here's a little beach costume, though. In the meantime, it has an apron made of the same Dorothy Leibus drapery fabric over a basic play suit. The apron is blue and green, and it's shot with a metal thread that Bonnie Cashin says is washable. That, again, is going to startle the beaches this summer, I think. And here's a very brief cut play suit. The trunks are way up short, and over it goes a plaid jacket with a square hood covering the head. Here's one of her characteristic jerseys that comes in two pieces and in two harmonizing colors. And now we have a mandarin coat. This is really a pretty exact copy of the coats that Chinese mandarins wear. It slid up to the armholes at the sides. Bonnie Cashin showed those last summer, and women who wore them found them extremely cool and comfortable. Now she's showing a pair of lounging, well, let's call them knickers, made of bright pink covered with gold fangles. And the little jacket cut like a shirt is pale gray. I don't know whether you could tag that to any particular country or place, but it's charming. Here's a dress with an overskirt of organdy, believe it or not, set on linen. The overskirt unbuttons, and you have a basic linen dress. Like so many costumes these days, it has two definite personalities. It's in a perfectly lovely cream-colored shade, which only Bonnie Cashin could have thought of. The next thing to come along the runway is a gray sheer coat over a pink dress. When we were giving the award, you know, we mentioned the sheer coats that Bonnie Cashin did last summer. This one is a floaty job of organdy. The pink dress beneath is a heavy moigachelle linen dress, sports dress. And here comes one of her sheer coats in the brightest plaid organza you can possibly imagine. It's really a lovely fashion, and for a hot summer, thoroughly practical to any women who goes out in the evening. This sheer plaid coat is floating over a cream-colored dress of linen again. Bonnie Cashin introduced these sheer coats again in her resort collection so that they'll be in the stores for women to buy when next summer comes. Now we're coming to the exciting climax of our show when Charles James' things are going to parade the runway. Oh no, we have a last thing from Bonnie Cashin. Here are her station wagon coats. These ought to appeal to any woman who lives in the country. They have big pockets that close with metal clasps like pocketbooks. thoroughly, thoroughly practical for keeping shopping lists and change and anything else you want to stuff into them. Bonnie Cashin believes in the station wagon life. She does the coat in half a dozen different variations. Some of the coats have plaid cuffs that show. Some of them are all plain. They have little rain hats that go with them. Southwesters, real Southwesters, reduced a little inside and tied under the chin. And the girls are carrying spectacularly gay umbrellas. As you can see, Bonnie Cashin's collection, her prize-winning clothes, are all closely based on reality. They're not just dream designs, but they're things that most modern women can own and enjoy. That's why the jury was so anxious to give her an award this year. Now we're coming to Charles James' fashions, which are so beautiful, so intricately cut, that I don't know how anyone can possibly describe them. However, I will try. Most of these dresses were made from Mr. James' distinguished customers. Some of them came from the wardrobe of Mrs. Huddleston Rogers. Fifteen years' worth of these dresses were collected recently and shown at the Brooklyn Museum. Now the dresses have all been arranged in a tableau behind a sheer violet curtain. The sheer curtain hasn't been pulled yet, but the dresses can be seen through them. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. They're beautiful dresses. Any one of them is worth a place in a museum. The colors are really exquisite. They range from a deep olive green through pale mo, peacock blue, off-white, black, two shades of red used together. Here comes a superb silvery white ball gown. It's white and silver satin. It has a gunmetal panel in front. These are all ball gowns of the most formal type you can possibly imagine. Here comes a beautiful model wearing a dress with a skirt inset with godets of gold, turquoise blue, and white. There's some black velvet on the bodice. The girls are all wearing diamonds. The model coming up now is wearing a dress that someone might have worn in 1870. It has pale mauve satin, polonized drapery, over a light green taffeta skirt. The girl has her hair in a low knot at the back of her neck. She's wearing diamonds and carrying a pale gray glittering fan. Now we have a pink ball gown, all pink, with an exquisitely puffed skirt. You can tell that the girls love wearing these. You can always rate clothes by the way the models wear them and whether they seem to be enjoying themselves. The models are supremely happy in these Charles James clothes. In fact, they're having the time of their lives. Kay Hernan, now one of our most beautiful models, a brunette, is coming out on the runway in a ginger-colored satin dress with black velvet panels at the side, draped up as Charles James likes to drape them. She's carrying a fan made of two huge white feathers like eagle feathers. Pat Ryan is wearing pale pink satin with the most intricate drapery you can imagine. Nobody could possibly copy these clothes. They're unique for Charles James alone. Here comes the ball gown that combines chocolate brown and bright red. And this seems to me the most beautiful dress of all. It has a top of peacock blue satin. It has a skirt of deep olive green satin. In between, there's a little belt that is pale shell pink. No description does these clothes justice at all. They're not like anything else in the world that I've ever seen. Many people have seen them singly, but they have never been gathered together in a group like this and worn by beautiful models. It's a treat to see them, really. Here comes white satin, beautifully draped behind. Has one shoulder covered and the other shoulder bare. All these are so different from the fashions we usually see. The audience is applauding each one. We're coming up to the climax now with a gold and pale green dress. Worn by Hope Bryce, another of our most beautiful brunette models. The dress is strapless. The skirt flows out very gracefully. Here comes the last evening dress. It's black satin. It's tight and slinky, down to the knees at least. And then there's a great full flounce that comes blossoming out there. The model is carrying a fan of black coat feathers. She has no color on her at all. And her only jewelry is a pair of long chandelier diamond earrings. Diamonds belong with the Charles James clothes. They're the only jewel that could possibly be fine enough to wear with them. Now we have an afternoon suit by Mr. James. It's brilliant ruby red velvet. It would require a very special afternoon party. It's not the casual sort of thing like Bonnie Cashin's station wagon coats. It has a drape behind. It looks a little bit like an old-fashioned riding habit. And yet it's very elegant. Now we have a simple red coat coming out on the runway by Charles James. It has a wide shawl collar faced with nutria. and the model is gathering up the collar high around her. She's wearing a tiny little hat with long streamers in the colors that Charles James likes. Now she's taken the coat off. Underneath she has a black vile skirt and a white satin blouse with long sleeves. It's a unique costume. The blouse has a high collar like a flower petal around her throat. She too is wearing diamonds. I never expected to see that Charles James was interested in plaids. But here comes a plaid top coat. It's a spectacular plaid, of course, not the regular run of plaid that you see in college clothes. It's scarlet, purple, yellow, green, enormous blocks. The coat is cut circular. It has side pieces that swing out. The model wearing it has a little red hat on and a high feather going up from the hat. Not quite the kind of plaid coat you'd wear to a football game. You would save it for very special occasions. More daytime clothes coming down the runway. No, here comes an evening dress. A wonderful, wonderful creation that combines as only James can. Panels of black with scarlet and brown. The dress is black velvet, part of it black velvet, part of it satin. It's built out over the hips. It's impossible to tell how any of these clothes are made. While we're talking about Charles James, it may interest you to know that Mr. James has sold some of his designs to a popular price store this fall and that reproductions will be ready for customers next month. It's the first time that Charles James clothes have ever been sold at moderate price. They will be adaptations, of course, but we'll have a great deal of James feeling about them. Now he's showing two wrappy top coats that are three-quarter length. They're taupe color. And here he goes quite wild on his color scheme. He's showing a tan coat, deep tan coat faced with orange satin over a raspberry-colored dress. All colors go well together if you know just how to use them in the right surprising way, according to Charles James. Now we have a girl all in black, long, wrappy top coat and a huge muff of black fox fur. The model wears a little pancake hat. This dreamer is dangling down the back, tassels down the back. The coat is cut very full down low and it flares like most of his clothes. Here's a very simple black satin cocktail dress coming. The neck is cut out, the skirt is very short and draped. You almost see the knees it's so short. The girl is wearing long white gloves, a diamond necklace, and the biggest picture hat you can imagine. Here we have a short cocktail dress made of an iridescent taffeta that shines blue-green in the spotlight. This has a low neckline in front, but a high collar. Odd combination. The skirt is full. The girl is wearing a tiny hat. Charles James does all his daytime clothes with soft shoulders. Most of them have long simple sleeves in full skirts. We have another cocktail dress coming now that's made of an olive green, a wonderful shade of olive green. The skirt has an uneven hemline. It's shorter at one side and longer at the other. The open neckline balances the hemline, which is what we call asymmetry this year and have a hard time spelling. The dress is very beautiful. You see it's getting a hand from the audience. The collar comes around behind like a cape. The same cut, or somewhat the same cut, asymmetrical cut, is used in this dinner dress, which apparently is made of red silk sura. In these afternoon dresses with the complicated lines, there are no color combinations. They're done in a single color, which makes them a vivid contrast to his evening clothes. Here's the same one-sided line and an elegant black dress. All these afternoon dresses, or dinner dresses, are so elegant. Now we have a short dress coming. Most of Charles James' clothes seem to be built for tall women, but the dress coming to the runway now is made for a smaller girl. It's a rose-colored silk sura. It's iridescent. And it has big sleeves, cover-up top, great big full skirt, quite a contrast to his slim and silky, slinky silhouettes that have just been coming down the runway. Here comes a daytime suit, made of a natural colored wall. It's a very simple suit, but the jacket, the little jacket, is lined in black seal skin. It's worn over a matching dress. And here comes a brown daytime suit. The surprising part of this suit is that it has great big pockets in front, and Charles James has tucked a frou-frou of bright yellow tulle into the front. Now he's done another costume for a little girl. This is the perfect little girl suit, I should say, It has a tiny little quaint fitted jacket. It's bright red. And the skirt is black, slim skirt, gathered at the hip line. The whole effect is cute, rather than dramatic, as most of the Charles James costumes are. Now we have a cocktail dress, or dinner dress. It's hard to say just where you would wear most of these elegant costumes. It's a pale, mauve satin. And he's combined it with a surprising shade of lime green velvet hat and gloves. Here comes a conservative black dress. The girl is wearing, though, a far-from-conservative hat. It's just a little dab of black, about as big as a handkerchief, on the back of her head, and has a big whisk of black, regret-like feathers, off at one side. Here comes a bright, jewel-red dress. I believe that Charles James can use more shades of red than any man I ever heard of. And this one is fiery red. It's a silk surah, and it's very wrapped through the waist. It has an easy skirt to wear, neither narrow nor full. Here comes a perfectly beautiful evening dress. I believe that Charles James is going to show several versions of this. It's one of his favorites. One of the surprising things about this dress is the combination of fabrics in it. It has a black velvet top, it has a brown satin overdrape, and it has an under-petticoat of white pleated organdy. Nobody but Charles James would ever think of using organdy with velvet and satin, would they? The dress, again, is one of those picture dresses that might have been worn by a woman in 1870. And will look wonderful when it's worn by a woman this winter. Here comes another evening dress in two shades of purple and mauve. It has a very drapey skirt again. The asymmetrical cut through the top. This dress is going to cause a lot of controversy and argument later, I can tell you. The two colors in it are flame red and a sort of orangey red, colors that you would never, never expect to see shown together. But you see, the audience likes it. They're applauding. The top, which is of the rosy flame red, has big puffed sleeves. The drape skirt is of the orangey satin. It's really the most surprising dress that I've ever seen. We're getting more evening clothes now to represent Charles James. I think that's his favorite type of thing to design. Here's a magnificent garnet red velvet evening coat coming down the runway. I hope the model opens it because I happen to know that it has a surprise inside, a black velvet. I don't believe she's going to open it, though. She's going on down. The coat is fitted. It has a big diamond buckle. Here comes an evening coat that Charles James made in 1930. His clothes, as we told you when we gave the award, are completely timeless. That's one of the things he prides himself on. This coat is one of the first that he made to shape sleeves, drop shoulders. It's made of white satin. And to show that he was pioneering, he has exaggerated the cut of the shoulders a great deal and made them puffy. The coat really looks like a comforter, a bed comforter walking down the aisle, though I'm sure Mr. James wouldn't like that description. And the coat is beautiful. Here we have a dinner suit with a long jacket, tail jacket, and a tight hobble skirt underneath. It might have been worn, I should think, by some of the cast of The Merry Widow. Here's Charles James' favorite red combination again, or pink and red used together. An evening dress is made of pink, glittery lame. And over it, there are red velvet bows and drapes and red velvet lapels in the front. The bow ties in the back, a great big bow like a little girl's sash. The collar turns up and you get the red and the pink used very closely together. It may shock you at first to hear the combination, but it's most effective. Here comes a model wearing a short, bright yellow satin evening coat over a brown dress. It's magnificent looking. She's going to take it off. It has a gray lining. And her dress, I can hardly see from here, but it combines brown and black. When Charles James isn't combining two reds or red with pink, he likes to use brown with black. I think you will have gathered by this time that he's not a conservative designer, but he's an interesting designer. Here comes his favorite evening dress again that has the organdy petticoat. This is the second version that he's shown. This one is brown and mauve, and here comes the third, which you won't be surprised to hear combines two shades of red. He calls them ruby and garnet. The bodice is ruby velvet. The overdrape is garnet satin. And here's this pleated white organdy overskirt flowing out. It's such a surprise to see it. I'm sure many of the audience tonight don't realize this skirt is organdy. And I must say it's a pity that the audience can't feel these wonderful clothes and really study them a little. You get no impression of how interesting they are as they go past so fast tonight. Mr. James has been very nervous about them, I know. The show is now over. You've been hearing a magnificent job of description offered you by Miss Eugenia Shepard, fashion critic for the New York Herald Tribune. You've been listening to the 8th Annual Fashion Critics Award coming to you from the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. Speakers here in our program have been the eminent Carlos Piramulo, Rover Whelan, and, of course, Miss Eugenia Shepard. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Building. You and our sponsors on the 3rd Termsphere Hotel for the皆
