New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce. A new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, Under the Buttonwood Tree, on New York, Queen of Commerce. The End Trees, those verdant canopies of shade. Stately monuments of the good earth. Beckoning, whispering, singing at nature's every mood. New York, providing man's abode and the fuel to warm it. Sheltering his home from the heat of the sun and the cold north wind. New York has had many famous trees. A pear tree, planted by Peter Stuyvesant in 1647, grew for 220 years at the northeast corner of 3rd Avenue and 13th Street in what was Stuyvesant's orchard. Cherry Street was named for a lovely field of trees on the hill where George Washington lived in 1789. It was near the present Franklin Square at Pearl and Frankfurt Streets. Once, Manhattan's largest tree, overlooking the East River in front of the old Gracie Mansion, was a landmark for many generations of mariners. Yes, there have been many beautiful and famous trees in the city. But there was one more, under whose sheltering boughs activity of such great importance took place, that all of America, even the entire world, has felt the effects to this very day. On the west side of Wall Street, near Water Street, grew a large buttonwood tree. Here New Yorkers gathered, gossiped, and traded for many decades. But here in 1790, following the nation's fight for independence and the inauguration of our first president in the year before, special events were taking place. Gentlemen, gentlemen, please, let's have some order. Gentlemen. Henry Remsen, the committeeman from Congress, is going to insist on some sort of an orderly handling of their first bond issue. 80 millions is not to be raised easily. True, Mr. Patterson. And also, people are not going to invest large sums of money unless they have some quick way of turning those investments back to cash, if they need it. Yes. Colonel Alexander Hamilton told me over at his bank only this morning that he's deeply concerned over the financing of several much-needed commercial enterprises. Well, what are we going to do? There's very little office space in this city. Every broker's doing business holed up in some favorite tavern or other. It takes two days to make the rounds every time an important issue comes up. What do you say, Mr. Broom? I say there's not a breath of air in my favorite tavern, Burns Coffee House. Certainly stays hot. But I must remark that here under the old buttonwood tree is the coolest spot I've found so far. Say, that's an idea, Broom. What's an idea? Let's call together all the brokers and the regular investors and meet right here, under the buttonwood tree. Why, Henry, I think that would be splendid. Just splendid. Well, at least we'd have enough room. We could have a morning call of all securities bid and offered each day at, say, 11 o'clock. Hello. What's this coming? Ah, it's another parade. Kerrigan's guards or Wayne's Legion or more veterans on their way to petition Congress. Don't they know the war's over? Besides, it's too hot. Well, there's one thing for sure. Congress won't have enough money to pay for candles, let alone taking care of veterans or anything else. Unless we get busy. I'll see Mr. Hamilton about our plan this evening. Let us meet in the fortnight from today. Fine, Mr. Patterson. John Broom and I will go to the office of the Gazette and give them a news announcement to appear in their next edition. Splendid, splendid. Don't you think we should have handbills printed also? Mr. Hayes, the high constable, is a very good friend of mine. And I'm sure I can get him to have all members of the watch post our handbills in every shop in town. That's a great idea, Broom. Yes, it is a good idea. And Mr. Broom, tell Constable Hayes there's a fine quarter of beef in it for him. And a plump tender tom turkey in it for each member of the watch right from the Harlem farm of James Patterson. Meantime, good luck, gentlemen. We must be off. That's most generous and thanks to you, Mr. Patterson. Goodbye. Bye. And so the first regular market for the handling of investments and securities and for the financing of new business and banking operations was initiated under the buttonwood tree. In any really free country, labor and capital must each be free to work and free to move from one enterprise to another, entitled to fair profits when a business venture succeeds and ready to stand the losses if it fails. The first government bond issue of $80 million and the financing of a number of banks and insurance companies and other enterprises were successfully carried out under the old buttonwood tree. But soon there came a need for a sheltered, more convenient and more efficient place for business, as well as a more formal organization to conduct it. On May 17, 1792, a group of 24 merchants and auctioneers met and became the original members of what is known today as the New York Stock Exchange. The first headquarters of the exchange were in the Tontine Coffee House at Wall and William Streets, but thereafter they had many homes. It was during the next 40 years that New York became not only America's leading seaport, but also the center of business and governmental enterprises, which established her as truly the Queen of Commerce. Horizons of daring dreams grew ever wider and brighter. It was the natural result of such activity that New York should become a trader house containing unheard of commercial and manufacturing wealth. There seemed no stopping the pace until one bitter cold night on the 16th of December, 1835. At about nine o'clock, a faint pink glow tinted the sky over Hanover Square. The sound of fire pumps were familiar to the children in those early days, but somehow these had a strange, mysterious persistence. Steady now, men. Keep her going before she freezes. Stop! Stop pumping! It's no use. That hydrant's gone. Mayor Lawrence? Yes? Chief Gulick sends his respects and orders me to report that almost every hydrant in the city is frozen solid. The fire has now jumped Broadway and is sweeping toward Trinity Church. It's doomed. The east side of Broadway is gone. Hanover Square is gone. The old South Church and all of New Street is burning now. God be merciful, lad. It's awful. Where is the chief? Just around the corner at his post in Wall Street across from the Merchant's Exchange. Has that caught yet? No, sir. What is your name? Seth Lyman, sir. Well, Seth, you're a brave lad. Pray take me to your chief. Come, sir. This way. This cold is frightful. It must be 20 below with this terrible wind. Come on. Let's keep going. Come on. Let's keep going. Come on. Let's work on it now. What do you say? How about it? I'm afraid it's a losing battle, Chief. It's 40 hours now and your men haven't stopped a minute. Don't worry about us, Mr. Mayor. But if we only had water... Where did you get those two streams? Well, we're pumping salt water all the way from the East River to two lines of engines. Engines 9 and 13 are playing on the Merchant's Exchange. It's finally caught. Oh, it's such a handsome landmark. I was hoping it could be said. Ah, two streams are not enough. It's hopeless. Wait a minute. Look who's arrived. Mr. Mayor, you know Charlie King, editor of the American. Hello, Mr. Lawrence. Chief, it's awful. Come on, man. I just came up from the river and around through Beaver's Creek. Has the fire jumped over Beaver of Stone yet? No, Chief. Engine 22 is the only other stream going in the city. They stopped the fire cold at the General of Commerce building. Where are they getting their water? Not water, Mr. Mayor. Vinegar. Vinegar, Charlie? Yeah. Thousands of gallons of hogshead stored in a yard nearby. It's nearly gone now. Well, Chief, I'm afraid this is the end. The whole city will go. Not if you will grant permission to blow up enough buildings to stop the flame north of Hanover Square. It's an awful decision to make. That's no use. We haven't got enough gunpowder to do it anyway. It must be done. You have my authority. I know where to find enough powder to blow up a thousand buildings. And if you say the word, Chief, I'll go get it. How will you get it? I'll get a skip and roll across the river to the Navy Yard. Bring it back. That's all. Man, you're crazy. The river's full of ice. You'll never make it. Well, I can try. Chief Gulick, sir. I'd like to go with Mr. King. Two can roll better than one. Thanks, lad. It's a terrible risk. Every minute counts. Well, go ahead and you too, Seth Lyman. God protect you. But don't forget to cover the powder with wet canvas on the way back. That is, if you ever get there. Good luck, men. Charles King and the lad Seth did get to the Navy Yard in Brooklyn and returned safely with the powder against almost impossible odds. Fire breaks were made, and at the end of the third day, the flames burned themselves out into a smoldering mass of ruins. The entire economic life of the city seemed at an end. Each business and commercial district in the city was destroyed. Millions in invested values were gone. Yes, fire tempered the very existence of New York's business. Yet, the hope and courage of New York's merchants and the ability of a well-established securities exchange to obtain new funds and working capital proved to the world that under a democracy founded on personal commercial freedom, recovery and success were inevitable. It's a long way down the avenue of time from the days of the old buttonwood tree to the present New York Stock Exchange, but the same spirit prevails that has made and kept New York the Queen of Commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York Queen of Commerce. Today's episode was Under the Buttonwood Tree. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as the narrator, Alan Feinstein as Patterson, Alfred Israel as Remsen, and Henry Lewis as the mayor. Music and sound were by Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunsheet. The next voice you will hear is that of Miss Catherine Whittemore, chief of the reception staff at the Visitor's Gallery of the New York Stock Exchange. Now here is Miss Whittemore. Thank you. That was really a thrilling story. And to tell the truth, the story told me a lot about those early days of New York which I hadn't known. I'm very grateful to Station WNYC for this opportunity to invite you to come downtown and see for yourselves what the New York Stock Exchange looks like, how the nation's most important marketplace operates. In the gallery which overlooks the famous trading floor, you can hear from our receptionists the whole story of how we work. You can see how shares of ownership in industrial America are bought and sold by brokers representing people in all parts of the nation. You can look over our exhibit room which has dramatic industrial displays. And then you can step into our comfortable little theater and see what makes us tick. I'll promise you right now that you've never seen anything quite like this picture. It's animated and in technicolor. It shows what people do with their savings. And it's so amusing that you'll be chuckling to yourselves for the 12 minutes that the film runs. Remember, we're always glad to see you. Any weekday from 10 in the morning till 3.30 in the afternoon. And we'll certainly do all we can to make your visit a pleasant one. Thank you, Miss Whittemore. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also were heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. We invite you to be with us again next week for another episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. Youthinkuor games, and you have one of the most