The Northwestern University reviewing stand. Are we losing the Cold War in Asia? Yes, definitely, as of this moment. The setback in China has given tremendous impetus to Communist movements throughout Southeast Asia and the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent, and unless the West takes a positive stand soon, its prospects at prevailing ultimately will have been irreparably damaged. I think the evidence is clear that we are losing the Cold War in Asia, but I also think that the tide can be reversed. Yes, we are losing the war, but it is not yet lost, and the situation can be remedied if we adopt a more realistic foreign policy toward the Asiatic continent. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, the reviewing stand analyzes the Cold War in Asia. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around Russian domination of Asia and the implications for American policy. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Captain Michael Fielding, author and lecturer, who has just returned from an extensive tour of Asia, William McGovern, professor of political science at Northwestern University, and Frederick S. Marquardt, assistant foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. Last week, the reviewing stand analyzed the Cold War in Europe. We agreed that our position in Western Europe is greatly improved, thanks to the Marshall Plan and the Atlantic Pact. Asia remains the big question. Our speakers today are far from optimistic about Asia. Captain Fielding has just said rather flatly that we are losing the Cold War in Asia. Why do you believe that, Fielding? Well, McBurney, the loss of China is having very serious repercussions throughout Southeast Asia. These Southeast Asian countries like Burma and Malaya and Siam, French Indochina and Indonesia are shot through with communism. As a matter of fact, in the latter two countries, liberation movements have been so heavily infiltrated by communism that it's almost impossible to tell where a genuine aspiration for independence stops and where communism begins. Now, the same thing is true in certain parts of India. And unless we of the West recognize this fact and do something about it in a hurry, we're going to continue to lose this Cold War with incalculable consequences to our long-range prospects, not only the Cold War but the Hot War as well. What is your reaction to that analysis, Marquardt? I would agree that the loss of China is a very substantial one to the Western Democratic cause. It is significant, I believe, that today in Moscow, the Soviet newspapers proclaimed that the announcement of a communist government in Peiping yesterday was just as important in their, quote, struggle for peace, unquote, which of course means the Soviets struggle to dominate the world, was just as important in that struggle as the announcement that Russia had the atomic bomb. What is your stand, McGovern? I agree on that point. The loss of China, it was a very serious blow. It has undone the work of the last 50 years of American foreign policy in the Far East, which was based upon the open door in China. On the other hand, I'm perhaps not quite as pessimistic as others. China is almost lost, but not completely lost. Actually, the loss of China is not very serious from our whole economic point of view. What we import and export to China is no significance. Its most important thing is the influence from the other nations. What will be the attitude of Japan, the Philippines, Southeast Asia, India, Pakistan? Now that you brought up the question of the Philippines and Japan, don't you think that the value of Japan and Philippines as bases, as outposts in the Pacific, has been very seriously undermined by the outflanking tendency of a communist China? Well, Fielding, I would say to that, that if we are considering strictly from the military standpoint, that any attack launched against the United States coming out of Asia would have to come out of the great ports of Asia, that a bomber line established on Japan, Okinawa, Formosa, and the Philippines could dominate those ports, and could destroy any invasion force before it got started. But, I would like very quickly to say that I feel that Japan and the Philippines are important to us for reasons other than, and in addition to, only the military reason. Well now, before we go on with this analysis of your positions, there are two assumptions which appear to run through this discussion, and I'm anxious to explore them just a bit. First, that Asia is vital to American interests. Why is this the case? Why risk American men and money in this area? Well, I think on that point, McBurnie, we do have to realize that Asia is certainly one of the most important areas in the world, if only for the reason that half the world's population is there, and where half the world's population grouped up in one small area is bound to have vital effects. Also, Asia possesses many of the vital strategic raw materials of the world, and the loss of Asia, or the access to Asia, it will mean a very serious loss to the American economy. I think the importance of Asia can best be put if we consider two hard facts of the Cold War. Number one, that the Cold War is a global war in every respect of the word. Like a shooting war, it can only be won on a global basis. Number two, this Cold War has all the elements of finality and decisiveness of a hot war about it. Now, in certain conceivable circumstances, Russia could actually win the hot war without firing a shot. Well, that suggests the second assumption I want to ask you about, Fielding. Here it is in the words of a West Coast listener to last week's program. He says this, Your discussion of the Cold War took account of nothing but power politics, bombs and bases, and military aid to Europe. Not a word about the United Nations or any other plan for working out long-run cooperation. Here's another letter. Your Cold War discussion is a beautiful example of the kind of propaganda which got us into the World War Number One and World War Number Two. What do you say to that? Well, the approach to the whole question of power politics is not a very pleasant one, but that doesn't alter the fact that we are back in power politics whether we like it or not. The fact remains that the United Nations has not worked as it should have worked, and the reason the United Nations has not worked as it should have worked is because we are imposing responsibilities on the United Nations for which it was never created. The United Nations' function originally was to enforce a peace agreed upon by the major powers. No peace has been agreed upon by the major powers, and no peace can be agreed upon by the major powers, so long as there is a veto which the Russians use to further their own designs. They don't want peace at the present time. Fielding, I would agree that the Cold War involves us in power politics, that whether we like them or not, we are in them. I also believe that there is more to power politics than merely the military phase. I believe that we will find, for instance, Japan is a much better friend of ours because we have done such things as divide up the land, given the women the votes, and generally improved the democratic processes of Japan. I am sure that the Philippines are going to be on our side if a shooting war starts, just as much for the reason that we have supported them and helped them rebuild their economy as they are for the fact that we have bombers based on Clark Field. And I could go right along through all the rest of the countries of Asia in this respect. Well, Mark, and may I agree with you and develop that theory a little bit further. This is not merely a power politics situation, it is an ideological situation in which the world is divided into great ideologies and their friends and their enemies. And we are having the ideology of those which are pro-democratic. In the present time, we do have Japan and the Philippines and others on that democratic thing, and those that are anti-democratic and totalitarian. It's perfectly true, it's perfectly true, McGovern, that the ideological aspect enters into the picture. But in order to understand why one cannot divorce power politics from ideology, you've got to understand the nature of the Russian assault against the democratic position in the Cold War. Like ourselves, in trying to sell democracy, the Russians are trying to sell communism. That's the ideological aspect of the Cold War. But in addition to that, they supplement their purely ideological assault by campaigns of physical pressure. Physical, this is where the power politics comes in. They supplement this ideological assault by campaigns of physical pressure in the so-called strategic areas of the world, which represent vital military bases that we and our allies would have to control to win another shooting war. Now, if the Russians are successful in robbing us of these military bases in the advance of shooting, then you'll see there won't be any good for us to even attempt shooting if later on we find we haven't got the bases to bring our military weight to bear against Soviet Russia. I quite agree with you, Fielding, that these bases are essential. I think the only possible difference, and I'm not even sure that there is such a difference, would be that I feel we can hold these bases much better by convincing the peoples of those countries that democratic processes and principles do work, that the economy which we can build there will be stronger than the communist economy, and that they will be much better off on our side of the fence. Let me ask you just one question, Markwood. Do you believe in the principles of the Truman Doctrine as applied to Europe and Greece? I believe that they have been successful in Greece and in Turkey, yes. All right. Now, there you have nothing more than a manifestation of power politics, because the Truman Doctrine concept is a purely military concept in which we pose power, physical power, against Russian power when we encounter it in these strategic bases. Yes, but let me make just one point on Greece. We had there a country which was friendly to our way of thinking, to our way of life. We had a government which was friendly, and we had people who, war-weary as they were, destroyed as their cities were, were willing to stand up and fight for these things that we believed in. Had there been 80% of the Greeks unwilling to fight, despondent, licked like the 80% of the Chinese were, then nothing that we could have done in Greece would have saved it. May I ask, to get back to Asia, this connection, I think that we really are talking, and very much getting the same general point. In other words, that a war, any war, whether cold war or hot war, is not merely how many guns and tanks you've got, that though it's very important. It is a combination of the military situation, the economic situation, the political situation, and the psychological. In trying to estimate the enemy situation, what they can and can do, you have to find what is their morale, how far they're with us, and how far they're against us. That's quite right. I quite agree with you that you've got to prepare the minds of people in these countries that you want to save as military bases. And I quite agree that the only way to do that is to pursue our democratic attempts to sell democracy to these people. But the fact remains that even if the Greeks, now even if the Greeks had not been willing to fight for us, could we have afforded to give up Greece, which is a key to the eastern Mediterranean? No, we could not have. If the Greeks had not been willing to fight for us, we would have had to fight ourselves. Do you believe that we could have sent in an army of American soldiers, not advisers, the whole works right from supply on up to the front line and driven the communists out of Greece, say 10 or 15 divisions of American troops. Do you think the Congress of the United States or the people of the United States would have stood for that at the time that Truman proclaimed his doctrine? Of course they wouldn't have stood for it. But that doesn't alter the fact that if the alternative was to let Russia get Greece, get this control of the eastern Mediterranean, we would have had no alternative but to do that. After all, we didn't want to send our troops to Europe in the last war. But we had to because those are situations forced upon us by the pressure of events. Could I make just one more point, Mr. McBurney? Captain Fielding, do you believe then that the answer in China is to apply power and force ourselves, to send troops into China and to drive communism out of China by our own troops, our own men, our own planes? At the time that the Kuomintang armies collapsed along the Yangtze River, the only way in a practical sense that we could have salvaged China and stopped it from going communist, of course, would have been to send American troops into the Yangtze positions. And indeed, none other than General Weidemeier suggested that very thing when he came back from China. And his proposals were turned down for the very reasons that you brought out. That the American people, because they do not perhaps understand the full impact of this issue, that the American people wouldn't stand for it. But that doesn't alter the fact that that was the only way to salvage China and prevent it going communist. Well, may I bring out this point, and that is that especially in Asia, we have simply lacked a policy. We have never made up our mind what we would do or would not do, what we could and what we could not do. I blame ourselves, I blame our State Department, I blame the American people for this, because the fact that we have been oriented so much toward Europe, we understood in general the nature and the importance of keeping an open-door policy in Western Europe. We have not understood the situation in the Far East. There were many people inside of the State Department, I can mention by name, who felt that the communists in China were not communists, therefore why bother? The same situation, they haven't realized that the loss of China will have these enormous implications for other portions of Asia. And the real thing I think we've got to do is too late now to try to get back China. I think we could have had it, but it was too late now. It's to make up in mind what shall be our policy for the rest of Asia. Well, what should be our policy in China, McGovern? Do you think we ought to recognize the communist China? I think, no, I do not think we do. We've got to be realistic and hard-boiled on that thing. There's no use... That's an immediate issue, isn't it? It's not meant of refusing recognition. In other words, deal with them on a realistic basis, but realizing that communist China is exactly the communist in the same way that Poland or Czechoslovakia or Hungary or Romania is. That any recognition that we may give must be on a de facto basis, and must have an adequate quid pro quo for each and everything. But even recognition is not going to get us any trade back. It's behind the Iron Curtain. Well, I would say regarding recognition of the communist government, that Mao will not settle for de facto recognition. That if we don't recognize a communist government, not immediately, but say in the next six months to a year, that our consuls are going to be thrown out of China, are going to be withdrawn, that our businessmen are not going to stay there, that our newspaper men are not going to be there, that we are going to lose complete contact with communist China. I don't believe that that would be advisable, that that would be in the best interests of the United States. But I do agree that hard-headed bargaining with Mao Zedong, attempting to get a quid pro quo on every exchange with him, would be to our benefit. Let me suggest that in my opinion, I'm in time to agree with you, Markwood. I think what we need in communist China are listening posts. And the only way we are going to be able to get listening posts in China is by recognizing China. It seems to me that the disadvantages of recognizing China are far outweighed by the advantages. After all, we recognize Russia. Why shouldn't we recognize China? Well, that is the real point that I'm going to bring out here, and that is I have no objection to recognition, but don't think that recognition is going to restore a friend of relations or enable us to do too much. We recognize Russia. We recognize Hungary. We recognize Romania. What good has that done us? In other words, it's simply, once you're behind the Iron Curtain, you're behind the Iron Curtain. Yes, I don't, uh... Let me make this exception that we recognize Yugoslavia, and it seems at present to be working out to our advantage. I would not be naive enough to say that Mao will become a Chinese Tito, although the possibility is there. But certainly a withdrawal, a complete withdrawal from China, would close the door permanently. I'd just like to inject a little statement on Tito here. I'm not so sure that our aid to Tito is going to pan out as so many people think it might. I think it's a good calculated risk for propaganda purposes, but if anybody thinks that we're going to win Tito with a democracy by our economic aid, I think we're barking up a lot of a long trade. Well, I'm feeling to get back to China for just a moment. There's one point, I think, that has not been brought out. It is true that the Nationalist Government of Womentong has been overwhelmingly late, but the situation is not quite as clear as that would indicate, that actually the Communists still only control about half of China, the most important half. They still don't control all of China, and it's unlikely that they will control all of China for several years, two, three, four, five years. And as a matter of fact, the more that the Communists win in China, the more unpopular they become with the people. And that is a fact that we can utilize that. I do want to have listening posts. I think that may well be a resurrection of a democratic China in which we can aid. Yes, McGovern, I think we agree on that point, and I'm glad that you brought up this point, the fact that half of China is still not Communist, although it probably, it may well go Communist in the near future. However, Sichuan Province, Formosa, and other places in the southwest and the northwest, probably could be held for some time, and I believe that there will arise eventually anti-Communist leaders there who can be supported and who will have the support of the Chinese people as the Generalissimo does not now have that support. Analyzing the pattern of the imposition of Communism on countries which come under Russia's domination, it is a fact that once the police system, the totalitarian police system is imposed on a country, any opposition that might develop in that country is immediately strangled because it's made impossible for it to organize. Now, you're going to get opposition, you undoubtedly have opposition in Russia, I know you have opposition in Yugoslavia, even to Tito. But opposition is not permitted to organize, and disorganized opposition remains impotent opposition. In other words, once a country is dragged in under the Iron Curtain, opposition on the part of the people themselves will never get them out. And there's no doubt about it that the Communist Party in China and elsewhere have their Gestapo, let's call it their secret police, and their thought control. On the other hand, the Chinese government, the Communist government, is not likely to be as efficient as some of the, they will the same thing, they're not likely to be as efficient as some of the countries there. There is a greater chance. Let's talk about Japan, Philippines, and these Pacific Island bases for a few minutes here. Mark, it seems to be reasonably optimistic about our position there. Well, if we have a showcase in Asia, it certainly is the Philippines. For 50 years, we have building a democracy, have been building a democracy there, and in 1946, we gave the Filipinos their independence. They were horribly wrecked by the war, Manila was battered worse even than Warsaw, but today they are on the way back. We have supported them, and I think we should continue to support them. The experiment in Japan has been a tremendous one, but I think on the whole it has been successful. I certainly think that here are two countries where we can place very sizable bets in our struggle to confine communism in Asia. I thoroughly agree with you. At the present time, the vast bulk of the people in Japan and the Philippines, and I may add in Formosa, are strongly pro-American. The only thing is we want to see we don't let them down. Japan, as you know, actually at least 75%, I would say 85% of the Japanese are with us, and would like to remain with us for an indefinite period. But the only thing is they are scared as to whether we will or will not take a strong position, or we are going to pull out of Eastern Asia. And if they once think we are going to pull out of Eastern Asia, then they will just jump on the bandwagon. I'll admit that the Philippines and Japan are excellent bases. I come back to bases again. But I think that their value dwindles as they become surrounded or outflanked by communism. I think that eventually we are going to be pushed back into Southeast Asia, and when Southeast Asia goes red, as I feel it's going to in time, we will then be pushed back on the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent, which will remain our final and probably most effective base in the event the present situation ever deteriorates. What is this Indo-Pakistan subcontinent? Well, the term, it's really what used to be India, although the term India today doesn't mean what it meant in pre-partition days. You see, India has been divided into Muslim Pakistan and Hindu India. And Hindu India today is known as India, but it's only really a part of what used to be India. So in order to designate the entire area, you can't really talk of India. You've got to talk about the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent. Well, you continue to emphasize the importance of that area, our position in Asia fielding. What is your line of argument? To set up my point, let me quote a statement made by General Franz Hulda, who is probably one of the best recognized strategists in the world today. He was the chief of the German general staff in the first three years of the late war. Discussing the West's prospects against Russia, both in a Cold War and Hot War sense, how that pointed out very aptly a couple of weeks ago, that inasmuch as Russia's military and industrial concentrations are in the Euros and in Central Asia, the only decisive strokes that could be launched by the West in a shooting war with Soviet Russia would have to come from bases in the Far East and the Near East and not from bases in Europe. Do you accept that analysis, McGovern? Well, with some modification, actually the Far East on this point, meaning Japan, China, Korea, is not a good base in which to launch an attack against Russia. The finest basis to launch an attack against Russia, if it does come to a shooting war, and it may well, will be, I would say, in the Near East, namely from Arabia and the Iranian plateau, Persia and Afghanistan. And I admit that Pakistan is a very key place geographically to the connection between India and the Near East. If your contention is valid that the decisive strokes would have to come from the Middle East, let me say this, that the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent, becomes all the more important because the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent is a southern thank God to the entire Middle East. If we were to lose the Indo-Pakistan subcontinent to Russia, then the chances are that we'd have a very difficult time hanging on to the Middle East. I would like to say that I think that peoples are the important thing, that they're the decisive thing. The geography is, of course, important, but in the long run, it is the peoples who make the final decisions. I think that for this reason the Japanese people, who at one time were strong enough to overrun all of Asia, have demonstrated their savvy, their ability and their know-how, far more than the peoples of India or Pakistan. And I should also like to say that the people of the Philippines have shown that they have been our friends, that they know more about democracy than any other people out there. That is why I believe our major bet should be placed on those two countries. Well, may I break in and say that I agree with both of you people. In other words, you talk about out-planking, we don't want to give up either flank. The people who would be out-planked if we want to keep the bastion of Japan, Formosa and the Philippines on one side, and we want to keep the Indo-Pakistan bastion on the other side. Don't give up either one. That's right. This Cold War, in other words, is a global war in every respect of the word. I agree with you, Markward, that you've got to get the minds of these people into the democratic camp because it is upon them that we will finally have to defend to hold the military bastion That's right. Against the approach of communism. Well, now, do you men expect that we're going to get any substantial aid from England and these other Western European countries in Asia? How about that, Markward? I don't believe so. I believe that although Britain is getting a considerable number of dollars out of Malaya, that the British are not strong enough to be able to support, in any great measure, a military undertaking in that part of the world. However, they are going to hold Hong Kong, and I think it would be to our advantage to help them do so. Well, then, in conclusion, what do you men recommend for American policy in Asia? Finley, what would you say? Well, I think that American policy in Asia has to run along the same lines that it's run in Europe. If we recognize the fact that this war is a global war, then the principles that have worked for us in Europe will work for us in Asia. In other words, a sort of extension of the Marshall Plan principle, perhaps greatly modified, to Asia as well as the Truman Doctrine. Where do you stand, Markward? I would say specifically that in Asia we should, first of all, make an early peace treaty with Japan. Secondly, we should continue the support of the Philippines as a major democratic bastion in the Far East. Third, we should encourage a healthy nationalism wherever we can find it. And finally, that we should support the Pacific Pact, which Carino has suggested for Eastern Asia. I think that, first of all, we've got to start out both by the people and the State Department, the recognition of the importance of Asia. Secondly, we've got to have, as a result of this recognition, a formulation of a definite policy. Any policy is better than no policy, and we at the present time have no Asiatic policy. And the policy that I would advocate is the open-door policy for the whole of Eastern Asia. Special privilege for none, equal opportunity for all in the territorial integrity of Eastern Asia. When the way to do that is, I agree with Fielding, is a kind of Marshall Truman doctrine plus a Pacific Pact. Build up a series of strong national governments with strong ideological ties with the democratic world. Are you all agreed on the principle of a Pacific Pact, Markor? Well, I think it might be interesting to point out that, as originally conceived, when Chiang Kai-shek went to Baguio to talk to Carino, they spoke of a military pact, and they undoubtedly were thinking in military terms. I think that also was true when the Generalissimo went up to talk to Syngman Rhee in Korea. Since then, however, Carino, in his letter of instructions to Romulo, has pointed out that what he wants is, at the beginning at least, an economic and a cultural association between the nations of East Asia. And I think that all of those people are racially akin, that they do have much in common, that a pact here could be the beginning of a grouping which we could then support as a very effective bulwark against the onrush of communism. I admit that the first step undoubtedly will be along economic lines, just as it was in Western Europe. But eventually, eventually, let's now, let's be realistic about this thing. If we're going to build a Pacific Pact, there's got to be forced back of it. And we will have to do precisely in the Pacific what we did in Western Europe. And that, as a matter of fact, is what Carino and these other people wanted. It's only when we refused to give them any promise of military aid that they withdrew the aid. That's true. That's entirely true. And I think then that we're all agreed that in the long run, it does depend on a grouping there, an association of free peoples whom we can support to stop communism. And who will support us? That's true. That is even more important. Well, gentlemen, the Cold War in Asia apparently is a fact whether we like it or not. Our speakers today believe we must strengthen our position in Asia as we have done in Europe if we hope to find the means of bargaining with Russia. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Are We Losing the Cold War in Asia? Today's program is the last in our series on the Cold War. If you'd like printed copies of these stimulating discussions, why not send now for the Reviewing Stand pamphlets with a list of books and articles about the subjects discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. I'll repeat that address. The Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Captain Michael Fielding, author, lecturer, and commentator. William M. McGovern, professor of political science at Northwestern University. And Frederick S. Marquardt, assistant foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand asks a question which will be of interest to farmer and consumer alike. A question of importance to everyone. Should the government support farm prices? Our guests will be Clinton Anderson, senator from New Mexico, member of the Senate Agricultural Committee, and former Secretary of Agriculture. Dwayne Greathouse, director of Region 4 of the United Auto Workers in the CIO. And D. Gail Johnson, professor of economics at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week, should the government support farm prices. Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
