The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Can we control divorce? Northwestern University, in cooperation with a mutual broadcasting system, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand presents a second program dealing with the divorce problem. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around recommendations for removing the causes of divorce and alleviating the effects of divorce. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Malcolm S. Knowles, President of the Adult Education Council of Greater Chicago, and Executive Secretary of the Central YMCA in Chicago. William F. Ogburn, Professor of Sociology at the University of Chicago, and author of the book, American Marriage and Family Relationships. and Samuel M. Starr, Attorney and Director of Divorcees Anonymous. Last week, gentlemen, we discussed the causes and effects of divorce. This week, we seek means of handling the divorce problem. Our speakers last week, as I think you know, agreed that the weakening of family ties, personal maladjustments, and low family incomes were leading causes of divorce. They deplored the social consequences of our high divorce rate, particularly as it affects the children of divorced parents, and suggested more adequate premarital education designed to prepare young people for marriage. Judge Minor of the Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois, argued most convincingly in favor of what he called a cooling off period of 60 days, after filing intentions to divorce, that is, before the case is heard. Now, I suggest we begin with your reactions to this analysis. How do you regard the divorce problem? What concerns you most, Ogburn, and what are the causes of the problem, as you see it? Well, McBunny, I like very much Professor Winch's analysis of family ties, Winch made last week. Briefly, he said, a century ago, a couple or a family were held together by six strong ties that bound them together. Now, they're only by one and a half, and those are somewhat weaker. And, obviously, you won't stay together if you're bound by one and a half weak ties, as well as you would if you were bound together by six ties. Now, I don't think we can bring back the five and a half ties, so we have to strengthen the one and a half. Now, when you analyze what these one and a half are, one of them is affection, and the other is the rearing, successfully, of children. So, I don't worry, McBunny, so much about the divorce problem. That's putting the emphasis in the wrong place. Where we ought to put the emphasis is how to strengthen these ties, how to make a successful marriage, how to make a happy marriage. That's what I really think we ought to talk about. That's a constructive point of view. How do you see this problem, Star? Well, Mr. McBurney, too much stress has been put under divorce laws. The answer is not to be found in the law, but by a period of research and seeking. There are about two million broken homes now that may never reach the divorce courts. And what about these people? Something must be done for them, as well. The time has already been too long upon us. We must do something about this divorce situation, about these broken homes. Knowles, what's your position? I liked Ogburn's last point there very much, that the problem is really one of building happy homes rather than preventing divorce. I think that we're much inclined to look at the superficialities in analyzing the causes of divorce, and to point at such things as economic quarrels, in-law trouble, and so on. Actually, isn't marriage a matter of simply good human relations, two people getting along well together? And isn't the answer then, the solution to any difficulty that comes up between those two people, one of training them through educational procedures to be skillful in good human relations? Now, before we get to your recommendations, let me ask, if I may, about some of these factors which appear to cause marital difficulties leading to divorce. You were in the process of dismissing some of them rather summarily here, Knowles. First of all, Ogburn, what types of people are bad marital risks? There are about five or six of those, McBurney, and a half a dozen investigators have turned up as the first and most important factor, or the most important bad risk. It's the person who is self-centered, selfish, inconsiderate, ungenerous. They make trouble in marriage and are a bad risk. Yes, Dr. Ogburn, I see that as a lawyer, I've seen that the selfish type of person is usually the stingy person, and that usually leads to divorce also. It's really the money problem that you see as a lawyer in the court really flows from this selfishness, doesn't it? It's from the inconsiderateness. That's right. Yes, I think that, I wonder, Ogburn, if you would agree that we might almost say the immature person. I was going to say, Knowles, that the second big class of bad risks, as I would call them, would be the immature person. The mature person makes a very good mate, and I say there are three types of immature persons. Shall I mention those? I wish you would. Well, the first type of immaturity that we find is the person who is still a baby. He may be six feet five, and he may be 70 years old, but psychologically he's still an infant, and he wants mother to nurse him and to wait on him, and he wants to be indulged. Well, you can see that person who never grows up psychologically beyond babyhood isn't going to make a good mate. Now as they grow up past babyhood, some of them, those who cut the mother's apron strings, you move into a second type of immaturity. This is a kind of an immaturity you meet in youngsters of about eight or nine years old. They haven't become conscious of other people particularly because they haven't reached adolescence. They're very selfish. But they are selfish, and they are self-centered, and they think about themselves a great deal. And the girls, when they get fixed there, they become narcissistic. They really fall in love with themselves, and they can't fall in love with anybody else because they're in love with themselves. Then there's the boy who becomes the conceited fellow. That's a little different from egotism. He's really got his libido turned on himself. Well, that's another period of fixation. And briefly, there's just a third period of immaturity that we mentioned, and that's what you call the adolescent period of fixation. Now the adolescent is a young person who's discovering the other sex. He's a little flirtatious, he or she, and they become interested in other people. But they haven't reached the point yet where they sort of focus their libido or fix upon one person. They haven't devoted themselves wholly to one person. And you find a lot of people, Mike Bonny, who sort of have a wandering eye, you know, who are a little inclined to experiment and so forth. Well, these are the people who have got fixed and are immature and never got beyond the adolescent period. There's all three bad risks. He may be married, but his right eye isn't, huh? That's right. I'd like to say that I was reviewing Harry Overstreet's The Mature Mind the other day, knowing that I'd be on this program, and I'm struck by the close analogy between Ogburn's point there and Overstreet's. And Overstreet, of course, makes the final point that maturity is a matter of continually growing, and particularly growing an understanding of yourself. So that the thing I'd like to suggest is that when we have, when we find these immature people in marriages, perhaps the tack we should take in seeking to help them is to help them get an understanding of that's exactly what they are, an understanding of themselves, in other words, and then when they have that they can begin to understand others. Well, those are only two types of these bad risks, McBurney. Another one is what I would call the neurotic or the nervous person, although some of these immature people are neurotic too. But the odds are a little against the nervous person, I think. Unless he, unless perhaps we can, or he can, tie up with someone who has a kind of neurosis that complements itself. Oh, yes, I've seen two, two nervous people very happily married, but they can, that can be, but nervousness is a general, uh, liability, I should say. I, I wanted to ask about that, uh, Knowles. We're talking here about these, uh, types of people who make bad marital risks. Now, is it the, is it the individual or the combination of individuals that marriage brings together? I think that's the problem. That's a very important point. Married, of course. Otherwise one person doesn't make a marriage, they have two to marry. That's right. And the, the focal problem in, in helping people get into happy marriage is one of matching, isn't it? Of helping them analyze the forces that will make for harmony and those that will make for disharmony with another individual. And you can take as an illustration, for instance, most of the authorities who've studied this say that, uh, domineering trait or dominance is a bad risk. Yes. And if you, uh, have, however, a dominant, uh, person, uh, marrying a person who really loves to be submissive, you make out a very good relationship. But that's quite different, uh, Knowles, from having a dominant person, marry a dominant person. That's right. Then you've got something on your hands, you know. That's right. I take it then it isn't your plan to deny these difficult, uh, types the advantages such as they are of marriage, uh, but rather to give them, uh, counsel where that is indicated. And, uh, you suggest also the possibility of matching these people in such ways as to bring about happy marriages. As you know, they're somewhat beforehand, I just say, Knowles. Now, for instance, uh, odds are a little against a person from one cultural background, marrying a person from another widely different cultural background. They'd do better to marry within the same general cultural background. They don't have to be exactly the same, but that's a better, that shows how you have the compliment that you're speaking of. You know, uh, I suppose that there is no undertaking that, uh, anyone goes into in our society that has the, the long-run, lasting, permanent, uh, commitments that marriage has. And yet, I suppose also that there perhaps is no undertaking that, uh, people go into in our society with less preparation than for marriage. Less knowledge about the risks, about the factors and so on involved. And I'm just wondering if, um, uh, the solution here isn't, or at least one of the, the solutions, is not to, uh, set up in our society, uh, a real, uh, a really intensive, uh, well, you might say propaganda campaign to acquaint people with what is important in marriage. What are the risks? What are the values? What are the, uh, the things they should know about? Well, now, before we explore that, uh, suggestion, uh, Knowles, uh, let me ask about, uh, uh, a few of these other, uh, contributing factors to difficulty. Oh, yeah. Um, uh, what do you think about this? Are, are children or lack of children often the cause of divorce, Knowles? Well, I think Ogburn has, uh, perhaps, uh, more statistics on that. We show, for instance, that the chances of a couple without children getting a divorce over a couple that have children is just 19 to 1. Mm-hmm. Of course, uh, the question that, uh, comes into my mind is, if a marriage is held together just because there's a child, and yet, uh, all these other factors are at work that would cause them to get a divorce if they didn't have a child, is that a good solution, to hold them together just because they have a child? Well, they may do a good thing by the children, but they may be unhappy. Well. But the fact remains, apparently, that, uh, that families with, with the children are less likely to find their way into the divorce courts. Mm-hmm. Star, how about the, uh, the mother-in-law and other in-laws? Are they troublemakers in, uh, in, uh, the home? Well, I, I believe that too much blame has been placed on the mother-in-laws. I believe if the son-in-law and the daughter-in-law gave a little more affection to their in-laws, that they would have a happier married life themselves. Many times, the daughter-in-law is jealous of her mother-in-law. Uh, so I believe if these daughter-in-laws would just try to give, be a little more affectionate to their mother-in-laws, their father-in-laws, that we would have happier marriages. Any disagreement with that? No, I think, however, though, that the mother-in-law and father-in-law could stand a little education themselves. Well, that's true in, uh, in many cases. But in many cases, I, I found that the blame is on the daughter-in-laws or the son-in-laws. Well, in other words, good human relations applies in the in-laws, among the in-laws, as between the in-laws and the married couple, as well as between the married couple. That's right. Well, it'll take much research and education, uh, for the in-laws to overcome this problem. Well, now, uh, I was surprised a minute ago, Noles, when you, uh, apparently dismissed the economic factor as being unimportant. Yeah. Some of our speakers last week, uh, seemed to feel that the, uh, the, uh, divorce rate was much higher in the lower income groups. In other words, that the, the lack of money was often a, a, uh, a factor in the, in divorce. I have a hunch that it's not. Uh, it seems to me that it's, it might be a rationalized excuse that people give who can't otherwise get along well together. But I'm wondering if Ogburn might not again have some, um, results of sociological studies that indicate whether or not it is. Well, specifically, uh, what are the comparative divorce rates in the, the, uh, the low, middle, and high income brackets? Do you have those facts? Divorces have never been classified according to income, and so no data exists. On the other hand, we do have several sample studies where we have measured very carefully the amount of happiness in marriage according to the income of the married couples. And we show the very interesting result there, Mike Boynton, that there's no correlation whatsoever between the size of the income and the happiness in marriage. That's a very interesting thing, you know. We do find, however, that there is considerable correlation between the occupations and, uh, happiness. But it's not the income that determines the thing there. It's the sort of stability and the type of work. For instance, those occupations where there's a good deal of social pressure, as in villages or among teachers or among preachers or whatnot, they tend to be stable marriages. On the other hand, where there's a lot of travel, a lot of separation, as in traveling salesmen, we have the highest rate of any occupation except one. Mm-hmm. Or among actors and theatrical people, the divorces are high. So occupation is related to it, although income apparently is not. I wonder if there might be a correlation between immaturity and occupation, too. Something to think about. Maybe the immature people go into certain occupations. Do we have more divorces in periods of economic depression, Starr? Well, I believe we have less during the Depression. Uh, preceding the war, uh, the divorce rate was much lower. I believe the reason for that was that people couldn't afford to live separate and apart. At the coming of the war and the coming of jobs for women, women became more independent and felt they could afford to leave their husbands and live separate and apart. The correlation, Mike Barney, to be specific is .7. What do you mean by that? That means that you get more divorces, uh, in periods of prosperity, and if you got all divorces that occurred in prosperity, it'd be one. And if none occurred in prosperity, it'd be zero. So it's .7. Do you accept Starr's explanation? Oh, yeah, sure, yeah. Insofar as we know the explanation, that's a speculation, I think. Uh, I believe most of the people that got a divorce during the war were people that were just waiting for a chance to get divorced. Well, now, we've been analyzing some of the, the, uh, the causes of divorce. I'm very anxious to have your recommendations for handling this problem. Knowles was, Knowles was about to get into that a few minutes ago. Uh, Dr. Ogburn has suggested that we consider these recommendations in three categories. First, what basic long-term developmental programs do you recommend? Uh, for example, what steps can be taken, uh, Starr, with young children in the elementary schools and later in the secondary schools, to develop sound attitudes towards sex, marriage, and human relations? Well, I believe children should be watched from the time to the end of grammar school. This could be done by their teachers. The teacher could keep in close touch with their home and find out which children have an unhappy home life. And, uh, and, uh, and, uh, and that way, uh, try to arrange for some way for this child to be watched. There are many societies that would be willing to contribute, uh, men and women of their organization to give these children the proper love and affection and attention. Starr has said that we ought to begin to watch children from the moment they enter the grammar school. I would say we ought to begin to watch them from the time they let out the first yell. And, uh, I think it's the little children that, uh, in the home that really needs where the training comes in. And I'll mention two or three points, if I may, there. One thing is you've got to watch out to see that your children don't feel rejected. These are the quarrelsome people. These are the aggressive, troublesome people. On the other hand, you can't overdose them on affection. You can't spoil them, at least with a, you know, without much common sense. And we know that the only child is a somewhat slightly bad risk, waste risk in marriage than the middle child or the oldest child or the youngest child. There's not much difference. Don't, uh, think it's a very great difference, but there's some difference there. I believe in our, uh, schools that our teachers will be able to find out which children are the rejected children, which children have the unhappy home life. No, but, uh, it's impossible until they get into the school to find this out. No, but if you begin on them in the nursery, you can prevent it, uh, just before you can detect it, you see. Gazelle, uh, Gazelle studies indicate that the basic, uh, emotional pattern of a child is formed by age, by age six. Isn't it, uh, Ogbren pretty, pretty permanent? Well, he used to say age five. Freud said five. Maybe Gazelle has stepped it up a year. I agree, doctor, that they should be followed from the time they give out their first yell. But also, once they get into school, we can have a wider and more constructive research into there. I think another thing, if I may break in there, McGuinty, is that, uh, the children should, uh, learn to play cooperatively and generously with other people when they're little. Yes. Very little. That's one of the best trainings for marriage, success in marriage. That's true. That's true. All of us show, by the way, there's the happy children from happy homes that make the best risks in marriage. Now, this all sounds good, but are, are parents, in the case of your suggestion, generally equipped to give them this kind of advice? And in the case of, uh, uh, uh, uh, Starr's insistence here on a program in the, in the schools, are, uh, do teachers have the, the time and the, the professional competence to, to help these people as you want them helped? Well, that's why we, that's why we ought to have courses on marriage and the family. Then they get this before they marry. And then you get the training on them if you had enough of them. But, but if they start with the grammar school, the teachers devote some of their extra time outside of school hours. We can watch these children until they grow up. And if they're carefully washed, I believe this can help wipe out the divorce. Well, let me ask you a question, Tom. How well trained are these grammar school teachers to do this? And how much time have they got to do it? How much money do we pay these? And have we got enough teachers? A lot of practical problems there, huh? If these teachers haven't got enough time, then some money should spent, be spent for trained teachers and trained workers. I quite agree with that, yeah. Put on extra help. And it'd be money well spent. Of course, actually, in, uh, many of our more progressive schools, they now have, uh, special teachers assigned. There are a few progressive schools, though. Well, progressive in quotes. Have special teachers assigned to take care or to help with the psychological problems of the students. And that, uh, they have done a wonderful job. Well, now, how about, uh, Knowles, while you're talking, educational programs designed to develop, uh, attitudes and skills which enable people to work and live together. Is that the kind of a program that you have in mind, uh, for these, uh, children and for their, their parents? For their parents, absolutely. Well, spell that out a bit. Well, uh, I think that we're beginning to get, uh, research evidence, Ogburn, uh, more and more now, that, uh, uh, attitudes actually can be a lot of different. Uh, or developed through, uh, uh, educational experience. Uh, a very interesting experiment is now going on out at the University of Iowa under, uh, Ralph Ogimund of the Child Welfare Research Station. In which they actually, over a period of about five, uh, to ten years now, have, uh, done some, uh, really dramatic things. With, with helping children from age, uh, five and six up through the 12th grade, learn how to, uh, uh, to deal with, with, uh, not only their own age mates, but with their parents, uh, much better. Couldn't the coaches do that pretty good? And the playground directors? The coaches are an integral part of it. The, uh, the total school system is organized on a, uh, uh, you might say around a human relations framework. Uh, where, where everyone, well, in a nutshell, they, uh, seek to train people, train the students and the teachers to react to the causes of behavior rather than the surface, the surface acts of behavior. And to go behind, uh, the surface, uh, manifestations to the causes and to try to cure the causes. Well, now this is actually, uh, uh, a very useful generalized habit to form in people. I think that there's one point ought to be mentioned there. I don't know whether we can do much practically about it, but it seemed to me the young people ought to be taught today that love is not enough. Romance, uh, romantic love, you mean. Well, I'm, don't misunderstand me. I'm in favor of love and rather in favor of romance. But the point is that there are other things to marriage than that and there's a practical aspect of it. Yes. And, uh, I think that you don't have to go out of bounds for romance. But it's the movies and the pulp magazines and the hero idols and the crooners, uh, developing a notion that all that counts is romance. Yes. Well, now we've been. And marriage is quite a more serious thing than that. We've been talking here about some of these, uh, rather long time educational experiences. educational, uh, programs that might, uh, serve as means of bringing about, uh, uh, sounder marriages. Uh, but, uh, to move on if we may, Dr. Ogburn, uh, what practical premarital advice can be given concerning, uh, the effects on marriage of differences in taste, temperament, religion, money, sex, and so on? We've moved out now of the elementary schools. Those fall into two classes generally, uh, those that, uh, have to do with these practical things like money and selfishness and so forth, and those that have to do with physiology. Uh, and, uh, we have various institutions who deal with those. There's a good deal of advice in the, uh, a good deal of good advice in the advice to the love lawn. Uh, and, uh, by the way, there are many millions of readers of those columns, you know, and they do a good deal of good. On the physiology side, I'm quite a bit impressed with the very favorite position which the Association for Planned Parenthood does. They deal with intimate matters, and when a couple goes there, she expects to talk about intimate matters, and there's a physician there, you know, and she doesn't mind talking to him about it. And they have a lot of these in the city. I think we have seven or eight in Chicago, and they must have 3,000 new visitors every year there. And they can do really a great deal of good on the physiological side of marriage. They can remove one of the blocks of happiness in marriage. Oh, one of them, yeah, sure. Do you think that these differences in taste, religion, temperament, and the like make very much difference in marriage? Oh, they make a great deal of difference, but of course they, that should be made known to them in these marriage courses and before they ever get engaged. You see, you have advice, uh, premarital advice, for those who are already engaged and for those who haven't become engaged. Well, for those who haven't become engaged, I'd say you'd better fall in love with somebody, if you can, who has tastes similar to yours. Could I, uh, put a point in there though, McBurney, that, uh, while I think that this kind of premarital advice is very important, um, I think that it, uh, also is important to be said that people who have already become married, uh, without having it, and perhaps find some, uh, conflicts between them, due to differences in taste, temperament, religion, money, and so on, need not give up the ghost, just for that reason. That, uh, actually, uh, they can learn, uh, uh, to solve that kind of problem quite, uh, quite readily. And in our adult education programs, for example, not only in Chicago, but throughout the country, we're constantly having people come in, um, uh, to learn common interests together. For example, uh, uh, we had a person in our YMCA bridge course, uh, not long ago, a young couple, uh, come in and learn to play bridge together, and afterwards, uh, after the ten week course was over, the wife said, gee, you know, we don't fight at bridge anymore. We can both play equally well now. And that, that sort of thing, I think, is important. Well, now, you gentlemen thus far, I've taken your cue, certainly, from Dr. Ogburn's, uh, opening suggestion here, that we make recommendations designed to bring about, uh, solid marriages that will enable people to live together happily and, and constructively. Let's look at the other side of this for just a few minutes, if we may. What steps can be taken to keep these, uh, married couples together once they're, they're, they're married? Uh, people who may not have had the, the benefit of the kind of counsel that you're giving here today. Uh, specifically... Uh, specifically... I'd like to hear what, um, uh, Star has to say about these, uh... Divorce Laws. Divorce is Anonymous. Uh, that's a new thing on the horizon. That sounds awfully interesting. Couldn't you tell us about that, uh... Uh, yes. Divorce is Anonymous, of course, is made up, is a plan I had made up of, uh, women that have regretted rushing into a divorce. And, uh, willing... How do you get that name, uh, Divorce is Anonymous? Well... Are these people intoxicated with divorce, you think? Uh, you know, uh, there, there are women that, uh, want to keep their names, uh, secret only as to the public. But as to themselves, they know each other. As to people that, uh, want their help, uh, they're known. And they're willing to help and advise women and men not to rush into a hasty divorce. How often do they meet, uh... Well, these women meet about once a week, and, uh, they're willing to help and advise anyone seeking help. And they try to... But they only meet when they have somebody there coming for help, is that right? Well, uh, if, uh, if someone, uh, gets in touch with a member of Divorce is Anonymous, that member learns their story and hears their story, probably goes out to lunch with them, and then brings them into the group and tries to match that person up with... Do they meet them first with one person or several? Well, first they meet with one person, and then that one member tries to match this person up with someone who's had a similar problem to them. Oh, I see. What do they do in their meetings? Do they... Well, uh, they have a bull session, and, uh, anyone who wants to talk about their problem in the open may, and then they each suggest ideas. Also, someone wants some private consultation, why, uh, one of the members willing to talk to that person privately, and even send for the husband or wife to talk. Do you think, though, uh, you can get, uh, uh, competent help from, uh, uh, divorcees, whose only claim to competence seems to be the fact that they've had one or more divorces? Well, the question I would raise about that was, uh, would be if one of the most constructive things Divorcees Anonymous, uh, might not do, would be to, to, um, uh, provide referral service for these people to places like the, uh, Planned Parenthood Association, the Association for Family Living Psychiatrists and Colleges and Cros. I think you really got something there. Something that was an invention. We have been calling in psychiatrists to help. Well, thank you, gentlemen. This panel has made recommendations for reducing the divorce problem, long-time educational programs, premarital advice, and some measures designed to keep married couples together. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Can We Control Divorce? The second in a series on this important social problem. You can secure copies of both programs by sending 20 cents in coin to the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Better yet, start your subscription to the Reviewing Stand with these interesting programs. A four-month subscription costs just one dollar. Two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Malcolm S. Knowles, William F. Ogburn, and Samuel M. Starr. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will discuss the question, What is happening to our war babies? Our guests will be Noel P. Geist, Professor of Sociology at the University of Missouri. Leah D. Taylor, member of Mayor Kennelly's Chicago Commission on Human Relations. Edward J. Condon, National Officer of the 4-H Club, member of the Board of Directors of the Chicago Boys Club. And Irving Rudolph, Executive Director of the Chicago Boys Club. We invite you to listen next week when we consider the question, What is happening to our war babies? Listen next week for the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
