Good evening ladies and gentlemen. We have set up tonight's program as always as a candid question and answer session so that you the citizens of the City of New York can have a clear idea as to how we stand in the face of this enormous problem of civil defense. Again I would like to emphasize as I have throughout all of my activities as civil defense director of this city that what we are trying to do is organize ourselves so that we may face the future with a heads-up spirit the confident security that comes only from knowing we are fully prepared for any contingency. We are not fooling ourselves about civil offense. We know it's no picnic. We know it's not pleasant. In fact we are aware that it is about as grim as distasteful a subject as one can think about in these times. But it must be done for we have no other alternative. The whole matter can be lumped together in that one sentence it must be done. Not that we view the problems that lie ahead within all is lost pessimism. Not that we have lost faith that any hope for peace is gone. But what we must do as mature citizens is simply to prepare for the waste and hope, pray, and work for the best. By following that hard-headed policy with our all-out efforts we will be doing a constructive job in maintaining the peace we cherish so highly. So much for the introduction to this evening's discussion. And now to turn to the topic at hand and to the gentleman at the microphone with me. He is Commissioner Edward F. Cavanaugh, Jr. of the Department of Marine and Aviation. This department is a subdivision of the Division of Transportation of the Office of Civil Defense of New York City. And Commissioner Cavanaugh is the Deputy Director of that division. Now Commissioner, first of all suppose you tell us just what the preliminary function of your department is as it relates to the civil defense picture? I will state that very briefly Commissioner Wallander. The preliminary function of the Department of Marine and Aviation is to organize, coordinate, and administer under the jurisdiction of the Chief of the Transportation Division of the Office of Civilian Defense all waterborne transportation from the five boroughs of the City of New York. I'm sure we all are aware how important waterborne transportation is to the city both in normal times and in emergency periods. We can just look at any map of the city or take a peek from the Empire State Building and see the reason why that is so at first hand. We can see then that almost every borough of our city is bounded on more than one side by water. Yes, that's right Commissioner, and you can see how important that is in the event of an emergency situation where immediate large-scale evacuation is one of the vast problems that is thrust upon us. Probably no other city in the world lends itself more to waterborne evacuation than the City of New York. The significance and importance of this method of evacuation and transportation becomes quite apparent when we understand and visualize the limitations of surface transportation under emergency conditions. To put it bluntly, waterborne transportation generally speaking is a lot more rugged than any surface transportation and by its very nature is better equipped to continue operating in the event of a sudden attack on the city. As a matter of fact, in certain areas of our city, and more particularly our insular hospital centers, waterborne transportation is the only method by which patients and personnel may be evacuated. Suppose Commissioner Kavanaugh you describe how you are gearing New York's waterborne transportation facilities to meet the needs of civil defense. One of the first things accomplished by the department was an aerial survey of the five boroughs of the city of New York and an evaluation and study of land sites and evacuation points of our city's waterfront. I should say at this point that the department has been fortunate in having had the valuable assistance and experienced counsel in setting up its program of commander William B. Leeds, U.S. Coast Guard Reserve, executive assistant to the director of civil defense. Commander Leeds has been tireless in his efforts to develop a comprehensive plan of waterborne transportation and as liaison officer between the director of civil defense and the department of marine and aviation, his counsel has not only been most helpful but has formed the core of a substantial part of the department's program. Early in August of this year, through the cooperation of the police department, I was able to make a helicopter survey of our city waterfront. By this means, our department was able to evaluate points of evacuation from congested areas of the city. In addition to the aerial survey, the department has made waterfront surveys of landing conditions and underwater conditions, so that it may have accurate information that will be essential for the landing and tying up of all types of floating equipment. Well, that's fine. I'm glad to hear you mention the name of William Leeds. I know he's done a great job on this here coordination of waterborne conveyances. I assume that you're working in close coordination and cooperation with private maritime and waterfront industries in this city at all times, aren't you, Commissioner? Indeed we are, Commissioner Wallander, and of course we're getting complete cooperation from that direction. The Marine Division of the Fire Department has made a very thorough survey of all maritime and waterfront industries for the purpose of obtaining a list of equipment, craft, and facilities. John M. Holian, Chief of Staff and Operations of the Fire Department, has set up a joint office with the Department of Marine and Aviation for the purpose of permitting both the Fire Department and this Department to have the advantage and use of all material and information ascertained. To that end, the Department of Marine and Aviation has set aside office space at Pier A North River, located at the Battery, for Commander Leeds, and has in addition set aside office and conference space on Pier 1 North River, to be used jointly by the Fire Department, its personnel, and the personnel of the Department of Marine and Aviation. Well, talking about personnel, Commissioner, it might be a wise idea if at this point you detail the organization of your department and how it is set up, personnel-wise, for civil defense. Commissioner Wallander, the organization of the Department of Marine and Aviation is headed up by myself. Serving directly under me are the two Deputy Commissioners and the Chief Engineer of the Department. Now, I'd like to outline their work just a bit because, in fact, the sum of their functions is the essence of the Department's organization. Deputy Commissioner Cosentino is in charge of air and ferry transportation. The Chief Engineer, Captain Ravage, is in charge of landing facilities, and Deputy Commissioner Leckman is in charge of steamship and harbor carrier transportation. Each of these subdivisions is in turn broken down into units that contemplate the organization of all aircraft, ferries, small craft, public craft of federal, state, and city agencies, and in addition, construction and repair equipment, planning personnel, communications equipment and personnel, large vessels such as steamships and excursion boats, harbor carriers such as railroad flat cars, barges, tugs, lighters, car floats, and private crafts such as tugs and lighters. Oh, gosh, Commissioner, that's quite a list. I'll bet that some of our listeners didn't realize waterborne transportation covered so many varying kinds of watercraft equipment and facilities. Yes, waterborne transportation is a tremendously important as well as flexible means of mass transportation and evacuation. The organization of all these water facilities with their personnel and equipment will be available for waterborne transportation of the people of our city in the event of serious emergency or disaster from enemy action. Proper use of all floating equipment available means the waterborne evacuation of hundreds of thousands of people in a single day from our city and more particularly the patients in our island hospital centers. Fortunately, many of our hospitals and institutions are adjacent to or near the waterfronts, which renders the mass evacuation via water transportation of their occupants a reasonably feasible proposition. Well, that's fine, Commissioner Cavanaugh. Now, as you know, one of our big problems in civil defense work is the arrangement for dispersal of facilities so that in the event of a catastrophe affecting one part of our city, activities in other sections will continue with reasonable efficiency. How are you meeting this problem? Well, Commissioner Wallander, the department has set up tentative headquarters in each of the five boroughs. Plans are now underway for having self-sufficient organizations in every borough so that in the event of a disaster or emergency in a particular area of our city, those areas that are unaffected will be ready and able to carry out the program and render assistance with available equipment immediately. How about liaison with the Civil Air Patrol? That would seem to be a must for your department. It certainly is, Commissioner Wallander. Our department has established a working arrangement with the Civil Air Patrol, and we have designated a liaison officer of this department to work with that agency. We contemplate making use of the equipment and personnel of the Civil Air Patrol for the emergency transportation of key personnel in the event of immediate disaster, as well as the emergency transportation of specialized medical equipment and other supplies. Well, now, the importance of waterborne transportation to the City of New York, it sort of underscores the importance of keeping our waterfront facilities in repair and having equipment always available for transportation of foodstuffs, medical supplies, and other essential items. Isn't that so, Commissioner Kavanaugh? Yes, Commissioner. You couldn't emphasize that point too much. Our waterways are a priceless asset, and never more than today when we are faced with the danger of a sudden, unprovoked attack. Our waterways are priceless because they provide an unobstructed connection and easy avenue of exit for transportation, not only to the outlying areas of our city, but to safe and unaffected areas in upper New York State, Connecticut, eastern Long Island, Jersey, and even more distant points. Railroad floater equipment and railroad barges, lighters, and tugs, as well as other craft, can leave the shores of our city and within a short time be moved to safe and unaffected terminals and rail facilities. I would like Commissioner Wallander to conclude by expressing the thanks of the Department of Marine and Aviation to the steamship industry, the excursion boat industry, the tugboat association, and all the maritime organizations, labor unions, that have so readily cooperated with the Department, and lent their assistance in the hope that this city can, at an early date, have a comprehensive and effective organization to meet any emergency. Well, thank you very much, Commissioner Kavanaugh. I would like to again remind our listeners that if they have any questions relating to civil defense problems in New York City, kindly mail them to me, and on succeeding broadcasts, we will do our best to answer them. We have made great strides in organizing ourselves and our resources to meet the needs of civil defense. It's been a lot of hard work, and a lot of hands have been doing it. But it would be childish to think that we have already reached the millennium, that we have already done all that we can. Much progress remains to be done, and I am confident, and completely so, that the people of the city of New York will rise up to meet the challenge just as they have met and licked every crisis in our city's long history. Thank you.