Radio's microphones are now located at 163rd Street and Fort Washington Avenue, denoting another civic progress with the dedication of France's Delafield Hospital at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. A distinguished company have turned out today to turn over this great institution to the care and welfare of those who might be ill at the time. And Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, Commissioner of the Department of Hospitals, who's acting as chairman and present the regular order of program. We're waiting now for just a few polite exchanges among the guests, and in just a moment you'll hear the voice of Dr. Kogel, Commissioner of Hospitals. Commissioner Kogel. Will you please rise for the national anthem? TV に Save Town i i j j i The End Commissioner Kogel. Reverend Dr. Pike, Mr. Griswold, Dr. Appley, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. We are privileged this afternoon to have the chaplain of Columbia University with us at the dedication of this beautiful new hospital for cancer sufferers, which is affiliated with the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. It is my honor to introduce the Reverend Dr. James A. Pike, chaplain of Columbia University, who will deliver the invocation. Dr. Pike. Let us pray. Almighty God, who art the author of all life and healing, the source of all knowledge and truth, we beseech thee for all those everywhere who have dedicated their lives to bringing thy gifts of life and healing to men burdened with affliction. We yield thee high praise and hearty thanks on this day for the concern and leadership and effort of all those who have made this event possible and who stand at the threshold of the many years of service of this hospital. We thank thee for those of the city administration, of the university, of the hospital, who together are bringing to men things meaningful for body and soul and for the wholeness of life which is thy everlasting will for thy children. Bless, hallow, and sanctify not only this place, but all those who shall labor here and with keen minds and ready hands seek to bring to men that which thou above all wishest them to have. and finally, through thy Holy Spirit, infuse all who have any part in this undertaking now and in the years to come with that spirit of stewardship and service and love of men which we have known through him who came among us as one that serveth. Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen. Amen. Amen. Cancer stands next to heart disease as the greatest human killer. In 1949, it claimed the life of more than 200,000 Americans destroying ruthlessly men, women, and children, cutting off in their prime our most distinguished citizens, leaving its mark on almost every family and bringing pain and anguish into many homes. Last year, 15,160 New Yorkers died of this disease and it is significant to note the death rate from cancer has been increasing steadily in our city as throughout our nation. The Francis Delafield Hospital affiliated with the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center which we are dedicating today and the James Ewing Hospital affiliated with the Memorial Center for Cancer and Alley Diseases which was dedicated just a week ago are New York City's answer to the challenge of this dread disease which has even, which even among children from one to 14 years of age is a chief cause of death being second only to accidents in this young age group. The closed juxtaposition of special cancer hospitals under municipal administration with world-renowned cancer research and teaching centers establishes a unique pattern of relationship between voluntary and governmental agencies. Apart from the mutually advantageous union of facilities and special experience, it assures for the indigent cancer sufferers of the city of New York the highest quality of medical care. These new hospitals provide a training ground for specialists in the treatment of cancer in all of its manifestations and will be the reservoirs which will supply our general hospitals with the specialized skills required for the treatment of cancer patients. Basic research in the origin and growth characteristic of cancer cells conducted in close relationship with clinical cancer treatment may well provide the key to the solution of many perplexing problems about this dread disease. The cooperation which exists between the municipal hospital system and the voluntary hospitals of our city is in a large measure responsible for the enviable health record enjoyed by the citizens of our great metropolis. The vision and the far-sightedness of the board of trustees of the Presbyterian Hospital has been a guiding spirit in fostering the relationship which is being formalized today between the Francis Delafield Hospital and the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Our first distinguished our first speaker rather is a distinguished industrialist as he will prove himself to be a distinguished speaker and an attorney long prominent in welfare and educational activities. For more than 30 years he has helped guide the growth and the development of this great medical institution and it is a privilege to introduce Mr. W.E.S. Griswold, Senior Vice President of the Board of Trustees of the Presbyterian Hospital. Mr. Griswold. Mr sub-Fortara, Dr. Kogel, Commissioner Morgan, Dean Rappalee, Dr. Higginson, and distinguished guests. As Vice President of the Board of Trustees of Presbyterian Hospital in the city of New York, may I say that all of us at Presbyterian have been anxiously awaiting the opening of the Francis Delafield Hospital since 1941, when we gave this land on which it stands. What better proof could one have of our interest in this new institution? I think it would convince even the doubting Scotchman. We have known the crying need for this hospital for many years, as stated in the original agreement between the City of New York, Columbia University, and ourselves. The purpose of this fine structure will be to provide care and treatment of inpatients and outpatients with cancer or other neoplastic diseases, to establish research into the cause, prevention, and methods of diagnosis and treatment of cancer, and to educate physicians, medical students, dentists, and others in the diagnostic and curative procedures and techniques relating to this disease. Let me, without minimizing the necessity of care, treatment, and research, emphasize strongly the progress which can be made by early diagnosis. However much treatment and research may contribute, gains by speedier diagnosis may be won immediately. This new hospital, working with the College of Physicians and Surgeons and the Presbyterian Hospital, can and will save many lives by more instant disclosure of this disease. And that, may I say, is a point where all of us laymen can help the doctors. We welcome the Francis Delafield Hospital into the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center family. While it will operate as a completely self-sufficient unit, still, as a member of the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center team, an even broader inter-sharing of facilities and of newly discovered knowledge and techniques will exist between all of these great institutions. Presbyterian is a voluntary hospital, but it may surprise some of my listeners to know that in the past ten years we have treated 18,881 so-called city patients. Those patients were either referred to us from city institutions or because of their inability to pay, they qualified for city care. Presbyterian Hospital was founded in 1868 by James Lennox for the people of New York without regard to race, creed, color, or ability to pay. We have maintained that same spirit of service over the past 82 years, and there will be no change in that policy. Throughout the years, Presbyterian Hospital, working in close affiliation with Columbia University's Medical School, has done its share in making America the world leader in the field of medicine and in making New York City the world's medical capital. With the addition of the Francis Delafield Hospital into the Medical Center family, New York City will be in an even stronger position to maintain its present leadership. Cancer, as we all know, is a dread disease. But gradually our doctors and scientists are obtaining clues as to its cause and already have discovered ways to prolong the lives of many of its victims. With the hope in mind that many answers will be found through the assistance of this new member to our team of cancer fighters, the Presbyterian Hospital extends a very warm hand of fellowship and welcome to the Francis Delafield Hospital. Thank you, Mr. Griswold. I cannot let this occasion pass without a word of tribute to Dr. Edward M. Bernica, my distinguished predecessor, whose wise counsel and stimulating leadership is seen in every part of this new building. He must feel a particular pride and satisfaction in the completion of this hospital towards which he has given so much of himself. Building a great hospital is not a simple task. It requires many professional skills and the work of many artisans and craftsmen. Our next speaker was to have been the prominent architect and engineer who heads the municipal department that supervised the construction of this modern hospital, our Commissioner Zemulian. However, as Commissioner Zemulian is out of town today and cannot be here, he's sent to represent him his strong right arm. I am happy to present Deputy Commissioner Albert H. Morgan of the Department of Public Works of the City of New York. Reverend Pike, President of the President of the Politery, Dr. Kogel, distinguished guests, friends. The Department of Public Works, as stated by Dr. Kogel, performs the engineering and architectural work or supervises the performance of the architectural and engineering work for the Department of Hospitals. We supervise construction. And there stands before you evidence in concrete steel that we are progressing with the largest hospital construction program that was ever undertaken, as far as we know. And we believe that when it is complete, the Department of Hospitals will be completed. We will be in a position to give the people of the city of New York the very finest possible medical care. This particular hospital has had quite a history and represents somewhat of a struggle in our part to bring it to completion. It was started back in 1941. Its progress was interfered with by the war and the subsequent shortages of material. And it was not until 1946 that the steel framework was completed. And we did not get it under General Headway until 1948. That was one of the problems that Mayor O'Dwyer and his administration had to meet when they entered office. And the fact that this building is complete represents the way in which that problem has been overcome by the administration. And the administration is facing the Hudson. And the Hudson is facing the Hudson so that the patients will have the best possible outlook to inspire them. The hospital itself has cost about $8 million. And it is part of the general hospital program. I know Dr. Kogel will be pleased to know that the contractors, Gerace and Kogel, who built this hospital and who built this hospital and who are also building the Kings County Hospital addition, have informed me just this afternoon that they hope to finish the Kings County Hospital addition. And thisisiak Makkel, who HAS mor coś without those two months. I know they ωSH todos Look at this, but the beginning. Last year, the Legislature put through a special program of a 150 million dollar bond issue. bond issue so that we could proceed with an augmented hospital construction program and that is well underway we've advanced a lot of the plans several buildings are started and it's going to be a recurring pleasure to watch to keep turning these hospitals over to the Department of Hospitals I think the citizens can be very proud of the accomplishments that have been made it is an elegant tribute to our departing mayor that he leaves these buildings behind him and that there are more under construction and I know that his successor will carry the program forward it's my pleasure then as the acting Commissioner Public Works to present this hospital to President Impeletari and the Department of Hospitals thank you probably no tasks in the professional world are more difficult than those which are the responsibility of the director of an institution for research for upon such shoulders falls the responsibility of coordinating and correlating and giving direction to many and varied lines of activity however in medical research particularly in cancer research there must be many satisfactions that come from the knowledge that even as some scientists work to achieve the destruction of man other scientists seek to cure man's ills perhaps through the very same means whereas there are those who attempt to create radioactive sands and death sands to shower upon human beings the research worker in cancer attempts to use the same forces of nature to bring healing and relieve from pain to the director of cancer research of Columbia University with which this hospital will be associated the greatest satisfaction of all undoubtedly is derived from the fact that he is carrying on in the clinic at the bedside in the the operating room and in the laboratory the work so brilliantly carried on for many years by the renowned pathologist and physician Dr. Francis Delafield after whom this hospital is named it is my privilege to introduce Dr. Cushman D. Hagenson director of the Institute for Cancer Research Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons who will discuss the work and contributions of Dr. Francis Delafield Dr. Cogel ladies and gentlemen Francis Delafield one of the founders of modern medicine for whom this hospital has been named was born in New York City August 3rd 1841. His father was a physician and after graduation from Yale College in 1860 the son followed in his father's footsteps and entered the College of Physicians and Surgeons he was graduated three years later and following the custom of the time went abroad to continue his studies medical education in America in those days was entirely didactic there was no laboratory instruction whatever abroad abroad however particularly in Germany the fundamental medical sciences of bacteriology and pathology which were to form the basis of our modern understanding of the nature of disease were evolving in laboratories Delafield was inspired by the intellectual challenge of the task of correlating the clinical picture of disease with the facts of medicine as revealed in the laboratories in pathology and bacteriology and he returned to New York determined to devote his life to this purpose he obtained a position as curator to Bellevue hospital which made him responsible for the autopsies he began the private practice of medicine in the city and was soon recognized as a leader Dr. Delafield's great opportunity came in 1877 when he persuaded the alumni association of the College of Physicians and Surgeons to devote his sum of ten thousand dollars which they had raised to the establishment of a laboratory of pathology in the college It was opened the following year in a single room on the ground floor of the college building at 23rd street and 4th avenue the room was long and narrow and the only daylight in it filtered through a scanty strip of iron grating at one end there was an ice cream store on one side and a harness shop on the other the clatter of wagons and horse cars and pedestrians filled the street in front the great brewery wagons rumbling by shook the microscopes so that microscopical observation had to be stopped now and then the college asked and got 750 dollars per year rent from the alumni association for these meager quarters although dr. Delafield offered an optional course in pathology without charge to the students of the college dr. Delafield was made director of the new laboratory one of the first of its kind in america and he was appointed adjunct professor of pathology and practical medicine in the college with these appointments he also acquired the privilege of personally paying the yearly financial deficits of the laboratory which were considerable despite these financial difficulties the laboratory quickly became a center in america for the teaching of pathology and in it its director and his pupils carried out studies of nephritis pneumonia meningitis emphysema tuberculosis cancer and many other subjects which brought them fame dr. Delafield's pupils included a series of young men who later became leading pathologists and teachers of medicine t. Mitchell prudent William welch edward janeway james ewing william h park and many others in 1872 dr. Delafield published a handbook of post-mortem examinations and morbid anatomy this textbook revised and expanded in cooperation with dr. prudent became the famous textbook of pathology which was the standard work on this subject in america for a generation and which went through 16 editions between 1872 and 1936 in 1882 Delafield became professor of pathology and practical medicine in the college of physicians and surgeons he then relinquished the directorship of the laboratory to his protégé t. Mitchell prudent he taught medicine until 1901 when his resignation was regretfully accepted and he was named emeritus professor he wrote extensively his 86th and last paper appearing in 1904 throughout his whole life he never deviated from his youthful conviction of the importance of pathology he established a tradition in the college of physicians and surgeons and in new york of medicine firmly based on the facts of pathology he died at the age of 73 on july 17 1915 francis delafield has given us a distinguished name and a tradition for this new hospital but a hospital like any other institution needs more than a tradition if it is to succeed it must have a leader one who can inspire its staff with his knowledge and character a leader who is not only very much alive but attuned to the future we have the great good fortune to have such a leader for the francis delafield hospital he is professor arthur purdy stout who after a distinguished career in the presbyterian hospital will transfer his headquarters to the delafield hospital dr stout has achieved a reputation as an outstanding authority on the diagnosis and treatment of cancer and as a teacher he has trained many young men who are today doing important work in cancer in our country most of us who will work in the delafield hospital have been his pupils and we are all devoted to him his presence in the new hospital will do more than any other single factor to assure its success dr stout's laboratory in the francis delafield hospital will i am sure be a center for the training of young men in the knowledge of cancer just as francis delafield's laboratory at the college of physicians and surgeons 75 years ago was a center for the training of men in the pathology and classification of internal disease in this way history repeats itself and the university of which we are a part fulfills its destiny of providing the best modern knowledge for the use of the people i think this would be the proper time to introduce to this audience a few of the members of dr delafield's family who are sitting here on the platform i'd like mr edward delafield the son of dr delafield to stand up mrs frederick crosby the daughter of dr delafield and we have here also the great grandson of dr delafield dr john delafield gregory thank you very much the professional life of our next speaker has so many facets that merely to catalog them would consume more time than is at my disposal on this program he is one of the nation's distinguished leaders in medical education he's an authority on medical research and is consultant to the national cancer institute and the national institute of health he is a former commissioner of hospitals of the city of new york and a member of the newly created board of hospitals he was the spearhead and guiding genius that made possible the great venture in hospital administration we are celebrating today it is a privilege to present dr willet c rapoli dean and vice president in charge of medical affairs columbia university college of physicians and surgeons dr rapoli commissioner kogel mr impelatory distinguished guests ladies and gentlemen this occasion represents another milestone in the efforts of the city of new york to provide the highest quality of medical and hospital care for the people of this city the francis delafield hospital is a tribute to the arduous efforts of commissioners berniker kogel sir mullin and the far-sighted leadership of merrill dwyer and mr impelatory to alleviate suffering and disease in our community the hospital is planned and equipped to advance scientific knowledge regarding cancer one of the major causes of disability and death in this country today no individual knows whether or when he or she may become a victim of this malady because it is unpredictable therefore every citizen of this great city has a direct or an indirect interest in the efforts of this and fellow institutions to serve all of us research into the cause the diagnosis the best forms of treatment and ultimately the prevention of malignancy holds the key to our progress in the war upon this crippling and killing enemy of mankind the city authorities are indeed to be congratulated upon their wisdom and their vision in emphasizing research as an essential function of this new hospital in as much as knowledge of the mechanisms and the causative factors in cancer are related clearly to abnormalities in the chemical and the biological processes of growth and of life itself it is only logical that investigation in this subject should be rooted in the fundamental biological and medical sciences and their application to problems of clinical medicine and surgery these sciences and their clinical applications are represented best in a modern medical school those responsible for the building of the dullafield hospital decided wisely that it should be located at and be closely integrated with a university faculty of medicine in which was granted to which was granted the privilege of nominating all members of the professional staff the american cancer society is helping generously in supporting these scientists and clinicians the scientific and medical activities of this hospital are to be correlated under the columbia university institute of cancer research of which you've already heard with the research efforts of the medical sciences in the faculty of medicine medicine with parallel programs in the other hospitals of the columbia presbyterian medical center and with fundamental studies in the new four floors of cancer research laboratories of the medical school now being completed the construction of which was made possible by a substantial grant from the united states public health service and from columbia university the francis delafield hospital as is an essential feature of this institute of cancer research another noteworthy aspect of the delafield hospital is its participation actively in the teaching of physicians nurses dentists social workers public health personnel and others in vital community as well as scientific phases of cancer the house staff nominated by the university will have at its disposal the educational and research facilities of the entire medical center the plan of rotating residents through the general services of the presbyterian hospital and the delafield hospital as an example will open unexcelled opportunities for the training of many young physicians and surgeons to assume their full responsibility in the diagnosis the care and the treatment of cancer patients wherever they practice later or in whatever field of medicine they may practice it is only through competent doctors in each community that we can hope ultimately to conquer this scourge of humanity the research and teaching activities under the guidance of the scientists and the clinicians of the university medical school will be focused upon giving the sick of new york afflicted with cancer the highest possible standards of medical and nursing care and treatment the primary concern of this hospital is the patients who will come here knowing that in the environment of this great institution they will receive all of the benefits that present-day science and skill can provide the significance of the cooperation between the city and one of its great universities and the general as well as the special hospitals of the medical center is worthy of note it is a splendid example of democracy at work of voluntary hospitals a private educational institution and the government working together in the public interest it is in keeping with the finest traditions of the american way of life we in the university and in the columbia presbyterian medical center pledge ourselves again to make this enterprise and the francis delafiel hospital one of the productive and most useful institutions in serving the needs of new york and improving the health and the well-being of our fellow citizens thank you i'm sure dr ropley that you will make the francis delafiel hospital one of the greatest institutions in the country new york city today is embarked upon the greatest hospital construction and reconstruction program in its history when our present mayor took office he and his administration will be set by the plagues of obsolescence of hospital facilities and terrific overcrowding his first act was to make some six million dollars available immediately for painting and repairing old facilities and an additional several million dollars were appropriated for extending hospital care into the home for eliminating bottlenecks and x-ray laboratory services for extending outpatient services and for expanding the department's physical medicine and rehabilitation program a 42 million dollar construction program was authorized by the mayor and by his board of estimate realizing that this was only a dent in the city's hospital bed needs the mayor obtained permissive legislation in albany for the referendum which was passed at last november's election authorizing the expenditure of an additional 150 million dollars outside the city's debt limit for hospital construction the hospital department budget has gone from 37 million dollars to approximately 81 million dollars the rates paid to voluntary hospitals for city charges have increased from 3.25 a day to 8 dollars per day our city will very keenly feel the loss of the understanding and the leadership of the chief executive who in all of his official dealings has given first priority to the needs of the indigent sick thus happy and momentous as this occasion is it is tinged with sadness because our mayor first of all cannot be here today and secondly because our mayor is leaving us tomorrow however for this occasion he has sent a very worthy representative the city charter as you know provides that in the absence of the mayor of the city of new york the president of the council shall act it is therefore entirely proper that in the absence of the mayor we are honored with the presence of his second in command it is particularly appropriate however for a second in command to be here today since on september 1st he assumes the office of mayor those of us who are directly vested with the responsibility of furnishing the best available hospital care and treatment to the sick of our city are indebted to the next speaker for by his every act on the board of estimate and in the city council and by his advice and encouragement he has been one of the outstanding leaders in assuring success to the various programs undertaken by the department of hospitals he has been the leading exponent of the credo that the poorest citizen of our community the poorest citizens of our community are entitled to the same good care as the most wealthy citizens of our community be speaking the indebtedness of our entire community for the valiant and tireless services which the next speaker has given to it i am proud to present to you the president of the city council and our next mayor the honorable vincent r impoletari dr kogel dr berniker offices of the columbia presbyterian medical center and particularly today on this very important occasion the members of the family of dr francis delafield ladies and gentlemen as dr kogel has so properly told you this occasion was set aside for merrill dwyer merrill dwyer as you probably have read in the papers has other plans at the present time were it not for that and were it not for the fact that he has a very crowded schedule both for today and tomorrow he had every intention of coming up here to the opening of this hospital unfortunately as dr kogel has already told you he couldn't be here but he has asked me in his behalf to come up here not only in my own behalf but to represent merrill dwyer and the people of the great city of new york the hospital program of the city of new york new york is one of the things that has appealed to merrill dwyer and his entire cabinet ever since the first day that he took office on january 1st of 1946 going back to those days you will recall that we had just finished a war it was the primary object of everyone in the city of new york and in the state and in the nation to win that war winning the war had number one priority so that during the during the five or six years that preceded january 1 1946 and not without any responsibility of those in public service who preceded us the fact of the matter is that as of january 1st 1946 the hospital plant of the city of new york was in very bad shape to put it mildly that's one of the things that we started out to do the very day that we took office under the able the courageous and the diligent leadership of merrill dwyer i was happy to be at his right hand side during all of that period because i started as president of the council at the right hand of merrill dwyer at the very same time the hospital program under the very able leadership of the former commissioner of hospitals dr berniker took number one priority so when i say that merrill dwyer had every intention of being here and in asking me to express his regrets means every word of exactly that statement because this new hospital is one of his babies he started off with this in 1946 and what pleasure it would have given him today to come here and actually see it come to fruition the fact of the matter is and there's nobody that's particularly responsible for it it's hard to believe but as of january 1st 1946 in a city of eight million people there were only available in city hospitals 300 beds for cancer patients that's one of the things that we immediately took hold of so only about a week ago we opened the james ewing hospital which is dedicated to cancer research today this hospital which we opened the francis delafiel hospital at a cost of approximately eight million dollars will take care of 300 cancer patients that was the same number that all of the city hospitals were prepared to take care of in 1946 so it costs it makes us happy to participate in an occasion like this it makes us happy to know that in our initial 42 million dollar hospital construction program two hospitals are all one already hope opened one about to open this one about to be opened and another two will be opened very very shortly to complete a 42 million dollar hospital construction program for that we're very proud we're proud indeed of the cooperation that we receive from the people who pay the bills in the city of New York after all as dr kogel told you today to run merely the municipal hospitals of the city of New York and i'm not talking now at all of construction cost the city approximately 81 million dollars a year that's just the cost of operating and maintaining the city hospitals the city of New York but on occasion on an occasion like this it points up a much more important thing it points up the fact as dr rapoli pointed out in his masterly address that there must be close harmonious understanding cooperation between your city administration between the commissioners who administer the various city agencies and between the people the civic minded people who make up our community when i speak of 81 million dollars to merely operate city hospitals sounds like a lot of money and it is but it wouldn't begin to take care of the sick needy people of our city who need medical attention were it not for the fact that the voluntary hospitals of our city manned and financed by civic minded people take care of the sick and needy injudence to an even far greater extent than the city does so the city is indeed proud of its voluntary hospitals and during our administration time and time again we've been very happy to share the troublesome job of taking care of the people who need it in our city so today on behalf of mayor o'dwyer behalf of the people of the city of new york and on behalf my own behalf as the fellow who will be your mayor on september 1st may i express to you the congratulations of the people of the city of new york thank you very much please rise for the benediction by the reverend dr pike finally oh lord grant thy continuing aid to what we have begun today grant we beseech thee that thy spirit will ever inspire the leadership of this city of the university and its medical school of the columbia presbyterian medical center the institute of cancer research and of the francis delafield hospital succor all sufferers who come here enlighten all physicians nurses and students in their work here bless their going in and their coming out this day and evermore to thy illustrious servant whose name this institution bears grant eternal rest and now the lord bless you and keep you the lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious unto you the lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace this day and always amen ladies and gentlemen this concludes the ceremonies thank you very much for being with us here this afternoon you're now invited to see your hospital your city stations microphones have been located here at 163rd street and fort washington avenue in this most historic part of new york city indicating the dedication and placing into service of the francis delafield hospital at columbia presbyterian medical center the distinguished company turned out today to turn over this newest adjunct of the great hospital system of your wonderful city a city that has kept pace with the progress from the early days when dr delafield started the research laboratory at 23rd street and fourth avenue where the college of the city of new york now stands and which from that humble beginning under dr delafield has stemmed all of the therapy the analysis the microscopes and all the factors that enter into the proper diagnosis and treatment and better understanding of medicine and its application to the cure of the sick no city in the world has a greater hospital system than the city of new york no administration in the world has a greater consideration for its population than the administration your administration of the government of the city and that is all from 130th 163rd street and fort washington avenue we return you now to the studios this is the municipal broadcasting system