It really counts. Handicapped workers, especially trained, can do the job. For details, contact the New York State Division of Rehabilitation, 111 Broadway, or phone Rector 2-2640, New York City's own station, WNYC and WNYC-FM. Radio's microphones are in front of City Hall, and the occasion is the presentation of medals to the members of the Fire Department of the City of New York, who during the year 1947-48 performed conspicuous acts of bravery and to the next of kin of those who sacrificed their lives in the performance of duty. And now Commissioner Quayle. Mr. Mayor. Dr. Archer. Distinguished guests. Friends and relatives of the medal winners of the New York Fire Department and firemen and officers of the New York Fire Department. Once a year on medal day, we publicly honor those heroes of our Fire Department who performed outstanding acts of courage in the year just passed. A hero has been defined as a person of distinguished courage. This makes heroes of all of our firefighters. For it takes ordinary courage to enter flame-swept buildings, smoke-filled cellars, fire-raging piers, ammunition-laden ships, where the fumes of burning chemicals and explosives added to the customary hazards created by smoke and flames, no matter what the occasion or time. When the fire gong starts pounding out an alarm, our officers and men are prepared for any and all dangers. Fighting fires are the most hazardous of occupations. During the last half century, not a year passed without loss of life and the performance of duty. In 1932, 17 firemen perished. In 1944, 16 lost their lives. And in 1945, the Department suffered its most grievous loss of 26 men. Many of these heroes who made the supreme sacrifice did so after rescuing inmates of burning buildings. Here it should be noted that 1945 was the tenth successive year when our firemen had been denied the right to take promotional examinations and when they were working shamelessly long hours and receiving outrageously low pay. This year, we are saddened by the loss of four of our comrades who died nobly in the call of duty. But we are thankful that so many of our firefighters brushed death aside and escaped miraculously. For the last year, 1805 men were injured. Just think of what this means. The injured men, 1805, is about 17% of our entire fire force. That means that within a five-year cycle, every fireman will receive at least one injury that will send him to his home or to a hospital. The normal annual accident rate for the people of our city is about 4,000 injuries to each 500,000 persons. On that basis, it would take a population of some 112,000 to account for the injuries sustained by the men of the New York Fire Department. Yet our firefighting force is composed of only 10,500 men. So it's obvious that the risk involved in firefighting is more than 10 times greater than the average accident rate. And yet last year was a good one for our firemen so far as injuries go. It is no wonder that some insurance companies refuse to insure the lives of our men while others demand extra premiums. When we consider the caliber of our brave firemen and the countless rescues that they made during the past year, when they extinguished more than 40,000 fires, it becomes apparent how difficult it was to select the most outstanding men for department medals. Those who have been singled out merited an award is because of a reckless disregard for their own safety. There is no other way to make a choice. The brief recital of the facts of each rescue as contained in the program booklet cannot do full justice to our medal winners. For how can we be made to feel the blistering heat, the gagging, stifling, acrid smoke, the nerve-tingling danger that these men endured in which four of our heroes perished? We all know that in the impenetrable smoke and the unavoidable excitement prevailing at so many fires, some of the most thrilling rescues are bound to go unnoticed. And this is said without detracting in the slightest degree from our medal winners. And I know all of them wholeheartedly share my view, for we all know that given the same opportunity, there is not one of our firefighters who would not have acquitted himself in the same courageous manner. Talk to some of these medal winners, and they will echo my words. During the past three years, a grateful administration has given our suburb firemen the most modern tools and equipment to combat fires, for even heroes need more than bare hands to fight fire. The most modern and finest ambulance possessed by any fire department in the world is here on view. It cost the city nothing. It was purchased for $16,000 by the fire department's Honor Emergency Fund, which is financed mainly by contributions and bequests from outside the department. This ambulance is the largest in the world, has a wheelbase of 225 inches, and is without vibration. The ambulance accommodates about 15 patients and is equipped with appliances to generate oxygen and to sterilize surgical instruments. There are six operating bunks available, should need for emergency surgery arise. This ambulance is by far the finest, and it is only fitting that it should be placed at the service of the best army of firefighters to be found anywhere. There is another ambulance here of customary design and size. It was purchased for $5,400 by the fire department's welfare fund, which is made up of contributions from the members of the uniformed force. This ambulance also cost the city nothing. Although Mayor O'Dwyer has been wisely generous in the appropriation for the department's modern equipment, which has, I am sure, resulted in saving lives as well as property, it now becomes my happy duty on behalf of the fire department's Honor Emergency Fund and the fire department's welfare fund to present these ambulances to Mayor O'Dwyer for the welfare of all the people of the city of New York, in whose cause he has labored so zealously and effectively. In truth, Mayor O'Dwyer has given the city the ablest, most efficient, and most humane administration in its history. And I am sure that the members of the fire department and all other city employees whose working standards he has raised will join with a million or more of their fellow citizens who are pleading that he reconsider his announcement and that he will not seek re-election. It would be a tragedy for the entire city if he were to be half-deaf to these pleas that he run again for his splendid program now well underway should be carried to successful completion by the man who conceived it. In closing, let me express my deep sorrow for the nearest of kin receiving the fireman's medal of supreme sacrifice and let me congratulate the living medal winners for their wonderful exhibition of bravery and all the officers and men of the fire department for their magnificent job of safeguarding life and property. A selection by the fire department glee club. You have dreams If you act They will come true Come true To turn your feet To a fight It's up to you If you have the soul And the spirit If you have the soul And the spirit You'll see it through The heart's can inspire While the heart's with their fire For the strong For the strong obey When a strong man Shows them the way Give me some men Who are stout-hearted men Who will fight For the right They adore Start me with ten Who are stout-hearted men And I'll soon Give you ten thousand more Shoulder to shoulder Shoulder to shoulder And bolder and bolder They grow as they go To the fall And there's nothing In the world Can hold The moral plan When Start on in bed And stick together Man to man Give me some men Give me some men Who are stout-hearted men Who will fight For the right They adore Start me with ten Who are stout-hearted men And I'll soon Give you ten thousand more Shoulder to shoulder And bolder and bolder They grow as they go To the fall Then there's nothing In the world And hold The moral plan When Start on in bed And stick together Man to man It's my pleasure and privilege to present the greatest mayor of the greatest city in the world William O'Dwyer A medal for Frank Quayle for that one Commissioner Quayle Deputy Commissioners Moran and Bays Dr. Archer Reverend And distinguished guests And we have some Outstanding guests Here today Gentlemen To join in this honor To you Mr. Billy Gargan From Hollywood Mr. Peter Donald And the inimitable Peter Donald And several others Who are here to Take part in this ceremony We welcome them Today is The type of a day That is mixed With great joy Also has its note of sorrow We are Unusually Located in this city Where so many people Probably more than Eight million Are set down And housed And conduct Their daily business In an area Of less than 365 square miles That is The greatest Concentration Of human beings In all the world And while we are Proud of our city We also Must recognize The fine heritage That we have Had In our various departments Who have grown steadily To meet the needs Of the people Some in the field Of health Some in transportation Some in police Some in education Some in health All the way Down the line To 102 agencies Comprising of Practically 170,000 people Who serve The people of this city This of course Is not an overnight growth The best we can do One administration After another Is to Try to make the service More efficient And expand it To meet The additional needs In The life of this city We have to expect That normal Thing Called Fire Fire We have to Take a picture Of it Under every Known circumstance In every one Of the 24 hours A day Whether it be In broad daylight In a little home Or in a huge factory Or whether it be The devastating flames Of An inhabited area Late at night When people are asleep These are the problems That confront One great department Of our city The fire department The work of the fire department Never becomes So clear Its need so great As when Ourselves or our loved ones Are in danger Of being trapped At the scene Of a fire It is at that moment That we look To two agencies God first And the fire department Second To come to the rescue It is the tradition Of our fire department That it has never failed To make That answer And the split second It has been The history Of the city And we certainly Have tried to Carry that on That the equipment The men have To work with Should be the most Modern So that when The call Does come That nothing That human hands Or ingenuity Could provide Would be denied To the people Now you could have All the machinery In the world You could have All the holes In the world You could have The best water supply In the world You could have The strongest And the highest Ladders in the world But all put together Would not Go into the Burning building Through the smoke And flame Pick up The charred bodies Or picked up Those who were Unable to escape And carry them To safety At the expense Of their own lives What you need For that part Of the work Is the courageous Heart And the tradition Of our fire department And gentlemen Who are being Honored here today You In your own right You have earned This extraordinary Honor In addition to that You have In your symbolism You represent The courageous heart Of the fire department And then Honoring you We honor The fire department And I speak For the people Of the city Of New York Who do know Some of us Only too well The all too many Cases Where the fireman In the performance Of this service Has lost his own life And has left His grieving family And friends With his charred body That experience Is not Too far away From me God bless you Now commissioner Quayle Will take up The regular order Of program again Commissioner Quayle The fireman's medal Of supreme sacrifice And department medal To be awarded Posthulously To members Of the department Who died In the line of duty During 1948 And presented To their next of kin As I call These names Will you kindly Step forward At which time Mayor O'Dwyer Will present the medal The mayor of the city Of New York The honorable William O'Dwyer Now leaves the speaker Stand here In front of city hall And goes down To where The men to receive The medals Or the next of kin As commissioner Quayle Has said Is standing there Ready to receive The possibles of award Commissioner Quayle Widow of fireman First grade John T. Rinn Engine company 89 Who died At 11.05 p.m. April 10th 1948 From injuries Which was sustained In the performances Of his duty While responding To signal station 4064 In the Bronx The photographers Now are busy Taking pictures As Mrs. Rinn Accepts the medal For her deceased husband Who died In the line of duty Which is epitomized By the expression Greater love Than this No man hath Than a man Lay down his Life for his friends The mayor is having A few quiet Consoling words Now with Mrs. Rinn The photographers Are busy Catching this Very human scene A scene which The mayor epitomized So thoroughly When he spoke Of no matter How perfect The apparatus It's only the man That can meet The emergencies Created by a fire And possibly save A life at the risk Of his own And this we know Is the tradition Of these two Great departments Of blue The fire department And the police department Even This is Mary Hildebrandt Mother Of fireman First grade Joseph J. Brecht Engine company Five Who died At 3 p.m. July 31st 1948 From the effects Of asphyxiation Caused by the Inhalation of smoke And carbon monoxide Followed by Submersion While operating At signal station 387 In the borough Of manhattan It's an interesting Commentary On the busy life Of the fire department That while the Citation for fireman First grade Joseph Brecht Was being read By fire commissioner Quayle Of beekman street Had a role To an emergency Here in the downtown Sector The mayor Is very busy And sympathetically Now consoling Mrs. Brecht And giving her The possibility Mrs. Catherine Boyle Widow of Lieutenant Harry G. Boyle Of engine company 61 Who died At 3.15 p.m. On August the 6th 1948 As a result Of operating At signal station 574672 Bronx Mrs. Boyle Is now receiving The citation From the mayor And his consolation And tribute From the people Of the city Of New York The splendid part Of this is Is the wonderful Poise of these Next of kin Who no doubt Are heartbroken Under the circumstances But they show In their faces The pride That these men These heroes Were part and parcel Of their family Their heart Their life And their blood And they're proud Of it Even though The sadness Of death Overhangs the scene The cameramen Are very busy Just at this moment And getting Various pictures With the mayor And Mrs. Boyle And now The next citation Mrs. Hazel M. Maloney Widow of Lieutenant Harry M. Maloney Of engine company 246 Who died At 5.30 a.m. On August the 9th 1948 From injuries Sustained In the performance Of his duty While operating At signal station 53297-246 Brooklyn The program We hold In our hands Here has Pictures of These various firemen When we look At the smiling Young face Of fireman Brecht James Gordon Bennett Medal And department medal Awarded to firemen First grade James S. Norton Hook and Ladder Company 163 For the rescue Of an entrapped woman And her child From fire At 3090 34th Street Long Island City On February The 23rd 1948 It's an interesting Commentary Since I have The eyesight Here I give you The picture That many Of these men Already have Medals pinned On their breasts For previous Heroic deeds And the mayor Is posing Now for a picture With this fireman Fireman First grade James S. Norton Commissioner Quayle Will read the next citation In just a moment The weatherman Is a good fireman He sent us A beautiful day Today For the honoring Of these heroes And God knows They rated The cameras Are still clicking Price fireman Norton Has tried to salute And get away But the mayor Has held him back And they've taken Some extra pictures The clicking Of those lights Remind us Of that bomb test The other night Over in New York When they dropped Those light bombs For photographic purposes On Monday evening The mayor Was ever alert To the emergency And had us Announce over The city station The purpose Of that situation So that nobody Would be alarmed And that no The U Bonner medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade Ben L. Alexandro Hook and Ladder company 108 For the rescue Of three persons From a factory Building fire 5658 Borms Street Brooklyn On February 26th 1948 5.57pm Fireman Alexander Is getting a big hand From the audience Here He saved three people And the mayor Is mighty Happy to shake His hand Smile Pin the medal On his breast And the photographers Indeed are very happy To take the picture And that's just What they're doing now In the magnificent sunlight Here in front of city hall Fire commissioner Quayle has every reason To feel proud As he reads these citations And knows that These are the men Fellow stifle medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade Eugene T.J. Jacks Hook and Ladder company 166 For the unassisted rescue Of an entrapped child From a fire at 2858 West 23rd street Brooklyn On October the 15th At 4.43am Fireman Jocks Now gets a hand From the audience Here in front of city hall And it's a huge Noonday audience Because of the beautiful weather And the heroic occasion Thomas F. Crimmins medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade Daniel M. Gunn For the unassisted rescue Of an entrapped person From a fire At 80 University Place Manhattan June 13th 1948 Takes a few moments For these men To break ranks And come up to where The mayor is standing Proud and happy To hand them The medal And the award Too bad You can't see These magnificent ambulances That are the donations Of the men And other public Spirited people To the fire department You heard Commissioner Quayle Describe this large ambulance here The largest of its kind In the world That will accommodate 15 firemen In an emergency Henry D. Brookman medal And department medal Awarded to Lieutenant Thomas R. Clements Engine Company 277 For participating In the rescue Of a man and a woman From a fire At 1624 Fulton Street Brooklyn Thank you Lieutenant Thomas R. Clements Gets a big hand The Albert S. Johnston Medal And department medal Awarded to firemen First grade William A. Guerin Hook and ladder Company 111 Participating in the rescue Of a man and a woman From a fire At 1624 Fulton Street Brooklyn Just listen to the applause That fireman First grade William A. Guerin Is getting Commissioner Quayle Is anxiously Looking for somebody The mayor Has a happy smile On his face He seems to have He seems to have A little difficulty With the pin On fireman Guerin's medal But now it's all set And the next citation Will be read The cameras are clicking Now commissioner Quayle The M.J. Delahanty medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade William H. Wingell For participating In the rescue Of a man and woman For a fire At 1624 Street Brooklyn The mayor Is being assisted By M.J. Delahanty Jr. Young Mr. Delahanty Is over there With the mayor Now And the fireman Who is getting This Delahanty award Fireman first grade William H. Wingell Mr. Delahanty's Having a little time With the pin too I wonder why They don't simplify This method Commerce Industry Association medal And department medal Awarded to Lieutenant Albert H. Detmar Engine Company 157 For the rescue Of a man From a fire On the premises 2091 Richmond Terrace Port Richmond Staten Island The mayor Will be assisted By Colonel Alan M. Pope Past president A member of the Board of Directors Of the Commerce And Industry Association Lieutenant Dentmar Has plenty of company Down there Now Mr. Pope Is pinning the medal on In line with The citation read And the particulars Read by Commissioner Quayle And now there's Some snapping of Pictures Those flashlights That mean history And a hero William F. Conron medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade Robert H. Haberstock Hook and ladder 112 For the rescue Of an entrap Man from a tenement House fire At 1376 Gates Avenue Brooklyn On June 30th 1948 Harmon H. Haberstock's Picture here In the program Has a big smile On his face And there he is Now smiling As the mayor Pins the medal On his chest And the cameras click He certainly should feel happy As New York Is happy at the moment Thomas A. Kenny Memorial Medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade Ralph Buffshever Hook and ladder 112 For participation In the rescue Of an entrap Man from fire 1376 Gates Avenue Brooklyn June 30th 1948 Fireman first grade Ralph Buffshever Is a very tall man too And he looks as though He could handle any proposition That emergency might create And that's the one thing As the mayor said The man has to bring with him He takes it to the fire Thomas F. Doherty Medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade William Wendell Hook and ladder 112 For rescue of an entrapped woman From a tenement House fire 1376 Gates Avenue Brooklyn The mayor will be assisted By Frank Doherty Son of the late chief Thomas F. Doherty They're still taking pictures And it's taking a few moments Before the next citation is ready And now here is Chief John J. McElligot Medal And department medal Awarded to fireman First grade Harold F. Schlier The mayor will be assisted By Chief McElligot's son This is for an unassisted rescue Of a trapped person From a fire At 145 East 21st Street Manhattan On January 31st 1948 We all remember Commissioner McElligot When he used to stand here proudly While the men of the fire department And the memory of him And the pleasant days We spent with him Is indeed a delight to recall His son is standing there now On this citation Helping the mayor In the award of the citation Of the McElligot Medal Fireman Schlier Please step forward I've just read the citation About fireman Schlier Mr. Mayor That's the McElligot Medal What is that? Nothing Doherty Medal Went to Wendell McElligot Medal To Schlier Commissioner's getting The newsmen straightened out Brooklyn Citizens Medal And Department Medal Awarded to fireman first grade Thomas J. Mulgannon Hook Atlanta Company 148 For participating In the rescue Of a woman and her son From a fire At 5805 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn On July 12th, 1948 Fireman Mulgannon Is also a stalwart He gave the mayor A grand salute As he stepped along And the mayor Certainly greeted him The Wallace Scott Medal And Department Medal Awarded to Lieutenant Frank W. Malthaner Engine Company 269 For the participation In the rescue Of a woman and her son From a fire At 5805 3rd Avenue, Brooklyn Lieutenant Malthaner Assisted fireman Mulgannon In that rescue That was just cited By the commissioner There are 28 awards In all here In front of City Hall Today And the full particulars Are being read to you By Fire Commissioner Quayle The William H. Todd Memorial Medal And Department Medal Awarded to Fireman First Grade John H. Ohler For the unassisted rescue Of an entrapped woman From a fire At 84 East 10th Street, Manhattan The mayor will be assisted By Margaret Smith Daughter of T. Clyde Smith One of William H. Todd's Grandsons The lady looks very charming And the fireman salutes her Very charmingly too There's a little baby down there With a white laundered hood on That adds to the picture as well And the mayor's having Quite a little time With the youngster The fireman is having A big laugh And the baby's Stolen the show Maybe he or she'll be a hero It's too far away For them to tell which They dress babies You know Without much regard To gender You can't tell much about it Sometimes we have to Get them away From their fond mothers So that the gender Can be defined Gee what a picnic The cameramen are having On this And everybody's howling They'll have the fireman Adopting the baby In a moment Fireman first grade John Ohlert Must think he's In the middle of a rescue Right now With all the people That are down there Helping out on this Mr. Todd's relative is there The baby The fireman The mayor And innumerable cameras Clicking and flashing And even the people In the stands Have gotten up To see what all the fun Is about And they're hanging Over the balcony Taking in the seats It's a well known fact That box seats Are not always the best seats To get a good view Of the stage So they have to stand up As they do in many A box seat To see what's happening Down where the thing Is happening The most famous stage In the world That pavement In front of city hall The Administrational Medal Awarded to Acting Deputy Chief Thomas P. O'Brien Command of the Bureau Fire Alarm Telegraph For outstanding administration Of the Bureau Fire Alarm Telegraph By untiring efforts And personal initiative He has reorganized the Bureau Introducing modern methods And efficient practices Chief O'Brien Chief O'Brien Is already Mighty well decorated And this will look Let me see There's one, two, three there Isn't that right Mr. Siegel? Three medals? This will make The fourth medal And we all know What a wonderful performance The Department of Telegraph Is in the fire department Once in a while We get a chance Through radio To witness those tests When the fire bolts Are called From a central point And they respond With alacrity Clear signal And it's quite amazing To think that radio Although we accept it as such The marvel that it really is When we figure Without any connection Whatever And yet by wireless These boats respond The moment a command Is issued From a central point of command Anywhere in the city Mayor William O'Dwyer Medal And Department Medal Awarded to Captain George T. Garlington For participating In the rescue Of an entrapped woman From a fire At 230 West 58th Street Manhattan On January 2nd 1948 Captain Garlington Steps up now He's having quite a little Handshake and laugh With the mayor These awards In front of city hall Are sort of a recapitulation Of the daily papers From the previous year Because when we pick up Our morning papers We very often Notice these photographs Where the actual Heroic deed itself Was consummated And the cameramen Are just as alert there As they are here There they record The incident That caused the award And here the hero And here the hero Receives the award So much so That we really have to Look up the award The pictures And there's the story The award to Captain Dennis W. Lane Of Engine Company 312 For having maintained The best discipline And the most efficient company Throughout the entire department During the year 1948 Captain Dennis Lane Steps up to the mayor With a broad smile Which the mayor meets With an equally broad smile They shake hands Like old friends And it's his turn now To swing around And receive that medal The mayor Ligardia medal And department medal Awarded to Captain Thomas J. Hartnett Engine Company 21 For the unassisted rescue Of an entrapped child From a fire at 235 East 31st Street, Manhattan His father Maurice M. Hartnett Will assist the mayor In pinning this medal On his son the captain The amazing fact is That the father has Four medals pinned On his breast As his son receives The medal at this time And that's really One of the dramatic factors In the services Of the city of New York Particularly in The father and son Relationship Of the firemen And the policemen Because very often Through generations They serve these Two great departments Departments that Have every bit of crime Vanish from the city Emergency would never vanish And the question of life And death is ever extant In the service of the firemen And the policemen It's just those situations They're prepared to meet With the courage Which Mayor O'Dwyer Described in his speech Here today Father and son now Are receiving a great deal Of attention from the cameramen And the mayor is most happy Indeed in this combination Of bravery and integrity And service Thank you Thank you Thank you Franklin D. Roosevelt Medal and department medal Awarded to firemen First grade William H. Carney Hook and ladder number two For the unassisted rescue Of an entrapped child From fire 235 East 31st street Manhattan This will be presented And the mayor Will be assisted By fireman Morris Cohen President of the Nair Torment Society Of the fire department Picture we have of our heroine In the catalogue here Has a very quizzical look One of those looks That means So what It's my duty And I did it There's a little youngster Running over to fireman Carney I wonder if it's his little girl I guess it is Because he has her in his arms In a pretty little yellow dress With puff sleeves The mayor is holding her hand And fireman Carney And the little girl too Is very proud You can see it from here The cameras have clicked Department medal awarded To lieutenant Edward G. Rankin For participating In directing The rescue Of two entrapped women From a fire In a DC Four passenger plane Which crashed In a vacant lot Adjoining the academy Of aeronautics Building at Grand Central Parkway In 86th Street, Queens Department medal awarded To fireman first grade Charles G. Ortlum For participating In the rescue Of two women From a DC Four plane Which crashed In a vacant lot Adjoining the academy Of aeronautics Now the mayor Rewarding both these men Lieutenant Rankin And the departmental Awarded to fireman First grade Edward J. Stegmayer Hook and ladder 163 Who participated In this rescue From the passenger plane At Ligardia Field There are four awards On that rescue Another one is coming up Department medal Awarded to fireman First grade John P. McLaughlin Who also participated In this same rescue Fireman McLaughlin Is the final award And no doubt The mayor will come back To the stand here And stand beside Commissioner Quayle As the men Of the fire department Review He might even have Something additional Selection by the Fire department Glee club Poison blue Scotch and throat Stand ready to go When they hear the bell Without fear When danger's near While they're rolling When you hear folks Yell We take a hat Stove to a fireman Who show They're bold And brave You'll find A night and day A fighting flame They risk their lives To save When the bell Hits in the firehouse They forget Their cares and joy To will Their cares and joys All the best words known to a violent Are scratching their bones So we will walk while a man We will sing a prayer Amen The medal winners, the winners with their escorts Will now pass in review And now I, the usual escort of mounted police Form the review past the grandstand Where the mayor of the city of New York The fire commissioner, the president of the city council The honorable Vincent Pelletieri The members of the board of Estivant City Council And distinguished citizens who have turned out here today In this beautiful June day In front of city hall to participate In the presentation of these medals Well with the stars and stripes flying And the city flag And the flag of the fire department Giving color and distinction to this heroic ceremony Here today, we take leave of you From city hall plaza We return you now to the studios This is the municipal broadcasting system And the trib consid It downhe 164 Selin Virtue One A