I'm Jerry Wirth. I'm appearing for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees of the American Federation of Labor. We are distributing briefs for the members of the Board of Estimates, and these briefs run some 56 pages. However, I want to state that I will be much briefer than those 56 pages. And in view of the fact that CIO and AFL speakers this morning said many things which we support completely, I will just make some pertinent remarks with reference to the budget and perhaps restate what we think are the most pressing problems in the budget. To begin with, I think it needs to be said again and again that these irresponsible civic organizations, so-called civic leaders, who continuously make statements about economies, who tell us to cut pages from the budget without understanding that these pages mean the closing of schools or the closing of nurseries or the closing of other vital services needs to come to an end. I think for the first time in many years I found agreement with Abe Beam when he in effect asked these people to substantiate some of these economy claims in something better than percentages but by specific items. However, in talking about some of the problems that we're faced with, I must comment very briefly that these 3,600 jobs to be cut out from the budget are not patronage items, not waste items. They are jobs filled by provisional employees very simply because the city of New York is unable on the basis of existing salaries to hire competent people in these competent places off regular civil service lists. Let me make a statement aside. There are jobs in this city which go begging, which the district leaders can't fill. I'm talking about social investigators, engineers, technical people of all kinds, pharmacists and so on, people who are paid half of the wage that prevails in private industry. You'll have a situation gradually developing in this city. The city is being run and conducted by employees who came in here during the depression and because of their vital interest in the pension system are hanging on. But gradually as they retire, gradually as they resign and pass away, you will find that you will not be able to get the same kind of efficient production that you're getting today. I want to talk about some of the problems we're constantly faced with as public employees and its reflection on the budget. To begin with, in spite of the fact that I take for granted the members of the Board of Estimates listen with interest and with goodwill, this is not the matter in which an organization such as mine, representing some 20,000 employees, should be bargaining with the city of New York. This thing is as outmoded as the horse and carriage for garbage collection. We as public employees are entitled, certainly at this late stage of the game, to be able to sit down with representatives of city authorities and bargain and negotiate, present briefs and have counter briefs, have discussion, so that we are not faced with this constant problem year in and year out of appearing before you and talking to a locked stable door. We have insisted before, we insist again, that until we begin to get some decent labor relations machinery in this city, we will continue to have chaos, we continue to have political administration, we will continue to have the constant mess that we now have. It's no secret to every member of this Board that those employees who enjoy any benefits under civil service do so, not because their case is stronger than somebody else's case, but simply because there is no legitimate channel for bargaining with the city. High pressure, noise, publicity, political fixes are the guide by which municipal employees straighten out their inequities. I want to say a word or two, and give you some figures, about the kind of salaries that New York City pays. For example, 38,000 employees in New York City have a gross salary of $1,860 to $2,995. Now these are not part-time employees. These are employees mainly in the labor class, mainly working 42 and 43 hours a week. 32,000 employees in the city of New York earn a gross pay of from $3,000 to $3,500. 47,000 earn a gross of $3,500 to $4,000. And 44,000 earn above this in the bulk, staying under $4,800. This means that over 90% of the 176,000 people in the budget that you are now considering, take home less than $4,200 a year. And this certainly doesn't speak well or support the kind of crazy statements that Mr. Huffing and other men like him have been making these past few weeks about these people who are supposed to be sitting around with their feet on desks, smoking fat cigars and doing nothing. And the city, the streets get cleaned and the roads get paved by some strange, miraculous problem. I want to point out that 40,000 employees of the city of New York take home between $29 and $50 a week, while another 30,000 on top of that 40,000, in other words a total of 70,000, take home less than $56 a week. Now I submit that nobody in this day and age can support a family with any degree of decency for $56 a week. When I have made these statements before to members of the Board of Estimate, collectively and individually, I have never found one of them that didn't agree with me. I've never found one of them that didn't say we need to do something about it. And right now we have something new. We've got a new whipping boy. We've got Governor Dewey. And certainly he deserves to be whipped. A man takes to the television the other night and says it's the duty, his Charlie McCarthy legislature, his legislature that can't think unless he tells him how to think, and he shall decide the manner in which New York City shall conduct its affairs and in effect states that the whole raison d'etre of this Board of Estimate, of the City Council, is meaningless. He will decide our destiny for us. We have a mayor who is playing like some members of this board, playing a kind of weird politics with the bread and butter of 176,000 people, playing a weird kind of politics with the services, the vital health and welfare services of 8 million people. But I submit that as irresponsible as the Governor has been, as irresponsible as that legislature has been, the administration of the City of New York is equally responsible. For years now we have had recurring budget crisis. Year in and year out I and dozens of others like me have come here and you have told us that it's tough and it's rough. But all of this energy, all of this noise, all of this crying and bleeding does not take place until it's too late. Why didn't the Governor, why didn't the Mayor go on television and tell the people of this city and this state what was going on before the legislature? Why didn't the Mayor, like we've asked them to year after year, rally the taxpayers in this city behind them and go up to that legislature and put on a fight as good as the landlords put on this year to get their 15% increase? If that had been done, we wouldn't be faced with this monstrosity that surrounds me on both sides. Well let me say this, Mr. Lyons, we have had this crisis year in and year out. You've sat here a long, long time. And not yet. Has anybody come forth? I remember once Mr. Wagner, I must exempt him, issued a statement some months ago saying that he wants a meeting of the Board to consider a fiscal program for the coming budget. But outside that, in view of our charter, which gives so much power to the Mayor, there should have been initiative on his part to prepare a fiscal program in advance, sell it to the people, sell it to the legislature, and we wouldn't be faced with this kind of thing today. I really feel that the irresponsibility lies equally on the shoulders of the Municipal Administration as well as the State Administration. We have a situation right now where in a Mayor's Budget message, he in effect tells us that the cost of living bonuses will be continued for one more year. And perhaps a serving warning on those members of the Board of Estimate who have voiced their disapproval of the Transit Authority, and more power to them because we disapprove of it too. That if that doesn't happen, perhaps the bonuses will be cut off. And we say this to you, you cut off those bonuses and you'll be cutting off vital services in this city. And I think this is as good a time as any to say it. Employee leaders in civil service are conservative people, and they represent conservative people. But we've taken this beating day in and day out, year in and year out. We've not been dealt with responsibly, fairly or decently. And I say this to you, that Condon Waddle and no Condon Waddle, by July 1, if this budget is not revised, vital services in this city will not be functioning. I want to go on with one or two small statements here about some of the things that are being done. We insist, we insist that the speakers, other speakers from the Air Favel and also from the CIO this morning, stated that this body, go up to Albany, take thousands of us with you. I was up in Albany this year and I saw thousands of landlords parading around the buildings. We can put on a parade twice as strong as them. Let's have a special session of the legislature. Let's come up with a sound, reasonable fiscal program. Let's tell the people of this state that the budget in the city of New York has gone up 98%, while the budget of the state of New York has gone up 163%. Let's tell the people of the state of New York that a public employee in New York City, and the average title earns $1,000 less than a state employee, and it's unreasonable and unfair. Let's tell the people that you are unable to meet obligations that are not accounted for in this budget. Behind me are sitting some laborers. Their prevailing rate agreement expires in a few months. The controller and the budget director, as yet, have been unwilling to even sit down and talk to me, because basically speaking, the funds do not exist in this budget to meet this problem. And let me remind you, we waited nine years the last time for a settlement. We will not wait nine years this time. Now, I want to make one more basic statement because so much has been said this morning and I don't want to be redundant. I do want to point one thing out. The real estate lobby is well organized, important and powerful, and is able to do things in this state that public employees have not been able to do. For example, the budget message that came down, the legislation that came down from Albany, was landlord legislation, real estate legislation, legislation to protect the commercial realty operators in this city at the expense of the employees and at the expense of the taxpayers. I say here that because there was not a forceful argument against this kind of class legislation from this administration, in effect this administration, in spite of all its cries and pleas and blame, name calling and all the rest of it, is not standing up to the real estate lobby. Why aren't the certiorari laws changed so that real estate can be properly assessed? Why don't we get proper taxing power from the state and know what we're talking about? Why are we forced to swallow a vicious fair increase in order to get a lousy 50 million when they should be giving us $180 million? This crisis didn't develop a month ago when the mayor sat down to write a budget. This crisis has been recurring and recurring and recurring from the time of the LaGuardia administration. Why doesn't somebody come up and say, instead of declaring a moratorium on the future of civil service employees, why don't they declare a moratorium on a debt service? And Mr. Dewey's friends from Wall Street will be right down here and we'll have a different kind of budget coming down from Albany. We'll have different kinds of legislation coming down. In essence, our program can be summed up as follows. We demand a $700 across-the-board increase for all civil service employees, and I tell you, you will then not be meeting the standards in New York City and private industry, the standards in state government, and the standards in federal government. We say that the minimum salary for an employee of this city should be $3,000. We say that the rest of the employees, besides police and fire, in view of the fact that the majority of them are paid less than police and fire, should be on the $25,000-$75,000 pension, in other words, 25% contribution from the employees, 75% from the city. We maintain that HIP ought to be a burden for the city of New York entirely by the city of New York. That exists in almost every union shop in New York City nowadays. And we say, in essence, that the program we present, and you have complicated briefs with fiscal surveys in there that I've sent around to all the members of the board, we say to you this, if you are acting in earnestness and in fairness, you will not accept this budget. We don't want it. We don't want to be paying $230 a year additional fare. We don't want all of these other nuisance taxes that you'll be forced to slap on to make this thing function. We're saying this, go up to Albany. We'll go up with you. Howard Barry said that this morning. Jim Quinn said it this morning. Lots of other people said it. And demand a special session of the legislature. The governor can give it to you with a stroke of a pen. And come back here with a proper and fair and reasonable budget. Because this kind of thing means a complete memorialization, a complete tear down of these vital services in New York City. Thank you. I'll ask you to please refrain from applauding. It merely delays putting on the other speakers. Mr. John Carton, please. Thank you. Gentlemen of the Board of Estimate, my name is Patrolman John Carton, president of the Patrolman's Benevolent Association of the Police Department of the City of New York. I'm speaking on the more than 19,000 members of the uniformed force, including the line organizations. I've been here since the meeting started. I've heard all of the previous speakers. I'll make my remarks as brief as possible. However, I would want it understood that most of the remarks made by the previous speakers, particularly in connection with the problems affecting the employees, are similar to those affecting the policemen in the city of New York. We have a program which I will not read in detail, just merely touch on. It's the budget recommendations of the PBA and the line organizations of the department. To increase the efficiency of the police department and to increase its effectiveness in the enforcement of law and order, members of the Patrolman's Benevolent Association submit the following proposals for the year 1953 and 54. A salary percentage increase, the equivalent of $720 per annum for all members of the uniformed force to bring the patrolman's salary to $5,500 per annum. Compensation for overtime work at the rate of time and one half. Compensation for the rate of time and one half. C, a $630 present cost of living bonus to be made to be included in the permanent salary for pension purposes. An increment of one-sixtieth of present base pay to be substituted for the present $50 per annum increments for each year of service after retirement option date. Connection with hours, a five-day, 40-hour week. Uniforms, payment for uniforms by the city. Pensions, a $600 increase in the present widow's pension. A pension of full pay for widows and dependents of members killed in the line of duty to continue until the member's retirement option date, after which the pension would continue at one half pay. Personnel, a 25,000-man force, 200 additional sergeants in the present quarter. Personnel, a 25,000-man force, 200 additional sergeants in the present quarter. Numerous, a 50,000-man force, 200 additional sergeants in the present quarter. A compensatory time for mandatory appearances before courts and other official bodies. I would like to call to the attention of the Board of Estimate you gentlemen only recently employed under the Mayor's Management Survey an individual by the name of Bruce Smith. You paid him to make a survey of salary and working conditions affecting the policeman in the city of New York. We demanded and received a public hearing, and thanks to our controller, Lazarus Joseph, for the opportunity to present our side at the public hearing. We did present at that time certain facts and figures. After we submitted them, Mr. Bruce Smith stated that he felt it was the fault of the committee that his report was not accurate. He had submitted it several months prior to the public hearing. Now since that time, he has submitted a subsequent report on salaries affecting policemen in the city of New York. At that time, he said they were the highest in the country. In his supplementary report, and incidentally he did not call a press conference at that time, we found, and he admitted himself, that his initial report, considering salary and working hours as the basis for setting salaries of police departments throughout the country, he was 87.5% off. So instead of being the highest paid police department in the United States, we now find that New York City ranks fourth among the cities mentioned, such as New York, Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Nassau County, and the Port Authority. Now in addition to that, he fails to list the transit police of the city of New York. So we now find that prior to the inflationary period, New York City policemen were receiving between $500 and $600 more than any policeman in the largest cities of the United States. Notwithstanding that fact, we now find ourselves in a position of being fifth among those eight cities and units around New York that I've just mentioned to you. This condition, if you fail to recognize it, showing itself, the adverse effect is already showing itself, we now find that less than one half the men are applying for positions of patrolmen in the city of New York who formerly did. In addition to that, we find that every second man we call as a patrolman turns down and refuses the job because of the inadequate salaries paid at the present time. you must realize that you're in a labor market. You've always had the best type of man in the city of New York representing you as policemen. If you desire to have that continued, you must recognize certain basic and fundamental factors that industry is taking the best type of man in the city of New York from the police work. and we hope and you know from our activities in the past, we make one plea of the city. Thank you. What a young man. What are you what are you handing out of there? What are you handing out of there? The man is talking. I can't listen to him and be disturbed by handing out. What are these sick? What are they? Oh, well, let him wait until the fellow is through. Wait until he's through. I have no objection but wait until he's through. I've never seen any statement distributed to a gathering of this kind since I've been around here. By anybody. I don't care. It's rather unusual. Various ways of getting publicity but I don't think they should impose on city employees that come down here and have a very serious problem and to have them interrupt that's why a distinguished gentleman such as the speaker is here speaking. Mr. Lyons, we didn't wish to interrupt him. I think it's a serious attempt to speak to the problems of the city employees. I'll admit it. It should not have been distributed in here but I think it's a very serious attempt to speak to the problems. I didn't know who the champ was. In conclusion, I would like to state this that we as civil service employees have always cooperated with the city administration in attempting to get satisfaction in Albany or in Washington. We are at your disposal and we make this one plea of you that during this crisis we know how you have the ability and the brains to carry through a successful campaign. We pledge ourselves to you. We ask that you act in unity on the board of estimate and that present to us the proper leadership whether it be in Albany or whether it be in Washington and that we will support you 100%. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Frederick Q. Wendt. Where do you have? Here he comes. I am the secretary of the civil service forum of New York City and the chairman of the labor relations committee of the civil service forum of the state of New York. I'm going to be very brief, gentlemen. I am presenting the same brief that I presented last year on labor relations. We ask for a very modest sum not to exceed $25,000 in order to put a labor relations program into effect for the city of New York and its employees. If such a program had been established last year, there's no question in my mind but that we would not need this meeting today and that many of our problems would have been resolved by now. Therefore, gentlemen, I urge you again, we have four bills in the city council on labor relations. The Quinn Isaacs bill is one taken from recommendations made by borough president Wagner and drawn up into legislative effect by consultation between civic groups, civil service employees, and councilmen. And I believe it to be the best bill of its kind for city employees. And I ask again, gentlemen, that you take action to initiate a program of labor relations for the city employees. Thank you. Arnold Zander. Arnold Zander. Timothy F. Dinan. D-I-N-A-N. My name is Timothy F. Dinan. I'm chairman of the Special Auto Enginement Committee of the Civil Service Forum. Mr. Deputy Mayor, gentlemen of the Board of Estimates. I'm not going to repeat the remarks of our president, Mr. Brady, this morning, except to endorse the sentiments in a general way and the general request made by him. Rather, I'm going to speak for specifically all the auto enginemen of the city of New York. The Auto Enginement Committee of the Civil Service Forum is seeking your aid now, as it has in the past on several occasions and for several years, seeking to find a solution to the problem affecting the salaries of auto enginemen in the city of New York. Since 1946, the Civil Service Forum Auto Enginement Committee has submitted each year concise briefs outlining the salaries paid auto enginemen employed by the city of New York and a schedule of rates that, if they were adopted, would be fair to the employees. The Auto Enginement Committee knows from investigation the rates paid employees doing similar work in outside industry. The committee, in coming to its conclusion of a recommended rate, took into consideration that the city of New York does not pay night differential rates, does not pay time and a half and double time for Saturday and Sunday work and overtime work. The present salaries, gentlemen, of Auto Enginement range anywhere from $2,400 plus the $2,50 bonus of $2,650 to as high as $4,800 with the majority of Auto Enginement receiving a $3,240 bracket figure. There are no other group of employees in the city of New York, to my knowledge, that has such a salary range from an entrance salary of $2,400 to a maximum salary of $4,800 with no provision for to attain this $4,800. In other words, a $2,400 salary range from entrance to top salary. We have brought this problem into the Board of Estimates year after year. Some of the more unfair treatment afforded the Auto Enginement were corrected by you gentlemen of the Board of Estimates on three separate occasions. And we thank you gentlemen personally and by letter for your action. But we feel that the only solution to the problem is an established schedule whereby once and for all the salary and equities will be abolished. We have come to the conclusion that upon examining the rates paid in private industry and taken into consideration as I pointed out before the fact that the Auto Enginement in the city of New York do work Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays because of necessity. They do work night work and so forth. But knowing that the city neither pays the extra rates for this, we came to an established salary that would be a fair basis to both the employees and to the city of New York. We asked gentlemen for an entrance salary of $3,500 a year with a $200 increment each year for five successive years until the salary of $4,500 is paid. And an examination of outside industry of people employed doing similar work will find that they're paid much higher than what we are asking as a reasonable rate. You will find that their rate will be closer to $5,500 a year without overtime. The annual increment that we suggest with this salary grade should be paid on the 1st of January or July, whichever is the closest date after the anniversary date of entrance into the service. It is the belief of our committee, gentlemen, that if you were to establish this schedule barring some great unforeseen upswing in the cost of living, the auto engine problem would be solved for a good number of years. employees. And that this classification of employees would not find it necessary to keep coming here year after year to correct this condition. In closing, I say again, our committee endorses the policies as outlined by our President, Robert W. Brady, this morning. and I hope that you will give serious consideration to this auto engine problem which you gentlemen are so familiar with since it's been taken up individually and collectively with you gentlemen year after year for a good number of years and this would be the solution to the problem. Thank you. Raymond Diana. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen of the board, my name is Raymond Diana. I'm Executive Secretary of the New York Joint Board of the Government and Civic Employees Organizing Committee, CIO. I was much intrigued this morning in listening to some of the discussion to hear one of the asides by President Lyons regarding the interest in the questions of economy and city financing and how often in the many years, in the 15 years almost, that I have come before this board has that same question been raised. Gentlemen of the board constantly say to the employees, you ought to have more money. We want to give you better conditions but where is the money coming from? So in past years, we have bent our efforts. City employees who know, who have a contribution of knowledge to make, bend their minds, study budgets, study revenue-producing sources, come up with ideas on economy. And what happens when you have the money? They don't get it. They don't get it. There is revenue which you are getting today in this budget that six years ago, I personally, then representing another organization, came before the board of estimates and said, here is a source where money can be found. Find it and give it where it belongs. Six years have passed. You're getting this additional money. The employees aren't getting any more money. We've heard talk about labor relations. It's a compelling thing. We should have it. And how hard has our organization tried to get some decent kind of exchange of information and ideas between your administration and the city employees? Two years ago, the union which I represent saw what was coming. And what did we do? We wrote to the mayor of the city of New York and we said this crisis is going to become grave and its impact is going to be felt most and strongest by the people who work for this city. Let's sit down together. Call in the representatives of the employee organizations. Let's see if we can't work this thing out to avert a crisis which is inevitable. Gentlemen, we were ignored. We didn't even get a reply to our letter. In November 1952, that's not so long ago, again, we issued a public call upon the governor and the mayor. The two can be said to have contributed most toward the preparation of this budget. And we said to them, the time is approaching for the state legislative session. You have been told by the state governor and legislature that you've got to come up with some kind of proposal. Appoint a committee of outstanding citizens, of competent city officials, of employee representatives, let them sit down together and work out a program that would mete out justice to all of them. Was it done? It was not. Our letter and subsequent communications were never even answered. In the course of the state legislative session, we told both the mayor and the governor that in any proposals with respect to revenue in common, decent justice, we could not support any program that did not make some provision for the employees of this city. And neither the governor nor the mayor chose to do anything about it. We sent letters, we sent telegrams, we made personal telephone calls to the office of the mayor. But the mayor was too busy to meet us. And the people up in Albany were no better. We communicated with the majority and the minority leaders of the state legislature. We communicated with the governor. They weren't interested in doing anything for the municipal workers. Now what has left us at this time? Let's talk a little bit about economy. And I said before, I know that perhaps what we have to say may find, may be a seed falling in fertile ground and somewhere there will come a fruit. But it will not be given to the employees. We see a charge. Mandatory charges required by law. The other than personal service requirements of this budget alone are $775 million. How closely have we scrutinized that end of it? We found $40 million to whack out of the hides of the employees. All right. Readily enough. It's easy enough to cut out a job. How closely have we scrutinized these mandatory charges? Fully a third. Debt service. $281,500,000. And everybody takes it for granted. You borrow money. You contract to pay a certain amount of interest. So we've got to pay it. It's required by law. Of course it is. But let me give you a little illustration of how some of this money in debt is accumulated. I was very much intrigued in item 88 of the last Board of Estimate calendar. That's an item wherein the Board of Transportation has called upon the Board of Estimate to supply a sum in excess of $900,000. I think it's something like $970,000 to pay an additional fee being charged by a private engineering firm to complete the 74th Street power plant, which was contracted for sometime in 1946. And where is the money proposed to come from? Serial bonds, capital notes, borrow the money. Now, what about this almost $1,000,000? Is it being given proper scrutiny and examination? When this contract was originally let in 1946, it called for an agreement with the private firm for the city to pay salaries plus 100% for the design, salaries plus 35% for the supervision, and a fixed fee of $385,000. Now, these private firms whom some people, you know who I mean, Mr. Lyons, constantly press for and plead for, underestimated by one half almost the cost to construct it. They said, $20,000,000? It's costing $40,000,000. They underestimated by almost one half the time it was going to take to construct. And what is the net result? They're accrued to them now, they say, to their interest, an additional fee of $972,000. And what is more, when you put the light of scrutiny on these things, perhaps $400,000 of this sum might be justified due to the delays on the question of the cost of supervision. But why the other $600,000 on the cost of design if the job was properly designed in the first place? Now, I'm not an engineer or an architect, but happily, in the course of my union work, in more recent years, I've come in contact with a great many of your city-employed engineers and architects. I've learned a little bit about these things, and it intrigues me. Perhaps there is a source of economy. Almost $1,000,000 in one job alone? Maybe a nice, tidy sum could be achieved. Maybe enough to make the 40-hour week. Maybe enough to restore that $5,000,000 on the general reclassification. I don't know, but should we look into it together? Now, I say, I don't want to belabor this point of economy, but sometimes you come up with curious solutions. You examine this budget, and you try to analyze it, and believe me, it's a fantastic budget. It's like being in Alice in Wonderland. And you find that you take $50,000,000 more from real estate, you take $47,000,000,000 more from the transit-riding public, you take $40,000,000,000 more from the employees, you take $30,000,000,000 from other sources, and then, according to the mayor's own statement and his message, you end up with less hospitals, less for education, less for police and fire protection, less for parks and sanitation. What happens? Let me not belabor a point that has been made repeatedly by CIO representatives and AFL representatives and others who have appeared here today. There is only one solution to the problem that confronts us both, city administration and employees. We've got to have a fight with Albany. Somebody said today, plead with the governor? No, we're going to fight him! And we, the employees of this city, will fight with you if you put up the proper kind of fight. Let's sit down around the bargaining table. Let's come to agreement as to what this city justly needs for the public, for the administration and for the employees. Let's band together. Let's go up to Albany. I don't believe in the omniscience and the omnipotence of Governor Dewey and I never have. We can do something about him. He's not infallible. I remember how we licked him last year in the state legislature on the bill that would have created a SAR for a civil service commission. It was a party measure and everybody up there told us it's got to go through. Well, it didn't go through. And organized employees licked it. And we can help you to lick this thing too. Believe me, it's the only solution. No patchwork remedy is going to do anything with this fantastic budget. We've got to say to the governor, reconvene the state legislature, let's reopen the whole issue. Let's sit down and do common justice to everybody concerned with a prime responsibility, your moral responsibility to pay the employees proper pay and to give them decent working conditions. Thank you. Thomas F. McCarthy. Thomas F. McCarthy. I have little enthusiasm for appearing here today, gentlemen. You're wearing me down. Year after year after year, I appear with what I consider a very modest request. Merely that the mayor grant me an interview so that I may discuss with him the very pertinent problems affecting the inspection forces of the city of New York. year after year, year after year, I say I appear and have been denied. Only once have I come close. And that was when former mayor O'Driyer assigned Mr. Solomon Klein to discuss with our committee the merits of our case. We had several meetings with Mr. Klein and then the election intervened and we never did get back to it. Now, if I seem to repeat part of my talks of last year, please bear with me because it is unfinished business. It was unfinished business last year. It is unfinished business yet. Why, I don't even get the courtesy of a reply from the mayor when I write to him in between these hearings. As I said in other appearances, when the inspection services were first established in the various city departments, the entrance salary was fixed at a little above what the men earned in their former field and wisely so in order that the city might attract qualified men who are experts in these fields and at that standard, it did attract men who are highly qualified. The Department of Housing and Buildings, for instance, obtained men who were thoroughly experienced in the respective fields as mechanics, not only mechanics, but former mechanics and master mechanics. The Department of Markets obtained men who were former store managers and so forth. Now, you cannot deny that the city has not kept pace with this standard. Why, in some instances, gentlemen, it has even gone backward. Let me give you one glaring example. In 1932, just 21 years ago, and at the bottom of a Great Depression, the city paid the chief inspector of construction in the building department in the borough of Manhattan $7,500 a year. Now, that was when $7,500 was equal to at least $15,000 today in buying power, when there was no income tax and the salary was comparable to positions of other cities, positions of equal responsibility. Now, there should not be the slightest doubt that the duties and responsibilities of this big job was commensurate with the salary then paid. When we consider the great number of buildings in the borough of Manhattan and reflect that the safety of construction is his charge, we will have to look far to find a job as big or as important. Could you honestly say that a city magistrate or a municipal court judge has as much? Here is a man whose technical knowledge and experience is recognized and respected by architects, engineers, and builders of this great city. Now, what does the city of New York pay for this job in 1953? The job has become even bigger, but today the salary is $5,040 a year basic or $5,715 including all the bonuses. Less than what a bricklayer or carpenter gets considerably less than what the city itself paid for this job in 1932. Do we have a grievance? I can cite many more such instances in all the inspection services. To do so here, however, would be taking up too much time. That is why I request an interview with the mayor. I would like to talk this situation over, to point out these problems, and to bring about a settlement for our inspection upgrading program. I would be remiss, however, if I did not point out one other such instance of what this president's policy is causing. Last winter, I asked an examiner of the Municipal Civil Service Commission a question, and I am much concerned, gentlemen, with his answer. I asked him why the examination for Inspector of Plumbing Grade 3 held last June was much easier than the examination for Licensed Master Plumber. Now, when we reflect that the inspector is the one who must be consulted by and who must pass on the work done by the Licensed Plumber, then the qualifications for the inspector should be higher than for Licensed Master Plumber. I was told that the inspector examination had to be made easier, that they had plenty of applications for Master Plumber license, but if they did not lower the standards for inspector, they would not be able to furnish a list of eligibles for the job. And that is an absolute truth, gentlemen, that was told to me, and I think that you all agree I can be much concerned with that. Do you gentlemen agree that this question requires some consideration? Do you know that it's also applicable to many other inspection titles? I think last year I dwelled on the fact that it was necessary for the Department of Education, Board of Education and other city departments to hold entrance examinations at Grade 4 instead of Grade 3, because they cannot attract the men for the job at the Grade 3 salary. Though what becomes of the Grade 3 men in the meantime is still another question. Do you really know what real frustration arises from the inability to adjust and discuss the problem and what it does to the morale of people? I earnestly repeat my request of being granted an appointment to discuss this problem with the mayor to present the full facts at the earliest opportunity. Thank you. Mr. Philip Bruch. Mr. Bruch. Philip F. Brueck, Chairman, New York State Joint Board, CIO. This morning, Mr. Power asked to speak on your behalf. Now, I don't know whether you have ascertained what he spoke about, but if this is not repetition, go right ahead. I assure you, sir, it won't be repetitious. Gentlemen, I'm afraid that some of the things I'm going to say you're not going to like. some of the things I'm going to say I think you'll like. I wanted to say at the outset that 14 years ago, a board of estimates sitting here gave away $350 million of the money of the people of the city of New York. The only one that's sitting here now holding the gift at the time, if you'll recall, Mr. Bueller. You remember it, Mr. President. And that gift, call it a steal, by that administration is the thing that has your budget unbalanced today. $350 million or thereabouts was given for a lot of junk known as the IRT and the BMT that you have had to rebuild and spend a half a billion dollars in the rebuilding. The item that Mr. Diana spoke about of the doubling up of the consultant's fees is one of the items of expenditures for modernization of a piece of junk of a powerhouse that this board of estimate purchased 14 years ago. Not this board of estimate. The board of estimate. I'm sorry. I have the advice from Seabury and Burley. Now, the same gang 14 years later in Albany want to turn around and have you give them a $2 billion corporation and that's what you'll be doing if you give them the transit authority on Dewey's terms. Our CIO is opposed to this transit authority and gentlemen, it can have some awful serious repercussions. Civil service employees are conservative, conservative, a couple of speakers said, but they can be pushed just so far. Incidentally, I think somebody hired the rainmaker today or you would have had a lot more employees outside here. Now, think of it. He's working free, John. Is he? Well, we won't sue him, but just think of it. Your subway system costs approximately $2 billion to build. And if you vote for this transit authority bill, I don't care what else is involved. You are giving a board over which you have no control because, don't kid yourself, you're not going to get the third vote on that board. you're giving them the right to control the largest corporation in the city of New York and at the same time, you're giving them the right to spend $40 million of your money every year. That's roughly the average of what the Board of Transportation has spent. You've made a very intelligent argument. You're talking about transit authority on Dewey's terms. Right. But for my dough and our dough, we want no transit authority. You can operate the transit system. Let's face it. You can't take an IRT that was operating in the red and operating in the hands of receiver, the BMT that hadn't paid the city any money on its debt in years, and every defunct bus line in the city and hook them all together, throw out the old streetcars, put in new buses, and say, presto, you're going to make money. You can't do it. But what made the city of New York the city that it is? The five-cent and the ten-cent fare. What developed Queens, Mr. Lundy? What developed Staten Island, Brooklyn, and all the rest of our boroughs in the Bronx? The five-cent fare. You've heard about it all over the country. So if you want a five-cent fare and you want the city, the type of city that it is, and that's the way we in unions want it and city employees want it, then recognize it and put the charges where they belong, on real estate and on business. Applause Now, I'm not just going to get up here and criticize. I'm going to show you where I can find some money, too. I want to get some information from you because I like to listen to you. If we don't have the transit entirety, we'll be short $97 million. Right. And this present budget must be reduced by that amount. Is that correct? No. No? You have a number of taxes that you can levy. Go ahead. And you can go to Albany and make Mr. Dewey. I mean, after all, Stalin's dead, Hitler's dead, Mussolini's dead. And incidentally, all three of them had mustaches. Laughter Now, we'll sit down with you. We're on your team. We don't like the deal we're getting, but still, we're on your team. We don't like the deal of the city of New York. And we know that no matter who is mayor, there was some talk about all the candidates for morality up here today. We know that mayors come and mayors go. We don't go on forever. Once in a while, one of us gets kicked to Kenassi, pound in a beat or something like that. Once in a while, one of us dies or retires. We know that we will have to do the work. We will have to do the job and take the abuse. I don't want to interfere with your trend of thought, but would you mind sticking a moment to the $97 million? That's what's got me puzzled. Yes. You want to know where you're going to find the whole $97 million? I'd like to know what your ideas are. Well, I'll tell you where you're going to find, where you can find seven and a half that hasn't been mentioned before. Now, $7.5 million, of course, when we're talking about billions, and I don't know anything about this bond redemption. On the basis of what Diana brought out here before, we ought to be able to get about $30 million out of that figure. Out of what? Debt service. Well, Phil, you know that debt service isn't going to help by giving money to employees. Debt service is going to, you cut the cost of your debt service, you're going to cut the cost of your budget, and you're going to make available money for employees. You're not going to be short $97 million. Now, wait a minute. Now, you ought to know better. You cut the debt service, you're not going to give any benefit to the employees. The only benefit goes to real estate because they pay the entire debt service. So you're not saving $1, even what he says is correct. You're not saving a dollar for your employees. I mean, don't go here where I'm at. You're saving a dollar on your total cost of the budget. I know, but you say it's going to renew it to the benefit of the employees. It doesn't. It reduces the debt service which is paid in its entirety. That reduces your $97 million, doesn't it? No, no, no, no, no, no. All right, let's go on on my... If you could save the whole debt service, the whole debt service, you don't give any money to the employees because real estate, as you know, is paid, because debt service is paid in its entirety by real estate. Well, it's pretty much time real estate paid our salaries in their entirety. That's neither here nor there, but I don't want you to get the erroneous impression that by saving debt service, you're going to give any more money to the employee. Now, you know that can't be done, or if you don't know, you can take my word for it. All right, I'll take your word for it. But I'd suggest that you go first to Mr. Holbe. He won't give you any money. Oh, but you got it. He's in Europe, pal. Is he in Europe? Yeah. Well, while he's there is a good time to collect some of the money from him that he owes the city of New York because Mr. Holbe and Mr. Macy and Mr. Gimbles and a number of the other big real estate outfits, industrial firms and others around this city have for years been using city property and paying the city nothing for the use of that property. Now, if I were to come here today and say to the members of the Board of Estimate that I think it would be a good thing if all of the vacant city property that was now rented for parking lots was given over for free to the people to park their cars on, you'd say I was crazy. And yet, this morning, I had breakfast down on Park Row in the Automat and I sat down at a table and ate my breakfast on city property and none of the revenue that should be coming from that property goes into the hands of the city. all over the city of New York. Miller's Restaurant and the Woolworth Building, I only know about that, I can't afford to eat there. Lawn champs across the street, Macy's, Bonwood Tellers and all the rest of them have vaults one story, two stories, three stories deep underneath the sidewalk, underneath the street and they have never back as far as 1813, as far as 1858 and 1898, some of them are holding the permit for those vaults. They've never paid anything except the original fee which way back in 1858 was $1 to $2 a square foot and it still is today. There's no annual rental. Now, I know it's possibly a question as to whether or not the city can legally charge rental. If you... We trust a lot of the vaults, particularly expensive ones, I suppose, are here in Manhattan and now are taking that very point up with the corporation council to see whether that can be done legally. But now, after all these years, when real estate is putting the squeeze on the employees, when real estate is putting the squeeze on the city, on the members of the Board of Estimates, I dare say, and I think the figures are ridiculous, at a minimum vault rental charge of $5 minimum up to a 20 cents a square foot charge, you could get $5 million a year revenue. And if it were to be increased to 30 cents a square foot charge, you would get $7.5 million revenue a year. Let me give you an illustration of that which never entered your mind. You know, under the law, a landlord is supposed to keep his sidewalk clean of ice and snow. If he doesn't, he can be fined. But if somebody slips and hurts themselves and hurts themselves by reason of that snow or ice, the landlord is not legally responsible, but the city is. And I've tried to get that corrected in Albany for five years, and we can never get that bill out of committee. And do you know how much those lawsuits cost the city? They're probably stacked. I'm ashamed to tell you. I'm ashamed to tell you. We can't get that law changed to make the landlords responsible for the negligence. Let's talk about getting laws changed in Albany. I think there's a way. I'm giving you one little example of what it cost us in these tort actions. But you don't need the laws changed to charge rental for your property. Well, there is quite a legal proposition, and you know I've gone into that a couple of times at great length. Do you know that the very landlord that rents the space to Horn and Hardart has a provision in his lease that if the city takes that vault away for some reason or other, the reduction is proportionate in the amount of rental space? I wouldn't be surprised. Do you know that the Shannon building rented two vaults out for which they were getting $12,000 a year rental? And when the city tried to get the property back for public improvement, they raised their... I'm in the wrong place here today. I'm getting a little bit too excited. But they really did a little hollering. Now, that's one source of additional revenue. How much is that? $7.5 million. Now, that's revenue that up until now we haven't known anything about. You got a breakdown on that or just the general figure? I can give you some very substantial figures on it. I don't have them here with me, but I can give them. Go ahead. That's $7.5 million. Go ahead. Now then. What's happening in many of your essential services? You're engineering and you're professional. It's gotten so bad in the city of New York that the Municipal Civil Service Commission have decided that they're no longer going to give written examinations for the entrance grade for engineers. Wait a minute. Before you go to that, do you want to complete that $97 million picture? No, I'm going to let you make up the other $90. I've given you $7 million. But I'll say this, Mr. Controller. I've given him almost 10%. He's working on it an awful long time and he's looking for new sources. You haven't helped him only $7 million. I appreciate the compliment. No, I thought you really had the figures there, but if you haven't, it's all right. I wouldn't blame you if you didn't have them. We had the budget less than a week. No, I say I wouldn't blame me if you didn't have those figures. You've got other taxes that you can levy. You know what taxes those are. You go up to Albany, not just eight members, but with the employees. We'll pay our own expenses. We'll take our vacation days off and we'll go up to Albany and we'll tell Mr. Dewey, now, on that score, you say you can't get laws passed in Albany. We can get them passed. Would you tell me which of the taxes you'd impose? Thank you, partner. Which of the taxes would you impose? The permissive taxes? All of them. You wouldn't object to them? No. The permissive taxes, the nuisance taxes. Yeah. We're awful tired, awfully tired. I said this last year. I spoke about that thing called a subsidy tax. We're tired of subsidizing everybody else. And that's actually what's happening as city employees. You're not attracting new, and that's the point I was getting into, you're not attracting new and younger employees into the services. You can't get cops, you can't get teachers, you can't get nurses, you can't get engineers. The older fellas are hooked. We gotta stay here and wait for our pension. That's the only reason we're staying here. Now, how can you get legislation passed in Albany? I'll tell you how. Dewey says that you have 53% of the population or you pay 53% of the taxes. If you pay 53% of the taxes, you probably have 53% of the votes. And if you put the case of the people of the, the case of the Board of Estimate and the people of the city of New York four square before the people, you'll get the votes. And you'll knock Dewey out of Albany. and you'll get changes in your voting strength in Albany so that you can do what should be done. Dewey admits it. He admits it? Yeah, he admits 53%. Do we pay more? Do you think that I put any stock in that statement? I'm only quoting what he said. Do we pay more? Well, I'm afraid if you ever got a real breakdown of what the city of New York pays into the state of New York. Well, now, Mr. Controller, why is it? I mean, we're just ordinary civil service employees. But here's the governor. What's his salary now? $50,000 yet? It will be $50,000 for the next governor. And the mayor, $40,000. There's a total of $90,000 in salaries. And one of them tells us one thing about a budget and another one tells us another thing about a budget. And we're supposed to be geniuses and in four days find out which one's telling us the truth. I didn't ask you to find out. I tell you that that 53 figure is somebody gave him a bump steer on it. Well, all right. It's at least that, isn't it? So if it's at least 53%, we ought to get at least that much back. You ought to get what back? We ought to get at least 53% back and we only get 40%. Well, you took my figure. Somebody else gave us that one besides you, but maybe you had it too. But now, here's another little thought and take it up to Albany for what it's worth. Our relief charges are high, aren't they? And Albany makes great capital of the fact that they are giving us so much of this money for a relief. Where do most of the immigrants come to when they come to this country and where do they stay until they get on their feet? Now listen. Right here in New York. I'm going to stop you. Now you're stealing my argument that I've been given for four years. In other words, we're charged because people from all over the world, a lot of them are American citizens come to the city of New York and want to stay here. They don't want to go to Oswego. They don't want to go to Dunkirk. They want to stay in the city of New York. So we're charged with the fact that they pay so much relief for the city. Then why don't you go on TV? Why don't you go on radio and tell it to the people of the city of New York so they'll know what the score is? Where have you been in seven years? I've been around and I've never heard it before out of any member of the Board of Estimates. Never heard it before? Until now. No, sir. Not that last one. Oh, I'm surprised at you. No, I'm not going to continue. You don't listen to Barry Gray. Phil, I was there and pardon me. Mr. President, at the hour of Barry Gray broadcast, I've got to be in bed. I've got to get a little sleep. Between my work for the city and my work for the employees, I can't stay up all night. Listen, Mr. Speaker. I advanced that argument way back in February of 1946. Exactly what you're repeating here. They give you another argument. They tell you, look how much money we paid to support the prisons. A lot of people from New York are up there. That's another argument they give you. I didn't hear that one. What was that? They even give you an argument that most of the people and penal institutions come from the city of New York. Therefore, they're saving the city. Well, that's sort of like the A&P story. However, I don't want to take up any more of the time of the members of the Board of Estimate. I simply want to say this to you. If you're going to put up a fight, we're going to be with you and we're going to be in your corner. But we need $900 across the board. And if you gentlemen are as smart as I think you are, if you realize what is happening to your services, you don't have to cut this stuff out. Somebody before said, you're not getting any nurses. You're not getting any engineers. I want to get back onto that point now. I usually wind up on that particular point. when the Civil Service Commission comes out and admits that in order to recruit men, they must hold simply qualifying examinations, no more written examinations for the entrance grade for anyone who can show you a college degree, then the situation has become very serious. There are only 7% of all the engineering graduates in the country that enter civil service of all kinds. Now, with the lowest salaries of any major city in the country, lower than the state of New York, lower than the United States government, you're attempting to compete for that 7%. You're not getting anything, so you are now putting in a bid for the bottoms of all of the graduating classes, the fellows who won't take the written examinations. What's going to happen to your bridges, your subways, your water tunnels? And by the way, on the subject of transportation, the item of $29 million over here, Mr. Controller, for water supply, does that $29 million include the water tax that is taken in? I don't know. I ask Mr. the tax levy portion of the water supply G&E. That is, in other words, the total cost of supplying water to the people of the city of New York? No, that includes the operation of the Department of Water Supply, primarily the power and energy and repairing the water mains. Well, does the city of New York take in revenue from water rentals $29 million a year? Yes, more than that. In other words, it's self-sustaining. Well, there's bond interest to be computed also. I haven't got the latest on that. Well, that's a part of the debt service we have. Yes. Is that interest covered by water rentals? I don't think it's covered completely now, no. Possibly another source of revenue would be an investigation of the water rentals that are charged in the city of New York. According to some studies that I've made, New York City's water rates are considerably below most of the communities in and around the city of New York. They're lower than the private companies that they're allowed in the land. That's right. And the number of the very large users of water, which are being actually subsidized by the city of New York, wouldn't be able to squawk too loud if they had to pay a proper rate for that. That's another possible source of revenue. Now, if we can sit down with the members of the Board of Estimate, we're willing to pay our fair share, but we're getting awfully tired, I repeat again, subsidizing everyone else in this town. Thank you, gentlemen. John O'Donnell? John O'Donnell? Raymond Navarra. You got some on the list, right, gentlemen? Oh, yes, sure. We got a lot of you think you're going to do it. Sure. Good night. Your Honor, gentlemen of the Board, I'm going to be very, very brief. My name is Raymond Navarro, representing the Civil Service Forum, Five Borer Asphalt Workers. We are on a 250-day prevailing rate per annum agreement. And we wish to serve notice at this time that come July 1st, we are going to file claims for more money on the 250-day basis. our agreement is cut down on two parts, 200 days at the prevailing rate and 50 days at a reduced rate. And we feel that that 50-day period is unfair to us, and on that basis, we are going to demand that extra money. Thank you. Ernest Zondal? Mr. Mayor, an honorable gentleman of the Board of Estimate. You just mention my name, I won't repeat it. Who are you, Mr. Zondal? Local 266, the National Brotherhood of Teamsters. Teamsters. I think you have before you the beginning of my brief our original demands. I don't wish to repeat them. You've heard them of various previous speakers about the wage increases and so on. But I might want to, at this time, emphasize the laborers who are, at this time, working 48 hours a week. They are one of the few classes who still work 48 hours a week, and we think they should be given some consideration. Their scale being the same, we think that they could be more or less given some time off. We also think that they should be given some promotional opportunities. They are one group which are denied promotional examinations at present. Now I'd like to say that there are approximately 175,000 civil employees in our town. As members of the civil service, the basis of which is supposed to be merit and fitness, the merit system objective being to obtain the best qualified people and capable people for the public service. This to be accomplished by testing applicants through competitive examination. You speaking to me? No, I was. Mr. Bennett. Oh, all right, Mr. Sundar. And experience. Oh, I posted. He's trying to get in the times. That was the only... All right. I defer to the controller. To afford equal opportunity employment to all citizens, male or female, having the necessary ability. It further aims to promote those who show advanced knowledge. Thus, in brief, it aims to make public service a career. The required qualifications definitely stamp civil service employees above average and employee potential. The salary now received by these employers certainly are not commensurate with the requirements of their employment. And now, under attack from all sides by the professional economists, newspaper, and radio commentators, called parasites and voice by this element, who are the spokesmen and advance guard for the return of the laissez-faire era. The good old days of child labor, sweatshops, yellow dog contracts, labor injunctions. The city employee today is confused, frightened by the financial squeeze he finds himself in today. Faced with the prospects of no wage increase, deferred 40 hours, perhaps loose loss of job, it is no wonder that the morale of the city employed today has sunk to the lowest level ever. It is shameful that the employees who were made pawns in a political tug of war, the victims of the inordinate ambition on the part of a person who hopes someday to occupy the White House and has lost all consideration and concern for the welfare of the little people, this same person, the governor of New York, the icicle with the mustache in Albany, has placed the city in a straitjacket or in the position of lifting itself by its bootstraps. After all is said and done, his program was strictly negative. That is to say, he gave the city permission to solve its own problems as best it can, some help. Oh yes, he did propose to saddle New York City with a transit authority, as if we do not already have enough of these ever-growing octopuses operating in a sort of purgatorial sphere or vacuum. Once formed, they are a law until themselves, each usiping some function of the city government. This would mean turning over all the equipment, rolling stock, and real estate property of the transit system valued at many hundreds of millions of dollars, and by issuing bonds, put control into the hands of financial manipulators, the type who were the high priest of bankruptcy and ruin when the transit system was privately owned. With this dead albatross on the neck of Father Knickerbocker, all hope of balancing the budget is destined to dismal failure. In order to compensate for the deficit created, the city of New York must receive a larger share of the tax obtained from this city in proportion to that paid. In order to increase the revenue for the city, additional means of income through taxes must be found. We offer the following suggestions for consideration. Of course, we believe it is easy to criticize. Prescience is rare, but hindsight seems to be abundant. with this, we offer the increase from 25 to 50 cents for daily parking at Flushing Meadow Parking Field. Now, I'd like to emphasize that. That parking field is used by people mostly from without the city. In addition to the parking field, they are given special express service into the city. Now, on the golf courses, we advocate an increase on the seasonal fee of $10, which makes it $20. Increase the fees on tennis courts for a permit to be $10. Increase fees on all concessions on all concessions 10%. By that, we mean those concessions, for instance, that we have in the Central Park and other various places around the city, which we believe today do not pay sufficient money in return for the service they get. in the Tavern on the Green and other places, they are given rehabilitation jobs and to have the garbage removed all by the city. Now, we also think that in order to get some fees for the city, of course, I understand advocating taxes is never popular. I guess you gentlemen know that too. But after all, we feel the city's in a squeeze and we think they should some ways be made and these people be made to pay those that can afford it. Baseball permit fees on Saturday or Sunday, adults, which could be charged $3. At present, there is no fee. Softball permit for Saturdays and Sunday adults also $3. Now, we are coming to a subject which might be more or less controversial. They are, to an extent... They take away their recreational and their right to use them and make the price too high. You just take away all their... Well, I think that... Mr. Lyons, I think that baseball, which is usually two teams, probably about 25 men involved, I think for them to have that, especially in view of the conditions of the city today, that I think that it wouldn't be excessive that they each be charged at least 10 cents, which would be... wouldn't be too much in my opinion. Now, we have the subject of a sweepstake, which we advocate. Some years ago, Fortune magazine carried on a survey of sweepstake acceptance. The citizenry all over the country were asked the question, if sweepstakes like the Irish sweepstakes were run only for taxation or charity, should be allowed in this country. The following was the result. 55.3% answered yes. 32.5% replied in a negative. Farmers, city people were in favor, but the inhabitants of villages and the small towns were opposed, probably due to religious opposition. I'd like to go a little further for the background. History tells that lotteries go back as far as the early Roman days. In France, the town of Leucleu in the realm of the Burgundy Dukes in the year of 1420 staged a lottery for the purpose of increasing and strengthening the town's fortifications. It is also said that the Italians accompanying Catherine de' Medici at the time of her marriage to Louis XIV were promoters of the first state lottery in France in connection with the marriage. What connection that had, I don't know. In England, the first lottery was sponsored by no less a person than Queen Elizabeth herself. It was this lottery which contributed towards the colonization of America, the foundation of the United States of today. This was in the year of 1612 when a lottery was set up for the settlement of the English colonies in Virginia. You know, the Columbia University which President Eisenhower was president of started with two lotteries, two different lotteries? You will hear that as I go along. This was to finance the transportation and cost of the settlers. Such subjects as harbor improvements, viaduct for water to London and church buildings were made possible through lotteries. There was a lottery in England in 1660 where the money was used for ransoming Englishmen held as slaves in Tunis, Algiers and on Turkish warships. London's Westminster Bridge over the Thames was built from funds with a lottery in 1739. The plan was passed by the Board of Estimates and the Board of Aldermen was ready to go into operation. Send your copy of it sometime. All right. 1934. 1761, Faneuil Hall, the cradle of liberty and the National Patriotic Shrine today was destroyed by fire and rebuilt with funds of a lottery. This under the patronage of John Hancock, the famous signer of the Declaration of Independence. Am I right? In 17... Did you eliminate the historical references and the precedents? We know your point is to... Well, I just wanted to back it out. I wanted to fortify... Get on and give some of the others a chance. Well, what I want to do is fortify to show the type of people who supported lotteries and some of the functions which they did. Jurors are chosen by a lottery too and they're paid. Even Wall Street was one of the originals of the lottery. Wall Street is a lottery today. Well, I'll eliminate in deference to the deputy mayor. I'll eliminate them. Due to the serious financial plight of the city, we request that the holding of a sweepstake or drawing for the security of salaries of city employees be given serious consideration. The money derived from these drawings or sweepstakes be applied toward the wages of city employees. These drawings will be continued until such time as the city recovers its financial stability. We feel in this way that the city can be alleviated to some extent in the present crisis. Thank you. I might send it to you. All right, let him be. Will you please? Information that I brought to the attention of the Board of Estimate the plan that you suggest or the plan that I originally advocated and the only support I got for it was from Barry Gray. David Owens. David Owens. Barry Gray on the board now? Get your man up. Get your man up. Get your man up. You're always good, but will you be brief today? I will. I... There's only one page out here. The rest is given away here. All right. David Owens. I'm the president... I'm the president of the Watchman's Council of the Civil Service Forum. I wanted to say I was in favor for everything I was president of the Forum, Robert Brady, had to say this morning. I only had a few words. This is not long. I want to say that I noticed you got a mustache too. They were criticizing somebody in Albany that had a mustache. I wonder if you better lose you. Well, I haven't gotten no sneakers on and they didn't come in with four headless horsemen like he did last Wednesday. That was the gentleman with the sneakers. We know him. Is this being taped now? Yes, being taped. Yeah, well, then I'll try to get all the commas in here where they belong. We used a game show. This was a gentleman. You'll be surprised. Your fairness, your wisdom, and your highly courtesy already has become a part of the magnificent traditions of these Board of Estimates public hearings. What was that? What was that? I'm saying that to all the members of the Board. They were looking at me. They were looking at me. I thought you were just saying it was a big. No, no, no kidding. Now, the watchmen appreciate you listen to it. Now, after this, when you see all the dead guys in here, you might not laugh. Now, we read in the New York Times April 1st. April 1st, 1953. Here's a quote. A note from the mayor to Korea was too late. Brooklyn boy died in action. Who asked a special favor of the mayor? The letter was from Corporal Donald J. McAvoy, who died in action on Old Baldy on October 12th, 1952. Ended a quote. Now, I hope we're not here too late. I am here not asking a special favor. But I'm asking you, gentlemen, to adjust the longstanding injustice to many competitive civil service watchmen grade one, many of World War I and World War II veterans. We again request that $5 be put in the budget line 6607-037 for watchmen, the Bureau of Motor Equipment, Supervision, and Maintenance of the Department of Sanitation. This is for a start in having a promotion examination for watchmen as the civil service law under the New York State Constitution guarantees to all competitive employees. I might ask here, what kind of people are bypassing our printed civil service laws? Answered, they're not friends of law and order. We know who they are. Now there are 75 vacant positions and many titles. Seven watchmen's titles which the budget examiner changed to labor. Doing us a favor. In our bureau, now there's $188,000 in the budget for those 75 vacancies. You do not have to look for the money. It is there on line 6607-047 to formant of laborers. 3,600 in brackets, 4,205 what it was paid from. Well, that man died on July the 6th, 1951. And in the 1952-53 budget, he was given a $355 adjustment to meet the increased cost of living. He spent dead over a year and they gave him $355. Now, now that former's position has been vacant since he died. But the 4,200 is still on the line. Was that the fellow that was such a good man that you came down on behalf of one day? That man will thank you very much. He got a raise more than I'm getting without asking for it. The Housing Authority gave their watchman $4,100. Our top pay is $3,385 and I'm only asking permission to take an examination. Here is other departments is handing their men $800 without an examination. So we will get down maybe to that in a minute. Our records show that this board of estimate ordered the $5 to be put into the budget in 1951-52 so that a promotion examination could be held. But our budget examiner says the board did not say positively. You heard that expression here before. I'm sorry Mayor Pelletieri wasn't here because the deputy mayor says he would look into the matter but he didn't look very far. Well, the good lord took care of that budget examiner. He died on March the 11th, 1953. Yeah. The good lord took care of him. He didn't say positively. He don't need a $355 where he went. Now in the total personal service budget this year of $56 million and some more $5 we requested can be found in my opinion without very little effort. We also suggest that the civil list this is important that the civil list be published again. In our opinion all citizens and the city employees would know what is going on in the line of appointments and promotions. When we see employees getting $1,000, $2,000 $500 raise every year getting a new office title getting a new raise and we cannot these same people will not go to first base with us we know something is wrong. Now here's another one. This is a beaut. You write your own speeches? No. I listen I'll get to that after. I listen to some of what they call management engineers. That's a new one. That's a new one. I'm an engineer myself. I'm a marine chief engineer for 35 years but because I took the title of watchman they think you're a Trump bump. Yeah. We also think that there should be an investigation of the biggest racket in the city of New York. Now I wonder could anybody tell me what is the biggest racket in the city? Mr. Holley is not here right now but he probably could tell you. Well after we've looking around the biggest racket is the housing authority slump clearance gold mine. The tearing down of small slums and the building of bigger slums is the gold mine in the city today. Among the low salaried employees there is a terrible anxiety today with the widening waves of so-called slump clearances. I wrote to President Truman to President Eisenhower to see if they won't stop. I wrote a copy of the letter to you Mr. Controller to see if the federal government will not stop lending the city money and tearing these houses down. I have pitiful conditions. Here's a mother. She has two gold star boys. She gets informed that they wasn't killed in action. Well they was pretty near killed in action. One boy had his two legs off in Korea and they send him over here and they let him die in California. Another boy they said don't go in the army it's a bad place go in the navy. He went in the navy he put him on the submarines and he got to Benz and he's dead. Now the woman has got two gold stars she's alone her husband died and they're going to dispossess her. Now the man comes in and he says aren't you out yet? No. Well geez you know we give you a year's notice it's over three months if you don't get out soon we're going to put your stuff on the street and let the sanitation department take it away. And this is on Manhattan Island in the city of New York and it is a shame. That's the only one. Now here here was the 75 vacant positions I won't go down all along the line but there's $188,000 there. Now what I think I've seen a piece here in the paper in the news this was April the 9th where it says 65 stenographers were promoted in the welfare department. Now they wouldn't have been promoted if they didn't get a chance for an examination. We took this job with our eyes open. The rule says there's grade one grade two and three and as I was down here it is the budget director who is the man that is responsible. Our department has written a request to the civil service commission I took it over. The civil service commission says they're willing to hold the examination but the budget director must okay it. And the budget exam I went in and I see the director of the budget I was referred to the budget examiner for our particular department and he says no we ain't going to give it to you. Now I want to know in the name of good heavens why these men here we have been told that this billion five hundred million plus is in the budget to enforce laws. There's not one penny in there to violate the laws and these people are telling us well it don't mean what it says. Well now I'll get along here it won't be long now. This is from an exploit up in somebody mentioned Barry Gray's here before. Well I'm a night watchman and I tune on Barry Gray as a violation of maybe some new water come up from the water department. We can't have coffee, we can't have radios. What are we supposed to do sleep the whole night? I mean goodnight sure you there Christ almighty you. Are you sure it's water that they buy? You know when you called me over on St. Patrick's Day to shake hands with the mayor I appreciate that and it wasn't water we drank after that. You didn't drink water after that? No sir we was down to Werdemans Hall we got rid of 21 half barrels of beer and I don't think there was much water in it and a couple of boys came in with a bottle in case they caught coal in there they didn't want to catch coal well anyway now this is only a few minutes but listen to this this is an exploit what they call he calls himself Carl Heil H-I-E-L he's a management engineer he was on one of them committees he was crying up to Barry Gray's on April the 12th at 1215 a.m. he must have been better than the control he got on oily on April the 12th I write down a lot of stuff everything what goes on see now he tells us there's 220,000 employees on the city payroll and he comes up with one out of 36 well I said to the grandson how much is that see I'm not much at figures he says that's 29 million in some pop or grandpa geez I said we ain't got 29 million payment city in New York somebody says we only got 8 million but he says one out of 36 is on the city payroll then another one he says this fellow was Carl Heil H-I-E-L he calls himself a management engineer but you didn't give him much of a handout he didn't get much of that 21 or 2 million 100 thousand I said it was 2 million 500 thousand he says it was 2 million 100 thousand he only got 15 thousand out of it but if he could get a 10 year long term program he thinks he could save the city 250 million dollars so we'll just go on here it'll be short then he made a long he says we should cut everybody but we should not cut policemen and firemen now he says oh yeah he says the controller has a volume and he wants everybody to read volume 2 the first 58 pages he says the controller has got 4,000 copies and will you please write to him and get a copy of it so I'll send you a postal card I didn't get a chance yet volume 2 volume 2 the first 58 pages I don't know what's in there well he telling everybody on the air get that so you ought to have some letters in there now he suggested another one I tell you I didn't get one request but I figured maybe there'd be some of them down here that pick one up now here's another good one he said some of the commissioners go to Florida for two and three and four weeks and when they come back they expect the conditions to be improved okay it improves better when they're away and it's like I think they should leave them sound there well this is what you paid them five thousand dollars a year for now here's another one longer somebody mentioned Barry Gray I'm going to try to get on his program some night up there Barry Gray he's not a citizen of New York he'd been in New York he was like Dewey saying how he was here 30 years well Barry was in about 30 months he come in here without a dime now he's got a couple of dollars he moved up in some joint called Scarsdale where they don't have guys to to hold you up in the middle of the night and brush you the nose now there's a fella he's riding around in the car and he says the subways are dirty they never was clean like when La Guada was mayor now where was he when La Guada was mayor he says the subways is filthy well holy gee we don't throw nothing in the subway that's the intelligent passengers that's trying to save a dime or something they throw it there the same as on the street I'm with the sanitation I believe it or we don't throw nothing on the street it's the honorable citizens that throw it there and they don't get our goat they can keep on throwing it there and we'll do the best we can now here's here's one and I was going to say I'd take this job for half pay I don't like to be a chiseler after hearing all these AFFL CIO and good union men but this will be the last one they suggested with all this persistence they suggested that the mayor should hire somebody at $10,000 a year to go to the lunches and do nothing else well I would take that for $5,000 I mean jeez I need a job see they sell the mayor and you take it for nothing won't you well I wouldn't take it for nothing I gotta pay some rent to miss is a wonder where she wanted she wanted to see a couple of dollars no I thank you that's all that's about right see I wanted to give one of these here Nicholas J. DeProspo Mr. DeProspo had to return to the finance office he asked me to appear in his stead my name is Eugene Schwartz I'm the special representative for district council 37 state, county and municipal employees AFFL Mr. DeProspo is president of our district council and I guess he's had to go back and collect some of the money that we're all looking for your honor and members of the board Mr. DeProspo has been with the city 30 years I haven't worked for the city I'm a young man I've been around with unions for about a year I've had a chance to see the way things work from a fresh and perhaps somewhat inexperienced eye I've gotten up before this board in the past and said a few things that possibly rightly got some people excited because they'd been around much longer than I I think Mr. Werff who was our general representative presented quite clearly what our feelings are with respect to the revenue problems of the city I think our brief goes into greater detail and I believe that many of the other organization speakers have indicated their views on the matter I'm not going to try to go into that and also what I have to say right now I will try to be brief with I do think that the employees take on too great a burden when they come before you and feel obligated to try and find and recommend sources of revenue the man who works for a living does not go to his boss and say if you'll give me a living wage rather and say that I'll be willing to take a living wage but I've got to show you where to find the money to give it to me Mr. Brewer said we had some economies and the controller asked him for them I don't think anybody expects the employees to come in here and do it we volunteered it well as a matter of fact we volunteered a lot of suggestions too Mr. Lyons and I'm merely saying that I don't think it's our obligation to do so especially when you get into the meat of the budget on a lot of the items that employee groups have been here on before and speak to the inequities within the existing budget now I'm not talking about the need for pay raises I'm not talking about the need the overall welfare benefits that we're requesting which might cost $180 million and admittedly it's a lot of money to ask for I'm not talking about those things now but rather the sort of thing that Brother Owens who comes up here every couple of months has to speak about now he evokes a lot of laughter but what he's got to say pretty much illustrates the little things that rankle employees little things that in a big city seem to go unnoticed or unacted upon from time to time no matter how often we present our case I'm talking for example about the situation where amongst his watchmen and amongst elevator operators and other groups in that category you've got frozen into a maximum pay scale a $250 differential which will never be erased why does a man working next to another man who may have been with the city three years longer doing exactly the same job in exactly the same hospital have to receive a differential in salary for the same kind of work now we can't find every single employee who is laboring under that inequality but it is a general condition in the budget that you will find for the same kind of job with relatively little difference in tenure in many instances different salaries this is an inequality frozen into the budget it's the kind of thing that we speak against time and time again it doesn't involve hundreds of millions of dollars and yet it's there it's that sort of thing that we want corrected we can go down the list for example in all of the major competitive class titles where you've got the grades two, three, four, and five or grades one amongst the clerical employees inspectors attendance accounting statistical and legal services and so forth now in this group you have a first grade or a second grade which starts at 2110 and presumably goes to a maximum of 3385 most of the people stop at 2995 now within that gap it's any man's guess as to whether or not he can get the adjustment to come up to maximum now you've got a lot of clerk grade twos in the city who for some reason couldn't pass a promotion exam who are supervising the intake of large sums of money in the board of transportation for example who can't even get to the top of their grade now if you go into the grade three and the grade four and the grade five you will have the same situation and the point I'm getting to here is this the state which is imposing upon us a financial burden has a civil service system which if you can say anything else about the state at least is a fine example of civil service administration certainly the governor would not deny to us the monies necessary to make possible at least the universal increment system that the state civil service now enjoys we don't have that and hat in hand we have to go down to the budget office which I'm sure would like to give everybody a square shake and beg plead and conjole for these various adjustments now we've detailed the specific departments in which this kind of problem arises again speaking about a relatively small sum of money such as the five million dollars which was taken out for reclassification there are groups of employees which are going to suffer terribly by the annual by the delay of at least a year in putting this into effect moreover there are departments which will suffer very terribly in the health department there are a group of statisticians who compile the vital statistics on which many of the city's health programs depend a new title of analyst was created in the city planning department which pays something like eight hundred dollars a year more these people are taking that exam they intend to get that job in the city planning commission long time experience statisticians in the health department will leave those jobs and this is a real threat I'm told not only by the employees but by responsible people because they can get more within the city with the same qualifications reclassification would be correcting this kind of an inequity but it's not going to happen now we've heard the commissioner of hospitals come before the budget director and the board and speak about the nursing shortage about the fact that half of the nurses nursing positions are unfilled and it's more than a shame it's very dangerous that many of the nursing jobs in the hospitals are being filled sort of provisionally by attendants and helpers who are well meaning but certainly not qualified to do the job and he's speaking about the nursing jobs and he's speaking about the nursing jobs and he's speaking about the nursing jobs and the hospitals and he's speaking about the nursing shortage reclassification would be correcting this kind of an inequity but it's not going to happen now we've heard the commissioner of hospitals come before the budget director and the board and speak about the nursing shortage about the fact that half of the nursing positions are unfilled and it's more than a shame it's very dangerous that many of the nursing jobs in the hospitals are being filled sort of provisionally well meaning but certainly not qualified to do the job and he speaks about the VA hospital which is going to be built right across the street from Bellevue where they're paying more to come in than the nurses get as a maximum for the city and reclassification was going to correct this kind of thing and then you've got other little groups of people who in a big city such as this go unnoticed you've got a health educator group which is responsible for working with all the community organizations that are going to be here the next day in bringing to them programs to save lives because of gas poisoning because of venereal disease and so forth these people are getting a thousand dollars a year less than the state is paying for the same kind of job we can't fill all the health educator positions and as good a job as these people are doing with the salary that they're getting you will not get competent people to carry on this vital program and so on down the line how is the department of hospitals going to make up the time being lost because it needs 600 more people it's on black and white in order to continue the 42 hour work week that was put into effect for former six day employees overtime and compensatory time is piling up at a very great rate these additional positions are essential and you go into the auto engine where you've got five different pay skills as was ably pointed out before and most of them can't hope to reach the maximum and you got in the health department for example there are 42 x-ray technicians and the man who supervises them get exact exactly the same salary I could go through a ream of individual instances such as this which are within the budget not the kind of thing that's that's an overall fiscal problem involving millions of dollars but the individual inequities these are the sort of things that we we try to negotiate with the budget office and when they have the time which they have very little of they will sit down with us and do but which we can't get enough time to bring out and as people mentioned before these these are the kind of things which a true labor relations policy might help solve if we had a labor relations department a hundred thousand dollars a year whatever it would cost a lot of these minor inequities could be discussed with labor people whose full-time job is not examining the budget who have to work with with statistics and and 15 pounds worth of paper at the same time deal with 50 organizations but people who would be dealing strictly with employee groups prepare to negotiate and discuss and bring to light this kind of inequity I'm not going to go through the complete list of items that we've made requests about but certainly the this type of inequality within the budget of which I have spoken ought to be corrected it comes up year after year and the amount of money required there would not be that great I'd like to conclude merely by saying this that from what I had heard about previous board meetings at which employee organizations appeared the meeting today certainly I believe was a good example of sincere genuine effort on the part of the employee groups certainly on the part of our own union to present our proposals and it's not repeated too often if we say that we are not under the impression that these proposals are not being received seriously and that the members of the board here wouldn't like to see something done about it but again from the standpoint of the civil service employee he only knows what he sees and the conditions under which he works he cannot understand why he must shoulder the burden as I said before of feeling responsible to find money to correct injustices which his employer should be responsible for correcting himself this is why we come here and some of us pound the table and say lead us to Albany because Albany and the percentages have shown the increase in their budget over ours is able to walk around crowing enjoying the fine reputation of a very efficient streamlined civil service setup because they're spending the money in order to operate it and at the same time they strangle New York City and don't even permit it to have the minimum standards enjoyed by the state this is the kind of thing we want and this is the kind of thing that the employers of the city represented through the board we think should lead the employees to Albany in order to get this is why we're here today thank you , Sound of Safety , sir or Klausus k L A U S E R , K use. Actually, all of the including the A they heard sitting from Hawaii. . Gentlemen, Mr. Podell has been called back to an appointment at his job in the welfare department, and he's asked me to speak briefly for him. I am Abraham Kaufman, treasurer of Local 1193 of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, AFL. I don't propose to go over any of the items which I have heard in the course of this morning or afternoon. You gentlemen have been good enough to listen patiently, and you don't deserve any further repetition. I'm not going to appeal for the social investigators and assistant supervisors on the basis of equity because I see from the responses from this side of the table that you are willing to be just to the workers and that, therefore, an appeal for equity is not needed. However, it is not generally realized that the tremendous turnover, especially among social investigators, is bringing to the city a loss not only in services, which we all deplore, are, but is bringing a loss in revenue, and it is bringing a loss in money spent because cases which should be closed are not closed because workers who are new with a 12% turnover as compared to a 7% turnover which is considered safe in private industries makes it impossible for workers to be supplied as rapidly as they drop out. The reason they drop out, you have heard from the other speakers. They drop out because the city cannot afford, has not felt it wise to afford, to match what people can get elsewhere. The investigators are now getting a scale from $3,200 to $3,800 a year. With that scale, they come and stay perhaps six months, the six months which is needed to train them, and then they must leave. An experiment has taken place within the department in the Bronx Welfare Center, where it has been possible to close cases at a rate unheard of in any part of the welfare department, and without giving you any of the details which you can get from our department, we wish to point out that the most essential feature of this plan, which made it possible to close cases and to not only save the city money, but to avoid having to sue for money, money which doesn't always come back to the city, the most essential feature has been that while the experiment was on, there was no what we call uncovered cases. Every client received a controlled amount of attention, received the attention necessary, and cases were closed rapidly and efficiently. If that could be done in the Bronx, it can be done elsewhere, and it can be done if the city realizes that realistically it's going to save money and not lose money. Up until now, 80% of the cost of these investigators' salaries has been met by the state. I understand in the new budget, 50% will be. Even with 50%, the cost will be little. The cost will be less than $1.5 million a year to put into effect the reclassification program, and the savings would be tremendous, as we have previously let you know in any number of memos, which memos have the approval of our commissioner as to its realism. Thank you. Abraham Gineger. Honorable members of the Board of Estimates, the members of the Department of Purchase, Council Number 182, Civil Service Forum, wish to make the following recommendations concerning the 1953-54 municipal budget. One, the restoration of the following positions presently eliminated. One specification writer, one clerk grade five, four clerks grade four, one storekeeper, three section stockman, one stock assistant. The elimination of these positions will deprive employees of this department of promotional opportunities and will lower the already badly shaken morale. We recommend the reclassification from the title assistant maintainer to maintainer in the typewriter repair unit in the Department of Purchase. This unit employs 22 men, all doing equal work at unequal pay, and the unit has saved the city as much as $105,000 in a single year of operation, according to the annual report for 1951-52. We believe the entire group should have the same title and salary classification precisely because they do equal work. The present salary of an assistant maintainer is equivalent to a clerk grade two, and that of a maintainer to a clerk grade three. We request the promotion of three senior accountants and two accountants. These lists were promulgated in November 1950, and to date, no promotions have been made. Failure to grant earned promotions at adequate salaries and elimination of promotional opportunities can only lead to dead ends in the city service, and dead ends lead finally to dead heads. We endorse the forum plan for a general salary increase of $500 minimum to $1,000 maximum, and recommend it be adopted. Municipal salaries have lagged behind salaries paid in private industry. The salaries of civil service employees today are not sufficient to clothe, feed, and house their families in accordance with minimum standards determined by the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. As a result, too many civil service employees hold jobs in addition to their city jobs. And even with two jobs, most civil service employees are debt-ridden. Finally, the present scale of wages for city employees is a grave injustice for which the city cannot evade responsibility, and is certainly antiquated since it is based on scales established over 25 years ago. We urge the extension of the increment system to all grades, and a general upgrading of all grades in the city service is a must for the administration to adopt. In conclusion, we repeat our endorsement of the program submitted by the president of the Civil Service Forum. Milton Balsom. My name is Milton D. Balsom. I'm the president of the Municipal Office Employees Council No. 51 Civil Service Forum, and also the chairman of the Civil Service Forum Veterans Committee. And I'd like to cover a couple of topics in that direction, too. Gentlemen, the two departments concerned with collections and taxes are the Department of Finance and the Office of the Controller. In this connection, we believe that a elimination of personnel as proposed in the 1953-54 budget is not advisable at this time when the city of New York requires more money than ever before. Tax enforcement services should be expanded rather than restricted. We therefore request the restoration of the positions proposed to be eliminated in those two departments. We were gratified to see that the controller recommended that a reserve fund be set up for stabilization of general fund revenues. We had suggested this procedure several years ago at a budget hearing. Now, we are not a management survey organization, and we do not charge $2.5 million for our recommendations. Nevertheless, we trust that serious consideration may be given to other financial suggestions we offer this year as follows. Move up collection dates for real estate taxes from October 1st and April 1st to July 1st and January 1st to save approximately $2.5 million in temporary debt interest. Combined billing of real estate taxes with waterfronted charges for economy and billing and collection. We realize that it may not be possible to affect these changes all at once. However, we direct your attention to the fact that other counties in the state of New York employ these practices, and our adoption of them certainly would be to the advantage of the city of New York. In conclusion, I wish to state that Municipal Office Employees Council No. 51 supports the recommendations of its parent body, the Civil Service Forum. Now, may I speak on just two veterans matters as chairman of the Veterans Committee of the Civil Service Forum? Regarding veterans, there are two matters I wish to discuss today. In accordance with past policy of the City of New York, we believe salaries of veterans should be equalized with those of non-veterans. We direct your attention to the fact that some Korean veterans have not been given the full cost of living bonus granted to employees of the City of New York on July 1st, 1952, even though their retroactive seniority has been established by the Municipal Civil Service Commission pursuant to Section 246 of the military law as prior to such date. Attached herewith is a resolution of the Department of Finance Post No. 1119, American Legion, which has been approved by the Civil Service Forum. We request that the salaries of Korean veterans be adjusted to include the full cost of living bonus in accordance with service seniority in order that they and their families may not suffer undue loss of pay by reason of their military service. On behalf of veterans in our organization, we commend the provision in the budget for continuance of the New York City Veterans Service Center, which has performed humane work on behalf of veterans and provides much-needed service. We deplore the efforts of certain individuals and organizations, never known for friendliness to the veterans in the past, to minimize the value of the services rendered to the veterans by the Center and the Division of Veterans Activities. Thank you for your attention. Seymour Garland. I'm Seymour Garland, G-A-R-L-A-N-D. Thank you. Thank you. I am the secretary of the Association of Lawyers and Competitive Civil Service in the city of New York. We come before you in connection with the inadequate salary which the present civil service employees of the city are receiving. I'm not going to cover all of the four grades in the graded service at this moment. I'll just point to the chart which you have before you where there is a salary study, comparison between the salaries now paid and the salaries which were paid in 1909 when the present four grades of the city service were established. and the bachelor's grade at the beginning near the burn achter between theic All right, gentlemen. The present four grades under which we are operating today in the law department were established in 1909. And at that time, grade four, which represents the top grade in the legal service, paid $3,000 unlimited. That is without a ceiling. Today, that same job, 1953, pays a basic salary of $4,021, or with the bonus, $4,646. In the period of time from 1909 to 1953, that job, the top lawyer representing the city of New York, has gone up in base pay 34%. And inclusive of the bonus pay has gone up 54.8%. If you will look at the chart where I have set forth some US statistics, you will find a chart labeled, Consumers Price Index, New York City. And you will find that in 1914, the nearest year in which the figures were available, a dollar bought, compared to the 1939 year, considered at 100%, $1.47 worth. And in 1952, that dollar, compared with 1939, purchased 55 cents worth. To maintain the same standard of living as in 1914, today requires $2.69 for every dollar earned in 1914. Now we go to the table below that. The US Department of Labor on a national basis. Skilled and unskilled production workers in 1909 earned $9.84 a week. Today, they earn $67.36 a week, an increase of 590%. And so forth, skilled workers in building trades and so forth, from 21 odd dollars to $108. That's without overtime, an increase of 420%. A daily news survey below that is that in 1940, $3,000 required $6,783 in 1951 due to inflation and taxes. Competitive civil service salaries in other cities. Los Angeles pays the deputy, which is the first and the lowest grade, the entry grade, $4,500 to $5,568. It pays to the top attorney upwards of $10,104. Milwaukee, Wisconsin. The entry grade is $4,407 and goes up to $5,127. And they pay to their top grade four up to $9,207. In Detroit, Michigan, the entry is $5,404 to $7,228. And they go to $12,734 and up. If you look further to the right of the sheet before you, you'll find a comparison with state salaries. Now in the third bar graph, you'll find G25, senior attorney or title examiner, which I think is the very lowest possible comparison that can be made with the attorney who has reached the grade four in city service. I think that it's actually an unfair comparison. But even that, for doing title examination work, the state of New York pays $6,088 to $7,427. And I think it would not be unfair for us to point to G32, where the state pays $7,755 to $9,395. And below that chart, you will notice that the increments to the top of the grade are mandatory. Five annual increases. They get paid compensatory time for overtime. And they work 37 and a half hours a week. Alongside of that, further to the right, is the US comparison of salaries. And I think that we have a right to point here for a comparative minimum, absolute minimum, to that schedule in which you find 22.7% of the federal lawyers. And they are paid $7,040 to $8,040. The next bracket, 17%, which represents a good portion of the federal service, pays $83.60 to $93.60. And they get mandatory increments right to the top of every grade, longevity increases, merit increases, and overtime pay. The US Department of Commerce schedule, which appears here, shows that in various industries since 1939, for example, agriculture, fisheries, and forestries have gone up 242%. And now to repeat, the lawyer who is representing this city in grade four, at the top of all possible grades after taking all the promotion examinations, is now making, with all bonuses, 54% more than his 1909 counterpart. We have reached a conclusion here, that the wages of workers have increased generally 500% to 600% over the 1909 rate. But we have gone up only 54.8%. Purchasing power of the dollar I told you about, and of course the standard of living has gone down tremendously. A man with a wife and two dependent children, earning $6,783 due to inflation of $2,586, and taxes of $1,197 in his earnings, has the same standard of living as $3,000 of 1939. And of course, in 1909, there was no federal income tax at all. And there was very little state tax, not to mention the present excise taxes and hidden taxes by all governmental division. Results? A debilitating effect on morale, undermining prestige of lawyers in relation to the public, and employees in other fields. This endangers the retention of the experienced and specialized staff, and is consequently prejudicial to the best interest of the city administration and the general public. And of course, the result of it all is that wherever possible, men employed by the city of New York are taking on state jobs. Just in that division of title examiner alone, which is considered by the city of New York a grade two job and paying only $34.20 with bonus $40.15, we have lost from the law department to the state of New York for the pay that I mentioned, $60.88 to $74.27, an increase of well over $2,000. We have lost some 50 of the title examiners. We have presented to the Secretary of the Board of Estimate a plan to bring the salaries into what we consider line with what the state and the federal government are paying. I would ask that possibly that be moved on so that this board would listen to us and give definite attention to all of the facts which we don't want to take up at this time because of the number of speakers. We would like to go into greater detail. If I could have Mr. Assistant Mayor, I mean Deputy Mayor, pardon me, a commitment from this board that sometime, let us say the end of May even, you would take it up here formally. I think that would satisfy us for the time being. Is that a possibility to have it introduced? I can't make any commitment like that to you. We'll give consideration to your argument, but as to committing this board to have you at any particular session on this, unless I can't commit the board to that. Well, then I will go on with further argument. If you will look further into the last chart, the last bar graph, I have set forth there some information from the U.S. Department of Commerce, the Office of Business Economics. The committee from our association- I think you've got a very good case, but I think we're all very familiar with it. The committee has managed to see about half of the members of the Board of Estimate up to the present time. We have not been able to yet have this moved out on the calendar, although we have presented 15 copies to the Secretary of the Board of Estimate. Well, I think I said to you at the time, I thought the place that really should originate would be from the Corporation Council. Well, the Corporation Council, I understand, was interviewed by the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, and at that time stated that he, too, felt very aggrieved about these salaries, but aside from a suggestion that possibly one lump sum appropriation might be made for the entire law department to be handed out, by way of merit increases, and that we do not feel will adequately take care of the competitive civil service employees. Aside from that, nothing of a constructive nature has been done. Everybody pats us on the back and tells us it's a crying shame, but that doesn't reflect itself in our payroll. And the result is we still are compelled to live at salaries of this level. Now, only a few moments ago, I'm not going to say the gentleman isn't worth that money, but we laughed here very much with somebody who was a watchman. And I think he said something about being paid somewhere in the neighborhood of about $4,200. Now, imagine, here you have the men who have worked for the city some 15, 20 years, and many of them admitted to the bar for 25 and 30 years, and those people are earning today a minimum, and most of them are at the minimum. Most of them are below $5,000 working for the city of New York in the topmost bracket of the legal field, where certainly there is no comparative basis as to the amount of schooling required and all else that goes into representing this big city of New York in all the courts. I'll just read a few more here, a couple more bars on the bar graph. The average income of all lawyers in the United States is $9,375, non-salaried lawyers $8,936, and salaried lawyers average $10,197, and that's from the 1951 report. I have a communication from the Title Guarantee and Trust Company union, the union that represents their employees. And at the lowest level where an attorney is required, at the level of what I think they call it closer, they pay $58,24, $58,24, which is about, I think that represents about, more than about 70% of those now serving the city in grade four. They get certain fringe benefits. They get HIP fully paid for. I know Controller Joseph referred to that earlier today. And in addition to that, other fringe benefits. Now, if we were to take the Griffin Hagen survey, which this city spent $2 million-odd thousand dollars for, and not consider that it has broken up the legal service into sixth grades, but merely to take, going from the bottom up, the fourth in line, we would come to Council A, the lower ones being Attorney A, B, and C. Council A is the fourth, and not going up as high as B or C, and certainly that should be the minimum of grade four in the present legal service. That, according to Griffin Hagen, should pay a minimum of $7,000 and upwards of $8,200. I think by any fair test, the salary of those who are now serving the city in grade four should be somewhere in the neighborhood of about $8,000. A survey was had among the lawyers who are serving the city in grade three and four. And this survey was not signed or identified in any manner so that we could get truthful answers from those people. And this is the result of that survey. Ninety percent are married. Ninety-six claim that the present salary scale is inadequate. Eighty percent find it necessary to work evenings, weekends, and on vacations in order to supplement their city salaries. Sixty percent report that it is necessary for members of their families to work in order to maintain their families at a subsistence level. Fifty percent are now in debt. Sixty-two percent show a decline in their standard of living in the last five years. Thirty percent reported that their standard of living has remained steady. These employees are not only lawyers, but about fifty percent hold other degrees than that of Bachelor of Laws. And twenty-two percent received special honors, awards or prizes at college or law school, such as summa cum laude, magna cum laude, and scholarships. The report showed the following. Admitted to the bar, more than five years, two percent. More than 10 years, sixteen percent. More than 15 years, 32 percent. More than 20 years, fifty percent. This is, of course, in the top grade. Employed by the city, more than five years, eight percent. More than 10 years, twenty-three percent. More than 15 years, thirty-four percent. More than 20 years, thirty-five percent. It is therefore evident that the majority of city-employed lawyers, almost one of every four holding special collegiate honors, one-third admitted to the bar of the state over 15 years, one-half over 20 years, and one-third serving the city more than 15 years, and another third over 20 years, almost all married and undoubtedly between the ages of 40 and 50, find that 80% cannot support their families without part-time jobs. And 60% require financial assistance from members of their families for mere subsistence. Despite this, half of them are now in debt. I should like to read to you from a resolution which our organization adopted some of the material. The formal hearings board of the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey, among its major findings, includes the statements that the city employee should be paid a fair living wage, work and pay standards on a level fairly comparable to those found in New York for other employees, public and private. And I just read to you what the title company pays for the lawyers who are just beginning in service. And after an admission that some city employees are not adequately compensated, the report of the formal hearings board of the Mayor's Committee further states, the administrators insist that they cannot fill the positions allowed them without the pay rates specified in many categories, and that the loss of qualified personnel and the wastefully high turnover of technical staff is directly due to the inaccuracy of the pay rates now provided. And this is Griffin Hagen that I'm talking to, the Mayor's Committee that reviewed the Griffin Hagen report. In their view, the Griffin Hagen scales, though somewhat better, are still inadequate. And I just read to you that Griffin Hagen thinks we ought to be paid $8,000. And Griffin Hagen in its own report stated that their cutoff date was sometime in July 1951, and that they were out of line about 10% in view of the increased cost of living since they had collected their figures on wages. They are still inadequate. The civil agencies in general endorsed the general level of pay rates recommended by Griffin Hagen and presented some evidence in support of the rates of the Griffin Hagen and Associates report, but recognize that costs have risen since mid-1951 when Griffin Hagen completed their wage scale, and that some upward revision was necessary. In view of the general level of city salaries, even after the adopting of the increases recommended in the 1952-53 budget, we feel that further increases will be required in certain categories. Well, just give us what Griffin Hagen said ought to be given to the first man up, I mean the man who's just four grades up instead of six grades up, as Griffin Hagen thought the entire legal staff ought to be cut up. We then set forth some of the Griffin Hagen salaries. The services that the lawyers perform for the city require them to obtain college degrees, a state license to practice law, years of general and specialized experience in complex fields of law, to have the ability to make researchers of law draw briefs or other legal instruments, to appear in court against even the most outstanding legal opponents, many of whose earnings put the city employees' salaries to shame, to advance the civic and financial interests of our cities, often affecting the lives of thousands or involving sums of great magnitude, all of which makes the lawyers' work highly technical, exacting and of serious responsibility. Lawyers beset by debts and worries incident to mere day-to-day existence, for himself and his family cannot exert his best efforts toward tasks requiring a high degree of mental concentration. The public servant who is underpaid becomes demoralized, loses moral fiber and is subject to temptation. The law department lawyers are instrumental in saving the city of New York millions of dollars annually, by the prosecution or defense of litigated matters, as for example by the tax division in sustaining real estate valuations, by the excise tax division preventing the loss of excise revenues, by the education or general litigation divisions successfully defending salary cases brought to compel the city to disperse enormous sums to large groups. Poorly drawn agreements by the contract division can result in protracted and very costly litigation, badly handled trials in the thousands of tort cases, workman's compensation cases against the city, or the hundreds of parcels acquired in condemnation proceedings. It having been estimated, and this is the estimate of the corporation counsel himself, that about one-eighth of all the business in courts of the city and state, from municipal court to the court of appeals, and about one-sixth of all the work in the court of appeals, compel one to conclude that being penny wise with lawyers who handle the city's legal matters can be pound foolish, if these champions of the city's interests are unable to bring their best efforts to their duties. Now I have a little further here. The state of New York, well, no, I'll take this first. The city of New York, right in the law department, instead of through promotion or through transfer, which would at least be logical for the morale of those people who have been working for the city, nevertheless held recently an open competitive examination for tax counsel grade four. And I'm sorry that controller Joseph isn't here because that list is also to be used for his division. He's very well represented. Yes sir, and everything you say, Fine. The salary at which this was advertised is $5,650. And that kind of money, I don't think 40% of those now in grade four are making, and I think I'd be right if I said 30%. Yet this was an open competitive examination, and the requirements? I think it's not less than two years of legal practice. Not even specialized legal practice. And I have read to you the kind of men we now have in the law department. And this is what you have to do in order to try to attract even open competitive as grade four. Not two, three lower grades, but in grade four, you have to offer them more money, and with only two years of general practice and not specialized practice at that. And I think I am correct, almost correct in saying that only 125 filed for that examination. And of the 125, I'd be willing to go on record as saying that about 100 of them were employees of the city of New York. About 90 odd took the examination. And I know whereof I speak because I took the examination. Mr. Garland, did you get one of these releases that were handed out here this morning? I think if you did, if you didn't, I'll see you get one. It said pay increases to which employees are entitled, a 40-hour week, the maintenance of city service. The present levels and many other things can be granted under this public. So I think, unfortunately, the man that wrote that statement is not here. You should not have a chance to talk to him either. Mr. Lyons, I think you've made a point of this several times, been announced here several times. The reason the man isn't present is that he's home ill. I could say, I could say maybe I'll admit the butters absent. I think there's no need to make any sense. Be that as it may, we employees are caught between, as has been expressed here, the state and the city budgetary situations. And we surely don't want to be hung by any internecine war here as to the members of the board. I have here also a junior council where the city is offering $4,016 for one year of legal experience subsequent to admission to the bar. The state of New York, incidentally, is offering $4,052 to somebody who will graduate from law school by June the 30th. Now, I think you will admit, any fair-minded person must admit that the lawyers who are working for the city of New York are certainly being terribly underpaid in view of what has taken place in all other categories of work. I hold here a clipping, this relates to just the board, just the bureau rather, in which I work, the real estate condemnation division. They have done $40 million worth of condemnation work alone in the last three years. So far as my personal effort is concerned, I am the fellow who writes the letters which your committee on acquisition and disposition of the city's real estate land underwater. Land in old roads and so forth. The letters that go to Mr. Ellard, director of real estate. And I think that pay down at that level, which is comparable to some of the lowest forms of employment in private industry certainly, is not at all commensurate with the demands that are made upon people who are serving in grade four of the city service. Well, some questions have been put as to ways in which the city of New York might raise additional funds. Sometimes a person's mind, and this I'm going to say on my own and not as a member of the Association of Lawyers, sometimes a person's mind will go off into tangents. And particularly at this time, my mind has been dwelling on what even Dr. Luther Gulick expressed only a few days ago concerning raising of funds for the city of New York through, I think he called it a lottery. Now, while it is true, no, off-track betting, that was it. While it is true that money could be raised there, it's also true that you'd have to go to the state legislature to get permission. And I'm certain that you're not going to get that permission. However, I have been thinking along this line that you have there welfare $46 million, hospitals, health, and institutional care $147 million, some $200 million, which are going into those functions which the federal government and the state government both hold to be charitable contributions. And I think that if this city would permit our welfare department and our health department and possibly some other charitable institutions to issue receipts for donations of a dollar each, and those receipts had numbers on them, and then awards were made for good citizenship, I don't think you'd need any legislation to accomplish that kind of thing. And you would sound out in advance then just how the people of this city feel about funds acquired in that way. Now, the persons who happen to hold the numbered tickets that are considered the winners of these awards for good government could be compensated on the basis of, let's say, some annual payment over a number of years. In that way, they will get taxed, those people who invest in those receipts, or who give those charitable bequests to those charitable organizations, and I think they should be tax exempt, those people will be able to take that out of their income tax returns to the federal government and to the state government as well. And if you make the awards on the basis of a number of years of annuity, I think that that will reduce to a large extent the amount of taxes that are now charged against these lump sum amounts, which, for example, the Irish sweepstakes has with it. At least I believe it's something that's worth giving some consideration to. The churches and the charitable organizations of this city, and as was read to you here, going back historically, back into the 1700s, have established the precedent that it is feasible, and I think in good conscience, you may receive money for charitable purposes. And let us say that you will devote those monies only to the purposes of welfare and hospitals. You have there a leeway of $200 million, which is double the amount for all the other services of this city. And certainly that would be a relief, and a tremendous relief. Now, if you want to give it up at any future time after the city is on a good financial basis, but certainly as a short-range proposition, this city could operate that kind of thing. There will be no money to any private interests. And I think that that is one way in which quickly a large sum might be realized, and the city of New York get behind a program like that. And if it represents only a percentage of the monies received, and it is not a specific sum that the city is pledging its credit for, I am fairly confident at this time that no taxpayer's action would lie. Because all that they will be doing is rebating a portion of the monies which have been received. And if you'll work up some formula along those lines, I think that you might find a quick way out of your present dilemma. Thank you, gentlemen. W. Josephs. W. Josephs. W. Josephs. Association of Civil Service Examiners. Charles Rutkoff. Charles Rutkoff. Edward Cohn. Mr. Deputy Mayor, members of the Board of Estimates, I have been here a number of times on the same subject of reference to bridge operators. Edward E. Cohn, President of the Bridge Tenders and Operators of Mutual Aid Society Civil Service Forum. I am sorry the Mayor isn't here because I know when he was elected he said there would be no inequities. And we have one here for quite a number of years. We request that all bridge operators be granted a basic salary of $3720, $3720. This amount has been approved by the New York State Civil Service Commission and the Municipal Service Commission as the grade maximum. There are present three salaries paid at the top of the bridge operator grade, namely $3600, $3480, and $3420. The Municipal Service Commission also states there is only one grade of bridge operators exist. Now, these bridge operators, they have a great amount of responsibility. And there are several where bridge operators in charge of a bridge is getting less money than the men that work under him, which I think is very unfair. Therefore, therefore, we feel it is not unreasonable to ask for equalization of salaries of $3720. Because all these bridge operators, they have got to handle some bridges that have about a million dollars worth of machinery that they are responsible for. So, I would appreciate if this board would consider this. And also, I want to go on record that adopting the program at the Civil Service Forum, as Robert Brady spoke this morning. I thank you. You're welcome. Raymond F. Halloran. Mr. Mayhem, members of the Board of Estimate, Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimate, I speak. My name is Raymond Halloran. I'm President of the High School Teachers Association of New York City. Halloran, High School Teachers Association. How are you? I notice among the speakers today that they have, in the main, pointed out that this is a starvation budget, a fact with which we agree. They have, in many respects, pointed out other methods by which funds may be raised. However, the main tenor of my remarks this afternoon is to speak of how the education part of the budget has been starved more than perhaps some of the other departments. I would like to point out three things. Number one, that education is coming off second best as compared with other departments. Number two, that the high school division is coming off second best as compared with other divisions in the educational department. And thirdly, that high school salaries are coming off second best as compared with the salaries of teachers in other divisions. I would like to quote as few figures as possible. However, I need them to support some of my arguments. We believe that whatever decision you gentlemen come to in regard to the transit authority, and we realize that it is a difficult one, that we do not see how the educational budget can be reduced any further than it has already. And just to give you an example of present conditions under last year's budget, I have a six-year-old daughter who started school in the second grade, not because she was particularly brilliant, but because of the fact that the first grade was already filled with 42 children. And she was put into the second grade with 35 other second graders, with six other first graders, so that there are now 42 children in the second grade, 35 of which are second graders, and six or seven of which are first graders. Now, how can any teacher possibly do any kind of teaching under such impossible circumstances, and particularly a child who was entering school for the first time? The mayor in his budget claims a grant to education, that is, this is the tentative budget based on your decision in regard to the transit authority, a sum of 349 some odd million, that is some odd thousand. 349 million and some odd thousand. Now, we feel that this figure is a misrepresentation of the real amount allotted to educational purposes. It includes such things as debt service, it includes pensions, and a lot of other things that shouldn't be in there. I think you realize that the capital budget for education is kept separately for particular reasons, because you don't want to confuse capital investment with actual running expenses. And we believe that the budget should be set up in such fashion, that the running expenses are kept separate from the others. I think the budget will show that the, as compared with the demands of the Board of Education, that the budget has been cut 18 million dollars. And I would like to point out to you that that cut is much worse than it appears, because of the fact that the members of the Department of Education are constantly in touch with the budget director. And that before they make their requests, they, in essence, receive permission from the budget director's office to make certain requests. And I believe that the budget that had been submitted by the education department, which was devoid of any recommendations for salary increases, was a starvation budget in the first place. I would like to point out, however, that my second convention, that the education department has been starved in comparison with others. I'd like to quote some figures. The proposed budget this year represents 17.808% of the total city budget. Last year, it was 18.9%. Notice it's a decrease of almost 2%. Now, since the total budget has been increased over last year, the educational budget has been shortchanged at the end of the year. The total budget has been shortchanged at the expense of the other departments. Now, that is a comparison of New York City educational budgets from one year to another. Perhaps you read a few weeks back a study conducted by the New York Times of city expenses. That is, they compared New York City's expenses with the expenses of 10 other cities. And the analysis showed that the average of 10 cities, the average per capita budget for 10 cities for education was 29.5%. Now, that compares with the 17.1% of this year's budget. Now, I think a quick calculation will show you that New York is spending a vast amount less for education per capita. Not in gross amount, we will concede that the gross amount exceeds all other cities. But that, but you must also remember that New York City is the largest city. But in capita expenditure, New York is spending 12.5% less than the average of 10 other cities. Take, that's about one-eighth of the present budget. You see that you've got a figure of perhaps about $190 million, just a stupendous amount. I'd like to point out one other thing, my second contention that the salaries of educational employees are perhaps being cheated. If I take the educational budget for the last three years, that is, the 53-54 proposed budget, the 52-53 and the 51-52, for teachers' salaries, in 51-52, teacher salaries were 80.8% of the educational budget. In 52-53, they were 78.5% of the budget. In 53-54, they were 77.4% of the budget. Now, why should teachers' salaries be a decreasing part of the budget? Well, obviously, the city, like every other agency, has to pay more and more for the things it has to buy. But, as it pays more and more for goods and services, then certainly the teachers who are living in the same economy, and paying for the same kinds of goods and services, should also be increased. In other words, then the city has saved money in the operation of the education budget at the expense of teacher salaries. Now, as a matter of fact, if you take this decreasing percentage, which is 3.4% over the last three years, and prorate it onto the present budget, it would amount to $9 million. That's $9 million just on New York City budgets that should be going to increase salaries for teachers. I would like to point out a few other items in the education budget. In my third contention, that it's been the high school division of the education department, which has been shortchanged in the present budget. Just one general statement before that, I'd like to point out that the mayor, in trimming the education budget of $15 million, requested by the Board of Education for repairs and modernization of equipment, he allowed only $5 million. I should have said that was $15 million. And you can see the result of that, in that buildings shall become rundown, that classrooms will be conducted in substandard, uncomfortable, poorly heated, and very often unsanitary schools. The mayor has cut from the modest request of the Board of Education for an increase of $3 million for teaching supplies, and allotted the puny increase of $383,000. This, as you know, gentlemen, always in the context of increasing prices. I would like to say a word about the high school salary picture. Again, I'm in the area now of how the high school department has been cheated in comparison with other members of the educational department. Now, high school teachers, since 1930, excuse me, since 1939, have received an increase of 44% in salary. That's in face of a 90% increase in the cost of living. I may add that supervisors have had only an increase of 30% in the same period. Again, balance that against a 90% increase in the cost of living. In other words, again, the city is saving at the expense of the cost of the standard of living of its teachers in the high schools. I'd like to point out that in the same period that the city has recognized that elementary salaries have been too low and they have raised them until they're up now about 80%, and next year they will go to 90%. Now, there's no reason why high school salaries should not be increased in the same proportion as other divisions. Now, it has been maintained that the city has to face the fact that throughout the country that there isn't a single salary for teachers. Now, we in the high schools question that philosophy. However, however, regardless of the fact of whether you support one salary for teachers or not, the fact remains that you have to take care of your present high school teachers. If you wish to make a single salary, then you've got to bring the elementary school teachers at least up to the high school salaries which have been adjusted to the cost of living. And that has been far from being done. And may I say that the low salaries that are being paid high school teachers is showing up now and in two years is going to prove much worse. It is impossible, gentlemen, to get certain types of teachers in the high schools today. You cannot get certain kinds of vocational teachers because they can go outside and get a job at a much higher rate of pay. You cannot get science teachers for the same reason. A teacher who has, a man who has majored in chemistry when he comes out of college can get a much better paying job than a high school teacher teaching chemistry. Now, at the present time this has been hidden to you because of decreasing registers in the high schools. But it will not be long before the increased birth rate will show up in the high schools. And believe me, gentlemen, I warn you that there's going to be a crisis in the high schools because you will not get the teachers to cover these classes. Now, we note with particular significance that despite the tightness of the budget that the mayor saw fit to incorporate an allowance of $1 million, approximately $900,000, for an increase in pay for the custodial staff in the schools. Now, the teachers do not begrudge any increase to any group of city employees. We know how poorly paid they are as compared with groups outside the city. However, what we do note with significance is that this pay increase was granted to a group which threatened last December to go out on strike at the first snowfall. Now, we ask you, is this a lesson in tactics that must be learned the hard way by other city employees? In respect to the academic high schools, we would like to point out that the education department requested 161 term substitutes for the fall term of 1953 to take care of the bulge in school population at that time. That's a fact. There's going to be more in at that time. The mayor granted only 120 of these positions. The education budget asked for 50 full-time teachers. The mayor allowed none. There's only one response. Now, remember, this is a tentative budget based on the fact that perhaps the transit authority would be acceptable. What will be done if the other budget is adopted is impossible to contemplate? Now, the effect of the mayor's indiscriminate budget slashing of these minimum requests by the academic high school means that already oversized classes shall become even larger. It must be noted that in the fall of 1952, there were more than 41% of the classes with registers of more than 35 pupils. And may I say at this point that if you look at the education budget, you will see an average class size of 25. Yet 41% of the classes had registers of more than 35 pupils. Well, you wonder, how can it say an average class size when almost half the classes had 35 or more? Well, of course, the trick is that when they consider the average class size, they include supervisors. They include teachers who are assigned to other jobs, managing cafeterias and so on, jobs that have to be done by somebody, incidentally. Teachers who are engaged in guidance. So that, please do not be fooled when you look at the educational budget and you see an average class size of 25. It doesn't mean a thing. The education department also asks for 60 library assistants. We changed to 60 teacher librarians. The item was eliminated, but we would like to call your attention that by state law, each high school must have a teacher librarian, not a librarian assistant. The education budget requested 17 new laboratory assistants for the high schools. The mayor eliminated all 17 positions. Now, these people were to be used in connection with the science program, were to be used in connection with the visual aids program. They've been eliminated. It means that those programs are to be crippled to that extent. The mayor also eliminated 130 positions requested for reduction of oversized classes. Eliminated also 30 positions requested for remedial work with foreign-born students. And incidentally, I'm sure you must be aware of the tremendous problem which is posed by the influx of Puerto Ricans in our city. These children need special instruction because they do not speak the language. You need special teachers, you need small classes. And you have to make special arrangements for them. In regard to the vocational high schools, the mayor eliminated the request made by the Board of Education for $1 million approximately to pay vocational teachers for an extra period of service requested by the vocational division. Now, we commend the mayor for eliminating this item. We believe that the tendency in all employment is the shortening of the day, not the increasing of the day. However, so that the teachers can work at a shorter day while the pupils work on a longer day, you have to have more teachers. Now, to take care of this problem, the mayor assigned 175 positions. But, at the same time, he eliminated 175 other positions. Now, as unworldly as teachers are, they can still take 75, add 75, and subtract 175, I should have said 175 in both cases, and still get zero. In other words, there's no provision in this present budget to allow for the fact that the pupils in the schools have a longer day, whereas the teachers are working a period shorter. Now, incidentally, may I say that this is no unusual attention given to vocational teachers. They are working on exactly the same length of day as all other teachers, either in the academic high schools, junior high schools, or elementary high schools. It's just that to receive federal money, the Smith Hughes money, the pupils have to serve an extra period. Now, I think perhaps the parents and the taxpayers of New York City will realize, ultimately, the farcical nature of a procedure which permits our politicians to make line-by-line cuts in education budgets which have been prepared by experts after consultation with the teaching staff. Compounding the evil in this budget, as I pointed out before, is a fact that already the members of various divisions had been in constant consultation with the budget director and tried to keep their budget to a minimum in the first place. It must be noted, too, that even if the complete request of the Board of Education had been granted by the mayor, the budget would have been completely unsatisfactory. Now, we are asking for high school teachers. I have pointed out to you how the education budget has been smaller, percentage-wise as compared with other departments. We are asking that in the high school division, an $850 across-the-board increase be granted to all members of the high school staff. And we believe that those who are in the supervisory positions should be granted increases which are commensurate with the increase in the cost of living. Thank you very much. Dr. Halloran, in your statement, you made this observation last year, talking about percentages and referring to the New York Times. Now, I didn't see that editorial. No, it was a study. Well, what- It's not on page one. I have a copy of it. What cities did it incorporate into that statement? Thank you, Bob. What cities? It's the leading cities. Philadelphia, Los Angeles, San Francisco, Chicago. Well, the distinction between those and the city of New York, Chicago, I know, has four or five budgets. I mean, they have a general budget which includes education. They have a sanitation budget which is separate. They have a park department budget. They have a water budget. They have all separate budgets which would not necessarily reflect the percentages that you arrive at here. And I think if you have an opportunity to study that, you'll find that the percentages that you incorporate in this statement is not quite fair as against the city of New York. Well, as I say, the study was in the New York Times. Now, actually, I assume from the study, which was also made in connection with transit costs, that they were weighted averages. That is, they made allowances for different means by which the budget was made up. Well, I didn't see that, but I mean Paul Kroll said in his article on the study that at one point, it's impossible to weight out where they have more than one budget. Well, I would say this, though. I imagine that there probably could be much criticism of the study. But I do think that where you show a 12.5 percent differential with an average of 10 cities, it seems to me that certainly there must be a significant difference between what is spent for education in New York and what is being spent for education in other cities. Well, that many of those cities have four or five different budgets, whereas the city budget, I mean, everything is incorporated into one. Naturally, if you apply education towards the city of New York budget, you're going to get a lower percentage. And I don't know whether they were weighted. I can't criticize the article because I haven't seen it, but that statement has been made before. And it was found. I mean that the city of New York percentages for education even exceeded some of those budgets when you take all those budgets into account. I do think, though, that in the city of New York where we have such a large population and where the budget is so large that it impresses people that $267 million is being given to education, but they forget that that's being spread over a population of 8 million people. Well, we realize that. Thank you very much. Dr. Lefkowitz, Abraham Lefkowitz. Mr. Lefkowitz. Mr. Lefkowitz, Abraham Lefkowitz. Daniel F. Gunsher. I represent the United Teachers CIO. Is this adjustable? We're a new group. I'll explain very briefly that we've been organizing teachers on the grounds that we will attempt to restore the democratic balance in employer-employee relationships. You know that New York City as a corporation is practically alone in the United States today in that it never really deals directly with its employees. And we would like to see the time when the City of New York simply, through its elected representatives, sits down with its employees and works out a program as to what the employees need as well as what the city needs. We're also dedicated to restoring teaching to a professional status instead of being a part-time job. And we're trying to create a strong body of anti-communist, anti-fascist teachers. Have them organized so they can perform effectively. Now I've been designated by my organization to report to the Board of Estimate the crazy state of affairs that exists over an education. For one thing, the Board of Education, in its message, accompanying its budget request, said teachers deserve a raise. Now if they think we need a raise, why don't they put it into the budget? I asked them that and they didn't give me an answer. Since their budget request anyway has to be acted upon by you. It doesn't make sense. And I'd hate to have to try to explain that to a class. We deserve a raise, but they don't ask for it. Then when we went to Albany to try to get the money, the Board of Education sends a message urging that our salary increase bills be defeated. So they won't ask for it, and they won't ask the city for it, and they ask the state not to give it to us. I hope the Board of Estimate appreciates the deep loyalty and devotion shown to it by the Board of Education. However, since the Board of Education has abdicated, we're here to ask you to fix our salaries. We realize that the Board of Education should do so, but they have abdicated. To restore teaching to professional status, you need a schedule of $4,000 to $8,000 and 10 equal steps. The reasoning behind that is simple. First of all, in 1939, $4,500 would have purchased a little more than, but let's say roughly, what a $4,000 to $8,000 schedule today would purchase. However, nobody's particularly worried about the fact that an employee cannot make ends meet, since that's his headache and that's his problem. But, you see, the problem of education is the problem of all the people of New York City. And this Board of Estimate has the power to do something on the subject. Now, this salary schedule for teachers is the minimum level at which teachers' salaries can successfully compete for recruits with other professions. You may not like us teachers, or you may love us, but you may not be able or willing to pay us what we deserve. However, when you pay us low salaries, then you have the problem of this graduating class in June. The colleges will be graduating their classes in June. Now, who among you here would advise a young man who has leadership, who is kind-hearted, decent, intelligent, bright, and I would assume that's the kind of people you want hanging around with your kids. Now, which of you here would recommend that a college person with those characteristics go into teaching today? If the guy's bright, if the guy has leadership qualities, he's crazy to go into teaching. Now, that is the situation that the Board of Estimate has to face, even if you're not in tears over the situation in education today. You are losing the best people to other professions. And there are very few professions, there are very few occupations in this world, which require people of superior merit to those that teaching requires. Now, think about it. If you had to choose among all the professions and decide where the best people go, how far down would you have education? That is, teachers, the people who have to deal with the children. I think we could do, with poorer quality, even in architecture, in engineering, in the law, in a number of other professions, just so that we got the best dealing with our children. Now, if you want to cut salaries or you want to save money, you can cut salaries and you can bring in anybody off the street and make them a teacher. They'll fill the jobs. But the question is, what is the effect on the children? What kind of education do you want to give to our children? Now, this salary schedule I'm talking about is the minimum level at which teaching can become a one-job profession. This is the point at which you can say to a teacher, look, bud, you're being well paid. Put in all your time in teaching and let it go at that. Instead, today, you have teachers who teach in day school and then in evening school. And then the summer comes and they're teaching in summer school. And some of them are teaching in summer evening school. Now, I ask you, when September comes around again, what kind of spirit does this person bring into the classroom? He's fed up with kids. He's seen them in the daytime. He's seen them in the evening. He's seen them in the summer. Now, that is the situation that you have to face, not your concern over my particular need for a salary increase. It's almost, we're almost embarrassed to ask for a raise because it's so selfish. But you have to take into account the condition of education and what you want to give the kids. The $4,000 to $8,000 salary schedule, which right now, in terms of the drama of this budget, which is shrinking even as I talk, I have the feeling that we better settle for what we have now because in a day from now, it'll be even less. This $4,000 to $8,000 salary schedule is a minimum level of which you can create the fierce competition for teaching positions which marked the 1930s and which resulted in giving New York City the greatest group of teachers ever assembled. And I'll stack up the teachers of New York City who got into the system from 1930 to 1940 against any group of people in the city or in the country for any type of test, any type of characteristic of leadership or what you will. It was an outstanding group because you used to have 800 college graduates with master's degrees competing for 25 jobs. Let me tell you, the board of examiners really could select people. Now that was only some 14 or 15 years ago when that situation existed. Some of these people are still in the system and they're putting in a day's work. Don't get the idea that any teacher soldier is on the job. Or let's put it this way. We have our weaklings and we have our strong people, but in the main, the teacher comes in each day and he tries to do a day's work. When we say that more money makes for better teaching, we simply mean that it enables the teacher to come in more relaxed, more willing to spend time with the kids, and better able to do the job. I want to remind you that in June, another college class graduates. I'm wondering if any of you are going to recommend that their best students go into teaching. Seriously. Anybody that you know personally. Another aspect of the crazy state of affairs, Mr. Halloran mentioned it earlier. There are thousands of classes with more than 35 children. Now, wherever you have overflow children standing around the room, wherever you place two children together in one seat, you are creating a discipline problem. When two kids sit together, there's a temptation to talk. It's too easy to talk and there's every reason to talk. And when they talk, the kid behind them can't hear. And when that happens, the teacher stops the class and says, please stop talking. And that's the beginning. And when you make it 36 and 37 and 38, after a while, what you're doing is teaching, you bring kids into the classroom by compulsion, and then you're teaching them to flout authority, to show disrespect for people in positions of authority, and you are beginning the creation of a new delinquency problem. Now, let's get it straight. What can we bring you from the classroom? We can only tell you about our experience. Any classroom which has more than 35 kids is beginning the decline of some child into delinquency because either the child has no seat and he looks out the window and his mind wanders and he isn't getting the education we want him to, or he's talking and he's beginning to be a discipline problem when the kid had the best intentions in the world and had no desire to run into conflict. And when the classroom is noisy, when the classroom is overcrowded, the teacher begins to lose his authority. And when he does, respect for all authority goes by the board. That's what you have to consider now when you look at the number of classes over 35. And once for all, let's get this notion about average class size figures laid. Let's get rid of them because any figures talking about average class size are lying and misleading. They are useless. They don't mean a thing. My principal doesn't teach a class. So to count him in as one of the people you have taking care of the kids and therefore bringing about a class average of whatever it is that you say is misleading. And if it's misleading, don't use it. It's a lie. What you have to look at is the number of classes over 35. Those are absolute danger points. Just as we, of course, have said for a long time a class should be 25 in size. But we're yielding on all of that thanks to the dramatic action of the budgeteers and so on who have made us afraid to even ask for anything. We're yielding on all that. And I tell you, classes of 30 to 35 are not suitable. But 35 and over are real danger spots. Only by a reduction in class size and a raise in salaries for teachers will you restore New York City to its position of world leadership in education. The notion that the mayor expressed recently that if we don't get the transit authority, things are going to be even worse. I don't believe that that's going to happen. Things are bad enough in the school system now. I don't know how you people could take the responsibility for creating more delinquents in New York City. If you're planning to take the classes which are now running 35, 38, 40, 42, and you're going to throw more kids in there, you're going to be responsible for the creation of a severe problem. Now, I don't see how you can do that. I don't know how you'll take it on your consciences. So the mayor's statement, it seems to me, will not take place. That means that whether you get the transit authority or whether you don't get the transit authority, don't start threatening what already is inadequate by making it worse. And for heaven's sakes, you're going to pick on people, pick on grown-ups, and don't pick on the children, and then ball out the children and say the modern generation is going to the dogs. You are the people who can make it possible for us to inculcate the ideals of democracy in these kids and to have them practice it day by day. And you should not fluff the opportunity. Now, let's take a look at teachers just very quickly, a little bit selfishly. Everybody working for the city of New York gets paid when he goes on jury duty except teachers. Now, we don't mind being social-minded citizens and so on, but we don't understand why we're singled out for these signal honors. You know, even in the Board of Education, everybody gets paid for jury duty except teachers. If you're an architect, an engineer, if you're a clerk, if you're an elevator operator for the Board of Education, you turn in your $3 a day and you get paid, even though you served on jury duty. If you're a teacher, your classes are left to somebody else. You go on jury duty and you take the rap. All right, that's just one of the minor items. Let's take a second item, and here is a case where you people, the members of the Board of Estimate, have taken care of your own interests in a sensible way, but you've seen to it that we can't take care of our own interests in a sensible way. There's a New York City employee's retirement system, and there's a New York City teacher retirement system, and they're separate. Now, take a person who was born on the same day I was, but is working for the city in some department instead of for the Board of Education, and let us say that he's earning the same amount that I am and that his job is of the same physical requirement that mine is. He pays less money to his retirement system than I do, and when he retires and I retire, let's say, on the same day, he will collect more money if he and I take an option. He will get more money than I will. Now, the question is, why? It seems so silly on the surface. People born same day, same life expectancy, same income, etc., same history. If you work in one department for the city, you get less than the other. We check. Now, here's the answer. The New York City employee's retirement system is run by, directly, the Board of Estimate. And when the actuary came to the Board of Estimate and said, boys, how about a plan in which your system gets less money when you take an option on retirement, the Board of Estimate said no. We don't want that. All right, now go over to the teacher's retirement system. The actuary came to the teacher's retirement system and said, look, when you take an option, you should lose some money on this transaction. How about it? Lo and behold, our leaders accepted it. Well, how do you explain it? The answer is that our retirement system is run by seven people, three teachers, and four appointed, is it the controller's office or the mayor's office that appoints them? Mayor appoints them. Mayor appoints them. The controller. The charter. The charter provides for it. Yes. The mayor appoints the majority. So, this majority voted for us to take the cut. That was very nice of them. There's nothing we can do about it. That's it. But the Board of Estimate showed us the way. You see, if the Board of Estimate had accepted the plan which applies to teachers, they personally would have retired on less money if they took an option. So, they know how to protect their interests, and they did. But we take the rap. Now, this is a fact, and I'll pause if anybody cares to contradict the facts in this case. Now, this is something that annoys teachers, and I know it's a minor matter. Something should be done to adjust it in our lifetime. Let's go to a third case, where if a city employee borrows money from his annuity, from the pension system, his loan is insured. If he should die, before he pays the money back, his estate isn't going to be asked for it. Insurance will take care of it. If a teacher should die while he's in debt, his estate has to pay back the money. The city employee pays for that insurance. We're willing to pay for it, too. It's a trifling sum. It's nothing. Well, I'm not so sure. I don't want to contradict you on where you talk about the difference between city employees. And I don't have the figures here to refute what you say, but I'm still in doubt whether or not you're right. Well, I'm not, sir. And it's my duty to bring here the facts as we know. I don't mean to argue with you, but I wouldn't want to let it go unchallenged. I mean, because the teacher's retirement system was in existence prior to the New York City employees' retirement system. And it's a question as to the rates fixed by the actuary, who happens to be the actuary for New York City employees as well. Well, teachers' retirement system, one advantage that the teacher's retirement system did have, and I think it's perhaps now reduced to 10 days, that the teachers could take a deathbed option the day that they died. But you go ahead. Well, I don't know how that applies here, sir, but all I want to say is there was a day when they said the teacher's retirement system was the best in the world. And there was a day when teaching was the best profession in the world, and those days are gone. We used to get pensions when nobody else did. But now people are getting pensions who don't pay a penny for them. And we're still paying heavily. Well, I don't know what you mean by that. Unless you're referring to, you mean New York City employees getting pensions without paying? No, I mean the whole community, the people in the country. Private industry. Yes. Well, that's true. The teacher's retirement system was one of the oldest systems. And now one of the most backward. Well, I don't know. I mean, they passed what was known as the Clancy Law last year that permitted them to get the same benefits insofar as roughly 150th on the number of years that the city employees get. Well, there's another illustration of discrimination against teachers. When was the Clancy Law for City Employees passed? The year before. That's right. In every case where reforms come, we're way behind. And the 75%, 25% pension plan for police and firemen, that's in the future, I presume. That's in existence now, to be frank. Well, for the firemen and policemen. But for teachers, when do we get it? Oh, I don't know. That's the point I'm making, that in every respect, we're behind the eight ball. Now, I want to conclude with this report on what the present point of view in financing of education has done to teaching. We're losing our best college graduates to other professions. We're losing some of our best teachers to other professions. Now, we got our charter in October, and we're a young organization. Already, we lost a member because he quit teaching to go into electrical engineering. You have created another situation, and this is where I think we can be of some use to you in pointing out what ought to be eliminated. You've created a situation where you have geography teachers who haven't seen the United States. You have Spanish teachers who've never been to Spain or Mexico. You have history teachers who have never seen Congress in action because they haven't gotten to Washington. You have English teachers who never buy a book or see a stage play because they can't do it. They have to outfit their families and pay the rent and take care of them. You have teachers who don't belong to professional societies because what's the use of paying dues? You can't go to meetings. You're teaching in evening school. I defy you to state a time when you can call a meeting after school of teachers. Somebody's always working. So the idea of the 30s that teachers had some leisure to mark papers, to spend some time with the kids in the playground or with a club or anything of that sort, the thought that teachers would give some time in the evening to the overall problems of their profession, that's gone. That's dead. You've got a couple of people who are looking for promotion who will meet because it's a matter there, too, of dollars and cents. And the rest of them have said, this is my part-time job. I'll give it all I can. Part of my time. You have made teaching, as I said, a part-time job. And in the process, by the way, you have bled some teachers white with this double and triple job holding. And those who are the heads of families and those who are the most capable and competent, they're really bled white. You all know teachers. We're not talking about something in a vacuum. You know those people who have to support a family are really taking a rough beating, especially when they have to cancel all professional interests in order to meet the needs of the family. You see, you can't bring up people to be teachers and educate them and develop their tastes and tell them they have to be culturally alive and awake and then say to them, live like somebody who hasn't been trained that way. I want to tell you that there are dozens of classes every single day that go uncovered. You can't get enough substitutes. The other day, and this is the truth, I'm not making up any illustrations just for the sake of effect, I picked up a kid who had a shiner this high. I said, what happened? It was fresh. It was fresh made. He had been hit in the eye with an eraser. Well, all right, those things have been going on for years. But I would say that you as a parent would not like the idea of my permitting it in my classroom because you're paying me to see to it that the kids come home safe and sound. When I checked as to where this kid got it and so on, his class hadn't been covered. It was now 10 o'clock and we still hadn't gotten a substitute to take the place of the ill teacher. You see, in a large high school, for example, you may have as many as 8 or 10 people out of 250 ill. Well, you can average about 6 or 7 subs. And classes every day go uncovered. What's the reason? The pay is so unattractive to college graduates that they're not going into it. So there's nobody waiting around to speak of to come in and fill the job. There are no apprentices. There are not enough apprentices around. Now, that is the price you pay when you economize in education. Here is one that should set your hair on end because the board last year raised the age limit for substitutes to 70 years. A man who is 70 years of age will be given a substitute shop license to teach in a vocational school. A man who is 70 years of age will be permitted to do his first day of teaching as a substitute because they're so desperate for people with these trade talents. Now, I'd like to see what happens to the average 70-year-old when the bell rings in our vocational schools where we have so many kids who are underprivileged and come from poor neighborhoods and have had a rough time of it and so on. When that bell rings and these kids go down helter-skelter and you have a 70-year-old in the way. It's ridiculous. Not that this brings in a 70-year-old. I doubt that they were able to get anybody. But the 65-year limit wasn't enough. So they had to raise it. Now, this is the age of the greatest prosperity of the people of New York City. If you can't pay for education this year, I'd like to know what year you're going to pay for it. Are we to wait for a time when the Board of Estimates will say, well, the people are starving. There's a depression on it. You want to raise? No, that's out. So we can't wait for the depression. This is the period of greatest prosperity. It's inconceivable. It's unthinkable that the city of New York should be starving while the people of New York City are doing very well. Greatest prosperity in their history. I don't understand. And what I'd like to ask the Board of Estimates now is, are you of the opinion that New York City can never, never meet its obligations? Is that the point of all of these maneuverings? I'd like to ask the Board of Estimates if that's the case. Is New York City, under its present setup, inherently unable to meet its obligations? Is it? Well, I mean, the city of New York, I mean, have certain constitutional restrictions. And those constitutional restrictions were asked to be increased in Albany, and we haven't got them. I mean, there's constitutional amendments that haven't gone through. Notwithstanding, I mean that we may be in prosperity, the individuals in the city of New York. But the constitutional amendments haven't been changed in about over 50 years. And that's one of the things that does hamstring the city of New York and the Board of Estimates and the mayor in submitting his executive budget. So some of the laws, I mean, are perhaps a little antiquated. Well, supposing we assume that Governor Dewey is not any more friendly toward us than he is at the moment, or let's say the future governors will not be too friendly, then would you say with neutral or unfriendly governors, New York City is inherently incapable of solving its financial problems? Well, as the way the laws stand right now, the answer is yes. All right. Now, if that is the case, of course, then to beat you people over their heads and say you should give us the money and call your names and so on seems to be out of the question. At the same time, I would say this. If New York City is in a tough spot, well, start looking for honest economies so that at least people have conviction that all is being done that should be done. But second, if after you've done all that you claim you can do, you still can't solve the problem because you don't have the power, then for heaven's sakes, don't be silent 11 months a year and then one month during the year raise a little rumpus for the record and then become quiescent and silent again. If the mayor of the city of New York, for example, had said, folks, we're getting a raw deal, and I'm not urging this particularly, but supposing he'd said this, when you pay your income tax this week, mail it to the tax commission of New York State, care of City Hall, and the mayor would have held our tax returns and said, State of New York, you are absolutely and manifestly unfair to New York City. If you won't play ball with us, we won't play ball with you. You would have gotten the governor to sit down with you on a quid pro quo basis. You see, if we're being shortchanged by the state of New York, let's fight them, and let's arouse 8 million people of New York City who will support you. I know that not only will our small group of teachers support you and will our CIO civil servants support you, but all of the city and state CIO members will support you in an honest-to-goodness effort, and I'm sure the AFL will support you, and for heaven's sakes, you have friends, get them stirred up. We should be able, 8 million of us, to right an unjust situation. And frankly, I don't see it now. In all fairness, in all honesty, if this present administration really is being shortchanged by the state government, I, as a humble citizen, don't see you putting up a fight at all. I don't see you fighting at all. I don't see you asking delegations to go up with you. I don't see the mayor of New York handing out leaflets on the street of New York saying, folks, here's the situation. We should be getting more money. It's coming to us. It's fair. It's just. It's proper. And they're taking it from us. And they're taking it from the kids. And they're taking it from the employees. And they're taking it from the hospitals. If that thing were done by you, the mayor, the board of estimate, and all your friends, and we came along with you, there's no question that you'd get a special session of the legislature. And there's no question that you'd get rid of these antiquated laws. For heaven's sakes, stop shadow boxing. Thank you. Mrs. Lynn Love. Mrs. Lynn Love here. May Healy. May Healy. Edgar McKnight. Edgar McKnight. George Brown. Douglas Miller. Fred Ciafon. C-I-A-F-O-N-E. Anthony J. Tini. T-I-N-I. George A. Foley. Mary. With your kind permission, I would like to speak for Mr. Foley. He's present, but feels that I, being a few years his junior, my voice might carry a little better. My name is Marian Rosenstein. I'm an employee of the Department of Housing and Buildings, and I represent Local A24 of the state, county, and municipal workers in the Department. Local A24 of this Department endorses the program and sentiments outlined in detail by Mr. Jerry Wirth of the American Federation of State, County, and Municipal Employees, and by Mr. Quinn of the Central Trades and Labor Council of New York. We have long been advocating the enactment of legislation which would give all city employees the benefit of mandatory increments, and we hope that the Trulich bill will receive the favorable consideration it deserves. However, we strongly urge you to provide funds in this current budget sufficient to cover an interim salary increase for inspectors in the third and fourth grades of the department, as well as clerical employees in the fourth and fifth grades to ensure that these long-suffering servants will receive some financial relief in the event the Trulich bill is not passed. Of course, you have the power to eliminate such an appropriation should our hopes concerning the Trulich bill be fulfilled. I think you are all very well aware of the vital services rendered by our department, particularly in these critical times, so I shall not bore you with any of those details. I want to emphasize, however, that the Department of Housing and Buildings is virtually self-sustaining because of the fees collected from owners and tenants and from large and small companies for obtaining permits for building and altering structures for licenses, searches, and other services, which accrued the sum of $1,857,904 to the department in 1952. This substantial figure is due in a great measure to the fact that the aforementioned fees were increased not a long time ago. The increased fees for filing plans received unanimous endorsement from all architectural concerns with the express understanding that it would be a means of providing long overdue salary adjustments as well as of augmenting the staff of the department. I want to elaborate right here in mentioning the architectural concerns. As you're all aware, the staff has been greatly overburdened because of all the plans being filed within the last few years, because of the additional inspections being made, because of the bad conditions now prevalent in the city, and these architects kept hounding us for better service, for quicker service, and all of that, of course, was necessary. Hence, the understanding that the increased fees would go toward augmenting the staff and raising salaries. While the staff has been augmented in recent months to alleviate somewhat the personnel shortage, the salary increases never materialized. We respectfully submit the above in hopes that you will give earnest consideration to the plight of the employees of the Department of Housing and Buildings in preparing and approving the current expense budget. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bernice Rogers. I'm Bernice P. Rogers. I'm an attorney. And I'm here representing a group of the most hardworking, underpaid, and equally the worst maligned city employees in the city of New York. And gentlemen of the press, I ask one of you to have the courage to print the true facts about this department instead of waiting for the occasional act of a male factor and then pounce on them. I speak, gentlemen, of the inspectors of the Department of Housing and Buildings. I don't know whether you are aware of the fact that since 1920, the number of apartments in the city of New York has doubled. There are now 1,800,000 individual apartments in the city of New York, and that does not count lodging houses, furnished room houses, hotels, or converted dwellings. These are only the usual residents' apartments. What about complaints in the same era? They have not doubled. They have not quadrupled, but they are 600% more, gentlemen, 600% more than they were in 1920. And the staff that is supposed to service 600% more complaints is exactly the same number. Now, this is an impossible situation. The budget director's office, not known for its generosity, I assure you, estimates that an inspector can cover 12 apartments in a good day's work. 12 inspections is not half of the man's work. An inspector must make an original inspection. He must make a re-inspection. He must make an inspection for the purpose of dismissals, all of which are not considered by the budget director's office. But we will take his figure of 12 apartments in one day. The budget director, with his usual generosity, also admits that there are but 225 working days a year. I know your head is probably as bewildered with figures as mine is from sitting here all day. But pencil and paper will show you, then, that an inspector, if he works at top speed and without allowing time for writing reports, can cover 2,700 apartments a year. But he doesn't have 2,700 apartments. He has 1,800,000 apartments. So that, learned members of this council, means that you should have a minimum of 650 inspectors just to make initial inspections. And what have you got? Not only to make initial inspections, but to make re-inspections, to make dismissal requests. Have you got 650 altogether? No. No. You have in the entire department 325. And this 325 is not all available for inspectorial service. Of that 325, there are now 30 working on a cycle inspection. And for your information, a cycle inspection is the way the Department of Housing and Building and Buildings should be run. That means that an inspector does not wait for a complete show. You have in the entire department 325. And this 325 is not all available for inspectorial service. Of that 325, there are now 30 working on a cycle inspection. And for your information, a cycle inspection is the way the Department of Housing and Buildings should be run. That means that an inspector does not wait for a complaint to come in, but goes out and investigates. You say, why look for work? Well, this is the reason. Complaints don't ordinarily involve the really hazardous situation because a tenant isn't interested in that. A tenant doesn't have enough knowledge to know what is a fire hazard, to know whether a wall is properly fire retardant. A tenant is not going to write in a complaint that he or she herself has let out rooms for furnished room houses, furnished room purposes, thereby creating a terrific fire hazard. No, their complaints involve painting and decorating, lack of hot water, something like that. It takes skill to find the real serious complaints. And that only can be done by cycle, block by block, house by house inspection. So 30 men, 30 out of the 325 throughout the five boroughs of the city of New York are now assigned to cycle inspections. Another 30, another 32 have been taken out of the field and are working indoors, doing what amounts to almost clerk work. So you have, in essence, 263 men to do three times the amount that the budget director estimates 650 men can do. Now this is blatantly and absolutely impossible. Now were you, were you to give the department some of the men it needed, what would you look for? What qualifications must they have? One, they must be mechanics. Two, they must know about plumbing. They must know all about electricity. They must know all about fire prevention and fire retarding as much as a fireman has to know. They must know all about electricity. They must know about painting. They must know about bricklaying. They must know about masonry work. And with all due respects to the representative of the law department, they must, in essence, know all about municipal administrative law. They must be fully familiar with the administrative code. They must have memorized the multiple dwelling law. And two of you members of this learned board have had to do that task and know how difficult it is. You, Borough President Wagner, you, Ms. Whaley. These men, in addition, must learn the sanitary code and all its provisions. They must be trained and skilled in courtroom procedure so that those of us who oppose them in the courts don't confuse them. So they must be television experts now. Not only that, they must have strong hearts and stout bodies because to make an inspection, they have to walk. Not one flight a day, not two flights a day, but in every walk-up house they go in, they have to walk from cellar to the roof. That is eight flights a day in every, not a day, eight flights in every building that they go into. And for this, for this job, for this knowledge, knowledge which I don't believe a single person in this room has, not a single person sitting behind that round circle there, passing on what these men are to earn, I don't believe one of you gentlemen has the skill or the knowledge required of them. And for that, what do they get outside of all of the, they're the whipping boys always of the city administration. They take the blame for every fire, every person killed in a tenement. And what are they paid for that? Less than $60 a week is their take-home pay. Not one of the men in one of the professions I have enumerated that doesn't earn double that. And they have to know more than any of these people and get paid half of it and take the abuse, and abuse is the only word for it, of the citizenry, of the commissioners, of the city administration, none of whom has ever stood up for these men if they have gotten into a jam, of the press, of the public. They do the work for the rent control. During Prohibition days, they had to accompany the G-men into apartments because of the quirk of the law. And for that, they get under $60 a week. And they've asked me to come here today because not one of them, of the 325 men, and this you can do for me because it doesn't cost you any money. Just use your imagination. There are 325 men here back of me. But we talked it over, and not one of them took the day off to come down to lay his plan, his request before you because he felt that the job he owed the city was even more important. Had we known that we would be here at quarter past six, we would have filled this council chamber with the 325 of them because this is after hours. But they didn't come. And they didn't even ask me to dwell on their salary, if one can call it that. Rather, it's petty larceny. They didn't even ask me to dwell on the things that the other organizations have dwelled on. The 40-hour week, the time and a half for overtime. Oh, and I didn't mention that these men are assigned to night duty, to holiday duty, to Saturday duty, to Sunday duty, with no time and a half for overtime. But they didn't ask that you dwell on that. They asked solely that you people abide by the oaths of office that you took to do your duty to the citizens of the city of New York and give them not more money for themselves, though of course they want it and they need it, but give more men to the department so that they can properly do the job that you promised the people of the city of New York that you would do. Julian Mandel, Eugene Calamari, My name is Eugene Calamari. I represent the sanitation men for the city of New York in the name of local 111A of the building service Employees International Union, Deputy Mayor, Members of the Board of Estimate. This is a memorandum which we have submitted to direct the attention of the members of this board to some of the inequities which exist on behalf of 10,000 sanitation men employed by the city of New York, a large portion of which are members of this local union. It is well known and needs no repetition that sanitation men have the most laborious and hazardous job in this city. They are subjected to rigid discipline, regimentation, and are forced to maintain an extremely high level of production every day. Most of these men have large families and all of them are required to subsist on a substandard scale of wages. in October of 1951, this local, after a unanimous vote by its membership, led a long, costly, and bitter fight for the 40-hour week. As a result of which, the 40-hour week was promised to us by the department as a result of a fact-finding board appointed by the mayor and by the Board of Estimate. In violation of Section 160, Subdivision 3 of the State Labor Law, sanitation men now work eight hours and 24 minutes per day. The 24 minutes is taken from their lunch hour. The executive budget does not correct this condition. We demand a correction of this intolerable state of affairs so that sanitation men may have their full one hour for lunch restored. While we are aware of the alleged financial plight of the city of New York, nevertheless, it is grossly unfair for anyone to expect any class or group of citizens to assume more than their fair burden of taxation. By increasing the work week of sanitation men and failing to grant to them the necessary salary increases, this Board would place upon sanitation men an inequitable share of the tax burden. In other words, we are expected to pay the past and present transit and other deficits. The Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics estimates that a take-home pay for a family of four persons in the city of New York should be a minimum of $82.31. Sanitation men take home an average of $57, being far less than the recognized minimum standard. Sanitation men are now receiving considerably less than similar employees in private industries and are also receiving none of the benefits paid in private industries, such as premium pay for night work, overtime pay, premium pay for Saturday, Sunday, and holidays, employer-supported pension systems, free health insurance and other benefits. While at one time municipal employees received benefits not granted in private employment, that condition no longer exists, and the shoe is now on the other foot. The only benefit now enjoyed by city employees is the doubtful benefit of tenure. The executive budget discloses that 443 sanitation men jobs are eliminated from the budget. This in the face of the request by the commission of sanitation to fill 1,500 vacancies. Sanitation men perform a vital service in protecting the health and welfare of the general public. And there are fewer sanitation men now on the payroll than there were many years ago when the population of New York City was smaller than it is now. New residential construction is proceeding apace, new developments in the outlying boroughs are continuing, and the burden of waste collection is increasing daily. We urge very strongly that these jobs be restored to the budget and that the department request for additional men be granted. May we note in passing that each new residence or apartment house completed creates additional tax income. The following is a list of demands which the members of this organization make and which should be taken up at these budget hearings for the correction of intolerable conditions. We are asking for an $800 increase in wages. Gentlemen, in previous, several factors rising out of the end of controls point toward the raising of prices. Certainly with an upward movement in prices, the City of New York cannot let your city employees suffer. With the end of controls and rents increased up to 15%, an automatic adjustment of wages for sanitation men is in order. Sanitation men's local 111A again urges the City of New York to sit down with labor to iron out the inequities that exist. We will give our suggestions on ways and means to help the city in their problems with the state. Drastic economies, drastic cuts which hits the civil service employee right in the pocketbook should be taken care of right here and now. We certainly will cooperate fully and without salary for our services. To let the greatest city in the world become a place of desolation and ruin because of the strict economy forced on us is a dastardly crime. We strongly urge you, Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimate, to give this serious consideration. Second on our list is equal pay for equal work. Abolition of the difference in pay between sanitation men B and C. Inasmuch as they perform the same work and the civil service duties are identical, the difference is an artificial one and should have been abolished a long time ago. Number three is premium pay for Sunday and holiday work, night work and overtime pay for work over eight hours. Number four on our list is all bonuses made part of our basic wages. The only monetary consideration received by sanitation men since 1949 were given as bonuses. This allows the men who retire no better than a frugal existence after giving 25 or more years of service to the city of New York. We urge that all bonuses be made a permanent part of their salaries for the budget year 1953-54. Number five on our list is full sick pay to commence from the first day of illness. Sanitation men, according to the department regulations, lose the first day and one half when they are sick. This is an unfair policy carried out at the present time. In all fairness to men who are required to labor such as sanitation men and as budget lines call for an annual wage, we feel that sick pay is included. It is not the fault of the sanitation men if they are taken ill and it does not cost the city of New York additional budgetary requirements. Gentlemen, your attention is called to this inequity and a correction should be made immediately. Number six on our list is payment of prevailing rate of wages. The city, by collaboration between the office of the controller and the mayor's corporation council and the budget director, have succeeded in thwarting the prevailing rate claims of sanitation men by a series of technical legal maneuvers. We feel this is an anti-labor policy which should be abandoned. Number seven is full pay while on compensation. The city of New York carries their own insurance. Yet, when a sanitation man is hurt in the line of duty, he does not receive full pay. He is compensated with the great sum of $32 per week. How can a man take care of a family, especially when he is incapacitated, on $32 per week? These deplorable conditions exist today in this great year of our Lord, 1953. We urge the city of New York to balance out the salary so sanitation men will receive full pay when they are hurt in the line of duty. Number eight, we are looking for 30 days vacation. Gentlemen, in previous years, sanitation men were given 24 working days vacation. This is the first year in over a period of years that their vacations have been cut. They are now given only 20 days. This is a cut of four days in their vacation time. Although this is a department matter, it clearly shows that with the drastic economies ordered by the city of New York, the civil service workers are being deprived of some of the smallest fringe benefits that they have enjoyed in the past. In conclusion, gentlemen, the civil service worker is taking the brunt of the acts wielded by unfair politics created between the state and the city of New York. And as a labor union representing thousands of sanitation men and other civil service workers, we ask for equity and fairness. We refuse to be caught in the middle of a political wrangle. Now, gentlemen, I have a another request here. We represent other men. If you will allow me just about two minutes. We represent the laborers in the Department of Markets. I'm not a position. Sir, we had another speaker for this. He's unable to be here. Well, I'm sorry. You'll have to wait until we get to markets on that because we were taking them in order here. We have some other speakers listed from sanitation. Say it's just a list and that's about all it is. It will not take not even a minute, sir. All right? Whose place you're taking in markets? Mr. Joseph E. Donne. He's the chairman of our markets. Just a minute. Yes. Whose name? Mr. Joseph E. Donne. He's not listed as a speaker, sir. No, well, I'm sorry. However, we sent in two communications to the board of us. I'm sorry. We have no listing for that. It'll have to take its regular course. You can file that if you wish. Yes, I will. All right. Herbert White. Mr. Deputy Mayor, gentlemen of the board, my name is Herbert White and I'm a district superintendent of the Department of Sanitation for nearly 25 years. I represent the District Superintendent's Association of the Department of Sanitation. Our organization has appealed to you people for a number of years to correct the inequities and salaries salaries that have existed in this city in the uniformed departments of the city of New York. We are at this time again submitting a brief in which we point out the similarities of duties, responsibilities, educational training requirements, and organizational setups of these departments and the difference in salaries. That's police, fire, and sanitation. We had hoped that the proposed reclassification of all city employees would have aided in winning our just demands, but it appears that at present at least, reclassification is one of the first casualties of the economy drive. Many people may approve of this. We don't. We feel that our claims are justified and bear examination from every angle. We know and appreciate the difficulty your honorable board has in making wage adjustments at this time. and we will try to aid you by suggesting a revenue to make this adjustment without cost to the city or the general taxpayer later on. A district superintendent is in the same position as a manager of a branch agency of a large corporation, the city being the corporation. We have, we receive $5,400 base pay and under the, under our direction, nearly three quarters of a million dollars of the city's taxpayers' monies are expenders. We are in charge and responsible for a personnel of 200 men and planted equipment worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. That's not an exaggeration, gentlemen. That's all for $5,400. It takes considerable time to train men who can do these jobs justice. Modern business administration knows that turnover in key jobs is a very costly and expensive practice is avoided wherever possible. The Department of Sanitation lost over one-third of 40 superintendents in less than 22 years as there's no incentive for us to stay there after we got our time in. It is not, it is not for nearly, for purely selfish reasons that we are asking you to give our request consideration, but it is also in the best interest of the city that you give this matter your attention. I won't take up your time at this time to go into the details of the comparisons with the police and fire and sanitation department as the brief amplifies this. The brief is delayed, we'll send it in later. But I would like to point out another point that makes our demand still more justified. It is a well-established practice in wage administration in modern business that if wages are adjusted in an industry, they are raised on a percentage basis. The city followed this pattern last year when adjustments were made. Going back to about 1935, we find sanitation man, that is the entrance in our job, received about $1,890 per annum, while superintendents received $3,750. Today's sanitation man receive about $4,000 and the superintendent's salary with the bonus is less than $5,800. In other words, a 100% increase for our subordinates, about a 50% increase for ourselves. This is not to imply that a 100% increase was not justified. Anybody who had made a study of the progressive inflationary period knows that. But we feel our increase should have certainly been greater than the 100% if the general policy and wage administration had followed. Our organization now suggests that funds necessary to make this adjustment can easily be raised by increasing the dumping fees charged to the private cartman for disposal by the city of the refuse which they collect for a fee from private business. Several years ago, Mr. Lane must remember that, we recommended that this honorable board, to this honorable board, that this industry be charged cost of disposal and their dumping fees were raised consequently to about 20 cents per yard. Since that time, the city has enforced a sanitary law which forced the private cartman to use covered trucks in their operation. These trucks are compacted trucks and therefore carry at least twice the volume of the old open trucks with the same displacement. This industry dumped about 875 cubic yards at city disposal plans at 20 cents which was compacted. They actually received for this a 50% rebate as a compact the truck will carry about twice the volume of material that an open truck will carry that has the same displacement. A little simple arithmetic shows that the revenue from this operation was about $155,000 that the private cartman saved an equal amount by using compacted trucks. There's no reason that the city should subsidize this industry. In closing let me point out just one more thing. It is both to the interest of the city as well as to ourselves that you gentlemen give our demand for a $1,000 increase very serious consideration. There are less than 100 superintendents in the department and the cost of this increase would be about $80,000 considerable less than the suggested revenue. Now gentlemen I'd just like to add a few ad-lib statements. I've followed these board of estimate meetings for the last 20 years and I've taken a great deal of interest in the city. I have a responsible job in a small puddle anyway. I've got 200 men I supervise the expenditure of nearly three quarters of a million it's actually more than that dollars a year. now here we come down here every year for an adjustment of labor relations you have a corporation that spends $1,528,000 and you have no labor relations policy with all these men. You realize the frustration of men like us who work year in year out in the field have this one day in court down here at which no possible adjustments could possibly be made. It isn't possible. Why don't of course the Wagner bill I think Mr. Wagner initiated the bill in the council for labor relations but it's still floating along and to be implemented it's up to you gentlemen to see that it's implemented. It would simplify your job. You could weed out these jobs. Of course reclassification will to some degree take care of that whatever that materializes. But in the meantime at least have a labor relations facilities like any corporation even small businesses have. How can you possibly expect to continue year after year? The question was raised a little while ago of whether the city actually could meet its obligation. And Mr. Lane who probably knows as much about the financial affairs of the city as anybody else said plainly that under the present laws it couldn't. For God's sake it's up to you people to do something about it. To put a powder under the state. You can't blame Dewey you can only blame yourselves if you don't go to work. If you know that basically you cannot meet your obligation you'll have to do something about it. Go to the voters. You'll have the support of the people of the city of New York if they only knew what it was all about. We talk about a transit authority we talk about the board of transportation but from any from any intelligent point of view what difference does it make what you call it if it's inefficient. If it's run by efficient men you can call the child any name it'll operate properly. But this is only a smoke screen calling it. Republicans wanting to get into the democratic city. Whether they do or whether they don't it makes no difference to us. We are interested in a well run city. If you people under the present laws cannot raise the revenue to run this city properly for God's sake change the laws. Thank you. Eugene Mulligan Catherine Pyle Now Miss Pyle before you start I'd like to get an idea from the individuals present how many of them are listed as speakers here and have to present their matters. Two, three, four, five, six, seven is all I can. Just seven? Yeah. Eight. Eight? Eight. Nine. Nine. Well maybe we can knock it off before we're in. Go ahead. Yeah. Yeah. Go ahead. All right Miss Pyle. I'm Catherine J. Pyle and I represent the New York City Department of Health Nurses Association Council 189 of Civil Service Forum. I too had hoped that last year would have been the last time that I would come before this group. we had hoped that a labor relations board would have been set up and an equity established that we would not have had to take a day to come down and speak to this group. Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Estimates, the city of New York now has some 734 public health nurses employed by the city and that is 136 fewer than were employed last year at this time, an all-time low. And we serve the 8 million population of this city and we are the front line of defense as far as health is concerned in this great city of hours. There now exists 405 vacancies, 171 of which are filled by provisionals and most of them have already let us know that they will not stay. Oh, the city health department advertises in the professional journals for nurses and they claim that the entrance salary is 2930. They do not tell the people who come that this includes a $530 cost of living bonus. Now, we cannot secure enough public health nurses so the city has introduced an auxiliary group of public health assistants. Now, we are not asking that their salary be decreased. They have helped us out in many ways and they are assisting us to carry out our functions but their entrance salary is $2,100 and I want you to understand that this is an untrained group. Our nurses really come in at $2,400. Now, the United States Public Health Service pays their practical nurses an entrance fee of $2,650. They are registered nurses who are not public health nurses an entrance fee of $3,410 and their public health trained nurse an entrance fee of $4,205. Now, if you had read the professional journals a few years ago, you would have noted that there were many advertisements for public health nurses throughout this great land of ours. If you would read the last issue that I have of April, 53, there are only five groups advertising for nurses. Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for instance, which is a very small town, will offer registered nurses in that group $3,200 and public health nurses an entrance salary of $3,440. Lawrenceville, Illinois, which is also a small town, offers their nurses $3,000 a year. San Bernardino, California, another town that's advertising for public health nurses, gives their public health nurse an entrance fee of $4,116. United States Public Health Service gives their nurses $4,205 and their registered nurses who are not trained in public health $3,410. Now, gentlemen, we are losing nurses every day. We cannot hope to keep our young nurses. I don't blame them. They can go anywhere and get a greater salary. We are known throughout this country of ours as the best trainer of public health nurses in the USA. We do give them a wonderful training, but they are trained and levers. Are we going to be the training school for all people all over the country? One of my friends who's one of the authorities on public health who's written several books on it and lives in California said to me, send me all the nurses you can from New York City and I'll give them jobs throughout the state of California. It's cheap to let nurses go. Is it cheap to train them when we need them? Our nurses are taking care of home care of hospital people, which relinquishes beds to people who need those beds. But those people need nursing care, and our nurses go in and give it to them. You will need more hospital beds for emergencies if your building program is going to be cut down. And who is going to give this care? Your New York City public health nurses. You're building new schools in the upper Bronx, in the borough of Queens, in the borough of Brooklyn. Where are you going to get your public health nurses from? Our nurses, come in to see them, gentlemen. They are tense. They're overworked. They're tired out. How can you expect them to do it? They're frustrated. They can't complete jobs.