This is London. The Prime Minister, the Right Honourable Winston S. Churchill, OMCH. My friends, when the death of the King was announced to us yesterday morning, there struck a deep and solemn note in our lives, which, as it resounded far and wide, stilled the clatter and traffic of twentieth century life in many lands, and made countless millions of human beings pose and look around them. A new sense of values took, in the time being, possession of human minds, and mortal existence, presented itself to so many at the same moment, in its serenity and in its sorrow, in its splendour and in its pain, in its fortitude and in its suffering. The King was greatly loved by all his peoples. He was respected as a man and as a prince, far beyond the many realms over which he reigned. The simple dignity of his life, his manly virtues, his sense of duty, alike as a ruler and a servant of the vast yards and communities for which he bore responsibility, his gay charm and happy nature, his example of a husband and a father in his own family circle, with courage, in peace, or war. All these were aspects of his character, which won the glint of admiration, now here, now there, from the innumerable eyes whose gaze falls upon the throne. We thought of him as a young noble lieutenant in the great battle of Joplin. We thought of him when calmly, without ambition or want of self-confidence, he assumed the heavy burden of the crown and succeeded his brother whom he loved and to whom he had rendered perfect loyalty. We thought of him so faithful in his study and discharge of state affairs, so strong in his devotion to the enduring honour of our country, so self-restrained in his judgments of men and affairs, so uplifted above the clash of party politics, yet so attentive to them, so wise and shrewd in judging between what matters and what does not, earliest we saw and admired. His conduct on the throne may well be a model and a guide to constitutional sovereigns throughout the world today, and also in future generations. The last few months of King George's life, with all the pangs and physical stresses that he endured, is his life hanging by a thread from day to day. and he all the time cheerful and undaunted, stricken in body, but quite undisturbed, and even unaffected in spirit. These have made a profound and an enduring impression, and should be a help to all. He was sustained not only by his natural buoyancy, but by the sincerity of his Christian faith. During these last months, the King walked with death, as if death were a companion, an acquaintance whom he recognized and did not fear. In the end, death came as a friend. And after a happy day of sunshine and sport, and after good night to those who loved him best, he fell asleep. And every man or woman, who strives to fear God and nothing else in the world, may hope to do. The nearer one stood to him, the more these verses were apparent. But the newspapers and photographs of modern times have made vast numbers of his subjects able to watch with emotion the last months of his pilgrimage. We all saw him approach his journey's end. In this period of mourning and meditation, amid our cares and toils, every home in all the realms joined together under the crown, made good comfort for tonight and strength for the future from his bearing and his fortitude. There was another tie between King George and his people. It was not only sorrow and affliction that they shared. Dear to the hearts and the homes of the people is the joy and pride of a united family. With this, all the troubles of the world can be born and all its ordeals at least confronted. No family. Indeed, Tumacuate years was happier or loved one another more than the royal family around the King. My friends, ah, no minister, I suppose no minister, I'm sure no minister, saw so much of the King during the war that I did. I made certain he was kept informed of every secret matter and the care and thoroughness with which he mastered the immense daily flow of state papers made a deep mark on my mind. Let me tell you another fact. Well, on one of the days when Buckingham Palace was burned, the King had just returned from winter. One side of the courtyard was struck and if the windows opposite out of which he and the Queen were looking had not been by the mercy of God open, they would both have been blinded by the broken glass instead of being only held back by the explosion. I mean all that was then going on, although I saw the King so often, I never heard of this official, till a long time after. Their Majesties never mentioned it or thought it of more significance than a soldier in their armies would the woods of a shell bursting nearly. This seems to me to be a revealing turn in the royal character. The King of the King of the King is a of the King of the King. There is no doubt that of all the institutions which have grown up among us over the centuries or sprung into being in our lifetime, the constitutional monarchy is the most deeply founded and dearly cherished by the whole association of our peoples. They're all going back on to our and the step and golden sparks there. They need an understanding that we have to serve and make прибли oscillations by our sisters and sisters. asked for their Perry watchers. When her motherated children are unilateralvested ofреaphagists this year, they began against trumpets.
