Good afternoon. From the music room of the Hotel Biltmore, your city station brings you the special broadcast of the Sidney Hillman Awards presentation. The awards are given in recognition of outstanding newspaper and magazine reporting, and for the outstanding non-fiction work in the fields of labor management relations, race relations, world peace, and related interests. Mr. Hillman created the foundation and the awards in 1947 to continue his interest in these matters. The principal address this afternoon is to be delivered by William T. Evue, president and publisher of the Capital Times of Madison, Wisconsin. Jacob S. Potofsky, president of the Sidney Hillman Foundation and the late labor leader's successor as president of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, will make the award presentations. And now, here is Mr. Potofsky. Thank you. Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, both present and the great audience, first of all, let me welcome you all to this luncheon of the Sidney Hillman Foundation. Sidney Hillman Foundation was established as a living memorial to nourish the ideas that Sidney Hillman held throughout his lifetime. I suppose that the scope of the year's successor as president of the year's successor as president of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of the Year's Day, and he was in the last day of the 1946 Convention of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers, only three weeks before he died. Hillman said that he looked forward to a constantly rising standard of living, to a society where science, technology, would be of the benefit of all the people, to increase the increased economic security for working people, and to a day when all men would live as good neighbors with their fellow men throughout the world. Hillman's broad visions and wide range of interests were reflected both in his leadership of the Amalgamated and in his public activities. Under his guidance, the Amalgamated pioneered a new horizons never before approached by organized labor. Such activities as unemployment insurance and later welfare insurance, pensions, cooperative housing, labor banking, are only a few of the fields into which the Amalgamated has thrown its energies and its resources. And by now, its example has been widely accepted and in many places emulated. But Hillman did not rest with making the Amalgamated strong and influential. He was aware that strong unions in only a few industries could never be secure as long as millions of workers in other industries were unorganized. And he and the Amalgamated played a leading role in forming the CIO and bringing union benefits to the workers in the huge mass production industries never before organized. Hillman knew, too, that in addition to labor's achievements at the bargaining table, its rights and its status under the law must be firmly established. And so he led labor's first efforts to secure its aims through political activity. Finally, Hillman realized that none of labor's hopes could become realities in a world at war. And so he patriotically worked to enable us to honor our international responsibilities and commitments. The goals that Hillman sought, the problems he faced, are still with us today. The quest for peace and economic security will not end in your lifetime or mine. Making the products of science available to all men throughout the world occupies us now even more than it did in the years gone by. Men still do not live as brothers. Fear and false pride and discrimination still divide races and nations. We have not, needless to say, secured a lasting peace. I'd venture to say that some of the problems that Hillman faced have been even accentuated in recent years. I am thinking particularly of the effect of fear and hysteria in our civil liberties. The right to differ and to discuss are being challenged today as they have never been before. Rubble rousers are invading new fields and even occupy high public office. The spirit of free inquiry is being strangled by a suicidal drive to conform. Organized labor is and must play its part in meeting these threats. Unions must join this great battle not only on the economic front and through political activity, but also by working with other responsible, socially minded agencies to combat the dangers to our civil liberties. Through the Sidney Hillman Foundation, through our scholarships, our allocations for medical and educational research, our grants and aid to worthy organizations, and through the prize awards which we are presenting this afternoon for the second year, the amalgamated and the Hillman Foundation is, we believe, doing its part, a very small part, I must acknowledge, but one which we hope to enlarge, to encourage the spirit of free inquiry, and to preserve our tradition of democracy and progress. Each of our prize winners, whom I shall introduce shortly, has made a contribution that conforms with this spirit and with this tradition. Each of them has dealt with a vital and important element in our life today. We welcome them into the growing company of Sidney Hillman Prize winners, a list becoming more lustrous as it grows. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to present one of the judges who will speak for the three judges. The awards that are being presented today could not have been made without the distinguished services of our three judges, all of whom combine long experience and knowledge in their fields with an enlightened view of our great social problems. They, too, recognize the problems facing us and desire to make their contribution. We are grateful to our judges for their participation. And I would like to take a moment to introduce them. I have already introduced Lewis Gannett, the book critic of the New York Herald Tribune. William Shire, commentator and author most recently of a splendid book published this month and entitled Mid-Century Journey, and Bruce Bliven, chairman of the editorial board of the New Republic. It gives me great pleasure and honor to present to you William L. Shire, who will speak on behalf of the judges. Mr. Shire. Mr. Potofsky, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say just this for the poor judges. In making our selections, we were wonderfully and totally free, free that is, in a fine old American tradition, to argue with each other, disagree, and even to quarrel. Actually, I must confess, no blows were exchanged during our deliberations, perhaps because, if I may say so, of our advancing age. And I might add, ladies and gentlemen, that there was no pressure either, not the slightest hint or suggestion, from any source, from the foundation, the union, of course the authors, or even their friends or relatives, and not even from their publishers. And I hope you will agree that we came up with some rather good selections. All of us were struck by the richness of the material submitted. And I think it's especially encouraging that in these uneasy times, as Mr. Potofsky mentioned, when so many of our good people are afraid of the future, or indeed of the present, that almost all of these books and articles that we went over dealt with what is perhaps the most important problem of our day, of the freedom of the individual, and the present threats to that freedom. On that subject, all three of our prize winners were not only eloquent, but very courageous. Mr. Barth, on the loyalty of free men, Mr. Rowan, on the freedom of the Negro in America, and Mr. Morse, on the threat to freedom in our schools. I think it's a sign of the times and even of a new America that awards for such works as these should be made by a foundation which honors the name of a great labor leader and is supported by a progressive democratic union which he founded and led so long. There was a time, and not so long ago, when American labor unions were preoccupied necessarily with mere survival, with the right to bargain collectively for wages, hours, and conditions of work. And now that they've achieved these things, these rights and freedoms, they're, as you know, broadening out and contributing more and more to all that's decent and healthy and hopeful in our American national life. Governor Stevenson said the other day he hoped more and more union leaders would be called upon to serve their country abroad. I hope if he's elected or if General Eisenhower is elected that more and more labor leaders will be called upon also to serve their country at home. Why not? I would ask the governor and the general, trying to keep on the fence on that issue, why not a labor man in the cabinet? I've known a good many labor leaders in Western Europe who served with distinction in various cabinets. I remember Mr. Churchill, who I believe is no Bolshevik, often highly praising of the labor men who served in his wartime government. It could happen here and I rather think, rather hope it will. After we've survived the shock, I would wager that the republic would still be found to be standing on as firm rock as ever. is one who belongs, of course, neither to management nor to organized labor. We try to organize ourselves as authors in our various guilds, but writers are too anarchistic and obstreperous to organize very well, Mr. Petoskey. But as one of those, I want to finish by congratulating the Sidney Hillman Foundation for the contribution that it is making here today to American journalism, American writing, and still better, I think, to American thinking. And I hope that the day will soon come when these Sidney Hillman Foundation awards will be considered the equivalent of the Pulitzer Prizes. and so on behalf of the judges, I salute the winners of this year's awards. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Shirey, and to the other judges who have made their decisions in these awards. I am very glad to hear it acknowledged that there were no strings attached on the part of the foundation or the amalgamated. I wish to God sometimes that our congressmen and senators would learn that when appeals are made from India and from some of the other undeveloped countries who need help to give it to them without any strings attached. I now have the honor of awarding the Sidney Hillman Prize for Outstanding Magazine Reporting to Arthur D. Morse. Mr. Morse, a freelance writer, wrote his prize-winning article, Who is Trying to Ruin Our Schools? for McCall's Magazine. He courageously exposed the intimidations and the attacks to which the public school system is being subjected in various parts of the country from individuals and groups opposed to freedom and free inquiry in our schools. He has performed a great public service. It is my pleasure to present to Mr. Morse the Sidney Hillman Foundation Award. Mr. Morse? Mr. Potofsky, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply honored by this award, doubly so because it is given under the auspices of the Sidney Hillman Foundation and upon the recommendation of such distinguished judges. I think it's proper to praise judges after a contest is over. I would like to say, too, that I am deeply appreciative of the editorial courage and integrity displayed by McCall's Magazine and the publication of my article. Those of you who read McCall's know that it has a continuing interest in the support and improvement of public education in America. And public education needs all the support it can get. Today, more than a fifth of our population, 34 and a half million children and adults, are enrolled in our schools and colleges. The United States Commissioner of Education has stated that we need, at the very least, 53,000 more teachers now, that we'll need 600,000 new classrooms within the next ten years, that one of every five pupils attends school in a fire trap. Those are some of the real problems facing our schools. Charges of creeping socialism, communism, and subversive textbooks are unreal. One of the principal destructive critics of the schools, maintains that 90% of our teachers and textbooks are subversive. Let's take a look at that. There are about a million teachers in America. If Dr. Belladard was accurate in her recent statement that at one time there were 1,500 communist teachers, that would still leave our schools 99 and 85 one-hundredths percent pure. So you see, the 90% subversive charge is a trifle exaggerated. Some months ago, the New York State Department of Education established a commission to handle complaints about subversive textbooks. The commission has had no business. The fact is that to prove subversion in our textbooks, critics are forced to take sentences out of context, to distort meanings, and to inject their own personal prejudices. I think we're safe from our teachers. I hope they're safe from us. Thank you. I now have the honor to award the annual Sidney Hillman Prize for Outstanding Journalism to Carl T. Rowan, reporter for the Minneapolis Tribune. He wins this award for a series of newspaper articles dealing with race relations in the South. Mr. Rowan, a native southerner, revisited his home to report on Negro life and the changes which have taken place there since his boyhood. His articles were entitled How Far from Slavery. While noting the progress made, his articles nevertheless pointed out how much more must be done for the Negro to achieve economic equality and opportunity and human decency and dignity. May I add that since the awards were decided, Mr. Rowan's articles were brought together and published as a book by Alfred Knopf under the title South of Freedom. It gives me pleasure to present Mr. Rowan to you the award of the Sidney Hillman Foundation. Thank you, Mr. Potofsky. I'm grateful for this award. I shall tell you frankly that I accept it with a good deal of selfish and personal satisfaction. But beyond that, I accept it on behalf of my editors, proudly because they had the courage to run these articles in their columns. I think they agreed with me that people are more important than anything in a democracy. They had enough belief in the dignity of the individual to say yes, go ahead. Truth and libel laws are your only limit. More than that, I accept this award on behalf of the millions of Americans about whom I wrote. Americans who strive for the dignity that belongs to every citizen under a democracy. I accept for them because I believe that this award gives them hope. It gives them hope that the other newspapers and magazines and radio stations of the country will realize that they have a responsibility in making Americans understand that the guy down the street may be a decent guy, although he goes to another church or his parents come from a different country or his skin happens to be a different color. And I say this because I believe that these newspapers also must remember too that somehow we must erase racial segregation from American life. We must make it possible for Americans to work and play and live together so that they may understand and realize that the goodness and the worth of people has nothing to do with the pigmentation in their skin. I think that if the newspapers and magazines can't have this courage, if my hope that they will is justified, the democracy and the freedom that Sidney Hillman cherished and that you and I hold so dear will be free and safe from all the threats within and without. thank you so very much. Thank you very much, Mr. Rowan. Our union has been dedicated to these very ideals of abolishing discrimination and having equality of opportunity for all citizens of our great country and we shall continue in that crusade. Next, it is my honor and pleasure to present the Sidney Hillman Prize for Nonfiction to Alan Barth, the distinguished editorial writer for the Washington Post. It is for his book, The Loyalty of Free Men, published by Viking, that we are giving this award to him. Mr. Barth was among the first to deal comprehensively with developments in Washington and elsewhere which have disturbed liberal Americans and threats to our traditional American civil liberties. We feel that his work for which he has won this award is an outstanding performance in the public welfare and for the public good. It gives me pleasure to present to you, Mr. Barth, this award of Sidney Hillman Prize. Mr. Potofsky, Mrs. Hillman, ladies and gentlemen, I feel much more gratitude than I know how to express in so brief a time. But under the two-minute rule, I shall try for the soul of wit, which is, of course, brevity. And I hope that no one will think that this expression of thanks is at all perfunctory. Like the other recipients of these awards, I feel that their value has been very much enhanced by the name in which they are given, by the good company in which I find myself here on this occasion, and by the caliber and the stature of the judges who made the decisions. Now, speaking entirely for myself, I feel indisposed to defend the decisions of the judges in this, in the making of these awards. I feel a sense of unworthiness. But I feel at the same time that these awards constitute a prod and a stimulus to future performance. If I cannot claim to have deserved them for work done in the past, I shall at least pledge myself to endeavor to be deserving of them for work in the future. And this, I suppose, must be their real purpose. It must be the real function and aim of the Sidney Hillman Foundation to provide this kind of jug to conscience, this kind of stimulus to effort. I feel very sure that it would have been Sidney Hillman's wish to have his name and his memory dedicated to just that purpose. I thank you all very warmly indeed. We have a treat this afternoon, and really a great privilege to hear from a great man. William T. Evieu, president and publisher of a great American newspaper, the Capital Times of Madison, Wisconsin. Mr. Evieu is a veteran associate of the senator, of the senior senator from Wisconsin, who has been dead for many years, but still remains as one of the outstanding voices of freedom in our great country. Most of you know of Mr. Evieu's battle against McCarthyism in his own home state. May I tell him that if occasionally he feels alone in Wisconsin in his courageous fight, there are many of us throughout the country who have been vastly encouraged by his steadfastness and by his dedication to liberalism in America. Mr. Evieu's newspaper is one of the few in the country to follow in the great American tradition of independence and freedom. One of the shining exceptions in what, as a distinguished liberal recently observed, was increasingly becoming a one-party press. Mr. Evieu, you do us honor by coming to us all the way from Wisconsin to speak to us, and it is a privilege to introduce to you all William T. Evieu. Mr. Patowski, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed friendly company for one who comes here today out of the gloom and humiliation that lies so heavily over a once proud state, a state that in more favorable decades had gained world renown as the ideal commonwealth. It is appalling, yes, frightening, to see a great state surrender to fear, hysteria, and demagoguery after holding fast to sanity and reason for so many years. I wish that I could have come here today to tell you that the great heritage left by such crusaders for the common good as John P. Altgeldt, William Jennings Bryan, Jonathan Dolliber, George W. Norris, and Robert M. LaFollette, still guides and inspires the people of the Midwest hinterland. Honesty, however, compels a different answer. It is good to know that men and women still gather to do honor to a gallant soul who fought so valorously to bring a better life to more people. Sidney Hillman. He occupied a leading role in the great battle to implant into the law of the land the monumental social gains of the last 20 years. If he were alive today, he would be deeply concerned over the dim outlines of totalitarianism appearing on the American horizon, a totalitarianism that is emboldened by the fear that has been engendered and which is rampant in American life today. The use of fear as a weapon in subduing the aspirations of the American people for a better life is not anew. Down this morning I saw on the wall of your amalgamated bank the statement of a great man, the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. Fear has always been a leading weapon in the arsenal of the entrenched economic order. Down through the years it has been present in the struggle between those who have too much and those who have too little. The entrenched order seeking to perpetuate its privileged status in society favors things as they are. It hates change and any interference with its privileged status. This is the reason for the continued do-nothing negativism of the political groups that do its bidding. Chronically allergic to the yearnings of a people for a better place in life, the entrenched order always has fallen back on the weapon of fear to drive the American people toward a level of subserviency and conformity. It is always on the lookout for new scare words with which to divert the attention of the people from the pillaging that has been carried on behind the walls of secrecy in both government and business. Perhaps this assembly here today will be interested in an historical review of the vocabulary of fear encountered in one lifetime, now nearing three score and ten. The start of the story is in the little lumbering town of Merrill, up in northern Wisconsin, where I was born. H.B. Caltonborn was raised in the same town, too. He went one way, I went the other. In my boyhood days, eight big sawmills were manned by German, Scandinavian, and French-Canadian immigrants. I am the son of Norwegian immigrants. These immigrants worked in these sawmills 11 hours a day, six days a week. There was a heavy toll of death and injury. Human life was cheaper than safety appliances. In the winter, the men went into logging camps where 50 to 75 men were lodged in primitive and unsanitary bunkhouses. In the spring of the year, the hospitals all along the Wisconsin River Valley were filled with men from these lumber camps, suffering with typhoid, smallpox, contagious disease. The inevitable revolt came. An organizer for the old knights of labor was brought in to lead a strike. Immediately, the propaganda of fear was set in motion. The strike leader was branded as an agitator, a disturber, a socialist. The workers were told that the mill owners couldn't afford an increase, that the men would be without jobs, and that Merrill would become a ghost town. The mill owners used this fear offensive to compel a settlement under which the men won a measly victory of 11 hours pay for 10 hours work. Today, Merrill is a prosperous little community that long ago accepted the socialism of collective bargaining without becoming a ghost town. But the entrenched order had already discovered socialism as a scare word in 1892. The next chapter appears when I arrived as a cub reporter at the Milwaukee Sentinel after exploring the academic cloisters of the University of Wisconsin. This was in 1905 when a new social democratic movement was in the ascendancy in Milwaukee and challenging the corrupt political machine that had long dominated that city. The Sentinel, a spokesman for the machine, was painting a horrendous picture of the dangers of socialism, quite as frightening as the Hearst and McCormick scare propaganda on the New Deal socialism of today. The stolid citizens of the beer metropolis were told that socialism would bring free love, socialization of property, and that wealth would be divided. It was in line almost in keeping with today's litany that socialism, they didn't say it was creeping then, would overturn our government and the American way of life. But the people of Milwaukee saw through the use which a corrupt political machine was making of fear. They elected a socialist mayor. Under three socialist mayors, Milwaukee gained the reputation of being the best governed large city in the United States. Frank Zeidler was recently re-elected mayor of Milwaukee by people in all parties who believe in good government. Here's an amusing footnote, incidentally, to the fear charge that Milwaukee would be debauched by free love with the advent of the socialists in Milwaukee. When the socialists first took over there, there was a segregated district, almost under the shadow of the city hall. It wasn't until the socialists assumed power that the district, which had been protected for years by the graft paid to Republican and Democratic administrations, was wiped out. The year 1912 found me sitting on the stage at the Republican National Convention in Chicago as a reading clerk. A minor perquisite handed out when the La Follette Movement controlled the Republican Party in Wisconsin. It was a tense situation when the chairman of the convention had to appeal to the delegates to restore order after they had booed and hissed the Wisconsin Declaration of Principles following a riotous demonstration. I was within a few feet of Senator Hopkins of Illinois, chairman of the committee on resolutions, when he contemptuously moved the rejection of the Wisconsin platform on the ground that it was ranked socialism and would destroy our American way of life. The platform contained 26 planks, 24 of which were enacted into law within the following 25 years and have since become good Republican and Democratic doctrine. And so you are seeing how the socialism of one decade becomes good orthodox doctrine in later decades. Incidentally, one of the planks that was hissed and booed the loudest in the 1912 Republican National Convention was one in favor of giving women the right to vote. I hope this serial story is giving you an insight as to how the word socialism has been used by the entrenched order all through the years as a weapon of fear to fight social progress and discredit its champions. In 1918, the word protested, Pro-Germanism was added to the vocabulary of fear. Senator La Follette was opposed to a declaration of war against Germany. The entrenched order gleefully grabbed this opportunity to destroy the hated La Follette movement and its great social program. La Follette was branded as pro-German, disloyal, a traitor. Many of his followers were arrested under the Espionage Act. The newly started Capital Times was tagged as a La Follette paper and it was marked for destruction. The State Council of Defense, manned by old foes of La Follette's, instituted an advertising boycott that lasted for nearly a year. The threat was made to advertisers that their business would be ruined if they advertised in a disloyal paper. Newspapers were told that they would be put in jail, or newsboys were told that they would be put in jail for selling a disloyal newspaper. We were denied election to the local Chamber of Commerce. The Department of Justice sent an investigator to Madison to keep us under surveillance. Those were rugged days. Most of the time we were just two jumps ahead of the sheriff. Members of the university faculty, in fear of losing their jobs, were compelled to sign a round robin urging the expulsion of La Follette from the United States Senate. The barns of farmers with German names were painted yellow. Here's one that I doubt that you will believe. An old Quaker couple down in Evansville below Madison refused to buy Liberty bonds. The city is an old circus town and a lion's cage was hauled to the home of this old couple. They were forced into the cage and surrounded by a jeering mob. The terror-stricken couple was hauled to the center of the business district. The disgraceful spectacle was only ended when a leading citizen with a gun defied the mob and released the old couple. In 1918, it was believed that La Follette and his movement had been forever destroyed. But isn't there a hope today in the fact that the American people always seem to return to a mood of sanity and reason to return to a mood of sanity and reason after their periodical journeys into the realm of fear and hysteria? In 1922, La Follette was re-elected to the Senate by the largest vote that he ever received in the state of Wisconsin. Today, communism has become the perfect scare word with which the entrenched order can clubbed the American people into submission and conformity. Millions of people have been denied the right to free speech through the fear of being branded as disloyal. The press, radio, television, and the movies have cringed before the assault that has been made on the freedom for the printed and the spoken word. Boycott has been urged by the political demagogues who have sought to steal criticism by threatening to pin the label of communism on an offender. Confidence of the people in their government has been threatened by casting the shadow of disloyalty over thousands of honest and conscientious public servants. A campaign of hate, suspicion, distrust, and character assassination has been let loose at a time when there is such great need for unity, confidence, and a united front in the face of a great world crisis. This has been made possible in large part by the consummate demagoguery of a senator from my state. In 1949, ladies and gentlemen, he knew that he was a dead duck politically unless he could find some way to divert the attention of the people from his miserable record. It was then, upon the advice, of shrewd friends at the nation's capital that he decided to ride the issue of communism. Ever since, he has been fiercely using communism as a weapon with which to place a question mark on the loyalty of those who have dared to criticize his record. I am proud to say that the Capitol Times has been number one on his newspaper list. You know the record. The New York Post here did a great job in exposing that record. The $10,000 from Lustron. The $20,000 wangled out of a sugar lobbyist to support McCarthy's $72,000 loan in a Wisconsin bank. The $5,000 contribution from a Texas oil millionaire. And in relation to that, McCarthy voted for the Kerr gas bill and the Tideland's oil bill wanted by the oil lobbyist. He, on the very day that he wangled the $20,000 note, out of this sugar lobbyist, McCarthy was on the floor of the Senate seeking with all his power to have sugar rationing abolished as desired by this sugar lobbyist. Isn't it strange that 500,000 citizens in Wisconsin voted for a man who had to be prodded to pay taxes to support the government that has supported him during the major part of his adult years? Isn't it appalling to think that a man with his record is being accepted today by millions of people as the man who will save this country in this great present-day crisis? What is becoming of our national conscience when millions are willing to rationalize and defend the records of men like McCarthy, Jenner, and Nixon? Communism is the giant problem facing a free world. But disaster is sure to come if we allow political demagogues to become our spokesmen in a great emergency. It is a problem that will not be solved by the scheming politician on an un-American activities committee seeking a new headline in the afternoon edition by plastering some innocent person with a label of communism. The menace of communism cannot be met by chucking a few communists in jail. Reason must supplant demagoguery in meeting this problem. If communism ever comes to this country, do you know where it will come from? Communism will come when millions of people are hungry, when millions are out of jobs, when millions of farms and homes are being lost through foreclosure, and when business is paralyzed because people do not have the money with which to buy the necessities of life. It will come if we have another depression. And this is what Moscow is banking on. They know that mass hunger and poverty have been the allies of communism in its parade across the face of the earth. It was the centuries-old exploitation by a corrupt nobility and mass hunger and poverty that brought communism to Russia. It was the centuries of landlordism, colonialism, corruption, and their accompanying mass poverty and hunger that brought communism to China. We are today foolishly quibbling over the responsibility of a few generals and diplomats in China as though they could have stopped the mighty avalanche of social dissentent that had been built up over the generations and which finally swept over China. If all there is to this problem of communism is to expose and put in jail the communists who have wormed themselves into places in government, how is the growth of communism in Italy under the shadow of the Vatican to be explained? It is explained again in the hunger, poverty, and denial of land to millions of Italian peasants. Why aren't we realistic? Why aren't we willing to accept what we know is a fact that a social revolution has been sweeping the world during the past 30 years? A revolution brought on because millions of people in all parts of the world are no longer willing to accept hunger, poverty, landlordism, colonialism, epidemic, and disease as the normal way of life that has been ordained for them. Communists were smart enough to get on the side of the people in this great revolutionary struggle. and to make hunger and poverty its allies as it made its millions of converts. The future safety of this country against the aggressions of communism lies with the patriotic, constructive, informed leadership that holds to the idea that the best insurance against communism is the American family that is well-fed, well-housed, and with a reasonable prospect of security. The future safety of our land must depend on leaders who realize that hunger, poverty, unemployment, the loss of homes and farms paves the way to communism. The political demagogues who have appropriated the issue to serve their political ends. The McCarthy's, Hickenlooper, Jenner, Kane, and others in the Republican Democratic Coalition are poor reads to lean on in a fight against communism. These are the men who will be found continually voting on the side of special privilege. They seize communism as an issue with which to divert the attention of the people from their service to health and privilege. Meanwhile, they can always be dependent upon to vote against all measures to make life better for more people and thereby insulate them against communism. Protection against dependency in old age, unemployment and occupational hazards, protection for their life savings, decent housing, medical care at a price they can afford to pay, farm price supports based on the knowledge that a healthy agriculture is potent insurance against communism. The blessings of electricity on the farm, the right of labor to bargain for a fair share of the wealth it helps to create, and the extension of educational opportunity. Have you ever seen any evidence of any devotion to this type of insurance against communism on the part of McCarthy, Jenner, Kane, and their interest-serving colleagues in the United States Senate? And so there is the insurance for this country against this world menace. Sidney Hillman saw all this when he said in his memorable statement made in 1946, we want a better America, an America that will give its citizens, first of all, a higher and higher standard of living so that no child will cry for food in the midst of plenty. We want to have an America where the inventions of science will be at the disposal of every American family, not merely for the few who can afford them, an America that will have no sense of insecurity and which will make it possible for all groups, regardless of race, creed, or color, to live in friendship, to be real neighbors, an America that will carry its great mission of helping other countries to help themselves. Thank you. You have been listening to the Sidney Hillman Awards presentation ceremonies brought to you from the music room of the Hotel Biltmore by your city station. The principal speaker has been William T. Evue, president and publisher of the Capital Times of Madison, Wisconsin. Jacob S. Potofsky, president of the Hillman Foundation and of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, made the presentations to Carl T. Rowan, Arthur D. Morse, and Alan Barth. This has been a public service presentation of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.