Chapter 11 commits all of the members who exercise authority over non-self-governing people to develop their free institutions and their welfare with a view to their ultimate autonomy or self-government. That is a very broad commitment, far broader than anything that was found in the League of Nations covenant. It is all embracable. And one of the important things which we did in London was to put teeth into that Article 11. By asserting the right of the Assembly to insist that action be taken under that Chapter 11, and that reports be made to the Assembly so that the members of the United Nations could keep track of the extent to which in fact the colonial powers so-called were carrying out their commitments under Chapter 11. And we passed a resolution in London which required, called upon, all the nations which were administering non-self-governing areas to make periodic reports through the Secretary General to the members of the United Nations as to what they were doing in the way of carrying out their commitments under Chapter 11. The United States has already set the example, I am glad to say, in making a very full report as to what it is doing in that respect with regard to all of its non-self-governing areas, including Alaska, Hawaii, and Panama. There was some question as to whether or not we should make the report as regards Hawaii and Alaska in view of the fact of there being integral parts of the United States and being destined probably for statehood. Nevertheless, in order to set a good example and to avoid seeming to withdraw fine distinctions, the United States did make the report with respect to all of those areas. Similar reports will probably be made by some of the other nations, although because of war conditions it's not certain how many of those reports will actually get in at this forthcoming meeting of the Assembly. The Australians have already made a partial report in that respect. So far only the American and the Australian reports, as I recall it, are actually in. And I'm sure that this Assembly will do as the last Assembly did in London, record its continuing interest and concern with reference to the carrying out of the very broad commitments for non-self-governing people which are embodied in Chapter 11 of the chart. And then we'll have the problem of trusteeship. One of the principal organs of the United Nations is supposed to be trusteeship council. The trusteeship council was not established at London. And it could not have been established at London because the formula for the composition of the trusteeship council is an extremely complicated and intricate one. It was an awkward piece of drafting which was done at San Francisco. The charter provides that the trusteeship council shall be made up of the five permanent members of the Security Council, plus states which are administering trust territories, plus a sufficient other number of states if required, so that the total number of the trusteeship council is equally divided between those who are administering trust territories and those who are not. Now, if you've been able to follow that, you are an extremely smart and alert audience. It's an extremely complicated formula which almost takes a calculus to unravel it, but the net result of it is that you are unable to establish the trusteeship council until you have trusteeship agreements. And also, it's extremely difficult to get at trusteeship agreements until you have the trusteeship council because you've got nobody really with whom to negotiate the trusteeship agreements. Now, there was a lot of debate and discussion at London about the procedure. And it's also complicated by the fact that the charter provides that these trusteeship agreements, in addition to being approved by the General Assembly, must be concurred in by, as the charter puts it, all of the states directly concerned. Now, just who are all of the states directly concerned in any particular area is another problem which almost defeats a rational answer. It was decided in London to approach the matter in a somewhat pragmatic way, not to attempt to define in academic terms just what would be the formula to determine states directly concerned. The matter would come up before the Assembly when the agreement was submitted for approval, at which time the submitting power, which in the first instance would be the mandatory power in the case of mandated areas, would state what it had done in the way of getting approvals. And then if any nation which felt that it had not been consulted and should have been, it would have the opportunity to voice its grievance before the Assembly or before the appropriate committee of the Assembly. We hope that there will be a sufficient number of trusteeship agreements submitted at this Assembly, so that if they are approved by the Assembly, it will then be possible to constitute the trusteeship council. The British, the French, the Belgians, the Australians are all working on trusteeship agreements, and probably several of them will be submitted for approval by the Assembly. And it may be possible, although it's by no means certain, it may be possible that enough progress will be made to make it practical to establish the trusteeship council. Once the trusteeship council itself is established, it will be easier to make further progress, because then there will be a relatively small body in continuous session in which can negotiate and deal with these matters. Whereas today, when the Assembly is not in session, there's nobody to deal with. When it is in session, it's so big that it's almost impossible to negotiate with it. The trusteeship will probably apply in the first instance to the areas which were mandated under the Treaty of Versailles and the Covenant of the League. So far, all the nations which hold mandated territory have made declarations of intention with respect thereto, except the United States. In almost all cases, the Declaration of Intention, which was made in London, was the Declaration of an Intention to substitute the United Nations as trustee for the now defunct League of Nations. There are two exceptions. One was Transjordan, where the British Declaration was of an intention to accord independence to the Transjordan. The other was the Southwest Africa, where the Declaration of Intention made by the Union in South Africa was an intention to annex. That proposal of annexation will come up before the General Assembly and will call for some action by the General Assembly, either to approve or disapprove, or what is perhaps more likely, to appoint a committee which will investigate the merits of the matter and perhaps report back at a next meeting of the General Assembly. As I say, the United States is the only nation which is in actual possession of mandated territory which has not made a declaration of its intentions. I hope very much that it will be possible to correct that omission during the course of the forthcoming Assembly. It has been somewhat embarrassing for the United States delegation to be in the position of trying to push forward this whole matter of trusteeship and the treatment of colonial peoples, and to have the United States to be the only nation which is in possession of mandated territory which is unable to make up its mind as to what its intentions are going to be with reference to it. It is not divulging any secret, I think, to say that that is due to the fact that there has been a wide divergence of opinion within certain branches of our government. The Army and Navy departments have tended to take one view in the State Department, and the Interior Departments have tended to take another view. And the view of the differences of opinion with respect to these matters, American policy has not been formulated. I think it is extremely important that the United States demonstrate in this area the capacity to make up its mind. I hope that it will do so during the forthcoming meeting of the General Assembly. Now another matter that we will have to deal with, which is important, is the consequences of the winding up of UNRWA. UNRWA comes to a close, but the problems with which UNRWA had to deal, unfortunately, still exist. Not quite to the same degree, but to a very considerable degree. There will be problems of famine still to be dealt with. There are going to be problems of refugees still to be dealt with. And probably the Assembly will be called upon to take some action to establish a body which in some way will carry forward at least part of the activities, which heretofore have been carried on by UNRWA. One of the most interesting matters that will come before the Assembly is the complaint of India against the Union of South Africa, with reference to its treatment of Indian nationals. That is extremely interesting from several viewpoints. First, it's interesting because it's a complaint by one member of the British Commonwealth against another. It's interesting because it is a type of complaint which possibly might, in the normal course, have been brought up before the Security Council rather than the Assembly. It's the first time the Assembly will be called upon to take cognizance in the first instance of that type of complaint. And it's also extremely interesting because it will raise in an interesting form the problem of the extent to which there is involved a matter which is essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of one of the states. You may recall that the United Nations is precluded from dealing with matters which are essentially matters of domestic jurisdiction. And the question of whether the treatment by the Union of South Africa of natives of India is a matter which is essentially within domestic jurisdiction, or whether it assumes international proportions is an extremely interesting and important question. And upon the way it is decided, a good many other important matters may depend. We will have the question of the veto. Another of the old friends will pop up again. As you recall, out at San Francisco there was a tremendous struggle between the so-called Big Five, who have the veto power, and the so-called Little Forty-Five, who do not have it, as to the extent of the veto. There were two countries which above all led the battle of the Little Forty-Five, that is Australia through Mr. Evatt and Cuba through Mr. Belt. Both Mr. Evatt and Mr. Belt submitted matters for the docket of the forthcoming meeting of the Assembly, which raised this question of the veto power. I think it probably is a healthy thing to have the veto discussed. Certainly it has been applied far more widely and extensively than was anticipated at San Francisco. There you may recall that the Big Five, in answer to a questionnaire by the Little Powers, stated that while they had the veto power, they would exercise it with a great sense of responsibility and restraint and not expect to exercise it except in really grave matters. I think the question can be raised as to whether or not the veto has not been used in a spirit contrary to that, which was expressed at San Francisco. At all right, that is the feeling of the smaller powers, and they are going to try to get a discussion which may lead to an exercise of greater restraint by the Big Powers in the use of the veto. I doubt whether anything in the way of a projected amendment of the Charter will come out of the discussion. It will be more probably of a nature designed to get the Big Powers to use more self-restraint in the exercise of the veto. Now let me turn a minute. I've covered, I think, the more important matters which may be dealt with at the Assembly. Now I want to turn and speak very briefly about the other half of my subject, that is American foreign policy. Mr. Thieligman, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your welcome and also for the opportunity of speaking this afternoon. I rather envy my two colleagues who will speak after me because it would be possible in following them to perhaps find text in what they say, and my own task would thereby be correspondingly easier. But apart from that personal convenience, I think it is logical that we should start with the General Assembly, which is the organ of the United Nations representing the whole body of the membership. And moreover, the organ which has more comprehensive function than the other organs. Now, during the discussion this afternoon, I think we will be looking at disjointed parts of the United Nations. And it is necessary to take the United Nations apart in order to understand it. But at the outset I should like to stress that when we are taking the United Nations to pieces, we should remember that it cannot work unless the parts are brought together again. Each organ is necessary to keep the total organisation alive and active. And neither the Assembly nor the Security Council nor the Economic and Social Council, the Secretariat, the Court or the Trusteeship Council can alone achieve the purposes for which the United Nations was formed. And it is only when all the organs are working in perfect conjunction that the hopes which have been placed in the Charter can be fulfilled. Unfortunately, there is something of a tendency for a certain amount of rivalry and jealousy to develop between the different agencies within any institution. And the United Nations is not peculiar in escaping those rivalries and jealousies. And I would, because of that fact, and because Australia has been associated rather prominently with upholding the rights of the General Assembly, I would like to stress again that it is our view that all the organs must be animated by a common spirit. They must share a common vision. And they must recognise that they are not only doing their own particular job, but that they are doing the work of the organisation as a whole. And I would suggest that it might be a very useful innovation if at all meetings of all United Nations organs, proceedings might open with a recital of the preamble. And of the purposes and principles of the United Nations. So that members would at all times be conscious of the fact that they are not simply exercising this or that power, or asserting this or that peculiar right, or doing this or that particular job. But that over and above their immediate preoccupation, what they are really doing is, and I quote the preamble, trying to save succeeding generations from the scourge of war. Reaffirming faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in equal rights of men and women, and of nations large and small. That they are establishing conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained. And that they are promoting social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. And those tasks have to be shared by all the organs. And in what I shall say from now on regarding the General Assembly in particular, I will not be forgetful of the fact that, not the General Assembly alone, but all the other parts of the United Nations, must share in those tasks which are set before us in the preamble of the Charter. Having said that, I should like to recall something of the historical background of the foundation of this organisation, in order that we may understand more fully the problems that are before us today. Now it is no secret that when the original drafts were circulated among the three great powers, even before they met at Dumbarton Oaks, those drafts placed rather more emphasis on the prevention of aggression and on the preservation of peace, than they did on measures intended to bring about the conditions of peace, or to promote welfare in its broadest sense. Now that is quite natural, because those original drafts were drawn up in the midst of a very bitter war. And it is natural that the original conception should have tended rather to emphasise the prevention and the checking of aggression. And in doing so, it was also natural that the original conception of the United Nations should have tended to place rather more emphasis on the Security Council's functions, than on the functions of other parts. But in the course of the subsequent discussions, both at Dumbarton Oaks, and after Dumbarton Oaks, and particularly at the San Francisco Conference, the character of the projected institution was changed. For example, there was a greater recognition of the importance of the development of international law, a recognition which I think in the first instance was due to the initiative of the Chinese government. There was also a feeling that greater significance should be attached to economic and social questions. And that was a move in which I think in referring to the part played by the United States government, I can also take some pride in the part played by the Australian government. And moreover, provisions relating to dependent territories were added as a completely new matter. And thus, we find that by the end of the San Francisco Conference, when the time came to sign the Charter, the United Nations was not simply an organisation to stop aggression, but was an organisation concerned with the promotion of cooperation among nations in the widest sense of the term. And particularly during the San Francisco Conference, the nature of the General Assembly, and the scope of its functions, and the functions of the Economic and Social Council were transformed, as compared with the earliest drafts of proposals for a world organisation. Now that is a matter of history. And the history of any institution, I think, has some relevance to the development of that institution. Particularly, as today, it sometimes seems that some members are still thinking along the lines of the earliest concept of the United Nations, rather than in terms of the United Nations as actually established. That is the organisation described in the Charter. And we can only understand the United Nations, and we can only make the United Nations work, I suggest, if we study those changes which were deliberately made at San Francisco, and find the meaning in those changes. Now one of the major changes made in the Dumbarton Oaks draft, and that was a great power proposal, one of the major changes was in relation to the powers of the General Assembly. The Australian people and government are proud of the fact that, as your Chairman has already said, the leader of our delegation, the Foreign Minister, Dr. Evatt, did take a prominent part in bringing about the amendments of the Dumbarton Oaks draft, which referred to the powers of the General Assembly, and in particular in shaping the terms of Article 10 of the Charter. Now, sometimes this debate at San Francisco is made to appear as some sort of a contest between the prerogatives of the great powers and the rights of small powers. Now that issue, I suggest, is wrong. I will not enter into the details, but I would answer the mistaken argument with an example. As an Australian, I can very readily pay tribute to the great contribution that was made to the thinking at San Francisco on the functions of the Assembly by one among the five great powers standing out above the others, and that was the United States delegation, and in particular to the contribution made by Senator Vandenberg, who, as you know, at all times insisted that the General Assembly should be accorded sufficient powers to enable it to be the effective voice of the public opinion of the world. And as a further indication of the fact that this is not a small power idea, but is a conception of the United Nations shared by great powers and small alike, I would refer to the words quoted in the press within the last day or two from the leader of the United States delegation to the coming meeting of the General Assembly. As Senator Austin said, it is of the utmost importance for the people of the world to be fully aware of the great importance of the General Assembly. Some of the most important powers that the United Nations has can be executed by the General Assembly alone, and in the General Assembly the principle of the sovereign equality of all nations, whether large or small, prevails. That puts a special responsibility on nations such as ours, and he meant the United States. That puts a special responsibility on nations such as ours. We have to be wise. We have to be reasonable. In a sense, that will be the text of the few words I shall say on the General Assembly this afternoon. Now, let us turn briefly to look at the actual powers of the General Assembly as described in the Charter. In the first place, the General Assembly has, under Article 10, a general power to discuss any question or any matters within the scope of the present Charter, or relating to the powers or functions of any organs provided for any organs provided for in the Charter. That right of discussion is comprehensive and unlimited. Then the General Assembly may also consider the general principles of cooperation in the maintenance of international peace and security, including the principles governing disarmament and the regulation of armaments. And it may make recommendations with regard to such principles to members of the United Nations, or to the Security Council, or to both. The General Assembly may also discuss any questions relating to the maintenance of international peace and security. And subject to only one limitation, it may also make recommendations in both those fields. You will notice the distinction between the right of discussion and the right to make recommendations. The limitation on the right to make recommendations is that while the Security Council is handling any particular dispute or situation, the General Assembly may discuss such a question, but it may not make any recommendations with regard to that particular matter. In short, the executive power which is given to the Security Council in respect to the maintenance of international peace and security is protected, not eternally, but protected for a period from any action by the General Assembly which might interfere with the proper discharge by the Security Council of its special functions. But in circumstances in which the Security Council would not be hampered by action by the General Assembly, then the General Assembly may act, either by making recommendations, by calling the attention of the Security Council to a situation, or by formulating principles for the guidance of the guidance of the Security Council. Up to the present, the General Assembly, having met only on one previous occasion, has not exercised the powers given to it in respect to peace and security. But the clear intention of the Charter is that the General Assembly should, if it finds necessary, or if the Security Council requests, and if the circumstances do not impose the limitation to which I have referred, it should consider and make recommendations both in regard to general principles and in regard to particular disputes and situations, with that one proviso that it shall not make recommendations with regard to a dispute or situation which is being dealt with by the Security Council, unless the Security Council so requests. But in addition to its interest in the maintenance of international peace and security, the General Assembly has an overall responsibility in respect of economic and social questions. and dependent territories. And this responsibility is a positive one. Article 13 of the Charter, referring to this subject, is couched in terms which are mandatory. And this article requires the General Assembly to take positive measures for the promotion of international cooperation in the economic, social, cultural, educational and health fields, and in assisting in the realisation of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. And the same article requires the General Assembly to take positive measures for the purpose of promoting international cooperation in the political field, and in encouraging the progressive development of international law and its codification. And if we consider together Article 10, which gives to the Assembly the comprehensive power of discussion, and Article 13, which lays on it the positive responsibility for promoting cooperation, then it will be seen that the United Nations have entrusted to the General Assembly the responsibility for seeing that the United Nations, as a body, not only prevents evil from happening, but is also active to make sure that good is brought about. Now, the processes centered in the Security Council clearly offer a means by which the strength of the world may be combined, so that force will not be used to serve national interests or to overthrow the territorial integrity or political independence of any State, but the force will only be used for upholding the principles of the United Nations. The Charter, however, also intends that the strength of the world should be combined to advance the principles of justice and international law, to promote and encourage fundamental freedoms and human rights, and to bring about the economic and social advancement of all peoples. And in these fields, the General Assembly has been given the chief power and responsibility. This does not mean, of course, that the Security Council does not also have the opportunity to advance the same purposes and principles. In fact, the Security Council is obliged to advance the same purposes and principles, and cannot act, according to the Charter, on any other pattern. But, in the final issue, it is the General Assembly which is chiefly concerned, and if necessary, it is the General Assembly which has the right to say that all other organs, including the Security Council, shall follow such purposes, and shall act in accordance with such principles. Having said that, I would suggest that unless the General Assembly can discharge actively and resolutely those positive functions which have been given to us, the hope that is placed in the Charter for the building of a new order will not be realised. If we have weak, or compliant, or disputatious, or wrangling assemblies, regardless of our obligations under the Charter, or even if we have an Assembly which is not fired with idealism on behalf of all men in all lands, then I would suggest that we will withhold from the peoples of the world the future which the Charter has promised to them. On the other hand, if we have a strong and a visionary Assembly, it should be able to do more than any other agency in the world today to ensure a brighter international future. The Assembly is the forum where the hopes of mankind, or more than hope, the determination of mankind, should find a voice. But, will that voice be heeded? We must realise that a great number of people looking at the agenda placed before the Assembly, and calmly considering the political facts of the present day, ask themselves quite seriously, what good will the forthcoming Assembly do? Will it be just another talking shop? Will it take any effective action? And what will be the outcome of its meetings? Will it in fact fulfil those rather rosy hopes which I have attempted to sketch to you? Now it is true that the General Assembly, unlike a National Parliament, cannot make binding laws which will be observed both by those who are willing to accept them, and also by those who might wish to evade them. It is also true that the General Assembly cannot do anything to compel the wrongdoer. The members of the United Nations must work by agreement. That is their compact. In signing the Charter, they chose the method of agreement. In establishing the United Nations, they chose a process which is based on agreement. The United Nations is not a super-state, and it is not a Federation. And the terms of the Charter are in themselves a recognition that, at the present stage of human development, anything in the nature of a super-state, or anything in the nature of a World Federation, is outside practical politics. The concept of the United Nations does not rest on the binding force of a police power, nor has it yet brought about an abrogation of sovereignty so complete that the will of the individual nation will be made subject to the will of a group. It is true that in certain contingencies, such as open defiance, the Security Council can take, on behalf of the United Nations, certain strong enforcement measures. But for the most part, the force on which the United Nations must rely for the carrying out of its great responsibilities, is the force of one simple faith. Namely, that nations, acting as free agents and without compulsion, will honour their obligations, and will respect the rights of others. Under the Charter of the United Nations, the greater part of the world, through their governments, have accepted certain obligations. And I would suggest that if you study the Charter, you would come to the conclusion that if they honour those obligations in good faith, as they have promised to do, we are not only certain of peace, but we are certain of great progress in human welfare. If the obligations are not honoured, then it is quite true that the General Assembly will not work, and it cannot work. Now the cynic may think that that is a very slender hope for the future. But the realist, going back to the fact that already 51 nations have solemnly pronounced their faith in agreement, as against faith in enforcement, there is some guarantee of the peace of the world, and that there is a force moving within mankind in all the lands, which will make the strong powers beneficent, and all powers resolute, for the principles of justice and the cause of peace. And that faith, and not force I suggest, is the only foundation on which the Charter will survive. Now I had hoped perhaps to say something of the, regarding the agenda, which is before the forthcoming session, but in order not to trench upon the time of the speakers who will follow me, I think I will leave that at one side and content myself with referring only to one aspect of the coming session. And that is, not a particular item, but the general debate. Now, there may be some disposition to regard a general debate as just another opportunity to let off steam, and to allow distinguished men to hear their own voices. A luxury, which distinguished men enjoy. But, in our view, the general debate of the General Assembly can, and should become, a sounding board of world opinion, and should also be made the expression of the conscience of the world, and the judgments of the world, and a formulation of the hopes of the world. We can have general debates, which will be merely a repetition of platitudes, and mere exercises in eloquence. On the other hand, we can have a general debate, at which nations from all parts of the world will speak, on behalf of their peoples, and where they will make deliberate and considered pronouncements, on the actions of the past year, and the prospective actions for the future. And if they do so, with authority, sincerity, and in clear and plain terms, that should have, on international relations, the same effect that the freely expressed opinion of a democratic nation has on the conduct of its own government. Now, to achieve that result, two very simple conditions are required. The first is, that speakers in the general debate, should speak with honesty, and with clarity. The second is, that all members of the community of nations, should respect the views of others. What I've been trying to say, adds up to this. We have to face the fact, that if it ever came to a showdown, there are certain conflicts in the world today, which cannot be resolved by force. The powers confided to the Security Council, great as they are, are only sufficient to deal with threats to the peace up to a certain point. If events pass that point, the methods of the Security Council can only succeed, by asking the United Nations to take war-like action against the offender. If the offender is small enough, he may be corrected. If he is strong enough, and resolute enough, his defiance of world opinion may lead to war, or even worse than war, it may lead to a capitulation of principle. And because of that fact, I would suggest that it is respect for law, respect for the rights of one's fellows, and respect for the judgment of one's peers, and the desire to merit the good opinion of those whom we respect, that keeps a community peaceful, stable, and law-abiding, rather than the policeman on patrol, or the judge on his bench. And what is true of a national community, is to that extent, true also, I suggest, of an international community. And it is because of that fact, and because of the reliance we must place on the application of principles, rather than on the application of power, that the General Assembly is really important. The sovereign and equal States who compose it, must make their voices heard on the side of principle, against power. And our hope in the coming Assembly is, that by the way it speaks, and equally by the way its hearers attend to its words, it can bring a mutual confidence in the future, a stronger resolve to work for peace, and a keenest sensitiveness to the freedoms of men in all parts of the world, and a scrupulous discharge by all the nations of their solemn obligations under the Charter. That is our hope. But at the same time, if the voices we hear in the forthcoming Assembly are the voices of power, raised in contests of power, then I would suggest that any realist, and we must be realists, would have good reason to pause, and take serious thought for the future of mankind. APPLAUSE There is a committee of the Council, called the NGO, committee, means the Non-Governmental Organization Committee. It happens that five members are on it, and it's the President President President statistics of the integral in the одним of the Cozy spirit it is I will put there now. Hi, there. Eric Boz shelters in the province, and I have given the joint Frontex. I will drop it in my room as well. organization committee happens that five members are on it and that committee is supposed to serve both as a screening committee as well as a hospitality committee that is the way first to choose of it is our duty and pleasure to admit our guests and then when they come in to try to provide the best forms of relationship so you see that's another part of our work roughly speaking then the organization work organizational work of the economic and social council so far has reached to a certain stage after the first three sessions of meetings the Commission's organized the relationship with the specialized agencies already made as well as the relationship with the non-governmental organizations initiating beginning next year then the economic and social council will be busier than before just imagine with all these nine commissions working and their reports not only that there are also temporary activities two of them have already taken a good deal of our time and they will again during this next year namely one the matter of the refugees they come under the economic and social council after the unra which has done such great work stops its function what is going to be done with the refugees and they have thrown that to us to the economic and social council it means that we've spent hours and hours discussing so far some tentative organization has been envisaged but the final decision will be made by the assembly at its present meeting meeting and then another temporary piece of work extremely important namely the economic reconstruction of the devastated areas both in Europe and in Asia that has already been started first in London to discuss conditions conditions rather to survey the conditions in Europe and within the next two or three months work will be carried on in Asia and the Far East I won't go any further so far I've given you a brief report of progress the only organizational side as well as the temporary activities which the council has already taken up and more of such temporary jobs will be given to the council to do but after all you would like to know what do you think of it all I have three words to say the first word is constructiveness at the beginning of my remarks I said that contention and clashes always get more public attention than constructiveness and cooperation in this case the economic and social council thus intained to think of ways of doing good solving problems of the world solving problems of the world and along constructive lines for one thing our voting has not always followed the pattern expected of us by the press and but they only report but they most often you might say report the divisions the voting when the voting follows the traditional pattern namely the so-called what block and what block and when our divisions turn in some different direction they won't report at all for instance at this recent session there was one division with the United States USSR and some other countries on one side and China United Kingdom France and some other countries on the other and it happened the latter group was in the majority that vote was not reported and then there was another vote with the United Kingdom with the United Kingdom standing alone that was reported but not given the proper weight so you may say then that when a body aims to do something constructive and its attention drawn to concrete details the division of opinion is not apt to be sued by the by the political division of the political division of the moment and that is something most interesting for instance since its organization the world health conference was held and the WHO organization started and that organization has the 51 members all of the members of the United Nations and 13 the people who came to serve as observers I think it is the most successful international effort in this whole field of international organization that shows that in regard to health surely we all can find something that we agree and I think we also find in some other fields for instance child welfare they seem to be unanimous the most successful international effort in this whole field of international cooperation and it is by emphasizing the constructive side that we can get more and more of cooperative habit you may say and it is by doing this not necessarily that we don't have a division of opinion but we must emphasize that the division should not fall always according to a certain political pattern. second word I should like to call your attention to is the word perspective perspective I think with a new organization especially one whose significance has been talked about people expect too much they should be given the proper perspective without this perspective without this perspective they are apt to be disappointed to readily for one thing during this last nine years I happen to have been sent by my government to various parts of the world not only in Europe and North America but also in the Middle East and in South America. South America. In these various places I have noticed one thing and that thing led me to see a different subject namely to use a different perspective. By that I mean the under industrialized areas of the world. It is actually in these under industrialized areas where you can see more clearly how the various conflicts in the world are developing and we usually pay too much attention to the world and to the important capital of the world without giving enough attention to these under developed areas or under industrialized areas of the world. That is one point under perspective. and vitally related to the new loyalty essential in maintaining the very existence of the United Nations itself. It is through constructive effort in the solution of common problems that peoples can attain real mutual understanding. Again, a proper perspective can make us more sympathetic to one another's attempts in the betterment of our estate. In conclusion then, constructive cooperation, patient perspective and enlarged loyalty should be the result of our common effort under the Economic and Social Council. Through the activities of the Economic and Social Council, may the United Nations, the hope of humanity, grow, prosper and endure. Thank you.