The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. M. Pelletieri, is host today to the Right Honorable Sir Dennis Lawson, Lord Mayor of London. He has arrived in the City Hall in the Board of Estimate Room, a room that today, decorated with palms and all the beautiful crystal chandeliers and the colonial interior, makes a beautiful setting for this truly interesting ceremony here today. His first equerry and sword bearer preceded him into the City Hall, carrying a sword four feet and some inches long, carrying the point upward when he accompanies the Lord Mayor of London, point downward when he accompanies the King of England. The Lord Mayor of London is quite a personality in London itself, and his tradition comes down through the centuries. Good deal of the arraignment and orders of the day were instituted at the time of Queen Elizabeth. The photographers now are having their... Now Mr. Whelan, Mr. Whelan's making the first introduction. He's just announced the anthem. Long live, adore King, God save the King. Send him victorious, happy and glorious. Long to reign over us, God save the King. The King. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed, at the twilight's last gleaming, whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight. All the ramparts we watched, were so gallantly streaming. And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, came roll through the night, that our flag was still there. O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave, O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, I have the great distinction to present to you the right Honorable Sir Dennis Lawson, Lord Mayor of London, the Honorable Lady Lawson, Lady Mayoress of London, Lieutenant Colonel Alderman and Sheriff C.J. Cullum Welch, and William Boston, Swordbearer and First Esquire. Mr. Whalen, your Lordship, Lady Mayoress of London, Mrs. Lawson, the other distinguished members of your party, ladies and gentlemen, the cordial greetings of New York and all of its people, Mr. Lord Mayor, are extended to you today. This occasion is notably historic, not only because of the eminent distinction of our visitor, but also because this is the first time New York has been honored by a visit from the Lord Mayor of the proud and ancient capital of England, the queen city of a great commonwealth of nations. While physical comparisons are not easily made between London and New York, yet our peoples have much in common. Our laws, our democratic heritage, and our freedoms derived from common origins. London and New York both claim distinction, not only because of their fabulous commercial relationships, but for reasons that are even much more important. They are and have been havens of freedom sheltering the oppressed. They have provided refuge for the friends of peace and decency when grotesque tyrants sought to quench the flames of human liberty. Our citizens have been united with those of London in two great world wars. Wars fought to sustain and protect an ideal of freedom, which is our common heritage. This present hour finds the citizens of our two vast communities solidly joined in the cause of universal peace. His lordship may well advise the people of London on his return, that New York still shares with his people, faith in democracy, scorn for dictatorship, and a loyal belief in the dignity and the rights of every human being. Our two great cities know that in this common bond of determined fidelity to the same ideals, the future of all mankind will brighten beneath a bright sun of security and happiness. While his lordship, sir, While his lordship, sir, Dennis remains with us, it is to be hoped that he meets as many of our citizens as possible. He will find them friendly, much as the people he presides over at home in his London. Our people, your lordship, that is, our people you may find, live at a rapid, live at a rapid, a little more rapid pace perhaps, than the people who live on the banks of the Thames. But New Yorkers still find time for the arts, the sciences, literature, the theater, great living, politics, which fields have always lured the traditional lives. New Yorkers have made New York City what it is. And to know it, you must know them. To you, Lord Mayor Sir Dennis, all New York City joins me in wishing you the happiest of visits. New York City we hope that you will take back with us in the happiest of memories of your call and the official assurance of the esteem and affection of all our people for yourself and your renowned municipality. back with you the happiest of memories of your call and the official assurance of the esteem and affection of all our people for yourself and your renowned municipality. Sir Dennis, as a token of the affection that the people of the City of New York have for you, have for your very lovely lady and for the people of the City you represent. My people, the people I represent here in the City of New York, have commissioned me in their behalf to present this scroll which reads as follows. I know all men by these presence that I, Vincent R. Impeletary, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service the Right Honorable Sir Dennis Lawson, Lord Mayor of London, on the occasion of his official visit to our city and for his eminent leadership in directing the municipal affairs of his great metropolis, which has so many hollowed ties with our own. London and New York long have been havens of freedom in sheltering the oppressed, and both are beacon lights in the Commonwealth of Nations that are dedicated to human liberty. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 17th day of September 1951, signed, Vincent R. Impeletary, Mayor. To you, Mr. Lord Mayor, with the affection and regards of all the people of my city. The black and gold of his robes picks up beautifully in the lights, and it's quite a beautiful ceremony here in the Board of Estimate room in City Hall, a room that never proved its formality and its beauty more than it did today, decorated as it is with palms and flowers, and his lordship is now waiting to respond to the mayor since the cameramen have issued their dictatorial orders. Thank the Lord they do because we have a complete history of these events and pictures. And now Mr. Whelan. It is a great privilege to present the Right Honorable Sir Dennis Lawson, Lord Mayor of London. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mayor, I have been very deeply touched by the wonderful welcome which you have given to the Lady Mayoress and the Sheriff of the City of London and myself this morning. Mr. Mayor, the procession which we have enjoyed and appreciated so much was a most wonderful example of your kindness and friendship. And I can assure you that I shall carry back most happy memories to London and that the citizens of London will be deeply touched by all that you have done for us and the truly splendid way in which you have received us. May I say, Mr. Mayor, that I am perhaps not altogether unaccustomed to processions because we do have one on November the 9th. This was a great moment. So this was a great surprise. This was of such a startling character, and the warmth and enthusiasm of all your crowds were so great that we shall long remember it, and it will forever be with us. with us. If I might digress for a brief moment, Mr. Mayor, to tell you a story about our last procession. On that occasion, we were going along in my state coach, and as you know, the Lord Mayor is the Chief Magistrate of the City of London. And we halted opposite one of those holes that every city seems to like to dig in its roads. And while we were there, I heard two workmen saying to each other, how do you address the Lord Mayor? In fact, as you know, Mr. Mayor, he's addressed as the Right Honourable. But the first workman said, I always call him his Highness. And the second said, no, you're quite wrong. I always refer to him as his worship. And the third, who was drinking that time-honoured cup of tea at the bottom of the hole, looked up, and remembering his last visit to the Mansion House Police Court, he said, whenever I see the Lord Mayor, I always quickly say, not guilty. Well, Mr. Mayor, we have had a wonderful morning. And as you know, I am expecting to say a few special words of greeting to you and your citizens at the lunch a little later on. But I would like to take this opportunity of tendering to you, Mr. Mayor, the resolution which our Court of Common Council passed as soon as they heard that I was coming to visit your great city. Our Court of Common Council, over which I have the honour to preside in the capacity of Speaker, comprises some 232 members, 206 members of the Court of Common Council and 26 aldermen. It is the oldest legislative body in the world, dating right back to 1189. Much of the importance of our municipal procedure in England and also the procedure of the House of Commons, that Mother of Parliament, is based on our procedure from the Court of Common Council. We, in turn, had the benefit of the first Commune or Common Council in Rouen some 50 years before, and our meetings were blended also into the old tribal meetings of Anglo-Saxon days. The Court of Common Council, Mr. Mayor, unanimously passed this resolution, which, with your permission, I would like to read so that your citizens may hear the sincere greetings it conveys. The resolution is in the time-honoured phrases dating back to the early Middle Ages. Mr. Mayor, the resolution is as follows. Lawson Mayor, a Common Council, Holden in the Guild Hall of the City of London on Thursday, the 12th day of July, 1951, resolved unanimously that the members of the Court of Common Council of the City of London, on the occasion of the visit to the City of New York, of the Right Honourable, the Lord Mayor of London, Alderman, Sir Dennis Cahoon, Flower Jew Lawson, Baronet, Master of Arts, Member of the London County Council, and Lieutenant-Colonel and Alderman George James Cullum Welsh, Order of the British Empire and Holder of the Military Cross, one of the sheriffs of London, one of the sheriffs of London, desired to convey on their own behalf and that of the citizens of London, sincere greetings and goodwill to the Mayor, Councilmen and citizens of New York. The citizens of London would gladly embrace this opportunity of expressing their heartfelt desire that this visit may be the means of further strengthening the bonds of friendship between our respective citizens. And their fervent hope that by the maintenance of the close ties which bind Great Britain and the United States of America, the freedom of mankind may be preserved and world peace and prosperity ensured. Mr. Mayor, I have very much pleasure in presenting the resolution to you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Lord Mayor. I am certain that I personally appreciate this wonderful symbol of affection and understanding from the people of your city, represented by the Common Council of the City of London. And I know that the, my colleagues on the Board of Estimate of the City of New York, that is the governing body of the city, and the members of the Council of my city, which is the legislative branch of the city government, as well as all of the people of my city will very deeply appreciate the sentiments expressed in this perfectly, wonderfully worded resolution. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Dressed in black and gold as he is, and accompanied by his three esquires, he presents a very interesting picture here in our own ancient city hall in New York. The London City Council has been in existence since 1189. The Lord Mayor... Mr. Mayor, it only remains for me once more to say thank you to you and through you to all your citizens for their great kindness and hospitality to us this morning. To say what a delight it has been to the Lady Mayoress and the Sheriff of the City of London and myself to be able to come among you and how much we appreciate this magnificent opportunity, which as you so happily pointed out, Mr. Mayor, is the first occasion that any Lord Mayor in office of the City of London, and there have been 630 of them, has ever been to the United States of America. And now, Mr. Mayor, if I might add just a very few words, we greatly hope that your onerous duties and ever-busy activities may allow you and your charming Mayoress, Mrs. Impilateri, to visit us in London before too long and to come and stay with us in the Mansion House right down in the heart of the city. Thank you. We much hope that you may be able to manage it. We know how busy you are, but if you can come, we will do our best to give you a right royal reception. Thank you all so much. Mr. Whelan. Well, the colors proceed to the steps of the City Hall while the Fire Department Quartet renders the selection. Proceed. Choosing game. Hip hooray, we're on our way, military clothes, where are we bound for? Nobody goes off, even though we're short of dough, we've got a lot of pep, nothing to wait for. We're ready to step, we're ready to step, where do we go? What do we care? Gotta be off, we don't care where. Marching along together, sharing every smile and tear. Marching along together, whispering till the skies are clear. Swinging along the highway, over the road that's wide. Without a music, without a drum, we're here to change the jinx. From Italy, here we come, we're happy achy dicks. Marching along together, playing this wonderful side by side. Marching along, marching along with a song. From Italy, here we come, with a joyful song. Side by side. Without a bill, without a drum, we're here to change the jinx. From Italy, here we come, we're happy achy dicks. Marching along together, playing this wonderful side by side. And now, Mr. Whelan. Please remain seated until the guest of honor and the mayor, Impelletary, and his wife pass out the call. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, was host today to the Right Honorable Sir Dennis Lawson, Lord Mayor of London, and his distinguished lady, Lady Lawson, and their party in the city hall in the Board of Estimate room, which was specially decorated for the occasion. The city hall never looked more beautiful in all its colonial beauty than it did today, decorated as it is, with flowers and palms. And the Board of Estimate room itself created a great element of dignity for this formal reception to the Lord Mayor of London. You heard the Lord Mayor's courteous invitation to the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary and his lady, Mrs. Impelletary, to visit the Lord Mayor of London and his lady sometime in the near future. The Lord Mayor is a very important individual. He is a chief lieutenant of the city of London. No troops can pass through London without his consent. He is admiral of London, and if you catch a sturgeon or a whale in the Thames, as admiral of the city of London, he has a perfect right to claim it. But he's caught a whale of a big reception here today at City Hall, and the cordiality and the exquisite way he expressed his gratitude is certainly a tribute and a unity between the ancient city of London and the equally ancient city of New York, a city that was proud today to do honour to its ancient city, London. You heard the resolution passed by the London City Council, which has been in office and is really the formation, the formative estate of all legislative bodies for city and later on state governments, which has functioned since the year 1187. And the raiment and a good deal of the insignia of office, which the Lord Mayor and his sword bearer carried today at City Hall, have come down from the early 15th, 16th and 17th centuries. And now they proceeded to the City Hall steps for formal pictures there and to give the crowds in front of City Hall an opportunity, since the Lord Mayor came through the back entrance of City Hall for the beginning of the reception. There will be a luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria and your city station plans to broadcast the speeches in connection with the luncheon at approximately 2.15 this afternoon. That is all from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. We join now with the program in progress. WNYC, the voice of New York City, joins once again with WNYC-FM to bring you our regular scheduled programs. WNYC WNYC-FM to bring you my summer for legal reasons. WNYC. WNYC, the voice of New York City, joins once again with WNYC-FM. WNYC, the voice of New York City, знаю more about WNYC, présence of New York City, and join in the legislature and look at the specifics. And I also want to invite you to do this to the memory of WNYCư.