Transcribed. The Northwestern University reviewing stand. That man, John L. Lewis. John L. Lewis has probably had a greater effect upon our national economy than any other American labor leader, past or present. Lewis is the outstanding personal phenomenon, not only in American labor, but perhaps in old labor. I have found that the key to this stormy enigma is to be found in coal and the men who mine it. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand takes inventory of one of the most powerful men in America, John L. Lewis. What makes him tick? How has he achieved his power? What are his motives and ambitions? These questions about one of the most feared men of our time will occupy the attention of our panel of experts who are Saul Alinsky, sociologist and author whose latest book, and unauthorized biography of John L. Lewis, has created extensive controversy in the ranks of labor and the press. Elmo Homan, professor of economics at Northwestern University, and Selig Perlman, professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin. Now our moderator, Dr. Leighton Boren, director of the reviewing stand, will introduce today's discussion. Dr. Boren. U.S. acts to stop Lewis. From 1919 to 1949, this newspaper headline has been seen so frequently that John L. Lewis has been called the most constant occupant of America's front pages. For thirty years, the miner's chief has been battered by the press, the public, and the government. Yet today he remains one of the most powerful and most feared men in America. At the same time, he is perhaps one of the least understood figures of our time, a unique phenomenon. He frequently does the unusual, always the unexpected. When asked at one time to explain himself, Lewis replied, If you wish to understand me, just remember that I am a coal miner. Holman, does this kind of explanation help us in understanding John L. Lewis? It not only helps us, but it is inevitable. Because the working conditions in the mining industry are so far away from those in the ordinary factory work that in many respects they are completely unique. You find things such as the background of violence, the darkness of working underground, the very heavy element of danger involved, which Olinsky knows more about than I do. Well, Holman, you are right about the coal industry. The miner constantly flirts with death. He has death above him, below him, behind him in the passages. And, as he well knows, that the chances are eight to one that he is going to come out alive or uninjured at the end of a working day. It always seemed to me that the fact of working underground in darkness, with the terrifically heavy physical labor involved, there are probably few workers in the world who really expend as much sheer muscular energy as a miner on the job. And that, plus the darkness, plus the danger, plus the terrifically high accident rate, creates a type of work which really has no counterpart in factory work at all. Mr. Olinsky, would you say that the fact that the miners live in isolated communities makes them a sort of insulator from the rest of the country and turns them into a sort of a nation within a nation? Mr. Well, you really fired two questions at me here, and suppose I take up Holman's first. Holman implied that he couldn't understand why the miners would continue in this kind of extremely hazardous and what you might call a brutal occupation. The fact is that why the miner does it is a sorry commentary on our present industrial civilization. For the miner is one of those unique individuals who actually finds that he produces his entire product. He is not on an assembly line as an anonymous figure, just tightening a screw or putting in a bolt. The coal that comes out of his hands is pretty much the coal that goes into your furnace. That is, he has what the average factory worker so often misses, namely a sense of creation about his work, of doing a job from beginning to end. And independence, and the kind of independence you find in Lewis. Now, Professor Perelman's point is extremely important in understanding the miners, why they were faced up to the entire nation, say, in time of war. They struck four times in 1943. The fact is that the miners are not only alone down in the mines, but they're alone when they come out of the mines. They're alone in isolated little towns, little mining camps. And they feel not only alone, but they feel also that the entire world is against them. Now, it seems inevitable that we ask this question. Why or how has Lewis utilized these conditions in organizing the miners? Alinsky, do you want to answer that one? Well, that's a long and involved question, but look, that is to give the answer it would be. But let me just say briefly that all of these elements are powerful unifying factors in keeping the miners together as one family or as an army. Well, it seems that explaining Lewis here is quite a challenge, isn't it, gentlemen? Some experts have chosen to do it by placing him in the context of the labor movement. Perelman, how does Lewis look when you place him before the backdrop of a developing labor movement here in America? Well, I would say in response to your question that Lewis certainly covers a good deal of the backdrop by his own dimension, but at the same time he belongs in that particular position, namely the background is really his... or the background or the backdrop is really his backdrop. In other words, the backdrop is the century-long development of the American labor movement, which as a movement is quite unique, quite different from the labor movements, not only of Eastern Europe, but of the West European countries as well. The American labor movement is not a movement that challenges the freedom of enterprise or the capitalist system. It's a labor movement that concentrates on the jobs, and the control of the jobs. Perelman, you've called Lewis the George Washington of the labor movement. Do you mean that he has been the most important leader in the rise of American unionism? I would say that in our own time, and in order to move the American labor movement off the dead center, which needed to be done some 12 or 15 years ago, that John L. Lewis did the job, and he did it due to the specific qualities which are exclusively his own. I put it this way, that his greatest service to American labor came in the winter of 1936 and 1937. John L. Lewis was the only one who possessed the indispensable capacity to dramatize in his own person that the hour of labor's redemption has arrived. By the early months of 1937, when the other workers sat down, Lewis was the George Washington of American labor. Not many of the contemporaries will forget how the press and the radio issued bulletins on his journey to Detroit to meet the top man of General Motors. Now you're talking about the origin of the CIO, I suppose. I am thinking very decidedly of the origin of the CIO, which, after all, was connected, is connected, was connected, with the rise of unionism in the mass production industry. I should also say that it is hard to conceive of the rise of American mass production unionism without the confidence of victory radiating from Lewis' personality and self-assurance. Well, I'm very much interested in Professor Perlman making that statement, because to most students of the labor movement, Professor Perlman, and it's not because we're sitting next to each other that I'm saying this, was regarded as the dean of American labor historians. And, unfortunately, today, and I assume Professor Perlman is familiar with it, there is a deliberate attempt because of the intense hatred against Lewis to rewrite history, and you'll find many labor columnists and journalists actually rewriting the story of the CIO with no mention of Lewis except that he happened to be around the premises someplace. Well, they remind me very much of those present-day historians in the Soviet Union that managed to tell the tale of 1918 without mentioning Protsky. We've been talking a good deal here about the organization of unionism in general. I would like to ask the question, what specific gains has Lewis made for his miners? Well, his gains have been extraordinary. He has brought the miners up within 12 years from being practically at the bottom of the heap of the 18 major American industries right up to the top. He has given them a welfare fund which actually, if the American public were to understand it, is practically as comprehensive as British Social Security. It doesn't involve just pensions. There is one minor factor in this. He has made changes in the working conditions, but above all, and what the public does not understand, is that Lewis has recognized that the only way that the coal miner can have steady work, relatively speaking, the only way that the coal miner can be operating with some degree of economic security, is to have the coal industry operating on an efficient basis. And Lewis's contribution to the organization of the coal industry has been just as much as his organization of the miners. Perhaps we might bring out the fact here that the welfare fund, which has been so much criticized, is probably more closely justifiable for miners than any other group because of the very heavy accident rates and the very bad conditions under which they often live in these isolated communities. Secondly, that his very heavy proportion of strikes is caused to some extent by the fact, or is mitigated to some extent by the fact, that mining has always had a very short working year. And to a large degree, many of the days represented by his strikes would not represent actual working days anyway. At least they haven't in the past. Well, you're absolutely right on both points. In our discussion here, you gentlemen frequently use the phrase, the public does not understand. Since this broadcast has been announced, we have received numerous letters requesting that we ask you specific questions about Mr. Lewis. Perhaps these questions provide another approach in our attempt to understand him. Certainly it is the approach exploited by the psychologist and the sociologist. I'm going to put you men on the spot by asking you the questions most frequently raised by the man on the street, about Lewis the man. Alinsky, you're a personal friend of Lewis. Let me ask you this first question. Those are dangerous words these days. Number one, what motivates John L. Lewis? Well, if I were a newspaper columnist or one of these crystal ball gazers that also have newspaper columns, I could give you a simple answer. But what motivates Perlman? What motivates Holman? What motivates me? I don't know. I can say this, that in trying to get just a clue to the motivation, you could say that Lewis is driven by doing something for the coal miners. He is also, let's say, driven for personal power. But where his attempts and his hunger for power, where that stops and the desire to help the miners comes in, is a question that is impossible to answer. Because how can you say whether a fellow wants to be president of the United States because he wants to be president or because he wants to help the country? But the average man on the street, I have no doubt, believes that John L. Lewis has an abnormal personal urge for power. The average man on the street... Would you agree with that? Well, I think the average man on the street believes that John L. Lewis has an abnormal desire for everything evil. Don't you think that he not only has a desire for the substance of power, but also for the appearance of power? Here's question number two, gentlemen. Why does he do the unpredictable? In other words, what's his strategy? Perlman, can you answer that one? I find it easiest, perhaps, to understand Lewis' strategy in the terms of the strategy of the great Napoleon. I'm as yet phrasing Lewis. Later on, I'll be on the other side of the fence. Mr. Lewis is a military strategist of extraordinary ability. He has a sharp eye for the weak spots in his enemy's front, the capacity to do the unpredictable and to figure out moves to confound the opponent, and the error of a man of destiny and one who is certain of victory. Well, this is a conglomerate of an Apollonic trait. Here's another question frequently asked by the man on the street. Is Lewis really the rough, tough individual in his personal life? Belinsky, can you tell us about that? Well, that's an interesting thing, because the answer is exactly to the contrary. Lewis, personally, is a warm, genial, laughing person. My only resentment towards his personal manner is that he's constantly saying humor in situations, not only in others, but in himself. And every time he laughs or cracks a jilf, he will emphasize it by poking his finger sharply into your abdomen. I've left Lewis at times where my stomach has been bruised. Here's another question that we received frequently in the mail. How does he get by with telling everyone off? I should say because of what he is and because of what his minors are. As Perlman has just brought out, he has an unusual combination of imagination, strategy. He is a fast thinker and at the same time a very careful thinker. But most of all, he leads a body of men who, because of the dangers of their work, because of the isolation of their lives, because of their background of exploitation, are prepared to follow him and to represent unusual indifference to public opinion. I'd like to comment on that, too. One thing that should be understood about Lewis, as far as how he gets by without telling everyone off, or even a strategy, is that Lewis never moves without carefully thinking through the probabilities, the possibilities, and what he's going to do after this move. Even the most spontaneous, seemingly premeditated action is coldly calculated and planned months ahead of time. Well, this is a very valuable contribution that you are making, Mr. Olinsky. My, uh, idea would be something like this. That, uh, Lewis gets by with telling everyone off, because, in substance, he is a sort of a guardian, or a custodian of the basic interests of the coal mining industry. The coal operators probably don't like the tongue-lashings he gives them, but, uh, but perhaps they understand it's a part of the, uh, scenery, and they are grateful to have a man who safeguards the interests of the industry and makes it impossible to, uh, witness a return of the cart-throat competition. There are quite some tongue-lashings, too, aren't they, Pearlman? Well, but I suppose if you've made up your mind that he was a certain individual who is a tongue-lasher, and you've made up your mind not to be offended at him, then it's like brainwaps. But nobody seems to be able to, uh, just take it as, uh, a raindrop. Here's perhaps the most frequently asked question about Lewis the man. How has he achieved the extreme loyalty of the miners? Walensky, uh, do you have an answer to that one? Or maybe Pearlman's? Well, I'd like to shift that over to Pearlman. Well, I would say that, of course, this is the essence of the phenomenon of unionism. Uh, now, uh, we see now, as we watch the development in the whole world labor movement, that the strongest binding factor in the labor movement is not what the intellectual considers of the greatest importance, namely socialism and non-socialism, but the labor movement, the trade union, is in itself a most effective binder. And, uh, uh, through the feeling or the consciousness that those whose jobs come out of the same job territory must stick together in order to protect their interests and to lay, and to raise themselves to a higher level in the social scale. In other words, I have always drawn the parallel between unionism and nationalism. And that's why many people don't understand the hardness of that solidaristic entity which we call a union. And President Roosevelt, unfortunately, in the year 1943, likewise showed a deficient understanding of that phenomenon, else it wouldn't have gone on the radio. Uh, would you say that that loyalty of his miners is being threatened today, that it is less than it was formerly, or that he still has it in full measure? No, I would say, and I suspect the Perman will agree with me, that he has that loyalty in full measure. Absolutely. I don't think that the loyalty of a nation to its leaders when the nation is at war is apt to suffer from, uh, from the super hostility on the part of the other nations to him as the leader of that nation. Lewis, in achieving this loyalty, has, uh, battled for his miners and defied presidents and Congress and the general public and everybody. Doesn't this kind of action undermine the status of recognized authority in this country, Alinsky? Well, you see, I have a different feeling on it, as I suspect from the newspaper reactions to the statement that I made in my book, than, uh, than other people have. To me, it seems that to be almost an indispensable ingredient of the democratic process. Call it a leavening, uh, element. But every so often, every generation or two generations, a person with sufficient power should get up on his hind legs and look at the President of the United States, look at the Supreme Court, look at the Congress and say, ah, nuts. Because when that happens, it keeps the Congress and our, and the President and the Supreme Court from becoming embalmed in its feelings of, uh, of absolute authority. And it's a good thing for the democratic process. But isn't that line of argument subject to the very serious criticism that it's alright for one person to do this now and then, but if he gets by with it, it may give ideas to other persons, and if hundreds or thousands of persons try to do the same thing, then we will have democratic process seriously threatened rather than, uh, strengthened. Yes, but unfortunately, you see, everything that is, uh, that is worthwhile always carries with it an element of danger. Well, I'm not so worried about the American community going to part, or to ruin, uh, because of a man like Lewis throwing his weight about, because our American society is a pretty solid and well-balanced structure. But I have another concern, and here begins my critical attitude towards Lewis, or the expression of it. My concern is with the effects of Lewis's pattern of action on the position of the whole labor movement in the American community. The American community, especially the middle-class groups, tend to lump all labor, and a picturesque personality like Lewis invariably becomes the stereotype. And, uh, Lewis has shown a considerable indifference and callousness to the effect of his activity on the rest of the labor movement. His combativeness and self-dramatization has disregarded the cost of the American labor movement. And it also betrays the lack of understanding of the American scene. The American community responds to pressures, and a rising new group, uh, and a rising new group such as labor has a chance to become a participant in shaping high policy. But labor's pattern is still an alien pattern to the middle-class groups. But wouldn't you say, Perelman, that Lewis's callousness and ruthlessness, for which he gets a great deal of blame from public opinion, is due partly to the fact that he's got the protective position, at least he did in the past, as president of the Union. Because past presidents of the United Mine Workers have had a very rough road to hoe. They've been put out of office in a way which he obviously decided he would not allow in his own case. And secondly, he's had a very turbulent, uh, industry, and to some extent, economically, a lame-duck industry to deal with. So that only a man who cut through without regard to anybody else could get the results which he has wanted. Well, let me jump on Perelman, too, on that, because, uh, from another point, and that is the public that he's talking about. Uh, Lewis, through long and bitter experience, has reached the conclusion, whether it's right or wrong is unimportant. The thing is that that's the way he feels. That in the last analysis, anything that is to be gained will be gained solely and purely through power, which is practically a Marxian concept. Uh, now, he has, from time to time, tried to deal on a non-power basis, if you study his early years. And every time he's done that, he's always been defeated. He feels, Perelman, that as far as being concerned about the middle class, which you and I might agree that he should be concerned, that actually their opinion is determined by the press, and no matter what he does, the press will be opposed to him. Well, uh, I view it as, uh, I view the situation not from the standpoint of the middle class, but I view the situation from the standpoint of the weaker groups in the labor movement, who are made to pay by the public and by the press and by the government the price of Lewis's aggressiveness. Well, I'm going to break in here because, uh, uh, the only alternative to what you're saying is that Lewis should, uh, be concerned about the weaker groups. And it would be just like saying that a bright student in a classroom should be, uh, uh, go along with the retarded pupils. Well, may I break in also by pointing out that even if one grants that he is concerned with naked power, that the use of public opinion today, or the manipulation of public opinion, if you please, is one of the important methods to achieve power. And I think Lewis is subject to criticism for having neglected something which it would be difficult for him to manipulate, perhaps, but which in the end might prove to be a real asset to him, if he would take the trouble to explain to the public the conditions which he is trying to correct amongst his minors. Well, how is he going to take the trouble? Let's be realistic about it, and I'd like to throw the question at Perlman. Uh, he goes into a conflict situation. The press is solidly united against him. Let's also, uh, let me repeat, be realistic about this. The press is not particularly sympathetic to labor. Uh, you try to get a statement in, uh, uh, for labor against capital, and you find yourself pretty much in a labyrinth, a blind alley. And he knows it. Well, I would say that Lewis doesn't need to worry about the will to victory and the part of his own minors. He can take that for granted. Likewise, he doesn't need to worry about his leadership, because a fighting leader always has the army behind him. But it's an unfortunate situation when you find, uh, that the Congress of the United States, uh, passes laws. It has passed several laws just to, just to restrict one man. The restrictive inter-union legislation since 1943 has been legislation against John Lewis. The Smith-Connolly Act, and most of it Taft-Hartley. Also, the return of the injunction is in a measure due to him. Perlman, do you really think that, uh, that, say, uh, legislation like the Taft-Hartley Act would not have been passed anyway? Don't you think that Lewis is being made a butt for a lot of this? It might have been a little later, but it would have come. I would say that if Lewis hadn't been so much concerned with self-dramatization, with the appearance as well as the substance of power, that perhaps after the election of 1948, uh, the, uh, the anti-labor forces wouldn't have succeeded as easily as they have in closing in on labor again. Speaking again in realistic terms, couldn't one say that it's quite possible that a specific number of votes were changed with, in, in the connection with the Taft-Hartley Act, by the fact that certain legislators thought of the labor movement in terms of the personification of John A. Lewis. Well, then I think that's quite probable. I think that that would reflect more on the mentality of the Congress of the United States than on the dramatization of the... Well, let's not express ourselves on that. I mean, we are realists in that regard. We have got to take things out. Do you mean you agree with me? I don't agree, nor do I disagree. I do think, gentlemen, however, that you both agree that, uh, public opinion has been an effective force in this particular conflict. I would like to go on and ask the question, is Lewis digging his own grave by forcing our economy to turn to other sources of power? Perhaps here is another countermeasure against the man. Well, uh, I suppose the answer is, like so many questions, yes and no. The general feeling is that by these constant and long coal strikes, that people are beginning to turn to other fuels, particularly industry. Uh, the most, uh, pointed example on that is the use of diesel engines on the railroads and the use of oil for home heating. However, what is Lewis to do in that situation? Uh, he can't, he has to, uh, fight for, uh, for the welfare of his own miners, and if he were to be concerned about that others, uh, uh, the dangers to the whole coal industry, he would be pretty much curtailed. And I want to make one other point here. And that is that, uh, there is, you now have, uh, processes, uh, being developed in Pittsburgh and in other, uh, uh, major, uh, industrial, uh, sections where coal is being liquefied into oil. So that it will be, uh, it will be sold on the market at a price cheaper than, uh, natural oil. Natural oil. In terms of digging his own grave, uh, possibly, uh, not only in terms of the industry, but in terms of his personal ability, I think there's one other point that should be brought out. Namely that he has shown a striking lack of capacity to work with other persons except in terms of complete domination over them. And consequently, he has raised very few lieutenants to take his place. We've been spending a good deal of time on Lewis's past. We've been talking about him in the present coal situation. I am wondering, uh, what is going to happen after the holidays and the current coal crisis? Alinsky? Well, before I take a shot on that, have we got time for just a brief discussion on, uh, for say just a few seconds on, uh, Lewis's effect on the Civil War and the labor movement? I repeat, what, uh, is the situation in the coal industry today and, again, what is the situation going to be in the next two or three months? Well, I'll have to give you the same answer on that that I did before, uh, you'd have to be a crystal ball gazer and no one knows except Lewis. I have full confidence that Lewis knows exactly where he's going. He's following this jabbing attack wearing down the nerves of the President, the nerves of the Congress, et cetera, and all other authorities. I think that he's going to come out of this into a full-blown strike if he doesn't completely crack the united front of the coal operators, which, according to the morning papers, he's already done it with the operators in eastern Kentucky. Now, if he doesn't do that, then you will have a full-blown strike. You'll have an injunction, which is really a tapped-heart injunction, although the President will disguise it otherwise. And then you'll have contempt of court, a million-dollar fine, and Lewis will win out as he has before. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, That Man John L. Lewis. You can secure a printed copy of today's broadcast by sending 10 cents in coin to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand, Evanston, Illinois. A subscription which will bring you discussions dealing with other important current subjects costs only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Saul Alinsky, author of the recent unauthorized biography, John L. Lewis, Elmo Homan, professor of economics at Northwestern University, and Selig Perlman, professor of economics at the University of Wisconsin. Now our moderator, Dr. Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand brings out into the open one of the most important conflicts of our time, the struggle between Christianity and communism. Our guests will be Kermit Eby, professor of social science at the University of Chicago, and former research and education director of the CIO. Harold Fye, managing editor of the Christian Century. And Frank McKibben, professor of religious education at Garrett Biblical Institute. The Northwestern Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast as a public service feature of Mutual Every Week. Today's program was transcribed, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. As I've been discussing that right now, you're on the right track developers to poets there. union advice was brought to me all the most ridiculous decisions, boards of culture and work for people at inspections.ith is posterior for its 추대. Not having numerous projects. Youtube has been in the right track ofiskt pieds. But having been completely 뒤 accomplished.