Civil defense is your business. And the time for civil defense is now. This is Al Morgan speaking to you on the Civil Defense Radio Network. A network which operates by air alone. And which could function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Over this network, each week at this time, we bring you transcribed plan for survival. Now, because of many requests, we are repeating a program heard earlier this month. It was the fourth in a series of special shows produced for Plan for Survival by radio newsman James Fleming. I introduced it this way. Well, you've taken us to Hiroshima, Enner Weetark, Las Vegas, Washington, almost everywhere that the atom bomb has made news. What's the next stop on your civil defense tour, Jim? Al, it's the most important one of all. It's just down the street with yours and everybody's next-door neighbor. For a week now, our tape recorders have been listening to the voices of the people on the subject of civil defense. And what these fellow citizens of New York State had to say is important to all of us. Because their opinions are perhaps a mirror of our own. For example, nearly everyone we talked with agreed that civil defense was a mighty fine thing. But the great majority hadn't done a thing about it. It just hadn't occurred to them that they were needed as volunteers not tomorrow or next year, but right now. If an atom bomb fell, we would have 10 million volunteers the next morning. But meanwhile, probably 100,000 people would be dead because there was nobody there to take care of them. That somber warning came from Governor Dewey only a few weeks ago. It underlines a state of mind that we found to be widespread in our interviews this week. A state of mind that could be described as passive. These people were perfectly willing to join up, but they wanted to be drafted into service either by law or by force of events. It's true that under the state law, civil defense workers can be drafted. But this is a power that officials would turn to only as a last resort. As Governor Dewey said, I hope that power will never be even considered. Our job is to arouse people to do this voluntarily. Because once you start drafting people, you change the whole spirit of civil defense. Civil defense is the expression of man's love for his family and for his neighbors. That is the highest emotion that man is capable of except his religion. And the whole spirit of preservation of our freedom and our society would be injured if we had to draft people for civil defense. That's the challenge of civil defense. For a base that calls on what poets have described as the noblest instinct of man. We haven't any poets on this program to lend us their eloquence. But we do have a lot of your neighbors speaking their thoughts on this subject candidly, asking questions, looking for some answers. Well, frankly, I think I'm like the average person. I know very little, if any. And I think this exhibit here is a big help. The average person realizes very little what to do. You figure the millions of people in New York City, I'll bet less than 1%, even have a vague idea of what to do with this thing like this should happen. The exhibit this gentleman was referring to was at the Rivoli Theater in New York. He'd just dropped in. He was beginning to find out about civil defense. Many of the people we talked with were already doing their part in this program. Now, here's a civil defense worker who gives us a candid appraisal of the program in his part of the world, which happens to be Long Island. Well, I don't think it's adequate in many areas, particularly in the area in which I reside, because I feel that although we have the workers, we can always use more, that we are not fully equipped as far as wearing apparel is concerned for those who may be willing to combat and assist in combating the effects of an atomic bomb. This man made a suggestion about civil defense that sounded eminently sensible to me. He said that in his group, there was very great enthusiasm when the program first got underway. But after a few meetings, a letdown. He thought it was important to emphasize that civil defense is a continuing job, not something you can do a little about and then forget. He also had something to say about the apathy that grows out of the emotion of fear. I've often felt that the people should not be given this terrific fear that most of them have. I think they are afraid that if an atomic bomb were to hit any particular area, that mostly everybody would be more or less killed or affected by the effects of this atomic energy. And I think that they should more or less go into the fact of telling them that that is not so. And that's been what I've been led to believe anyhow. Is that correct? Correct, sir. You've hit on a point of view that we found to be widespread in our interviews this week. Here's a man from Syracuse, New York, who has another word for it. He calls it fatalism. My name is John Curley. Utica, New York. Well, to me, the thing is, there seems to be a kind of fatalism about the atom bomb. People say, well, if it falls, it'll fall. There's nothing I can do about it. It's like lightning out of the blue. I don't know. That attitude, frankly, I'm a bit guilty of it myself. For instance, the destructive areas, oh, it's deadly in a half a mile, and then a mile, you've got a pretty good chance, and so forth and so on. And stand up to five miles in that area, you're quite safe. But I don't know what would dispel that fatalism, which is a thing that seems to be bad. And yet, as they say, I'm slightly guilty of it myself. Well, we can remind this gentleman and others of his view that this country wasn't founded on fatalism. It hasn't survived on that attitude. Two, we should point out to him that his information about atom blasts isn't quite accurate. You can survive at the heart of it if you are in a proper shelter. Now, for an example of what I found to be the majority view about civil defense, here's a man from northern New York. Well, I think there should be a lot done in civil defense. I think we're lagging a little bit, don't you? We should go on and make it a little bit stronger than what... That's just what I do think. He's mighty positive about it, isn't he? But you know, he personally hasn't done the first thing about civil defense. He was asking, as so many do, not what are we doing about it, but what are they doing about it? So was this lady from Staten Island. Well, what are they really doing about it, and what are the... Just a minute, lady. We'll try to answer the question on your terms. Here are a few of the things that they are doing about it. The they, in this case, being New York State. Again, Governor Dewey. Your state government has done its job. The state public works department has inventoried every bulldozer and piece of machinery in the state to clear away rubble, to knock down adjoining buildings to save the injured and remove the dead, and to clear streets. The state public service department has worked with the railroads and utility companies, who've done a marvelous job on the problem of preparing to maintain transport and gas, electric, light, telephone, and all the other services that are so essential. Our division of safety has worked with the fire departments of the state. We've prepared and distributed more than three million copies of the booklet, You and the Atom Bomb. And yet, a recent survey in the state shows that most of our people have not taken the trouble to learn the simple facts of self-preservation. The regular police forces are generally ready, and they give a good account of themselves. Our social welfare department has planned for the reception of a million homeless people in communities throughout the state. It's planned for their housing and feeding and clothing. But no agency with its normal peacetime staff can handle that problem alone. It needs tens of thousands of trained volunteers ready to act. Only a handful of volunteers have signed up so far. The governor has listed just a few of the departments of state and local governments working on civil defense. But as he pointed out, the work of these bodies must be ineffective unless they're joined by millions of volunteer workers. And just lately, a lot of would-be volunteers are ducking their responsibilities by asking a question. Yes, I have a question. Now that the Korean War seems to be getting settled, why do we have to have civilian defense? That was a lady in Poughkeepsie. When she thought the matter over, she realized that Korea was just one danger spot in today's world. Whatever happens there does not remove the threat we all live under. Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, chairman and director of the New York State Civil Defense Commission, has warned us that over ten years ago, Pearl Harbor hit this nation while so-called peace talks were underway. Especially in this season of relaxation, there's no vacation from danger. Right, Al Morgan? Yes, Jim Fleming. And Colonel Wilkinson points out that an enemy knows no convenient hour for attacking us, save that which is convenient to his plans and schemes, based on a knowledge of our own typical national habits of relaxation. He will strive to fight us his way, on his terms, and at his convenience, not ours. Indeed, there is no vacation from danger. We can all agree with that. Although many of the people we interviewed this week seem to be taking a vacation from this most pressing of responsibilities. Oh, I know that it's important to this country that we should be well prepared in case of any occasion that we might need civil defense, and that, well, the people are the most important part of it. She's right about that. People are the most important part of civil defense. And while reporting on their neglect of this task, we would be less than just not to applaud the energy and zeal of those who are facing up to it and working at it. One lady we talked to was a school teacher. She teaches civil defense in the classroom, and when she's away from it, she still keeps a sharp eye on civil defense matters. Well, I'll tell you, the other evening we were out walking. We live up on Fifth Avenue. And I happened to mention to my husband that there were no shelters up there. I noticed as I walked in here this morning that there were signs, shelter, go here and go there, and the arrows, which indicate where the people should go in case of an attack. But if you're out in the street, up and up of Fifth Avenue, for example, and an attack came, you wouldn't know where to go. There are no signs at all. Well, the neighborhood civil defense organization on Upper Fifth Avenue may be able to tell this lady that there are shelter signs in the area, but in her view, they apparently need more of them. There's plenty of work for civil defense workers, lots of questions to be answered. The only question I'm not sure of is, suppose I'm in another part of the city when a bomb falls, should I try to get home right away, or should I stay where I'm at? That's my primary question. Stay where you are, sir. Seek shelter in that area. And if that's the only question you have, you must be very well informed about civil defense indeed. However, it must be reported that most of us are not, and let's face it, we have to be. Listen to these voices. Do you perhaps hear your own listen? I only know what I read in the newspapers. It's a very important part of our everyday makeup as a citizen. Well, it's a, uh, it's something that we should all volunteer for, and something that I think the majority of us neglect, due to our complacency. What can I do to help? Well, I don't know much. I'd like to, uh, know more about it, so I could help in case anything ever happens, atomic bomb or anything like that sort. Yes, Jim Fleming, I think a lot of us can hear our own attitudes reflected in those voices. Jim, this brings to an end your month's assignment with civil defense. I wonder if you'd like to summarize your impressions. First, Al, let me say it's been a very rewarding assignment. I discovered that I had a lot to learn about civil defense. New York State can certainly be proud of the job it's done so far, proud of the fact that it's setting the pace for the nation. It's up to all of us now to build on this foundation, to build up this vital area of our national strength. That, to me, seems the very important fact about civil defense. It's part of our arsenal, and I think we all agree that our survival as a nation depends on our strength. Thank you, James Fleming, and congratulations on a fine job of reporting. You've made the civil defense story come more alive for all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, this was the last in a series of four plan-for-survival programs prepared by radio newsman James Fleming. That final broadcast of the four programs produced by Jim Fleming was repeated at this time because of numerous requests. Next week, Plan for Survival will continue its new series of transcribed programs produced by the individual stations comprising the Civil Defense Radio Network. We invite your reaction and comment. Write to Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. That's Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. This is Al Morgan reminding you to sign up for civil defense in your neighborhood. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network.