Ten years ago, it took a Pearl Harbor to shake some of us out of our complacency. We can't afford to wait this time. As long as a single powerful aggressor nation is casting envious eyes at the wealth and natural resources of this country, we must take steps to protect ourselves. Civil defense is common sense. This is the 13th in a weekly series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Now here's Bill Leonard. This week, our topic is food and water, and we'll answer some of the questions on that subject that you have asked in your letters. Incidentally, I'll have the address for your questions a little later in the program. Also, as is our custom, this program will be in two parts. First, some answers about food and water by Dr. Omar Pancoast, College of the City of New York, special consultant to the New York State Civil Defense Commission. And then local stations will be given an opportunity to discuss the subject in respect to their individual communities. Dr. Pancoast, our first question comes from a man who writes, Many families normally keep several days' supply of food on hand, enough to tide them over in an emergency. On the other hand, if you are one of those families that ordinarily go shopping each morning for the day's food supplies, you would be well advised to put aside two or three days' needs of a few simple canned and packaged foods. In general, these should be foods with a high energy content, easily prepared, without requiring a lot of long cooking or large quantities of water. It would also be a very good idea to have some bottled or canned fruit juices, so as not to be too dependent on the regular water drinking supply in an emergency. But I want to emphasize that our householders should avoid unnecessary and wasteful food buying. Laying in more than two or three days' supplies would only add to inflation and involve you in unnecessary expense. Another problem that bears on food in the home, doctor, the regular as well as the emergency supply in the shelter, comes from a listener who asks, Will atomic attack contaminate the food on my pantry shelves? It's perfectly possible if it's open. An atomic explosion occurring at ground level or in the water will cause radioactive dust or spray, which might well contaminate food which is exposed. So any such exposed food should not be eaten. Well, by exposed, you mean such things as, well, a cake on an open shelf or an open box of crackers? Yes, Mr. Leonard. Food which is in tins, well-sealed packages, or in tightly closed refrigerators will be perfectly safe to eat after an atomic bomb, ground, or water explosion. But the outside of these containers may have radioactive particles. Therefore, all sealed cans and packages should be washed off thoroughly before they are opened. And if there's any doubt as to whether food is safe to eat, it should be put aside until it can be checked at a later time. Your radio will tell you whether or not you're in an area where there might be contamination. Certainly don't immediately throw out all the food in your pantry. It may be perfectly good. Well, now Dr. Pant goes to another question. A veteran of World War II writes, Well, first of all, all or even most of the streets would not be impassable. I think that should be emphasized. Even four atomic bombs exploded over New York City would not knock it out. They would severely devastate only some 20 to 30 square miles, and New York City covers an area of 328 square miles. Now for the question, How do we plan to get food to the people remaining in an attacked area? We've already advised people to maintain a small emergency food supply. A two- or three-day cushion is generally recommended. The majority of both large and small food stores, even inside the edge of the bombed area itself, should be distributing regular quantities of food again within that time. In New York City, for example, the various branches of the food trade have been active for several months already, organizing themselves for emergency measures. And these measures would take care of not only the large cities, but the surrounding suburban and rural areas which depend on the cities for supplies. We're certain of our ability to meet the food needs after the first few hours of emergency dislocation, which have to be expected. The only reason we're stressing two or three days' supply in each home is to avoid any feeling of panic or insecurity at a time of an actual bombing, since a day or two of belt tightening wouldn't really hurt anyone, and the dislocation should not last longer than that. Here's a question from a lady in Rochester, Doctor. In the event that we have to be evacuated with thousands of other people due to our homes being destroyed, who is going to feed us? That's the responsibility of the state. Under social welfare services, and extensive plans and preparations have already been made for such a contingency. Emergency feeding stations will be set up along the perimeter of any disaster area, and these will supply food to civil defense workers and to evacuees moving through these areas. This man lives in a town in Westchester County, and he writes, In case this occasion does arise, and we have to feed these people for several weeks, who pays for the food? Well, assuming in this case that the people temporarily sheltered in your home are unable to provide funds for the purchase of their own foodstuffs, the fair cost of feeding them will be returned to you by New York State. One more question, Doctor. I'm particularly troubled, says this listener, by what might happen to all our water supply in an atomic attack. If the water in my home is contaminated by radiation, how will we prepare foods for cooking, and what will we have to drink, or how will we even wash off the cans and packages of food which you have advised us to decontaminate? Well, actually, there is very little chance that our water supplies would be contaminated by radiation. Water itself does not become radioactive, and any such contamination would come from dust particles or other foreign matter, such as sewage, which was contaminated and fell into the water supplies. The settling out, or removal of these impurities, is not a very great problem for the municipal reservoirs to handle. A much more real danger is that of pollution through broken water mains and so forth. We would advise everyone to buy and have on hand a few halosone tablets, such as the American forces used to purify their drinking water all over the world during the last war. Thank you, sir. That was Dr. Omar Pancoast of the College of the City of New York, Special Consultant to the New York State Civil Defense Commission. At this time, I'd like to remind our listeners that they can send their questions to Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. Providing food and water for the City of New York is a big job even in normal times. With me in the studio is Dr. Theodore Rosenthal of the New York City Department of Health to talk about what would happen in an emergency. Our first question, Dr. Rosenthal, comes from a resident of Greenwich Village who asks, what would I do to make sure we have enough water during or after a possible attack? Sealed bottles of water should be stored either in a shelter or in the refrigerator. Such water is quite safe to use. It is extremely important to conserve supplies of water. In other words, don't use unnecessary amounts of water since pressure must be kept up in water mains for the purpose of fighting fires. In spite of what you may have heard, do not rush immediately to take a bath or a shower after an atomic attack unless you hear on your own radio that you may have been exposed to contamination. Water is an important weapon in fighting disaster. Use it sparingly. Back to the problem of contaminated food, Dr. Rosenthal, a lady in Jackson Heights asks, what can I do to prevent eating food that is radioactive? As you have heard, all foods in sealed containers are considered to be safe. The containers should be washed off carefully before opening if there is any reason to suspect that radiological contamination may have occurred. If reasonable care is observed, food which is contaminated would not be eaten. If for any reason food is suspected of being contaminated, it should be set aside. Following an atomic bomb burst, foods in undamaged refrigerators, cans, bottles, jars, and sealed packages, whether in homes, markets, restaurants, or storage, could be used without prior monitoring, provided care was exercised in washing off any dust or liquid from the outside of the container or package before opening. From Hastings-on-Hudson, this question, Dr. Rosenthal, what if reservoirs supplying the city are contaminated by an atomic bomb burst? After a high air burst, there would be no serious contamination of water supplies in reservoirs or in treatment plants and other parts of the water supply system. Such radioactivity as would appear from fallouts would be small and so highly diluted as to be harmless. If the reservoir itself were hit, there are valves to shut off the supply. A lady in the Bronx writes, I've heard it said that we would be able to feed all New Yorkers for weeks after an air raid. But I also read that transportation would be vitally needed for medical equipment, personnel, and evacuation of the wounded. How will we get all this food? Plans have already been made for bringing in all necessary supplies of food and the setting up of feeding points for those people who have been bombed out of their homes. In normal times, a city like New York has considerable supplies of food in various storage depots. Not only would this food be used, but more food could be quickly brought in. Dr. Rosenthal, a mother who lives on Riverside Drive, has a new baby who requires a formula and she wonders how she could provide food for her infant in case of a disaster. Emergency supplies of canned milk and other baby foods recommended by her physician should be stored either in the shelter or kept in the home. The welfare of mothers and children is a priority of the first order from the standpoint of the public health and medical authorities. Well, Doctor, it's quite a jump from babies to pets, but this writer wonders if any arrangements have been made to care for family pets in an emergency. I'm glad to be able to tell you that a program to protect animals from injury has recently been inaugurated with the cooperation of the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the New York Women's League for Animals. Well, this writer, Dr. Rosenthal, is rather indignant and he says, I read that meals will be served by the city to all homeless people after a disaster. Of course, food will have to be used carefully, but how can we expect working men in the wreckage to do their labor on the same diet as men who are doing nothing? Let's take the last part of that one first, Mr. Leonard. There aren't going to be any men who are doing nothing. Every able-bodied man and woman in the area will be put to work immediately, clearing streets, rescuing survivors from the rubble, assisting in first aid stations and hospitals, and any other emergency jobs that need to be done. Certainly, we'll see to it that the men and women who are working for rescue purposes are not forgotten. But remember one thing, civil defense is a civilian responsibility. Thank you, Dr. Theodore Rosenthal, Assistant Commissioner of Health in charge of medical activities for New York City Civil Defense. Next week, our topic will be firefighting, and we'll answer more of your questions about civil defense. Our speakers will be Chief B.R. Townsend, Division of Safety, Albany, New York, and George Monaghan, Fire Commissioner, New York City. Try to be with us at that time, won't you? This is Bill Leonard reminding you that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the 13th in a series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we'll answer questions on firefighting, questions that you listeners have sent us. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Many of you have been wondering about the whole of the civil defense picture, just what you can do, what could happen if your community were attacked, what plans have been made to move you to a safe place, and so on. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on our future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at this same time next week when we'll discuss firefighting. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network.'s un Kann関 B forward to Ecu hill