He is the first deputy commissioner of the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity, and needless to say, that department would be vitally affected in any actual bombing raid. Mr. D. P. Oller, can you tell us just exactly what your role is in this test? Well, our role is to say that the fire department has complete supply of water, and we try to do the best we can now. We assume there is quite a few water main breaks, and our equipment comes out and rolls. We do stop these water main breaks, and at the same time, see if the fire department gets an efficient amount of water to put up these terrific walls of water so that the fire can be controlled enough, let it spread through other areas. I've told our listeners, Mr. D. P. Oller, about this valid sheet of water that they're setting up here, and this is only a very small part of the whole story. I think I can count about eight pumper trucks right now, and there must be many more. Oh, you have about 65 water pump trucks here now, plus about, let's see, I think eight two pieces of equipment from the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity. We're now shutting water mains off, rerouting the water, and see if the rest of the city gets a supply of water. We are particularly interested in getting water to the first aid stations to help the injured, and we also, as a terrific responsibility that we have, is to see if the hospitals are supplied with water, and that the rest of the city and children and the whole part of the whole can have water. We're going to encourage everybody to listen to their radios and to first boil their water, and then from then on stay with their radios, and we will tell them what water would be portable for them to use. And I think that's about all the way to answer. Well, just one more question. Based on this problem that you're working out now, a good part of the bronze water supply would be nil, wouldn't it? I mean, it'd be bombed out. Well, certainly we have an intricate system of water supply where we can take one particular segment of water and separate it from the others. And at no time will the city be affected water because our tunnels are, in some places, that they come from, catch the encroach, they're about 600 to 700 feet deep in the way. What about the pressure problem that would exist? You need so much pressure to put this solid well of water up that I see around me. Yes, well, to find a problem, bring our pompous in, and we're trying to reroute the water so we can give him a sufficient amount of pressure, plus the pompous of the fire department, so the city has nothing to fear on that score. We were told at Manhattan Control Center, Mr. DiBiola, that this test represented some two and a half months of solid work by the Civil Defense Organization of New York City. You are a part of that, is that correct? That's right. And you've been in all those plans? About three months now. About three months? About three months. It's been a terrific setup, and I think the people of the city of New York should be congratulated with the officials that they have to do this type of work. We ran into General Huebner at Manhattan Control, and all he had was words of praise for the local New York City setup. I might just say here that the purpose of the drill, according to information given to us by the New York City Civil Defense Organization, is this. There are three of the police helicopters right now coming almost directly over us, and they are broadcasting, you understand, from up there to the population. That would be their role in any actual race. There are panic and havoc and... Mr. Bufiola is giving me this information, even though his official duties are connected with the Water Department. He's set first to the Civil Defense Organization. He's able to tell me just what is happening. Three of these helicopters, and there are only three of several, I understand, would circle over the devastated area, as well as other parts of the city, broadcasting to the people of the city, and in some measure trying to avoid panic, which is always a tremendous hazard. I was telling you that, according to information given to us by the Civil Defense Organization, this field exercise is not necessarily an attempt to demonstrate the ability of the local organization to cope with the damage caused by this theoretical attack. Actually, it's a paper solution to a paper problem sent to New York City by the state's Civil Defense. It's more or less to find out how successfully the operation of channels of communication, and the Civil Defense Communications Organization itself can work as regards communications. I now would like to talk to Lieutenant Kefitt. Is that the correct pronunciation? Of the New York City Fire Department, who's been manning one of these pummel trucks, one of these eight that I can see within my own line of vision right here, contributing to this solid sheet of water that's being set up in the air, not too many feet from us. How do you think this field so far is going, Lieutenant? It's proven very successfully. The auxiliary firemen have been trained, and this is an example of the exercises and procedure that they will perform in a normal event. They're making every effort to extinguish the fire. There's been no hitch. These trained auxiliaries are participating with the regular firemen in an effort to cooperate with other citizens to extinguish fires and help the community as a whole. Lieutenant, as I understand it, the main object of the fire department under circumstances like this would be to contain that firewall that's set up by the explosion of the bomb, right? Yes. As though you would draw down a curtain or a Venetian blind on a window, so are these streams of water established to do the same thing and keep out the fire. As sun would be kept out of a closed Venetian blind, so would fire be prevented from going any further into an area by these coverages and cratons of water. Very well put. Now what happens? When do you start to move in toward the actual hardware trouble? We go in and we survey the situation and see if it's necessary to proceed any closer. If, and we align our units as though any army or battlefield unit would do. Redress the groups, see what fires have been extinguished, and advance or retreat if necessary. Now I know this is the point of the whole drill, but I think you can give me the answer. Normally when a fire breaks out around the city you have set methods of being notified. You get your truck there and you fight the fire. Now, you would not know that atom bomb is going to be dropped. We would have filmed. Undoubtedly you have definite signals, definite warnings to get you to certain specified areas. Is that right? Can you tell us about it? Yes. The procedure is the same. The type of signal that comes into the firehouse is an indication of the type of emergency that we are to cope with. And it's only through these signals that we'll know what type of emergency that we will respond to. And set signals are designated for an air raid for an emergency of this type. And going back to your original statement, we can assume that you, as one single member of this huge organization, is pretty well satisfied with what you're seeing right now. I've never been so pleased, I've never been so enthused at this event right now. That coming from one of the lieutenants with the fire department of New York City, whose post is with one of these pump restrictions, should come as a very heartwarming thing to you listeners. The test, as such, is not particularly designed to heat us, and I'm one of you, don't forget that, what to do in case of devastation that we're looking at right now. But it's to teach the participants of the Civil Defense Organization to act with speed and act accurately. And coming as it did from the lieutenants of the fire department that he was very well satisfied, I think we can all take heart. Jim Kennedy. I'd like to talk to Jim Kennedy now, who rode up with us in this CD-12 station wagon, which is the radio-equipped Civil Defense station wagon, and who was assistant to the Civil Defense director. I know that you, if anyone, knows as much about this as anyone. There's a question that's in my mind that you can probably answer as a result. The Army has been very conspicuous by its absence. As far as I can tell, the only evidence of the Army was in the removal of a Dutch bomb, which we reported, which took place right across the street. Well, now, is there some specific reason for that, Jim? Oh, sure. If you remember going back when this thing started about two years ago, President Truman gave everybody to understand that the city must fight. In other words, we are wholly depending upon the citizens of this city and citizens of every city to get out of their houses and get going. This is a free country. We all work for free. That is, other than our regular daily life. Now, if everybody were to dig into this thing the way I have done so far in the last two years, we would have a bigger and better Civil Defense force. But I would be willing to say that this thing is really growing now. We've been very slow for about a year, but I can't give you the answer to it. I think it's just the fact that through the medium of radio, television, and our newspapers, the people in the city of New York are really coming around and digging right in and all signing up at Civil Defense. Jim, let me interrupt just a second. It's stark realism and the immediate response of so many thousands of people that I can see just from our little small vantage point here is any indication of the success of your organization. We've arrived, and I don't mean with that that we want to say we're overconfident. I'd like to interject right at this point, too, that, as we said at the beginning, this is a test. It's starkly real, Jim, and I don't want our listeners to get the feeling that anything actually has happened, that an atom bomb has really fallen on the Bronx, so I'm interjecting just that thought. It's a test. It's a drill for the New York City Civil Defense Organization, and I'm talking right now with Jim Kennedy, the assistant to the director. Jim, you didn't quite finish my question about the lack of the Army. Is it possible that the Army is going to be other places, and that's why you can't be expected to count on them? Oh, well, that's understood. We do expect that the Army will be busy elsewhere, but should we ever need any help from the Army, I'm sure we could always get it. Thank you, Jim. I'd like to talk now, if I might, to Captain McDonald. May I? Oh, yes, yes. You probably have noticed the absence now of the sounds that were with us when we first hit the air. It is occasioned by this. The pumper trucks have now turned off the huge pumps. The screw of the ladder has disappeared, as far as we are concerned. It's my understanding that at this point, and it's approximately 10-15, the pumper trucks in all the fire apparatus from 165th Street North, that would be toward the center of the trouble, or where the atom bomb dropped, has been drawn back, pulled back to 165th Street, which is two blocks on down. And that will constitute the fight against this fire wall, the retaining of the fire wall, which sprung up around the drop of the atom bomb. These trucks now have turned off their pumps. I see down toward 165th Street, pumper trucks continuing, which is the general idea. The trucks are being moved back toward 163th Street, correct? I'd like to talk now to Lieutenant General Clarence Huebner, who is the director of civil defense for the entire state of New York. We have the pleasure of meeting him at the Manhattan Control Center. General, I know that this New York City test is just one of many things in which you're interested, being director of the state civil defense organization. But you must have some observations you'd like to pass along to our WNBC listeners. Well, we've passed the last two days of going over the detailed plans in New York City, and this morning we're trying them out in small demonstrations. And this fire demonstration in front of us here is the first time that a complete segment has been set up, and the training actually would be done if this were a bomb is taking place in front of us. It's a remarkable undertaking. And the New York City Fire Department should be congratulated for being able to put on such a show. Fantastic, real, General, if you'll pardon my say so. And I would also like to mention at this time the New York Telephone Company, Mr. Keith McHugh, president of the company, has put on a very realistic landline telephone set up in this segment. This whole thing is being controlled with landlines laid in this demonstration. To me, it's a wonderful thing. We're making lots of progress. General, I know that the citizens of New York City are primarily understandably interested in the defense of New York City. But can you give us any picture of the state as a whole? Is it coming along to your satisfaction? The cities and the states, and each exercise has become progressive. The other cities. And this today has just... If we go on with our training. And we can live without fear. Sure, some of us will die, but the great majority of us will live. General Huebner, thank you very much for a very concise picture. That was General Clarence Huebner, the director of the State Civil Defense Organization. The order from the police department for the fire apparatus to move back toward 163rd Street. Correct? 165th Street. Correct? We anticipated it. It's been showed up as anything of this magnitude would have to be. And now I have standing beside me the man who stands at the head of this local New York City Civil Defense Organization. Mr. Herbert R. O'Brien, director of Civil Defense for New York City. Mr. O'Brien, you've directed the planning of this thing, and now certainly must have some observations on the success of it. Would you mind giving our WNBC listeners those answers? I believe that the... I'll... Experient here this morning shows that we have put on just everything that the general expected that we would have. I think, in fact, that we have gone beyond the expectations of the state witnessing this demonstration here this morning. Actually, Mr. O'Brien, as I understand it, this was a specific problem sent down to you by state headquarters. Is that right? That is correct. And it was up to you to work out a paper and actual solution to it. Is that correct? Both the paper and a physical solution to the problem. Terminating today at 12 noon. Well, you must be extremely proud of the terribly realistic approach to this thing that the men under your direction have taken this morning. I am more than proud. I'm very proud of the fact that not only the fire department, but every other service connected with the Office of Civil Defense has done a magnificent job. And if I may be permitted to go just an inch further and state that our public utilities, such as a telephone company that Con Edison, one or two others, have been just as closely associated with us as all the other city services have been. Mr. O'Brien, I've been told that this particular test, this project, and I keep saying test, as you can appreciate, I don't want our listeners to believe that it's real, and it looks real and sounds real, I imagine. It took about three months in planning. Is that correct? Possibly three months in planning. With all the facts and figures you've got in your mind, can you segregate the number of people that were probably involved in making these plans? The number of people involved go up into the thousands. There's probably 12 to 13,000 civil volunteers today, civil defense volunteers right here in this area today, not counting the paid personnel of the fire, police, and other services. There's probably 20,000 representatives of civil defense right in this area. Is this truly the second test of this time? Well, this is the first real big test of this time. This is the first test we've had of this magnitude. I see. Now, I was telling our listeners earlier how we spent the time with you and General Huebner down at Manhattan Control. And during the air raid alert at 8.30 this morning, ending at 8.45, I know it's only about 10.20 now. Have you had any chance, though, to determine the results of that test? Were people off the streets? Were the streets empty, as I know you civil defense people wanted during that 15 minutes? Have you had a chance to get that report? As of yet, we have not received any of the reports from our observers, inasmuch as the General and I have been moving throughout the area, and have not stayed in any one place long enough to get any figures. We propose to get that, though, within the next hour. I see. Thank you very much, Mr. O'Brien. It's been a real pleasure talking to you, and although mine is a very weak, small voice in this overall picture, I want to congratulate you and your organization on a job done tremendously well from where we can see it, and I know that's the case for it on the segment. Thank you very much, sir, and in spite of you, I want to thank both the radio and television speakers for the modern cooperation we have received from the very beginning of this operation. Thank you, Mr. O'Brien. The three-way station and casualties have been removed in buses fitted as ambulances. They've been removed to the river and essentially will then be removed by boats. We were told this morning that all tunnel approaches to the various boroughs should an atom bomb actually fall under your city would have to be closed. Anything in the tunnels would have moved out. Nothing else would be permitted. And the waterways around Manhattan Island and the different boroughs would be used largely for transportation and, in this case, evacuation. Is that right, Mr. O'Brien, coming back to you? That is very correct. At this time, we are installing a first-stage station at 8604 Samuel and messages are assigned to supplement the mechanical communications facility there. This is part of the overall plan. How long will this go on? Anticipating the time that we'll be off here at 10.30, Mr. O'Brien. How much longer will the test pass? We'll be in this area since Fox 12 noon. So what, noon? And by then the test will be over. Is that the assumption? That is correct, sir. Mr. O'Brien and I both have been working from a plan on paper, which he referred to, and I might just pass along to you listeners numbering 29 pages. That's only part of this story that will happen to me this morning. 29 pages. Thanks to Mr. O'Brien. And we have here, the next few minutes left, Colonel Lawrence Wilkinson, the chairman of the State Civil Defense Department, the top man in civil defense in New York State. Is Colonel Wilkinson around? Colonel, we've talked with John Huberman. I know that your observations are pretty much like his, and that this is just one part of your tremendous responsibility being at the head of the state, but what are your observations on the jobs done by the New York local civil defense organization? Well, it shows very clearly the results of two and a half years of really intensive organization training and now operations. We are extremely pleased with the showing that's been made today. It's far and away the best that we have seen any place in the state. Ladies and gentlemen, we're back in our WNBC studios here in Radio City, New York. We've been having some difficulty there, receiving the messages from Jim Coy and the shortwave transmitter from the Crotona Park section there in the Bronx, where the Civil Defense Forces have been carrying on a realistic disaster drill, demonstrating how they would react if an atomic bomb were dropped. Now, just a second, I believe the signal is clearing up. Shall we try them again? Go out to Jim Coy. Indeed, hearkening to all those who are listening. Ladies and gentlemen, the crowd now around here is beginning to disperse slightly compared to what it was. It's still a large crowd. The street was absolutely crowded when we arrived here just a few minutes before 10 o'clock this morning. This is no doubt occasioned by the fact that the scene is now moving from 165th Street on south and west. Moving back, the fire equipment has been moved back. The fire hoses are being drawn in. I do see, out in the distance, three of the several police helicopters that we referred to earlier in the broadcast circling over the devastation area, surveying it, not only for passing along information to the Civil Defense authorities and the different communications divisions, but I'm told to broadcast to the entire populace of New York City and the surrounding area, alleviating, as it would be hoped, any cause for panic. The Coast Guard, by the way, is here in some number. I see them around here. I'm told in the nature of observers, because in any use of the waterways around New York City, the different boroughs, the Coast Guard would be an integral part of civilian defense. I hope we've been able to bring you a fairly graphic picture of one of the most realistic, fantastic things I've ever had the opportunity to see. I hope we never see the actual real thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this has been a test. An atom bomb has allegedly dropped in an area of the Bronx. We've been talking to you from 165th Street and Trinity Avenue, which is on one perimeter of the segment, approaching the firewall, approaching the devastated area. We've seen the fire department, the police department. We've talked with local and state civil defense officers as they would respond to an emergency like this. It's been stark realism. If I'm guilty of using that word too much, please forgive me. But standing here in the corners, I am looking into this area that is supposedly devastated by an atom bomb. All you can think of is starkness, fantastic, and most of all realism. It is in an area, deliberately chosen, where dwellings have been torn down or partially torn down in anticipation of new housing development. The walls, as a result, are gutted. The window panes are out. A lot of the walls are shattered, half shattered. And it could well take on at least the appearance of a bomb's aftermath. You'll be hearing the report of the success of the 830 to 845 Civil Defense Alert, which, as you know, took part in New York City as well as Westchester County. And we hope we've been able to bring you a word picture of this simulated bombing of a certain area of the Bronx. Certainly, the response of the local civil defense organization is heartening. Been heartening to me. If I've been able to convey that feeling onto you, then WNBC will have done its job. The test, for all practical purposes, was a success. May I thank all the civil defense leaders, Jim Kennedy, assistant to the director, for all the help he's given us. And to Leon Tkachin, our producer for NBC, who's kept us supplied with information and interviewees. This is Jim Coy, thanking you very much for listening and returning you now to our studios. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been listening to Jim Coy with an on-the-spot report from the Cripp. Coy with an on-the-spot report from the Crotona Park section of the Bronx, where civil defense forces have been carrying on a realistic disaster drill, demonstrating how they would react if an atomic bomb were dropped. And this is important. You can share in this vital work. You can share in this work by visiting your local civil defense headquarters today and see what you can do. This has been a public service presentation of the WNBC Special Events Division. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. Column indictment, Stone We Wohnung jetzt yang membancam oleh on-dei-pint Schubert Schubert Pro Deutsch in verset. On-theis Mannびworm tul đây, TRAitbag, cl有沒有打算. Holyired Twitter Tai scriptures Basar accusing Bitcoin marketplace onsペ