On the 18th of April in 75, hardly a man is now alive who remembers that famous day and year. Listen, my children, and you shall hear of the midnight ride of Paul Revere. The radio workshop of the College of the City of New York presents an original radio play, Paul Revere, by Benjamin Hicken. The American Revolution, 13 colonies struggling to achieve their independence, burdened with innumerable obnoxious taxes, suffering many abuses at the hands of the mother country, yet steadfastly determined not to yield their most sacred right, the right of free men to be represented in their government, the right of free men to govern themselves. The scene is Boston, home of Paul Revere, one of the many heroes of the Revolution. The time, 1775, the crucial beginnings in the birth of a great nation, the United States of America. Dusk is gathering over the little town as two horsemen approach a house on one of its unlit cobblestone streets. Then it shallstone it. Be this the house? Aye. Are ye certain this fellow attends to the care of teeth? Is he not perhaps a sure of horse, 7 of all? Here, here, here. Respect thine elder lad. This be the house and well I recall it. T'was the occasion of my last visit to Boston. I trust then thy horse so rudely disengaged. Threw me into a ditch, cursor. Me thought she had splintered every aged bone in mine body. Thou look a straight sound for thy age, old man. Aye, except for the loss of two front teeth, I stood none the worse up. Oh, me thought then I would have need of a priest rather than a dead man. Speak this well, old man. Not without humor. This is the house wherein I had the damage repaired. Let us dismount. See there. Tis as I told ye. The shingle over the door. Read it. Thine eyes serve thee better. Uh, citizens, attention. Be all informed who are so unfortunate as to lose their teeth by accident or other ways that I am in the business of dentists and flatter myself that I can fix teeth as well as any surgeon dentist who ever came from London. And I fix them in such a manner that they are not only an ornament, but of real use in speaking and eating. All right. Aye. It is the same. A stout fellow and good craftsman. Dear, poor Revere. Is he not a silverman? Aye, and a good one. And an engraver? Aye. And is he not the same who fashions on paper none too flattering likenesses of King George and Pond? Aye, the same. He's not a trickle. It's them about town. Aye. It's be praised. Me thinks the man has spread himself around too thin. Pray God his dentistry is not made to suffer by it. Entertain no fears on the score, lad. Come, knock on the door. Good evening to you, gentlemen. Good evening, madam. The master of the household we wish to see. My husband. If the same be Paul Revere, madam. This lad at my side wishes a tooth extracted. Well, then be seated, gentlemen. The master of the house will shortly be with you. Thomas? Thomas? Yes, mother? Make haste. Call thy father. May I offer ye a glass of punch, gentlemen? Aye, that ye can, madam. It is indeed kind of ye. I bid you good evening, good sirs. Which is it of ye have business with me? Both, perhaps? This lad hath a troublesome tooth in his mouth, the root of which annoyance he desires to remove. Well, my good fellow, let me see. Set thyself comfortable and spread thy jaws. It was but a while back that ye removed two teeth of mine that had been unfortunately dislodged. I have not hesitated to recommend ye. Aye, now I do recall thee. Thou fellow, keep thy jaws apart, man. Aye, there lies the miscreant. Come, man, keep thy head, till not endure but a minute. Wife, my tools. Come, lad. Make not such wry faces. I'll look at this if all thy humor had flown out of thee. Open, man, open. But, devil, tis a stubborn growth. Wife, get thee firmly behind me. He slips from my grasp. There. I declare, though, tis not without a struggle. Fetch thou some water, wife. The patient bleeds too freely. How come to, lad? Gaze at thine tomb. Such size and color. Aye, I have nary seen much larger. Aye, tis of goodly proportion. Aye, observe ye how it is carved out on top, like a worm-eaten head of a cabbage. Here, here, take this water-suffering one. I beg of ye, do not expectorate on my floors. Aye, can he not speak? Me thought he had lost a tooth, not his tongue. Fear not. His tongue will babble merrily enough ere long. Come, now how much we owe thee, Revere? Two shilling fourpence. Tis little enough. Tis a fair price. Here ye be and thank ye, sir. Thank ye, gentlemen. I bid ye good night. And if misfortune shall ever again befall ye... We shall recommend ye tradesmen. Thou to, lad. I seek not for the pleasure of further me. Perhaps under different circumstances, eh? Here, wife, lay away the monies. Tis the fitting reward to honest labor. I must be off now. Paul, not again. Aye, again. Tis most urgent business in town. It needs must be so to propel thee there each night with such powerful force, even as a magnet and nail. The nature of my business is a meeting at the old South House, Rachel. Samuel Adams is to speak. And when wilt thou return, Paul? That I cannot say. Yesterday the hour was past eleven. The night before, t'was nine to twelve. Tonight no doubt will be the same. Tis most necessary business, wife. Aye, indeed. To keep a man from his family, knight. Tis beyond a housewife's understanding. Beyond a deed. Politics, no doubt. Perhaps. With dentistry and a silversmith's trade, t'would be sufficient without meddling in politics and secret meeting nights. Rachel, let thy tongue speak less loudly in such matters. A man's family life and political philosophy are not to be hawked about like a mess of fish for sale. My remarks are not ill-manned, Paul. I know that full well, and thou must bear with me, Rachel. If I choose to venture my hand in affairs of state, it is because I consider it my duty. Against the king? Even as we are subjects of the king, likewise are we citizens of the state. The king must respect the rights of citizens as such. Paul, I do but fear all the secret trafficking at night will come to no good. The king will but send more soldiers to punish us. Fear not for my safety, Rachel. We are observing the utmost caution. But I do fear for you, Paul. The air is charged as before a storm. Men drill in secret, meet secretly at night. Everywhere whispering in stealthy side looks. And even the children. Their eyes are bright with excitement. They too drill in the streets with their toy muskets and speak in whispers of the Minutemen in the red coat. Paul, each night I pray no blood be shed. Be not frightened, Rachel. With God's help all will yet be well. But I must go now. Go then and God keep you, Paul. Pray be careful. Hi there. Devere. Paul Devere. Hi, Dr. Warren. Here, up front. There's room for the inner platform. Hi, coming. All is in readiness. We await for the word of command from Adams. Good. It seems the entire populace of Boston has gathered here tonight. The temper of the people is goodly aroused. Harry! Harry! Harry! Harry! Good people of Boston. Mr. Samuel Adams is about to deliver a declaration. He recommends your silence. People of Boston. You know why we are met. It has been a time-honored custom when e'er the common will of the community has been endangered, for its citizens to gather together in solemn conclave to discuss and take means against the common foe. It is in this same spirit that we are convoked here, to assert and defend our God-given rights as Englishmen, sons of Englishmen and as men. We, the people of the colonies, have suffered many abuses. Our king and his prime ministers have seen fit, time and time again, to levy upon us odious, burdensome taxes. Taxes have been levied, not voted. Taxes have been levied without our consent. The question has raised itself before us, and rightly so. Are we to submit to this imposition of our rights, or shall we demand the right to be represented in the parliament which votes our taxes? Citizens of Boston, we are not alone in our protests. All over the colonies, the people have echoed our sentiments. Our ableist and most distinguished men have written us commending our stand. George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, and Patrick Henry. And if you will permit me the words of that most brave gentleman out of Virginia, taxation without representation is tyranny. Daily spoken! Violent! Violent! Violent! Mr. Adams' words throw my pulse like a whip, Mr. Waters. I want his mere, more than mere words of a speech for this. Well, maybe the beginning of something more. Violent! Citizens of Boston, our personal liberties have been encroached upon. Soldiers are quartered here in Boston. They brawl and scandalize the town. Armed with dictatorial search warrants, they high-handedly force their way into our homes. Our citizens are snatched from the streets and are lawfully pressed into the services of the King's Navy. I need to throw to try! I need to throw! Is there to be no respect for the privacy of our homes? Are we thieves, highwaymen, criminals? Are we to be bullied and ordered about by a handful of soldiers? Are we to suffer in dignity and indignity heaped upon us? Is there to be no regard for the sacred heritage of our rights? Countrymen, this is an issue which cannot be sidled. We cannot, we must not submit, not without the shameful loss of every vestige of God-fearing self-respect, that we colonists pride ourselves upon. Fire! Fire! In our harbor at this moment, three ships lie at anchor. Their cargo is T, T-ship from England. Either we ought to permit the T to land and pay the duties imposed upon us against our will, or we ought to prevent it. Need I ask which it shall be, people of Boston? Prevent! The T must not land! We are gathered here tonight in definite purpose. A messenger has been sent to the governor of Massachusetts, requesting that he allow these ships to return safely to England with their cargo. We await his answer now. Should he refuse, we shall have our answer ready. I promise you, gentlemen, no British tea shall land on American shores. Ready! Are the men waiting prepared, Dr. Warren? Gather the green dragon in. Feathers, musket, and instructions. All await the word. I have a feeling this night ought as much excitement. Silence! Hear ye! Hear ye! The messenger! The messenger! Hear ye! The messenger from the governor has arrived. Here, lad, here, lad. The governor's reply. Here, sir. Here, lad, give me the paper. Uh, citizens, the governor has refused passage of the ships to England. Tyrant! Fire! Tyrant! Fire! Fire! Gentlemen, this meeting can do nothing more to save the country. Dr. Warren. I await your command. Proceed with the plan mapped out. Gather your men and follow instructions. Lose no time. This business must be dispatched quietly and with all haste. So it shall be, sir. Revere, thy premonitions are fulfilled. This night we'll witness some strange doings. Come, thou to Griffin's Wharf, and I to the green dragon. I will meet thee at the boat with the men. Men, the instructions are done. There must be no mishap. There are three parties. One in command of Dr. Warren, one in command of Captain Dawes, and ye under me. We are each secretly to board one of the T-ships. At a given signal by myself, seize the crew and dump the cargo. None must be harmed. No property but the T-violator. Is all clear? Aye, sir. Into the boats, then. Yes, sir. And above all, remember, your masquerade as Redskins. Do your work as swiftly and stealthily as possible. All aboard? All accounted for, sir. To the oars, then. Yes, sir. It is a fit night for such a task. The moon has sunk well behind the clouds. Nought can be seen but the lamps of the ships laying on the water. All aboard, sir. It is a time to go to the other ships. This is it.
