Good afternoon from the very wonderful spot, the Bronx Zoological Park. The occasion here this afternoon is the breaking of ground for the beginning of the construction of a 12-acre conservation exhibit in the Bronx Zoo, designed to tell the people how their welfare is directly related to the conservation of our soils, water resources, forests, and animal life, and the project will be concluded in 1950. It is now our distinctive privilege to present the President of the New York Zoological Society, Mr. Fairfield Osborne. Mr. Osborne. Governor Dewey and other representatives of the Government of the State, Commissioner Moses, Mr. Patterson, other representatives of our City Government. Friends and visitors, this is the first project of its kind designed to inform people who live in cities that their welfare is directly related to the conservation of our forests, water resources, fertile soils, and the animal life that these resources sustain. Today, six out of every ten Americans live in cities and towns. They can either be unaware or can too easily forget that their well-being and the future of our nation depend upon the wise use of our natural resources. We can well hope that this exhibit may prove a pilot project of national importance to be duplicated as time goes on in other cities throughout the country. The New York Zoological Society is deeply appreciative of this opportunity to work in partnership with the State and City Governments in bringing this enterprise into existence. We believe that the far-sightedness of Governor Dewey, the action of the State Legislature in cooperation with the State Conservation Department, all leading to the appropriation of construction funds, will be justified many times over. This plan has been warmly endorsed and aided by our city government, especially through the activist assistance and cooperation of the Department of Parks under the leadership of Commissioner Moses. Needless to say, our institution, the Zoological Society, intends to use all its energies in developing and operating this project in order to justify the confidence our state and city governments are placing upon us. I have great pleasure in calling upon Commissioner Perry Dyer, who is the head of the Conservation Department of the State of New York, for a few of his good words. Commissioner Dyer. Governor Dewey, Mr. Osborne, and friends, I'm very happy to join in this ceremony, which will, in my opinion, be the first physical evidence of a conservation education program in this state. I think the present administration of our state government is the pioneer in setting up a constructive, progressive program of conservation education in the state of New York. At the present time, some of you probably know that we publish a magazine, the New York State Conservationists, which is now used in practically all the schools of the state of New York. Our greatest effort today is attempting to secure real courses of conservation education in our public schools, in training our teachers in our state normal schools, so that they will have the correct knowledge of conservation to pass on to their children. I am very happy to be with you today, and I wish the society all success in this project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you greatly, Commissioner Dyer. I'm going to ask Commissioner Robert Moses to speak to us. Governor Dewey, Strasburne, ladies and gentlemen, there's a sort of a popular superstition around that there aren't any people in New York City who know anything or care anything about conservation or wildlife or any of those things. Well, the New York Zoological Society alone ought to be enough evidence to show that that isn't so. I remember some years ago an assemblyman, a new assemblyman from the Upper East Side of New York, the old Yorkville neighborhood. I think he was a Czech by birth. In any event, he was a very bright fellow, and he knew what he didn't know. And he was put on the conservation committee. I suppose that was kind of an upstate joke. And he went to the chairman of the committee who came from the Adirondacks, and this is his story. He said, I asked the chairman of the committee, what does the conservation committee do? So the chairman said to me, do you know what a herring is? The boss said, sure, I know what a herring is. Well, he said, the herring falls asleep in the Atlantic Ocean, and he wakes up in the delicatessen store, and it's the conservation committee that takes care of him in the interval. That was supposed to be typical of New York City reaction to conservation matters. Now, whether or not we agree entirely with my friend Fairfield Osborne that if we're not careful about conservation, that the world as we know it is going to hell in a handbasket. I'm not altogether sure that I entirely subscribe to that because we have a way of working out of these difficulties. It is a fact that conservation is something we have to know more and more about, and the progress we've made to date has certainly been more than unsatisfactory. I recall also, with a good deal of disappointment, the record that was made by those who were wrestling with this problem, or supposed to wrestle with it, on the Hoover Commission to reorganize the federal government. I happen to have been the head of one of the task forces that was working on the subject, public works, and former Governor Miller of Wyoming, who has in a way been identified with the zoo here, at least with their western projects, was the head of the other. And we thought we were going to have easy sledding. We thought the easiest thing of all would be to put together everything that had to do with dams and the impounding of water, provide electricity and guard against soil erosion and do so many other things, navigation, there are a dozen other functions, power. And we, our two task forces agreed on that, and we were going to put them all together, but we hadn't reckoned with our host. We found out, among other things, that the Army engineers had no thought of going in with a reclamation service, and they organized a lobby. And the lobby was very successful. It's been very successful to date, because nothing has happened. And the indifference of the public to that subject is one of the things that startled us. It was so obvious that that thing ought to be done. It was so obvious that these activities ought to be consolidated, that they ought to be under one head. There ought to be one plan, one kind of supervision. Well, it was just too obvious, because nothing has happened. Now, this exhibit here that the state is sponsoring is one of the things that will teach people what this is all about. It's not an unusual thing. It's no freak thing that brings the state into the Bronx here with this exhibit. There are, I hardly need to tell you, hundreds of thousands of people here in New York City who get their vacation and hunting and fishing, and there's a great deal of fishing in and out of the saltwater district, right within the metropolitan boundaries. And we're all delighted, speaking for the city, we're delighted that the state has come in here and pioneered this job. I'm sure that it's going to be a credit to Governor Dewey and to Mr. Osborne and to all those associated with it. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Moses, greatly. President of the Borough of the Bronx, Mr. James Lyons, is with us. I'd like very much to have a word from him. Mr. Lyons. Mr. Osborne, Governor Dewey, Commissioner Moses, and friends, I believe in the conservation of public speaking during this hot period. I want to congratulate the Governor, however, upon the vision and the enterprise that he saw fit to try this noble experiment and enterprise in our cultural community. We know that these fish are not democratic fish, they're not republican fish, but we hope they are liberal in their propagation. and we welcome to this great community where more than one-fifth of our area is devoted to playgrounds, parks, and recreational facilities. We welcome to this great community this great endeavor to supply to supply the people of this great city with an additional means of recreation. And Governor Dewey, I want you to know that in selecting the Bronx as the locale for this experiment, that you have chosen a community which are extremely grateful for any and everything that is done for them. They believe in the old adage, small donations thankfully receive large ones in proportion. Continue to keep your eye on the Bronx and supply us with additional state funds. Thank you. I don't know if I'll go along with Mr. Lyons and all of that. This is a national project, Mr. Lyons, going far beyond even the glorious borders of our borough. Governor Dewey, it's a great honor to have you here and I call upon you with the deepest pleasure on the part of everybody here today of our city and of our own institution. Governor Dewey. Thank you, Mr. Osmond. Lads, Mr. Moses. Ladies and gentlemen, if we could substitute more band music for a speech I'm sure we would all be happier and we will very shortly turn it all over to you, sir. I'm delighted to be here to accept the thanks of the borough of the Bronx. As a matter of fact, I had no more to do with the placing of this exhibit here in the Bronx than Mr. Lyons did. It was placed for us by the sequence of mighty events going over many years under the leadership of the New York Zoological Society which is responsible for the magnificent exhibits which are here and in the cooperation with the city. The state merely provided the money and every time any money is provided by the state for anything they invite the governor to come down and so they can say thank you because they want some more. This, however, is probably one of the most exciting exhibits or demonstrations which the state has ever finessed. Most of us in this state and in this country live in cities. Someone has said it's six out of ten live off the farm. I suspect that it's probably eight out of ten people who have absolutely no immediate or regular contact with farming or the production of food or natural resources and yet without them all the eight out of ten would very promptly starve to death. Every one of us is dependent for our health and our prosperity for our existence for the water we drink and the food we eat and the clothes we wear on the soils and on the forests and the open spaces all beyond the pavements of our cities and towns and villages. I've been very happy to see in recent years an increased awareness of that fact among our city people and the growth of determination that our national riches of field and stream and woodland shall not be permitted to go to wait. I share with Commissioner Moses a little of the doubt whether the world is going completely to pieces if we do not take radical steps to save our resources and yet we all know that if we continue to plunder them as we have we will undoubtedly be very short of food we would probably run out of water we would run out of wood and newsprint and clothing and everything else. So this exhibit will bring right into the heart of New York City the story of the proper use of resources and the story of the improper use. It will serve to spread I hope to all the 8 million people of New York City and the many millions that come here from out of the city something of the fundamental of the interdependence of all of us and of all of our natural resources. We can't get along without them and if we continue to spoil them they won't get along without a change by us. This project has been in the making for a long time ever since 1943 in my first year as governor it was included in the post-war reconstruction plan. Right after that right after the war I signed an appropriation bill for $275,000 which will not do the job we had to supplement it I think rather substantially and you know we tried to build this project way back in 1946 we offered the contracts and you couldn't even get a bid at a respectable price so it was put back on mothballs and this year for the first time we were able to get bids that were realistic and to start the job it's a combination effort it's a sort of a partnership and you all ought to know what the partnership is the city provides the land the zoological society provides the skill and the management and the state provides the money in addition the state provides a good deal of the know-how because as you know in our conservation department we have one of the most important jobs of government I've had occasion a good many times to point out before the threat to the human race that exists in the depletion of our resources the world as you know is going up at the rate of 60,000 human beings a day if you can figure how many that means your mind is more adept than mine anyway we are increasing our competition for what comes out of the earth in very very rapid style and that means that conservation is the duty of all of us the planners of this exhibit also know however that conservation is fun they know the delight that exists for men and women and children in contact with the woods and wildlife so one of the main items in the construction we're going to start today is a large pool where sportsmen with their flies and plugs and casting rocks will be able to enjoy the catching of real live fish also visitors from the five boroughs and outside will be able to see the fine art of fly casting and will learn something about what goes on when those conservation enthusiasts I will not apply the other adjectives that are often applied many of whose organizations are represented here are turned loose on the woods and the streams and the lakes of this state every year I'm told that there's going to be a very good supply of fish in the pool and that much of it will come from the other park lakes where fishing is not allowed also as part of our state fish propagation program the conservation often cleans out the fish to change the stocking and we'll bring those down here too so I understand that there'll not only be good fishing but that the zoological society and the conservation department will regularly stock the ponds so that there will be an ever increasing supply of fish for all who want to come and catch them right in the heart of the Bronx there'll also be a building devoted to exhibits dramatizing the various aspects of conservation in an educational way those should be very useful to teachers and I earnestly hope that the teachers of New York City all of them with children of an age where they can appreciate it will bring their children here by the hundreds of thousands not only to see the wonderful exhibits that are here now but to learn something about conservation and what it means to all of us most of this exhibit will be outdoors on this acreage of woods and open fields on the banks of the Bronx River you'll be able to see how land can be built up to store water and to increase in productivity you can see how land through carelessness or greed or ignorance can be destroyed and washed away you can see how terracing and contouring can save our cultivated slopes and how reforestation can restore eroded hillsides and save the water that you need and I think will increasingly need in the years to come you'll see how beavers can build flood control dams in the headwaters and how man-made devices can control a stream and how plants and animals work together to establish and maintain a balance of nature this will be the first exhibit of its kind in the entire world the lesson it will teach all of us and I hope everyone of New York's eight million people and all the people from upstate who come down here is of primary importance to everyone I should like to congratulate Mr. Osborne the New York Zoological Society Mr. Moses and his enthusiastic support on behalf of the Park Department the City of New York and all who have participated in bringing about this the most exciting experiment in bringing conservation into a city that has ever been undertaken I congratulate all of you and thank you from the bottom of my heart now Mr. Fairfield Osborne has the proud duty of conducting the governor of the state of New York the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey Commissioner Moses and our distinguished company down to the point where ground will be broken for this undertaking for the benefit of those who may have tuned in late the purpose of this broadcast inaugurates and has brought you the picture of the beginning of construction of a 12 acre conservation exhibit in connection with the Bronx Zoo designed to tell people how their welfare is directly related to the conservation of our soils, water supplies, forests and animal life and the speakers have pointed out to you today the tremendous advantage that this extension of the work of the Bronx Park will be to the people of the City of New York enjoyment while they learn the facts about life and the nature that is so necessary to their support in the matter of food and other factors of our daily routine and now we're just going down now in a moment to break ground for this very important occasion here in the borough of the Bronx as we look through the trees here and the beautiful forest here in the borough of the Bronx we can almost imagine on the fringe there where the mounted police are guarding the presence of the governor and see the Indians peeking through the leaves because this is truly virgin forest it is still nature's virgin condition except where it has been cleared for the facilities of the great undertaking of the Bronx Park Zoo and now there's a little argument between Governor Dewey and Borough President Lyon Commissioner Moses has arbitrated the situation now the governor is getting ready and he like everyone else is taking his orders from the photographer because it's very important there goes the first shovel of dirt and the governor of the state of New York has turned over the dirt for this great undertaking here in the borough of the Bronx which will be completed in the year 1950 and will add so much to the general knowledge of our good citizens here of what it takes to keep us alive in the way of food and all the other factors of our daily life the governor just got his orders to dig another shovel full from the cameramen cameramen tell them all what to do if it wasn't for these fellows we wouldn't have a record of these historical events and it's very important to recapture the scene through their efforts and now the ground is broken and we're just asking for one more picture the governor thought he was through but he's got to work overtime the last mile he says and now on this solemn occasion the band of the fire department under the leadership of bandmaster Bregel will play the anthem to the um the earth the the THE END THE END THE END