Sports for New Yorkers. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to our regular Friday evening program of Sports for New Yorkers. The program designed to keep New Yorkers up to date with what is going on in the New York park system. We hope it will lead our listeners to pleasant, healthful outdoor recreation. Tonight, we again will have our regular commentator, Mr. George F. Niebling, supervisor of park operations. We'll also have Mr. Harold P. McManus, who is in charge of golf and tennis for the parks department, and our singer is going to be Lynn Monaco. His accompanist will be Ms. Elsie Kovacs of the station staff. And now, Mr. Niebling. Thank you, Hal, and good evening, everyone. The park department announces that after the evening session at the city building in Flushing Meadow Park on Sunday, April 29th, 28th, 1946, both ice and roller skating will be discontinued. The building was closed at the same time last year. Patronage of this facility has decreased during the past three weeks, and with warm weather, interest in this sport seems so low that attendance no longer justifies operation of the rinks. During this season, today, 253,200 persons availed themselves of the ice and roller skating facilities. Of this number, 29,000 were children admitted free on Saturdays and school holiday mornings. 94,000 attended the afternoon sessions, and 96,000 used the facilities during the evening periods. And now, Hal, I think you have something to close too, haven't you? Well, George, I'd like to say that the park department is really getting rolling with its golf. But, in addition, of course, it's taking care of the swimming entries. And now the park department announces that fall, winter, and spring use of 12 of the 17 swimming pools as play centers will terminate on Sunday evening, April 28th, 1946. Instead, we'll turn to the outdoor swimming pools. But these free-play centers with facilities such as handball, volleyball, paddle tennis, basketball, were used by approximately 1,500,000 children and adults since the closing of the swimming season in 1945. And that's quite a record. Of course, the closing is necessary so that the areas can be painted and otherwise put in readiness for the forthcoming swimming season, which this year is scheduled for Memorial Day, May 30th, 1946. And, of course, you'd like to know where these pools are located, so I'm going to give you a few of them. In Manhattan, the Hamilton Fish Pool is at East Houston and Pitt Streets. The Colonial Pool at Brathurst Avenue, West 145th to 147th Streets. The High Bridge Pool at Amsterdam Avenue and 173rd Street. The Thomas Jefferson Pool, 111 to 114th Streets and First Avenue. The 23rd Street Pool, 23rd Street and East River Drive. The Carmine Street Pool, Clarkson Street and 7th Avenue. The 60th Street Pool, 59th Street between Amsterdam and 11th Avenues. And now, Hal, we've closed about enough of these places around. Let's talk about something that's opening. The Park Department now announces that the 155 baseball diamonds and the 294 softball fields throughout the five boroughs will be officially in play from now on. They opened on Saturday, April 13th. While there's no charge for the use of these recreation areas, permits are required, and they may be obtained by applying to the borough director of the borough in which the field is located. Each applicant must enclose a stamped, self-addressed envelope with his request. And, of course, here are the addresses of the borough offices. The Arsenal Building at 64th Street and 5th Avenue in Manhattan. Litchfield Mansion, Prospect Park West in Brooklyn. The Overlook, Union Turnpike and Park Lane in Forest Park, Kew Gardens. The Administration Building, Bronx Park East and Birchall Avenues in the Bronx. And Clove Lakes Park Fieldhouse at Clove Lakes Road in Staten Island. And, Hal, before we go on with Harold McManus, suppose we have Mr. Monaco do his little bit for us. Yes, tonight we have Mr. Lynn Monaco who is going to sing for us, Prisoner of Love. The National Anthem Along from night to night you find me, too weak to break the chains that bind me. I need no shackles to remind me, I'm just a prisoner of love. For one command I stand and wait now, from one whose matters I am. The National Anthem The National Anthem The National Anthem The National Anthem The National Anthem The National Anthem The National Anthem The National Anthem From one who is the master of my fate now. I can't escape for it's too late now. I'm just a prisoner of love. What's the good of my caring, if someone is sharing those arms with me? And though she has another, I can't have another, for I'm not free. She's in my dreams, awake or sleeping. Upon my knees to her I am creeping. My very life is in her keeping. I'm just a prisoner of love. What's the good of my caring, if someone is sharing those arms with me? And though she has another, I can't have another, for I'm not free. She's in my dreams, awake or sleeping. Upon my knees to her I am creeping. My very life is in her keeping. I'm just a prisoner of love. That was Mr. Lynn Monaco singing Prisoner of Love. Elsie Kovacs was the accompanist. And now George Niebling has something about the Barbershop Quartet Contest for 1946. Yes Hal, this might be a little early, but the 12th Annual American Ballad Contest for 1946, or the Barbershop Quartet. The New York City Championships will be held on the Mall in Central Park on Tuesday, June 18th, 1946 at 8.30pm. In case of rain, June 20th. The preliminary contests, the Borough Contest, will be held on Monday, June 10th in Queens, at the Music Grove, Tuesday, June 11th in the Bronx, Wednesday the 12th in Brooklyn, Thursday the 13th in Manhattan, and Friday on June 14th in Richmond. Only amateur male quartets are permitted to compete. The amateur class includes all quartets which do not earn their livelihood as a singing group. Music must be of the American Ballad or Barbershop variety. Each quartet will be permitted to sing two numbers or two medleys or a combination of one number and one medley. No quartet may sing more than six minutes. The judges, of course, will score the quartets on the same basis as in previous years. Quartets are required to be in costume, appropriate to the gay 90s period at the final competition. Of course, you'll hear more about this from time to time, and it is sure to be one of the outstanding events again this year as it has been in the past. And now, Hal, suppose we gang up on Hal McManus and see what we can do with golf. Harold, you have something there about the golf courses. Let's have it, eh? Well, the golf course is open, as you know, George, around April 6th. On April 6th, that's 7 in the morning, and the people are out playing. Due to the fine weather we've been having, all golfers have been taking advantage of the good weather and the ideal turf that has been growing on the courses. Of course, we would like to advise people to play on the Staten Island courses. There is not too much play there, and the players can tee right off as they arrive. So, a permit to play costs $5. And, uh, daily permits cost 75 cents for weekdays and $1 on Saturday, Sunday, and holidays. There is, we also have food concessions, which I forgot the last time, George. Yes, I know that. Out of all of our facilities. Well, alright, they are open now anyhow, aren't they? Yes, and, uh, to date there have been approximately 50,000 rounds played on the courses in the past three weeks. Well, now, tell us something. You've just finished an inspection trip, I think, of the golf courses. What kind of shape are they in? I think they're in wonderful shape. Well, I know, but outside of your... I'm not being biased. Hal, how about you? Have you been playing any golf lately? Well, George, to tell the truth, I hope to get up to Split Rock this weekend, honestly, and... But you've been saying that for the last three weeks. The Park Department will never get anywhere unless you get out and play. How is Split Rock, Harold? Well, Split Rock was a little damp. But, uh, with the dry weather we've been having up till last night, it was in very good condition the early part of the week. Maybe I should have asked about Laudrette. How's Laudrette? Beautiful. That's what I thought. The tees are in gorgeous shape, and the fairways are perfect, and the greens are never better, and... That's very true. Well... It's very comparable to a private layout. Well, that's swell, and that's about all we can ask. I think, myself, that the golf courses in the metropolitan area have something to look forward to if they just take a look at our ten setups. Is that right? I think they compare with any layouts in the metropolitan area. Hal has something to say. Well, I'll tell you, George. At one time, I was a caddy on Fish's Island, which is up near New London. And that's the golf course that many of the very wealthy people play on. And frankly, I just as soon play, honestly, on any of the city courses. And we can fix you up, too, as a caddy on any one of the city courses, too. What do you think of that? Well, I... He'd have to fill out an application. Oh, of course. And his father would have to sign it, and so on. Now, how about tennis? You got something on that, Harold? Yes, sir. The tennis courts were open, George, around on April 13th. There are about the 46 locations throughout the five boroughs. And all of the clay areas have been resurfaced, and they are in wonderful playing conditions. And we like to say that there's a tennis court within walking distance of pretty nearly every resident in New York City, and certainly within the five-cent fair area. Without any too great a walk for a player. They can walk within five minutes easily. Tennis courts are in fine shape. Tennis courts are in fine shape. Al, how about that? Well, on the cost of a permit, George. Oh, yeah. Go ahead. $3 for a seasoned permit, and $2 for a locker, a seasoned locker. What about the golf permits? Let's get that in here, just about the time. The golf permit is $5 for a seasoned locker, which entitles a player to play on weekdays with an additional charge of ten cents, and on Sundays, Sundays, and holidays, there's an additional charge of 50 cents. That's fine. Like a good city golf man. Hal, how about that spring tournament we want to get in here tonight? Why, yes, George. I want to tell our audience that over 3,500 boys and girls have filed entries in neighborhood playgrounds for the New York Community Trust Spring Sports Tournament, which is now being conducted throughout the city. Youngsters under 18 years of age are entering contests in seven sports, roller hockey, handball, horseshoe pitching, table tennis, shuffleboard, track, and model yachting, which will start this month and continue through June. Competition in most of the sports listed will get underway with eliminations in local playgrounds to be followed by district contests, borough-wide playoffs, and citywide championships in which the children from the five boroughs will meet. Now I have just one more before you close, Hal. The Model Yacht Regatta is sponsored by the New York Community Trust and the Department of Parks. It will be held on Saturday, May 25th at 2 p.m. in Manhattan at the Conservatory Lake, in Brooklyn at Prospect Park, in the Bronx at Petona, and in Queens at Casino, at Richmond at Clove Lake Park. And I think it would be well if most of you took note of this, these dates rather, because it's going to be sure a lot of fun for all of you to watch these model yachts in operation. Well, thanks a lot, George. And that, folks, brings our program to a close. Thanks also to Mr. Harold McManus, who is in charge of golf and tennis for the department, Lynn Monaco, who sang Prison of Love, and Elsie Kovacs of the station staff who accompanied him. I'm sure our listeners enjoyed hearing about some of the activities and facilities of our great park system. And folks, if there are any vocal requests you wish sung by any of our group, or any questions regarding the park department facilities, just drop us a postcard either to this station or to the Department of Parks, 60th, Palk Street, and 5th Avenue, Central Park, New York 21. I suggest you write in for your copy of Sports for New Yorkers, the pamphlet published by the Department of Parks, which lists more than 200 facilities complete with transit directions to all these parks. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.