Ladies and gentlemen, WNYC is standing by to bring you the ceremonies at the opening of the pedestrian bridge to Ward's Island. As soon as the ceremonies are ready to get underway, we'll take you up there on WNYC, while Symphonic Matinee will continue on WNYC-FM. Symphonic Matinee this afternoon is featuring a Carl Goldmark birthday program. . Radio's microphones are up here on the East River Drive at East 103rd Street, and the occasion is the dedication of the Ward's Island Pedestrian Bridge. On this beautiful sunlit May Day, we'll have a very interesting program at which the Honorable Robert Moses, New York's distinguished citizen, will preside, and the regular order program will be presented in just a few moments. We're waiting now for just a few personal greetings that are taking place on the stand. And in just a moment now, we'll hear the voice of Mr. George Spargo, who will introduce Commissioner Moses. The mayor is now receiving an ovation here at East 103rd Street. Can you hear the applause from Mayor Impelet Berry? He's just waiting now. A few moments until the usual greetings to the mayor and Commissioner Moses are completed, and then we'll be in a better position to present a program. To meantime, in the distance, you'll hear the band of the police department of the city of New York, Bandmaster Krause conducting. You'll also have the pleasure of hearing the police fleet club as the vocal feature of the program. And now, may we present Mr. George Spargo of the park department, who will introduce Commissioner Moses. Mr. Spargo. Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your attention, please? May I have your attention? Thank you. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to introduce the chairman of the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority, and the Commissioner of Parks, who will preside at these ceremonies. Commissioner Moses. Mr. Spargo. Mr. Spargo. Ladies and gentlemen. I'm not going to take up time to repeat what you can find in the booklet we've distributed, except to repeat, say one thing, emphasize one thing. And that is that this opening marks the end of more than twenty years of unremitting effort. Nothing of this kind is done overnight in this town. These things are done not merely by drawing pictures, not merely by advocating things, not merely by making gestures, but by plugging away at them day in and day out. And then, if the people who are interested stick at it long enough and don't get discouraged, you have something that you can finally open. Now, I'm very much obliged to the police department for bringing the band and the glee club here, and we ask that the first event be the national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. Long thomas did not even, it'll destroy whoever's ever heard with the antagonist within thatosi I'm from heaven and free free, and the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting air. It's all so bright, and our flagpole till then, O day does that the flagpole, my glorious day. O'er the land of the brave, and the home of the brave. The idea of this bridge, and of converting Wards and Randalls Island into parks, goes back to 1928, 1929, when it was discussed by a group of city park commissioners, state commissioners from the suburbs, and the park association which is represented here today. One of the difficulties was that of substituting bridges for ferries, and one of the greatest difficulties was that of clearing the institutions off both islands. We had two, the children's hospital and the house of refuge on Randalls Island, and the state hospital for the insane on Wards Island. Finally, we've got around to it. Now, that took legislation, and the legislation was drafted for the park association, which has been our friend in this undertaking from the beginning, by Judge Rosenman, who most of you know went on to bigger and greater things later in his career. I take pleasure now in presenting the president of the park association, Colonel William M. Chadford. Mr. Chairman, Your Honor of the Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I see that the magic hand of the commissioner has even brought us sunshine today and chased away the rain. Commissioner Moses has conferred upon the park association of the city of New York the great honor of being represented at the dedication of this project so important to the people of the city of New York and especially of those who dwell in the crowded areas of East Harlem. The park association has a special reason to be gratified because for many years we have urged the development of the park area of Wards Island and the construction of this bridge so necessary to their full utilization. Some 20 years ago, Elie Heirut said that popular government will not function efficiently unless there be informed voluntary bodies of citizens who make suggestions to, criticize and support the public authorities charged with the particular matter at hand. The park association of the city of New York is such a body, but I will take you into my confidence and tell you that we have very, very little to criticize in the park department while it is under the benign rule of Bob Modis. We of the park association of the city of New York feel that there is no body in our city which can do more to bring it to pass that the dwellers in our midst, New Yorkers, be they old or young, are happy, healthy, and sane, and in a mood to do unto their neighbors as they would have their neighbors do unto them. Theodore Roosevelt once said that so long as a thing is done, it is unimportant who does it. Bob Modis feels the same way, for I know of no one who is less interested than he is in a claim for what he's done. Bob Modis' attitude is, forget the cheering. Where do we go from here? This I propose to make the text of my closing remarks. Years ago, the park association announced as one of its principal objectives the removal of the ancient and dangerous hospitals on Ward's Island and their replacement by modern hospitals in other areas convenient to the patients and to the doctors. That end has been partly, but only partly, achieved. May I therefore, in the name of the people of New York City, ask the mayor to see to it that without delay, so far as he is able, the Ward's Island Park area as originally projected be developed. Thank you. I would like to present now the dean of all the park enthusiasts. By way of introduction, say that when I was a small boy, the first recollection of competitive track athletics was being taken up to University Heights to see the intercollegiate games and Gus Kirby won the 100-yard and he's been running faster and faster ever since. Gustavus Kirby. Gustavus Kirby. You know, I always like Bob to introduce me because he says nice things about me and everyone doesn't do that. You know, this Park Association that Bill Chadman has just been telling you about is a far older organization than Bill is. He's our new president. He's a great president, but he's not as great as our previous president and our board of, chairman of our board of directors, Mrs. Sulzberger. Effigene was grand. She still is and she's leading us in proper ways. Now, of course, the Park Association started and is today a militant organization. When it started, the parks were filled with all sorts of things which shouldn't be there and we fought them verily. We were, those were the days that I like to call the B.M. days. That means before Moses, the B.M. days. Now we're in the realm of the A.M. days. That's after Moses. And you find that Moses, being now in supreme control as he should be, is doing things for our advantage to make you all healthier and happier and better. Well, of course, I'll let you into a secret. It isn't a secret to those who know him and those who know Mrs. Moses. Now the reason why Moses is great is two things. First of all, because he knows men and has surrounded himself with a core of administrators, of engineers, of leaders that do things as he wants them done. Hence this bridge here today. And the next and far more important, and I say this advisably as one who has spoken all over the world, that any man is what his wife makes him and Mary has made Bob great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I would like to interrupt the program to present a distinguished visitor from another part of the Americas. We have here the new mayor of San Paolo and Brazil. I don't know how many of you know about it, but San Paolo is the most rapidly growing city in the Americas. It has two million inhabitants and they're eager beavers if I ever saw anything like them. I take great pleasure in introducing a man who got his education here at New York University many years ago. He was now mayor of that great city, Armando Pereira. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, I came 6,000 miles at the kindly invitation of your mayor not only to see many friends but to be present at this historical occasion when you are having a new bridge inaugurated. A bridge, although it is made of steel and concrete, it has something that looks like if it was alive. Building bridges is something like stretching a hand to receive another hand from another side. That's the same thing as bringing people together. And bringing people together is cementing friendships. So I really feel so thankful to God to be present here today. and I pray and I pray God will bless nations and peoples that build bridges and this time when the world needs so many bridges of friendship built across countries. What we are going to see today is something that enlightens the heart and I feel very happy and very proud to be here today. Thank you for your kind attention and people of the Americas keep on building bridges across nations. That's what the world needs today. Thank you. Thank you. I have the great pleasure of introducing a very old friend and associate. I've known Jack Bennett since we were boys. I knew him when he was a clerk and examiner when I began work in municipal government. Since then he's been secretary to one of the great figures in the First World War as a colonel in the Second World War. He's been attorney general of the state. He's been corporation council deputy mayor. And I'm delighted to see him as chairman of the city planning commission Colonel Bennett. Commissioner Moses, Mayor Impeloteri, distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans. I'm very happy at the opportunity which comes today to participate in this ceremony. I'm glad that Bob Moses referred to the fact that we have been friends for so many years because when he mentions that fact it brings back many fond recollections of things in which he and I have been interested down through the years. The first time that he and I got to know each other I was working in the Board of Estimate in the Bureau of Standards. And at that time Bob was with the Bureau of Municipal Research. And the project at that particular time was the standardization of salaries and grades for all of the employees of the city of New York. It was he who was the spark plug then in that particular project as he has been the spark plug in so many since. In connection with Ward's Island I remember too he and I had something to do in 1931 and 32 when I was in Albany as the Attorney General in connection with the legislation necessary to turn over Ward's Island and Randall's Island to the city of New York. And I think that that was a very very fine thing to have happen because today we see one of the results of that transfer. One of my predecessors Colonel Chadbourne said something about things being measured in time as before Moses and after Moses. I'd like to add that it looks to me like all of these things are going to be measured on the basis of forever Moses. And I'm sure that I speak for all the citizens of the city of New York when I say that we're awfully lucky to have them because nobody in my humble opinion has contributed more to the progress of the services of the city of New York than Commissioner Moses. And then this today is just one more example of the kind of thing that he does takes a hold of things and even though in this case there was a struggle of 20 years he really does finally bring home the bacon. Now a municipal corporation is provided for by the laws of our state first to do in a particular locality the things that the state requires to be done in that locality by law. Secondly it's required to carry on the ordinary everyday business of that municipal corporation. And thirdly it's required to provide for the services and the needs of its people. I think that one of the most brilliant pages of the history the municipal history of the city of New York is found beginning with the page in 1945 coming right down to the present moment. During these years the city has made magnificent projects progress not only in building new projects but in rehabilitating old ones and making them bringing them up to date as far as making them modern is concerned. And I'm glad to see that that same line of thinking meeting the needs of the people is being carried on to the fullest possible measure by our present mayor Mayor Impeloteri. There's nothing much that I can add to what is contained in this beautiful booklet which has been gotten out. All the facts and the figures are there. I am however delighted to be able to participate in this function which opens another service for the people of the city. There are many of us who used to think that a waterway such as a river which divided a piece of land like Ward's Island from the mainland Manhattan was rather an objection. But as I look back I find that nature which took that piece of land away from the mainland preserved that piece of land for the use to which it is now going to be devoted. Had the river not been there it would have been part of the mainland probably would have been built up and might have delayed for many many years the achievement of a great plan and a great dream to make it another playground for the people. So today we come to open a new facility for the people. Another diadem in the great crown of achievement of Commissioner Moses and the city administration of the city of New York. The people should be grateful. I believe that we have public servants who first of all realize the needs of the people and secondly have the courage to meet those needs by making possible such beautiful playgrounds. That's democracy at work and I'm sure that as long as we carry on providing for the needs of the people that we'll feel safe in living in the democracy and knowing that democracy can endure. I want to present now another member of the old school another very old friend who miraculously has been kept in public service. He's been in and out and I'm glad he's in again. Another evidence of the fact that old commissioners never die they simply fade away. Commissioner Hand. Mr. Moses Mr. Mayor distinguished guests ladies and gentlemen and boys and girls Mr. Moses might have added that they seldom resign. In my case I did resign but I've returned. As I stand here today and gaze over in the direction of Ward's Island I recall some 20 years ago I made a trip around the island with my dear friend Mayor Walker. I was then the mayor's secretary. and it occurred to me at that time what a gorgeous sight for a park. Curiously enough as we passed through the island and I think the mayor will be interested in this story we went by the asylum for the insane and the porch on the second story of the building was crowded with unfortunate inmates and one of the gentlemen who was unfortunate enough to be confined there and in a loud voice yelled at Jimmy hey Jimmy come on up here with us. Walker turned to him and looking up in his direction said give me just one more year as mayor and I'll be there with you permanently. now I assume that in the absence of Bobby Wagner who is our borough president and whose assistant I am that I am here to accept this gorgeous public improvement and without the tribute of one penny. In any event we will do our utmost so far as the borough president is concerned to keep it in ship shape as a credit to Mr. Moses and speaking of Mr. Moses whom I might say I have had a very deep seated affection for for many years regardless of his accomplishments merely as a man and a friend that last night I was reading a very interesting book called 26 Master Politicians written by Raymond Moley at one time a member of the Brain Trust and he devotes one chapter to Mr. Moses not that he labeled him a politician but he indicated that in many matters he was virtually as successful as he would be were he a politician and in that volume Mr. Moses is referred to and justly so as the most competent public official in America we in the borough president's office say amen to that we congratulate Mr. Moses upon this accomplishment which simply goes to reinforce the statement of his competency we trust that he will be with us for many many years and when I make that remark I'm mindful of the fact that he serves the most delicious luncheons that are at all possible when one goes to see him at his headquarters on Randall's Island I thank you ladies and gentlemen thank you thank you as the next and last speaker the principal speaker sits on his porch in the little time that he has to sit on any porch at the Gracie Mansion and looks up the river he's looking right straight into the new park on Ward's Island and the bridge leading to it and in the direction of the many other improvements in the Hellgate neighborhood to which this pamphlet here refers because this neighborhood has not been neglected and it's been treated as a neighborhood and it's being rebuilt not only with parks but with housing and hospitals schools and all the other things it needs can't be done overnight but I think if you look around and you read this pamphlet you'll see that the administration of this mayor is committed to a program of unprecedented size and when all these things are finished you'll have reason to bless him Mayor Impiliteri Commissioner Moses Mayor Herrera distinguished gentlemen ladies on this platform ladies and gentlemen gentlemen the opening of this bridge which is a major step in the rehabilitation of Wards Island is consonant with the overall objectives of our large municipal program for the development of recreational facilities in all parts of our five boroughs areas it is particularly significant because this area is adjacent to two very crowded sections of the city Yorkville and East Harlem where such recreational facilities are distinctly limited but even beyond this the opening of this bridge today represents a definite example of the principle of neighborhood planning and of the very right kind of cooperation between state city and other agencies the warm appreciation of the city certainly goes to the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority which bore the entire cost of the construction of this wonderful bridge amounting to a total of $2,100,000 ground was broken for this pedestrian bridge only a year and a half ago and it is evident that the work progressed in very satisfactory fashion as Commissioner Moses pointed out for the last eight months I think that's about the right time I've been able to witness the progress of the completion of this bridge every day from the front porch of Gracie Mansion and every day I'd have an added opportunity to tell Bob and his boys that the work was progressing very satisfactorily this however is the rule rather than the exception in projects in which Bob Moses has direct participation if any of you read a headline this morning and it shows that sometimes headlines never tell the right story there was a headline to the effect that Bob Moses and I had split over some kind of a municipal decision well when the reporters came in to see me I very quickly set them straight on that score there's no split between Bob Moses and myself I pointed out that my administration is very proud and happy to have as one of its major contributors Bob Moses who is at my beck and call day in and day out seven days a week I rely on his judgment I take his advice I appreciate his cooperation and over and above that there's no man that I know of that's given me more help since the tough days that I first took over as mayor of the city of New York now I hope that sets the record straight I'm not going into any lengthy discussion of the details of this project for only one reason they have been presented most adequately to the press and to the public by those who are more familiar with the technical details I simply want to make it clear that all those agencies which have participated are deserving of our thanks and appreciation I consider this a matter of considerable achievement because of the many many obstacles that have had to be overcome the opening of this bridge today is certainly a symbol not only of coordination and hard work but of the persistency of civic minded individuals against rather discouraging factoids no other community in this great land of ours can even approach the record of new construction set up in the city of New York within the limitations of our capital budget we have succeeded not only in providing new schools throughout the five boroughs but we have also made a good start a wonderful start in housing hospitals highways sewage treatment health stations and many other facilities so necessary to the health and well-being of our people all of us know that public works construction was stifled during the terrible war years even the barest necessities had to be deferred until the emergency was declared to be ended and we were able then to pick up where we left off and what did we find we found that prices had skyrocketed that a building which we could erect before the war for say a half million dollars would now have to cost between one million and one and one half million dollars I don't have to elaborate on this theme we all know how high prices have affected your way of living and how you have had to stretch the dollar to make ends meet only yesterday we had a pointed example of what that means in your bill for municipal housekeeping some years ago a new nurses home at Bellevue hospital was planned the plans were approved the estimates were in this this goes back probably oh it's a long time ago but not too far back because somewhere only as far back as 1944 that new nurses home at Bellevue hospital and believe me it's needed the conditions under which those trainees have to work and live are not suitable they're not up to standards it's our job to see to it that those girls who are in there as training in this very vital and honorable possession profession are properly housed have the right kind of facilities for their period of three years training my recollection is that that new nurses home back in 1944 that's not quite 10 years that the prices then existed would have cost the city government approximately two and a half to three million dollars yesterday the board of estimates had a meeting right up at Bellevue hospital we wanted to see exactly what the city planning commission what the commissioner of hospitals proposed for this new nurses home we looked it over after we got through looking we decided that the need was great that the need was immediate we unanimously voted for it but do you know what today's cost is today's cost for that new nurses home amounts to twelve and one half million dollars so it has been with all of our municipal programs but we are on our way thank god and during 1951 we expect to still show further progress to build and keep on building and then await the great moment when we can enjoy the satisfaction of opening the completed structure such as we are doing today it makes us happy and proud because when these things start and Bob Moses knows this better than I do you have a million and one people objecting all kinds of objections but when the project is completed the peculiar psychology everybody is happy the boys who objected preliminarily are right up on the platform ready to take the bows so that on this occasion Bob I know that everybody joins with me in congratulating you congratulating the men in your department in expressing our heartfelt appreciation for your effort and I know that on this occasion as mayor of the city of New York I express the heartfelt appreciation of all of the people of the city of New York when I tell you that in my judgment they would want me to say to you on this dedication ceremony that this is really a monument in your lifetime a very worthwhile endeavor thank you very much thank you very much mr. mayor this concludes the ceremonies and we'll now lower the bridge and make the trip of inspection on wards island radio's microphones have brought you the proceedings here at east 103rd street and the east river drive on the dedication ceremonies and occasion of the placing into service of the wards island pedestrian bridge stretching as it does from this new housing project right adjacent to the bridge itself and to the recreational facilities of wards island as commissioner moses has told you now the bridge is slowly lowering that is the part of it which is a span that of necessity from time to time but not quite often will have to be raised to permit traffic water traffic in the east river however the bridge itself is a monument of engineering achievement and will add a great deal to the facility and enjoyment of this neighborhood here at east 103rd street and the east river drive well that is all now we thank the weatherman for his change of mind and the beautiful day which he sent us for this occasion and we ask him to please be nice about tomorrow because the armed forces day parade on fifth avenue requires the same kind of weather that we're enjoying now at east 103rd street that is all we return you to the studios this is the municipal broadcasting system near anewbury work on an actual Thank you.