Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, how does freedom of information affect you? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the factors which work to restrict freedom of information and means of dealing with them. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Alexander F. Jones, Executive Editor of the Syracuse Herald Journal and President of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. Tom Wallace, Editor Emeritus of the Louisville Times and President of the Inter-American Press Association, and Kenneth E. Olson, Dean of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University. I have asked Dean Olson to present our fourth speaker and special guest on this Northwestern University Reviewing Stand broadcast. I'm very proud to present as our distinguished guest this morning the outstanding figure in world journalism in 1951. Dr. Gynza Paz, the editor of La Prensa. Thank you, Dean Olson. We're delighted to have you with us, Dr. Paz. Now, as you men know, we're discussing the question, what does freedom of information mean to you? What is the case, Olson, for freedom of information? What values do you attach to this freedom of information? Well, let's first define the pronoun you. We're not talking about you as newspaper men. We're talking about you as the people of America. Too many people have, in this country, have the idea that we're always talking about freedom of the press and it refers to newspapers. But this is a fundamental right of the people themselves. When the founders of our republic set up this new experiment in government by the people, democracy, when all around the world we were surrounded by autocracies, they realized that that experiment could not succeed unless the people were kept informed of what their government agents were doing. And that task they entrusted to the newspapers who were in a position to keep the people informed on what their government was doing. Dr. Paz, how would you state the case for freedom of information? Well, I completely agree with Dean Olson. I believe that the essence of a representative government consists in having a well-informed public opinion. And the only way to have the public opinion well-informed is through the knowledge of all the facts that relates to their activities as citizens and the activities of their government. So I think that the freedom of information is the most important freedom. If that vanishes, the essence of representative government and so of a democratic system disappears. Jones? Jones? Jones? Jones? Jones? Well, I think that it's of interest to go back how we got this First Amendment, which guarantees us freedom of the press and freedom of speech, freedom of religion. You'll probably remember the famous case in England in 1684 in which Charles II insisted that there be suppression of all the pamphlets and papers and stuff like that. And so forth that were being written because they were, he said, embarrassing to the government. And he instructed the courts to shut down on all newspapers. And they did the same thing at that time that they did to you in Argentina when they suppressed La Prensa. And for the same reasons that he did not agree with the government. Now, that was very much in Thomas Jefferson's mind. And so that is the reason that the First Amendment of the American Constitution considers freedom of speech and freedom of religion and freedom of the press. Paulus? It seems to me that, of course, the fundamentally important thing in a democracy is freedom of the press, which is freedom of utterance. But freedom of information is immensely important as the complement of freedom of the press. It enables the public through the press to scrutinize, regulate, and improve government. Do you men think we're in any danger of losing this freedom? Yes, I'm afraid governments everywhere, not only in other countries, but in our own, are continually chiseling away at this right of free information of the people. How do they go about that in these totalitarian countries? Well, there's a very interesting parallel I've often pointed out to my classes in Germany. I think one of the troubles here, we, our people, get to take this right for granted. And they get a little calloused about it. It doesn't worry them. They get a little disgusted with our newspapers once in a while. Perhaps some of our newspapers are not always wholly responsible in the way they handle their news. The same thing was true in Germany. The people, when Hitler was coming into power, they were in hard times, and they were disgusted with a press that was not providing a leadership, a government that was not providing a leadership. And when Hitler proposed that, well, we need fewer newspapers. They've got to be regimented. They've got to be disciplined. The people said, sure, that's right. And they made no objection. They signed away their birthright for a mess of pottage. As a result, very soon, Hitler and Gables had them in a complete vacuum, not knowing what their government was doing, not knowing what was happening in the rest of the world, and in a position where he could lead them around by the nose and take all their other rights away from them as well. I remember perfectly well having read a book written by the Under Secretary of State, Samuel Wells, after his trip to Europe before the United States was involved in war, in which he expressed his horror at the press of those two countries under the fascist and Nazi regime. And he said very clearly, too, that they were guilty in great part in what was happening in having led the world to that great war because they only printed the party line, the propaganda, and suppressed the truth from the knowledge of the German and Italian people. Was the German press really free Wallace before Hitler? Oh, no. Under the Kaiser, there was no real freedom of the press in Germany. As a matter of fact, it goes back to Count von Bismarck. Well, the American Society of Newspaper Editors has had a committee working for four or five years attempting to work out through the United Nations a convention that would have an agreement throughout the world of the members, at least of the United Nations, on freedom of information. And that convention that they've tried to bring about has ended in complete futility because they cannot get the members, even of the United Nations, to agree on what information people are entitled to. That is not only the totalitarian countries, but other countries like India. Isn't the trouble that governments all over the world are becoming less democratic, more autocratic, more determined to hold power in their own hands, and they can only do that if they can control information? Now, that's a pretty broad statement, Olson. You said all over the world. Is that happening in the democratic countries? Are we a bit academic to raise this problem so dramatically in a country that's as free as ours? Well, only this week, President Truman has issued a directive which further restricts freedom of information by giving each one of the department heads in the government the right to declare that information on a security basis is top secret or can be restricted. But on the other hand, as long as we have freedom of the press, we can correct Mr. Truman. And if the public, which is too apathetic as to the rights of the press to both freedom and freedom of information, awakens to its own responsibilities, there will be no difficulty under our Constitution in correcting our government officers. Now, the Constitution never contemplated improving human nature by allowing freedom of utterance. As long as that is allowed, it's the fault of the people if they don't get what they want. The trouble is our people do not understand how their rights are being infringed upon. It is this new directive of the president. It's only a recognition of something that's been going on here for several years. These bureaucrats in Washington have gotten to feel that they are not accountable to the public. They're above the public. They refuse to reveal any of the records of what goes on in their departments. They refuse to give out any information except what the top man in that bureau decides it is good for the people to know. Well, that's perfectly true, Mr. Olson. I made a speech a year ago last April at Syracuse University in which I said that if I was going to look for a real scandal in Washington, I would investigate the Reconstruction Finance Corporation on the basis that they had no setup over there whereby you could get any information about any of the loans or anything they did. I said that not knowing anything about the individual cases that have come out since, but simply on the basis that you could not get any information from RFC. And you know what has happened since. It's been on the front pages for the last six months. Well, that's another reason why these new directives go beyond what is sound. Newspapermen are perfectly willing to hold back on information that is vital to our own defense, military information, even diplomatic. But when our defense department holds that any of the contracts between government and businessmen are also secrets, then they are free to buy the way they wish, spend what they want. It encourages mismanagement. It encourages graft and corruption. The people are entitled to know what the government is doing with their money. Dr. Powers, I agree with Dean Olson. And I also agree with Mr. Wallace when he said that as long as the country has freedom of the press, those evils can be fought. But the trouble is that sometimes the ever-growing power of the state very insidiously curtails the freedom of the press. And then it's too late. And they can very legally suppress those rights of freedom of information and many other rights. But specifically on this security directive to which you referred, Jones, somebody has to make the decision as to whether this item of information is top secret. After all, the press can't decide that question. Well, that's perfectly true. But it's so simple to define what is security. And you'd be amazed, even in the Defense Department and in the State Department, the matters that are marked with that big red label, top secret, when they're not top secret at all. I certainly agree that there should be the proper security on all matters that will be of value to the enemy. But there is ridiculous things happen, like Jimmy Pope pointed out in his last report, where a firm up in Auburn, New York, got a contract for the manufacturing of duck, you know, the duck material. And they announced that they were unable to give the amount of yardage or the price, because that was a security matter. Now, the thing goes into ridiculous lengths. And there seems to me there's never any effort to declassify these things. A thing may be a secret one day, and the next day it's not a secret. But so far as the Defense Department or the State Department is concerned, it remains a secret, and it's proper knowledge that the public should have. Now, under this directive, it includes every department. You and I are going to live to see the day when the Mellon Art Gallery and the Battle Monuments Commission in Washington decline to give out information because it's security. Now, you mark my words. That will happen. Do you share that apprehension, Wallace? No, I do not feel quite as deeply on that as my distinguished colleague does. And I think we've got to realize that we can't be perfectionists in demanding freedom of information. There will never come a time when we can force people to have our judgment on what is, what should be free. We can't ever get the president or the head of a federal bureau or the chief of police or the sheriff or a governor or a businessman to tell us all we ought to know if he thinks we don't, should not know it. The only thing we can do is to remember that eternal vigilance is the price of everything that's worth having and that our vigilance doesn't get us much unless the public is awakened and is vigilant and cooperates with us. We've been talking on the top federal level here. I think our people ought to realize that the same thing is happening on the local level. Well, that's what I'm saying. You take it right down to the chief of police, the governor, the coroner, anybody. Even school boards are transacting their business without letting the public, which ought to know what is going on in their schools, know what they're doing about the public's business. Now, Dr. Paz, you're sitting here listening to the editors of two great American newspapers, the dean of a great school of journalism in a free country, talking about the suppression of information. How do you react to that anyway? In the light of your experiences. Well, I think that the first act of any dictatorship is to suppress freedom of information. If they can't make a frontal attack against the press, they try by insidious way to curtail and restrict that freedom of information. And then they try to create, through government-controlled means, radio, newspapers, pamphlets, they try to create a unanimous line of thought by feeding the people what they want the people to know, and feeding also to them comments and articles, which would lead to that uniformity to have only one opinion, one thought, one knowledge in the country. That's why I believe that the only way to oppose those evil forces is to defend freedom of information. And I absolutely agree with Mr. Wallace that defense should not be confined to newspaper men only. They are doing their duty as well as they can, but the public people must realize that it's a matter of vital importance for them. I think that there's more consciousness now of the need of freedom of information in addition to freedom of the press than there was 10 years ago, 50 years ago, or 100 years ago in this country. So I'm not pessimistic when you compare the old days and these days and the future. I would ask you if that greater consciousness is not a consequence of the restrictions that have been going... the consequence of the restrictions and of the agitation in the press against those restrictions. Yet I don't agree with you, Mr. Wallace. Maybe more people are aware of it, but I think your people have heard so much about this freedom of the press that they think that something belongs to us, and it doesn't. It belongs to people. The newspaper's job is merely to try to ferret out the truth and give it to the people to whom it belongs. Absolutely, and we need the help of the people in doing it. I absolutely agree. I think as well as the people are interested in having good physicians to have good medical assistants and good engineers and good lawyers, and it's not a matter which only interests the physicians, the lawyers and the engineers, so they have the right and they must have good information, accurate reporting of news without any difficulties, without any restrictions. Well, now, what forces are operating here in our own country to suppress freedom of information? Do you think there's any conspiracy afoot here? What goes, anyway? Well, I will not speak about what's going on in your country because they're not familiar enough, but I think that your people has a right to know what's going abroad in every other country, and every restriction to free flow of news from other countries affects the right of the American people to know what's happening. Well, are you saying that we have a right to information from your country, from Argentina? Of course. That we have a right to information from Russia? You have the same right of information from Argentina that the Argentines have to have information from the United States. And we live so close together in this world today and are so dependent on each other that what happens in every other country affects the lives of each of us here in America. We should recognize that the development of the two Americas depends very largely on our getting information from one continent to the other, flowing freely. If I may remind you... Economic, military development. If I may remind you, we've had since 1936 this bonus heiress convention of the Pan-American Union, which states that any infringement on freedom in any one of these 21 republics is a matter of immediate concern to every other republic. And yet we are losing this thing by default. I may add that you have also the Chapultepec Agreement in which every one of the 21 participant nations signed a recommendation in the sense of allowing free access to sources of information. And if everyone recommended that to all the other 20 nations, it implies that this one who recommends it also committed. But from the standpoint of actual operation, I think that many countries today are simply giving lip service to freedom of information. I remember that you were talking about the article in the Argentine Constitution, which guarantees freedom of the press. And it is almost taken from our First Amendment, in which it says that the Congress shall not pass any act that limits it in any way, what the Russian Constitution provides for freedom of the press. As I say, they all give lip service to it, but from this actual operation of government, it is not carried out in any way. And that's the one thing that I'm fearful about in this country. And as Tom says, it's eternal vigilance in fighting every single one of these things, whether it's an alderman in your town, or a judge, or a sheriff, or a governor, or a president of the United States. Anytime anybody tries that, we've got to step on it. One of the things that has concerned us is this, that if a great newspaper like La Prensa could be suppressed, we have worried that this might give similar ideas to other near-dictators in what we may call our own neighboring yard here. And of course, it's happened within the last few days. Del Tiempo in Havana, Cuba, was suppressed just the other day. Well, Mr. Jones speaks of lip service. What the press of the United States needs is more service of the lips, genuine service by the people of the United States in behalf of freedom of information and in behalf of upholding in every way freedom of the press. Well, I gather from this discussion that in your opinion, in the totalitarian countries certainly, and possibly here in our own country, that government is usually the villain in this piece. Is that right? Government often without realizing what it's doing, but we see developing here the signposts of danger in our own country that have happened in other countries. Are there special interest groups, Olsen, that enter into this at all? Well, special interest groups usually have managed to influence the government of the United States in a degree that many people do not understand. I'm not referring to special interest groups. I'm thinking of lobbies. I'm thinking of criminal organizations. That type of thing. Well, we've had a most interesting case down in Lake Charles, Louisiana. Yes, indeed. Where you've had this tie-up between the criminal gambling syndicate and the local enforcement officers has resulted in the indictment of a courageous editor who dared tell the truth to his people of what was happening in their own community. And that can be corrected through politics if the people are sufficiently interested in that area, other areas. Well, why, gentlemen, would the people lose their interest in this freedom? You seem to fear an apathy on the part of the people. Do you think that that could stem at all from some irresponsibility in the press? Well, I really don't think so. You go back to the time of Lord Bryce when he wrote the American Commonwealth. He pointed out at that time the amount of corruption in American municipal government. Well, that was more than 50 years ago. We get up to the point of the Kiefhofer Committee and the country seems to be very much astonished by this. Well, that sort of thing has been going on for a long time. And I think... But the thing that bothers me is that I think there's more apathy from a moral and a spiritual standpoint today in the United States than there ever has been. Well, why, Jones? Why would you have that apathy? Why would you have that apathy? They don't seem to care how anyone makes money so long as he makes it and just so long as it's legal. Is it because we're getting too big and too impersonal, do you think, in our relationships? I think we're getting too rich. Well, when Lord Bryce wrote his book, we were investigating interests which contributed improperly in party politics and they were giving him peerages in England for doing the same thing. Yes, but isn't it party politics today, too? Certainly. I'm not entirely willing to go along with Jones in a complete whitewash of the American press. I think our papers have shown irresponsibility at times. That often we're so interested in selling newspapers and presenting a scoop that maybe we haven't been as responsible as we should in handling the news. And therefore, the people, oh, question sometimes this freedom of the press. But I think the big trouble is that we've had these liberties for so long that we begin to take them for granted. That's what I was going to say. You have that liberty. But there might be that apathy that Mr. Jones was referring to, but I am certainly sure that no United States citizen and no American citizen, and by America I mean the three Americans, would voluntarily relinquish his right to the free press. The suppression of a free press and the freedom of information is done excediously, taking advantage of that apathy, and when they realize what they've lost, it's too late. And it's much easier to protect freedom than to regain it when you have lost it. One of the cherished and reasonably cherished rights of the people, by the way, is to criticize the press with all the vehemence with which we criticize the government, and that's a wholesome thing. Well, yes, but doctor, let me ask a question. In the past decade or two, we've had Hitler, we've had Mussolini, Perón, all these other dictators. Now, one man cannot walk into a country and control it and so forth without the consent and the help of the people, ever. And when we say that, yes, people want the freedom of the press, they want their freedoms and so forth, and yet we've had so many illustrations where the people turn to a man who wants to be a dictator and so forth. I'd just like to have your comment on that. Well, but I wouldn't forget that all those men you were mentioning did not say, I want to suppress the freedom of the press. They said, I want you to have a real free press. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How Does Freedom of Information Affect You? We want to thank our guests who appeared on today's transcribed program, Dr. Alberto Gainzapaz, editor-publisher of La Prensa of Buenos Aires, Argentina, Mr. Alexander F. Jones, president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, Mr. Kenneth Olson, dean of the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University, and Mr. Tom Wallace, president of the Inter-American Press Association. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may wish to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, Do We Still Face a Housing Shortage? Our guests will be Mr. James Downs, president of the Downs Mall Realty Company, Mr. Philip Klutznick, president of American Community Builders, and Mr. Nathan Manilow, treasurer of the National Association of Home Builders. We invite you to join us next week for the authoritative answers to the question, Do We Still Face a Housing Shortage? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The West is the New of the S,