We now come to that part of the program to which I know you are all looking forward, the award of the Peter Cooper medals. Peter Cooper wisely placed in the title of the institution which he founded a very dynamic word, the word advancement. His intuition, in the absence of direct evidence of the fruits of modern scientific research, prompted him to provide for and encourage not only the pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, but its application to the practical business of life. The two medalists who will be presented to you by their distinguished sponsors both exemplify that dynamic quality of advancing as well as applying their knowledge of science and art to the practical business of life. They were selected by two juries made up of distinguished leaders in the fields of science, engineering, and art. I call upon Dr. Thorndike Seville, Dean of Engineering at our sister institution, New York University, and President of the American Society for Engineering Education, to act as spokesman for the jury on the Science Award, Dr. Seville. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Burdell, President Dunn, distinguished guests. Last May, Dr. Burdell asked a number of the administrative heads of engineering colleges in this region to constitute a jury of award to select a recipient of the Peter Cooper Award for the advancement of science to be conferred this evening. The directive given to the committee was to govern its selection by criteria appropriate to Peter Cooper himself, namely the extent to which an individual had contributed to the advancement of engineering and its application to life. Brigadier General David Sarnoff, Chairman of the Board of Radio Corporation of America, is a man who, both in his personal career and his professional accomplishments, is completely in the tradition of Peter Cooper and his union for the advancement of science and art. Peter Cooper is a poor apprentice, learned through his own struggle for success as inventor, manufacturer, and iron master, New York's need for some institution that would provide free professional education to everyone, regardless of their race, creed, sex, or economic status. General Sarnoff, like Peter Cooper, and indeed like many of the graduates of this institution, was a poor boy. His career began as a messenger, and his rapid rise seems all the more remarkable when we realize that as a youth he faced language as well as economic handicaps. For David Sarnoff was born in Russia and immigrated with his family to America when he was nine years old. David Sarnoff's association began with the Marconi Company when he got a job as an office boy in 1906. He became famous, world famous, as a wireless operator, and progressed to become assistant chief engineer. By the time this company was acquired by the Radio Corporation of America, he was its commercial manager. His rise with RCA was equally rapid. By 1922, he was general manager and vice president, and in 1930, at the age of 39, he became president. We who served on the jury for the selection of the recipient of the Peter Cooper Medal for the Advancement of Science adopted as our principal criterion the very standard which Peter Cooper himself set for Cooper Union, and that is devotion to the advancement of science in its varied and useful purposes of life. To this standard of scientific and cultural leadership, none conform more completely than does General Sarnoff. But not content with outstanding contributions to engineering and science, he has engaged in various civic and cultural activities, and in the field of music he brought to the schools of America the Music Appreciation Hour, directed by Walter Domrush. He had the NBC Symphony Orchestra organized, and brought Maestro Arturo Toscanini to America as its permanent conductor, and he was the first to put the Metropolitan Opera on the air from coast to coast. As early as 1916, he suggested the development of the Radio Music Box, which would enable the public to enjoy concerts, lectures, and to hear news by radio in the home. He was the prime mover in the organization of the National Broadcasting Company, which first inaugurated Network Broadcasting. His executive and engineering talents furthered the combination of radio and phonograph machines, and he took a leading part in giving voice to the silent motion picture. His latest and indeed current engineering and industrial crusade is in the field of television, in which he is recognized as a leader. He was a pioneer in the establishment of the Voice of America, and has championed the cause of freedom to listen and freedom to look for people throughout the world. And nor can I forbear injecting a personal note in these remarks by calling attention to General Sarnoff's contributions to higher education through his membership on the governing board of New York University. Peter Cooper, inventor, philosopher, successful businessman, patron of the arts and sciences, termed himself with pride, mechanic of New York. The career of David Sarnoff parallels with astounding similarity that of the founder of this noted institution. Starting as an electrical mechanic, he achieved international fame as inventor, engineer, scientist, and corporation executive, whose talents were largely directed toward bringing entertainment, music, and culture to thousands of communities and to millions of homes. His great attainments in science and engineering were placed at the disposal of the military services during World War II. He was commissioned a brigadier general, and for outstanding services to his country was awarded the Army's Legion of Merit and the President's Medal of Merit. For his outstanding work in the international field of communications and in the development of worldwide broadcasting, he has been decorated with high distinction by various foreign governments. At home and abroad, he has been honored, and in America eight colleges have awarded him honorary degrees in science, commerce, and literature. We of this jury of award believe that were Peter Cooper alive and seated on this platform, as he so often was during the 30 years that he governed this beloved institution, he would have been gratified at our selection. For General Sarnoff is the complete fulfillment of Peter Cooper's definition of an ideal citizen and engineer, one who is found and fills that place in the community where his capacity and talents are usefully employed with the greatest possible advantage to the community in which he lives and to his country. It is my great pleasure and honor, on behalf of the jury of award, to present to you, sir, Brigadier General David Sarnoff for the Peter Cooper Award for the Advancement of Science. Thank you. General Sarnoff, upon the recommendation of the jury on the Science Award, and with the approval of the trustees of the Cooper Union, I have the honor to present to you the Peter Cooper Medal for the Advancement of Science, for your contribution to the application of science to the new arts of communication, the radio and television, thus serving human welfare and thereby accomplishing Peter Cooper's principal desire, the application of science to useful occupations of life. Thank you very much. Mr. President, distinguished guests, friends of Cooper Union, and my friends, I'm deeply gratified and very thankful for the high honor which this vulnerable institution has just conferred upon me. There are times in life, and this is one of them, Dean Savelle, when it is easier to take the kind of generous things that you have said about me lying down than it is standing out. I would like also, on this occasion, to express publicly my great respect and affection and admiration for your president, Mr. Gaynor Dunn, whom I have had the privilege of calling my friend for more than a quarter of a century, during all of which time I have regarded him as my mentor and an ideal to look up to. You are fortunate in having so distinguished a man as Gaynor Dunn, as your president. I am proud also, on this occasion, to share this platform with such distinguished men as Dr. Bush and Mr. Wright. I know something about Dr. Bush, and he knows more about me than I hope he will tell you. I know of no one in this country who has contributed more leadership to scientific research than Dr. Bush. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. He marshaled the forces of science and mobilized them in times of war when the nation required it most, and he advanced the preeminence of science of our country in times of peace. I am glad on occasions to have served if only as a deckhand on the ship of science science which Dr. Bush has piloted so skillfully often in stormy weather and in waters that are uncharted. And it is a peculiar privilege for me to share tonight's honors with Mr. Frank Lloyd Wright whose genius in his own field needs no commendation from me. His creative genius and the sweep of his imagination has taught us how to build today the homes and the cities of tomorrow. in reflecting upon the day-to-day events that now take place in this confused world of ours, it is perhaps only natural that man finding himself at the crossroads of a technological age should be awed by the terror of some of the forces which science has released. This terror and this fear prevails despite the promise of science for the more abundant life perhaps we may think on occasions that man is playing with matches which can ignite a world conflagration of untold misery. That may be true but I think it is also true that the same matches can light the technological furnaces that will produce untold benefits for mankind. The question of our times is what will man do with the forces which science has released? is but that question is not a novel one. It is as old as history itself. It is perhaps pointed up for us just now by the extraordinarily rapid developments in the fields of science and technology. But a wise sage many centuries ago had said that everything has two handles as the firebrand. Picked up at one end it can do no harm. Picked up at the other end it can sear to the very flesh. we must hope that man will choose the right handle. My faith and my hope that man will do so resides in the knowledge that man desires to choose the right handle and that he has the capacity to do it. But what he needs is a will to do it that is as strong as a desire to do it. And that we must continually nurture and encourage. But I see no reason to doubt that in time the realities of the situation will become apparent over a wider area and I think it is much safer at least there is not much risk in making the prediction at this time that he will choose the right handle because if he doesn't there won't be many of us around to remember the prediction. I am not saddened by the thought that I live in the atomic age. On the contrary I am thrilled by that knowledge. I am thrilled particularly tonight because here I almost feel like the prodigal son who has returned home and for whom the fatted calf has been turned out. For it is in this very neighborhood my friends that I had my beginnings. I lived in this neighborhood and I went to public school in this neighborhood and I worked in this neighborhood but only across the street a stone's throw away from the very spot I now occupy. I was 37 years ago the wireless operator on the roof of the enterprising Wanamaker store. and it was then that an extraordinary thing was born a recognition of the importance of wireless for it was in the month of April 1912 sitting on the roof of this building across the street that I was able to pluck from the air the feeble dots and dashes that brought the list of survivors of the ill-fated Titanic which went down with so many unfortunate people. There was recognition then of the importance of wireless as we then called it and it really marked the beginning of the development of a new art. I just happened to be lucky enough to have been born shortly before the turn of the century and about the time when Marconi invented the wireless Thompson discovered the electron and Crookes the cathode ray. All of those happened about the same time and the accident of my birth too. It was difficult not to grow up with those developments but I must say that only in a country like the one we are privileged to live in, only in America can the opportunity be given and taken to develop as freely as science itself is permitted to develop in this country. And this perhaps is the most important statement that I can make to you of any. For as long as science is maintained free, free to follow the truth wherever it leads, and so long as scientists are permitted their freedom and are not shackled to false concepts of state or false ideologies, then my friends, all the things that have happened in the last 40 or 50 or even 90 years during the life of this venerable institution will be small compared to what will happen in the next 40 or 50 years ahead of us. Take the electron itself as an illustration. Here we have the tiniest thing in the world, and it offers the largest opportunity. The discovery of the electron by man may perhaps be regarded as significant an achievement as the achievements of Galileo and of Faraday, because the electron is at the base of all our modern methods of communication, the telephone, the telegraph, the radio, broadcasting, television, and the like. Already many major industries are employing the electron in their day-to-day work. the motion picture industry, for example, and chemistry and textiles and aviation and transportation and other forms of communication are all involved with this tiny little thing called the electron. And through the electron microscope, we have opened up a complete new world of the infinitesimal hitherto unseen by the naked eye or by any mechanical microscope. And that promises much in the fields of biology and in the fields of medicine. When I was a young man, the advice was given, young man, hitch your wagon to a star. And perhaps in advising youth today, we might well say, young man, hitch your wagon to an electron. moreover, the electron will help to expand our intellectual horizon as well. For I think many of us can see the day when through the further development of television, for example, the whole world may become a television vista. And we shall be able to look across the hemispheres with the same ease and simplicity that we are now able to listen to radio from any part of the world. And when that day comes and that added neighborliness is afforded us, perhaps it might help for a better understanding between people. science holds much for humanity. It can further the physical conquests it has already made. It can make many more of them. It might even lift the veil, however slightly, the mysterious veil of the life forces itself, about which we know so little today, and if man wills it hard enough, then I think it can dispel the fears of today and make of the atomic age an age of peace and of prosperity. applause I shall now call upon Mr. René Donancourt, director of the Museum of Modern Art, to act as spokesman for the jury on the Art Award, Mr. Donancourt. applause applause Mr. Chairman, members of the Board of Trustees of Cooper Union, ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the jury of award of the Peter Cooper Medal, for the advancement of art, I've been asked to introduce to you the winner of the award and to give you the reason for our selection. First part of this task, to be sure, is a very agreeable one, but I can't help feeling a little self-conscious about it. See, to be introduced to any gathering by Frank Lloyd Wright would be a very great honor. To be the one to introduce Frank Lloyd Wright to any audience is a little presumptuous and certainly superfluous. The second part of my task, to give the reasons for Mr. Wright's selection, will not take much more time, a little more, than the first part, and it's equally pleasant. Last spring, Dr. Burdell invited the members of the jury, Mr. Walter Killen, President of the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, Mr. Herman Moore, Director of the Whitney Museum of American Art, Mr. George Lover, Academician of the National Academy of Design of New York, Mr. Francis Henry Taylor, Director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, Mr. Dana Warren, Dean of the Art School of Cooper Union, and myself to a preliminary meeting. At this meeting, we were told that the award was to go to the man who had in our time contributed most to the advancement of art and to the advancement of society through the arts. The jury was informed that the award was not limited to this country or this continent and it would be given for work in any one of the art forms. visual arts including painting, sculpture, architecture, industrial design, photography, motion pictures, etc. You can see in view of this very vast field under consideration, it is significant that the selection of the jury was made then and there and within a few days unanimously confirmed by letters from each jury member. In fact, the choice of Frank Lloyd Wright was the result of a spontaneous reaction are paid by careful and conscientious deliberation. Now, the Peter Cooper medal was meant to be more than an award for aesthetic achievement. In the spirit of the founder of the Cooper Union, it was to go to the artist whose work contributed most to the advancement of teaching and inspiration of youth. Last March, Frank Lloyd Wright was honored by his own profession and I'd like to quote in part of the tribute that was paid to him by Mr. Orr, president of the American Institute of Architects. This is what Mr. Orr said. Frank Lloyd Wright has kindled men's hearts. An eager generation of architects stands today as his living monument by a perceptive example. He has imparted to them the courage to live an architectural ideal. They are reaching for leadership in our profession, themselves dedicated to creating order and beauty not as imitators but as servants of truth. Today, the architectural profession is joined by representatives of all the arts in paying tribute to the genius of Frank Lloyd Wright. For every word in the institute citation holds true if we substitute the words creative artist for the word architect. The influence of great works of art transcends the limits of a profession just as it transcends national boundaries. No one dedicated to the practice or study of any of the visual arts today can repudiate his debt to Frank Lloyd Wright. art. I am not an architect and it will be presumptuous of me to attempt to analyze Mr. Wright's contribution to his craft. I do not even feel qualified to speak to you on his technical achievements or to discuss the many instances when his work forecast and initiated changes that were accepted by the profession years later or still are waiting to be accepted. All these points have been made many times by scholars and specialists who know far more than I do in this field. But I have seen the houses of Frank Lloyd Wright in their overwhelming wealth and variety of form held together by a gigantic power by the gigantic power of a great personality. I have seen I have seen his houses in the desert on the plain on lake shores on rivers growing out of their natural surroundings and grown beyond these surroundings as monuments to the dignity of man. I have seen his houses and churches and business structures and I walk through them. I know that they are dedicated to a new and better life and that he has given form to faith. I know no better way to describe this transformation from earth to man to idea than to quote the words of the master himself. He once said the principles of organic architecture when you comprehend them naturally grow and expand into this great freedom we hoped for when we founded this nation and that we call democracy. the first world war and now before closing may I be permitted to tell you a little episode that happened nearly 30 years ago. but in 1920 I was a student in Graz it's a small provincial town in southern Austria isolated from the world by the first world war and its disastrous economic aftermath. The struggle for a new expression in art and architecture that seemed to agitate the rest of the world reached Graz just like a very low murmur. We had no money to buy new books and what little we knew of the new movement came from a few stray issues of magazines that found their way occasionally in the hands of the very, very few who cared. One day I received a letter of a friend from a friend of the Art Vila Lange in Vienna telling me that a friend of his was coming to Graz and he wanted me to see him. He had just come from a trip through America where he had seen buildings by the grossen Americanischen Meister Frank Lloyd Wright. The traveler arrived and I invited a small group of friends writers, painters, and architects to meet him. You know, I'm a little ashamed I can't even recall the name of the traveler now. You know, 30 years a long time. But I do very vividly remember the evening that pouring over the plants and the photographs, the listening to his description of those new and wonderful buildings. And most of all what I remember is that great excitement of witnessing the formation of a new world by the hands of an inspired rapper. world. And since this evening, 30 years ago, I have seen many books and articles on the works of Mr. Wright, I have seen many of his buildings, and yet I know that if tomorrow I see the plans and the photographs of his next buildings, that they will give me again that great excitement of witnessing the formation of a new world by the hands of an inspired rebel. Mr. Burdell, you seem to have a feeling. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I sincerely hope that this acquiescence in the metal business doesn't become a habit. Thank you. Thank you. You've heard from the head. If we were to talk about architecture, we'd be speaking of the mother art, and we'd be speaking of the basis of all art, and the real reason for all science. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I think our civilization owes something to Peter Cooper, the great radical, truly a great American, a man I like to think of. I like to see this evidence of his greatness, of his work, of his foresight. Peter Cooper must have been something more than a scientist. He must have had in him something of the artist. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I've prepared a little piece tonight, contrary to my usual custom. I never write anything for an occasion on which I'm expected to speak because I'll try to remember it. And if I try to remember, I'm lost. If I prevent myself from thinking at all about what I'm going to say, I may get away with it. I may say something worth listening to. But never if I write it, but I've written it. And I realized, before I came to stand here with a ten minute limitation from headquarters, that it was altogether too pessimistic. I was looking at the dark side of this picture. I was putting myself in the place of Peter Cooper, where he to stand where I'm standing now. And what he would see in the state of this union, to which he entrusted his union. And I don't believe that it would make for him a very satisfactory or a very pretty picture. Now, I don't want to be the killjoy on this occasion. I don't wish to take advantage of the good nature and the pleasant circumstances with which I'm surrounded and which I honor. And I'm deeply grateful to be considered worthy of this distinction by this great institution. So I think that for this evening, we will let the sentiments that I intended to express lie in that manuscript. And I'll thank you all for your kindness and your forbearance. I'm glad to have been here with you. And let's say, God help us all. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ Ladies and gentlemen, there is every reason why this stupidity which we evince regarding the Orient should end. There is every reason why the arrogance that has characterized our conduct should become a little more enlightened and therefore less arrogant. One of the great minds and the great individuals of this period, of this era, of our life here on Earth has passed away in Paris recently. I'm referring to Jörg Vanich. We called him affectionately. George Gorgief was his name. And Kipling once said that these twain shall never meet. The meaning, the East and the West. But in this man's life and in his work and in his word, out of the depths of the wisdom of Asia, of the Orient, came a philosophy, came something the man of the West can understand. And in this man's work and in his mind, in what he did and the way he did it, the West does meet the East. The depths of the wisdom of the Orient, as we connected with Tibet, with Lao Tzu, with Jesus, with all these great Oriental souls, and we speak not of Western souls, but of Western minds, there we will find a path. I think we should tread in future in order that the world may become one. This man had in his soul the desire to do, to make of the human life here on Earth, of the human individual, an organic thing. He was seeking the relations of that life to our planetary existence, to everything that surrounds us, to the nature of the circumstances in which we live, so that the human soul itself might blossom into something beyond this mere animal life, which we have exploited to such an extent. Now, there's been a book published by a great student of his, Uspensky, who wrote Tertium Organum. Many of you have read it. You know Uspensky, a Russian, who now has written a book telling the philosophy of this man, Gurdjieff. And the book is called In Search of the Miraculous. And it's a book, I'm sure, from the depths of my own experience, in my own heart, that every one of you should read if you want to find that path forward and upward, which belongs to the human spirit rather than the human mind. And that's what I wanted to say, and I forgot it, that you'll be greatly rewarded when you know this great Asiatic philosopher who has just passed away in Paris, whom I regard as probably the greatest of all the modern philosophers, and who gave us the most vital path to follow. And I can see now where this understanding between the East and the West can be. I can even see where it is. And don't forget that that Orient is four-fifths of this world. Numerically, we are one-fifths. Upon a time, we had that knowledge, which they didn't have, which enabled us to do with them what we would, put them where we please, mock them as inferior. Not now. That's all changed. Now, we've got to understand the Orient and understand the East. Arrogance is out. Read this man. I want to express my appreciation for the kind words which Brigadier General Sarno said about me out of an affection of many years' standing. I now have the honor of introducing Dr. Vadiva Bush. Introducing him is something like introducing the President of the United States. You don't have to introduce him, only present him. He is a remarkable figure in the history of our country. No man in the history of the world ever brought such great forces to bear upon the welfare of a nation as he brought during the late war through his headship of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. He did it not only through a deep and intimate knowledge of science, but through a deep and intimate knowledge of men, through an iron will, and through a subtle judgment as to how to deal with great problems. His success has been phenomenal. He is the author of a book, Modern Arms and Free Men, which has just been selected as the Book of the Month to be published in December. The Blurb says, in the event of another war, what we have to fear and what we have not to fear. I feel that any time I take in enlarging upon Dr. Bush's remarkable record and history would keep you only that much longer from hearing him himself. I now have the very great honor of presenting Dr. Vadiva Bush, our principal speaker of the evening. Ladies and gentlemen, I am to speak on the human enterprise. The human enterprise, the endeavor of mankind from the earliest days, to force back barriers, no matter of what sort, in order that man's life may steadily grow to be better, physically, intellectually, and spiritually. It is an enterprise of movement and growth and change. And as we look at the record of history, even the grimmest record of recent days, we know that over the long pull, it has been a successful enterprise, and we are determined to keep it successful. To do that, we must assure its characteristics, the revolution and advance. Above all, we must be ready, as in the past, to take risks for that purpose. And from this view of the human enterprise, I wish to discuss a matter which is much in the air these days, the topic of security. The word has many meanings, of which three distinct, but closely interrelated, are of major interest. We need to consider all three. In all three senses, security is a good thing. And equally in all three senses, it can, like most good things, defeat its own purposes if carried to excess. And by carrying it to excess, I mean simply overemphasis, so that we lose the courage to take a risk. These two polar conceptions, security and risk, go together. They go together just as much today as they did essentially ago. When the wagon trains were rolled west, and men left their accustomed security and risk in the determination to have a better life, out of which they expect a richer security to grow. The first of the three senses of the word which engages this evening is that of national security. The safety of this country in a hazardous world, where conquering armies still roll across a continent, where dictators curse one another, and where modern weapons have quickened the pace and filled us with dread of what may come. We are not likely to lose sight of the importance of national security. It behooves us also not to lose sight of the fact that we may have in the future, as we have had in the past, to take calculated risks to maintain it. If we had not been bold and imaginative in the past to take risks, with the development of the atomic bomb, for example, our security would not be what it is today. We shall do well to keep this fact in mind now that the President has announced that an atomic explosion has occurred within the continent of Eurasia. This announcement came as a surprise. In its timing, a surprise even to the military, who had full access to information. For it was earlier than expected. Not radically so, but earlier. We do not, of course, know how long the Russians have been at the task. They certainly did not start from scratch when the war ended. But this is a detail. We now do know, with no uncertain terms, that our monopoly of atomic bombs has ended. And in so far as this knowledge shakes us out of a marginal line complex, it is a good thing. To go from the initial test to a stockpile of bombs is a long, hard road. This we know from our own experience. Even so, our approach to one aspect of national security is now on a new basis. We have also heard much, unfortunately, of strife among our own services. However sincere the motives, there has been a risk to the security which we must preserve. Thus, the merits of carriers and long-range bombers are argued in the public press, and in open hearings and congress. In neither of which places can sound judgments be rendered on intricate matters involving many phases which should not be made public. We hear of pursuit ships and anti-aircraft rockets, defensive radar networks, and recoilless guns. To balance the effect of these into a complete and accurate judgment is no mean task. It would require the best minds that can be mustered. The keenest of analysis, using all modern methods. It would require a unity of military approach and teamwork, which is now being set back rather than forward. The system established by law to resolve such matters normally and deliberately has been thrown into confusion. And public security has suffered as a result. The security as a nation cannot safely rest on the defense of our own shores. That readiness to take risks in the offensive is necessary for security. Had we learned that lesson early enough, this might now be a somewhat different world. But at least we have learned. And hence we tax ourselves to rehabilitate Europe, and to furnish arms for aid and a revival of strength, which can, in the long run, defend itself fully. And this involves a new set of international relationships. Not one world as yet, but a United Nations growing gradually in prestige and influence, in spite of all obstacles. An Atlantic pact, the beginnings of a federation of Europe. And we have learned a whole new set of principles in regard to the motivations of men, their ambitions and their fears. For the security of the country rests not alone upon weapons. And the hope of peace lies in understanding, bold, risk-taking, and wise courage. The second sense of the term security is closely related to the first. Through military usage, the word has come to mean the inviolability of secret information. The guarding of documents and data, important in the national defense. Now all of us admit, or nearly all of us, that certain secrets we must guard. We do not intend that spies and traitors among us should operate unmolested. To pry out our data on new weapons, to deliver the information to a potential enemy. And, this is proper enough, it's no more than common sense. And certainly the principle that is basic in our heritage, that the defendant is considered innocent until proved guilty, should be a safeguard against abuses of excessive zeal as we deal with this difficulty. We may come to need a comparable safeguard and another aspect of secret information, which directly involves the national security, and which again points up the inescapable connection of the two antithetical ideas, security and risk. Fundamental science is essential to our industry, to our economy, our whole social structure, our national strength. For it is from constant and vigorous fundamental research that becomes the knowledge that produces new applications, new implements, new industries. Shall we, in the name of security of information, severely restrict the publication of scientific results, for the idea of preventing them from aiding those with whom we are indeed in a race on the development of new weapons? The question takes a new aspect, now that there's been an atomic explosion elsewhere. We can look at it in a new light. Certainly none object to our keeping secret the mass of technical and engineering information. On the manufacture of materials, on the making of the bomb itself, we are not concerned this evening, for instance, with such things as the rate of production, nor the dimensions of the actual weapon. But does it make sense to hold back fundamental science? When the first atomic bombs exploded in Japan, and brought an end to the war, the President made a very wise and a very far-reaching decision. A decision to take a calculated risk when he released the Smythe Report. This told all that was generally known, and all that could be readily found out, but went no further. It undoubtedly helped those in other countries to see important relationships, but it gave a great start to American science in the field of nuclear arms. The Atomic Energy Commission has pursued the same wise policy, releasing scientific matters broadly and withholding only techniques. In the light of the accomplishment elsewhere, and in my opinion that accomplishment depended very little upon information obtained from this country, either overtly or clandestine. In the light of progress elsewhere, the choice of working here in a reasonable light appears in retrospect to have been the only sane course. Science in America cannot prosper in the dark. We can proceed only at a snail's pace, on the basis of whispered confidences. But this country is rapidly progressing toward magnificent accomplishment. In many fields of fundamental science, and free interchange of results is its heart's blood. There is reasonable limitation. We should not be so carried away by stretching boundaries we publish matters of moment to a potential enemy. But the great danger of security of information is that it will be overdone, and militate in the long run against the security of the country in a hazardous world. The third meaning of security is however the one to which I would primarily devote this talk. Here it means safety of the individual, against the hazards of nature and of his fellow man. But safety only in a limited sense. And usually, safety by reason of the action of a paternal government. For a generation, we have seen great strides in this direction. And most of it has been salutary indeed. The growth of voluntary life and accident insurance. More recently, of health insurance. The great safety moves in industry. They have illustrated one phase of it. The governmental phase has involved child labor laws, safety codes, more recently minimum wage laws, subsidy of farm products, social security, and the like. The growth of labor unions and their maturity into powerful organizations has accomplished much in this direction. And a more enlightened business management deserves credit also. But the most powerful influence has been an awakened public consciousness and a response of legislatures to the demands of organized groups of citizens. There is no doubt that we have come far, and no doubt also that most of this progress has been salutary. Our people are more protected against the hazards of man and of nature than ever before in history. Yet, we are prosperous, and our national product is twice as great as it was only a decade ago. The blind pursuit and overemphasis of this form of security can take us over oppressors. Specifically, if we outpace ourselves and overdo this phase of things, we can render this country unable to develop itself and to defend itself in the world in which we may have power for enemies. We can secure security of the lesser sort, so avid that we lose its essence. There is no such thing as absolute security. In this uncertain and complex world, there is no workable security without the willingness and the courage to take risks. We cannot protect ourselves by passing a law. We cannot hope to protect ourselves. We cannot hope to protect ourselves. We cannot hope to protect ourselves only if our people, our greatest resources, maintain and develop the imagination and initiative that have made this country great, and are willing to take chances. Moreover, the search for security by action of a paternalistic government has its seamy side. Along with the advocates of good causes, we at times encounter those who would get at the trough for selfish animals, and by political manipulation. And the area is one in which muddled thinking abounds. One result of that kind of thinking appears in the form of a belief that the federal government has a pipeline to the moon, that it has an income in addition to what it gets from the people in taxes. That the national income each year consists of something in addition to such total annual national product as we can produce. And this kind of thinking looks at dollars as something significant in itself, rather than as what it is, a mechanism, a mirror that reflects tons of coal and tons of steel and bushels of wheat. If we were not beguiled by this kind of a false notion, we would hardly, as a country, regard with equanimity the things we do. Today, for example, with unprecedented expenditures for military services and for foreign aid, with a budget thrown out of balance by mountain costs and a spiral of inflation hardly arrested, the session of Congress has just adjourned with $9 billion of expenditure for various good causes still in the harbor. Many of these proposals came very near to be enacted into law. Would there be a rush in this direction if the citizens generally regarded each of these bills as merely a way of shifting funds from one group in the country to another? With the intervention of a growing government bureaucracy in the process, would we appropriate so freely to aid this and aid that if the taxpayers generally recognized that they would pay the bill? Either directly or indirectly, by taxes that they would hardly see, not at all. There is still in this country some sort of belief in a magic wand. The difficulty is that there has been a magic wand in the past. In fact, two magic wands. And the people generally do not realize that they have lost their power. One magic wand paid for new dispensations by soaking the rich. And the other did so by leaning on the national credit. We are getting perilously close to the end of the tether on both of these matters, and as a country we do not yet know it. It is strange that this should be so, with the spectacle of England before us. It does not matter that England came to its present predicament by reason of war losses and the metamorphosis of an empire. The present situation is intense and fully spread out for all to see. In England they soak the rich no more. There are no rich. No man can earn or keep an income there which is more than sufficient for immediate needs. And the national credit is exhausted, in spite of rigorous controls and valiant efforts to support it. Yet the move toward more taxes and more distribution continues. We cannot see the end, but we can clearly see the plight. England is governed by state socialists. They believe, honestly and vigorously, that all property used for production should be owned by the state. Although they proceed slowly in this direction to avoid abrupt disruption. They believe in a super state, which plans and regulates the lives of its citizens in detailed ways for their own good. They believe in plenty of taxation, plenty of services, managed by a horde of officials. We may stand off and wonder why anyone should wish to go down that path, even if we realize that a majority of British citizens have voted to do so with the full freedom of discussion of all the merits. But there is very little difference in the trend in the two countries. We have been going down the same path for nearly a generation. We have merely not gone quite so far. Because of the fortunes of war and some difference in the national temperament. Moreover, we have been drifting unconsciously, rather than plunging into state socialism deliberately. And the reason that we drift is that because as a people we do not understand. We still believe in fairies. We still conceive that money in some strange way gives birth to more money, or that it can be pretty. The fallacy that money makes more money is very deep rooted. And like the other fallacies I have mentioned, it persists for one reason because at times it has been true. In the early days of commerce, when banking was rudimentary, and the handling of funds was done by a close-knit few, it was indeed true, that the mere control of the flow of a portion of the medium of the exchange could leave large residues in the hands of those who controlled it. Even in later times, say in this country for a long period after the war between the states, the purchase and value of the dollar increased over the years, and those who held funds found them continually more value. And this probably did not occur by chance. But today, and as far as we can see public, if the conduct of financial affairs is widespread, and the sharing of groups in the economy finds its own level, without artificial control, the value of the dollar decreases slowly and steadily. It has decreased rapidly in recent years, and that was inflation. There are signs that the patents following the wars may again be repeated. And we will get back closer to the long-term trend. And this long-term trend is about such as to cancel out the interest on funds which take no risk. It is incorrect to believe that one can invest in a bond which takes almost no risk, governmental or otherwise, and enjoy an income therefrom. One can receive dollar income, true, but in the long run the purchase and value of the whole, principal and accumulated income, will remain unchanged. If the trends of purchasing value of the dollar, which have persisted for 50 or 75 years, continue, as they probably will if they do not become accelerated. It is absurd to set up an organization with its endowment invested in riskless securities, and to call that organization perpetual or immortal. It is perpetual only in the sense that its dollars may be preserved. And dollars limit. It is doomed to extinction. Very slow extinction, it is true, and on an exponential basis, so that it will go to zero only in an infinite time, and lose only part of its value every generation. But money does not make more money. Money combined with judgment, courage, risk-taking, can and does. In fact, securities which represent a share in the business of the whole country show, on the average and over many years, under the conditions which now exist in income, which much more than offsets the decline in value of the dollar. Some such securities become worthless. If the investor thinks he is very smart, a large fraction may do just that. But the grand averages, through depressions and wars, grow in value with the time. And they abound to. Not merely because the productivity of industry increases by 2% a year, and measured in output per man hour, and may now be increasing at 3% a year because of the increased reliance on research, but also merely because the effort expended in the exercising wise judgment inevitably reaps a reward. Not all governmental provision for personal security is by any means merely a result of a false belief that money grows on trees. Nor is all of it by any reasoning merely the result of the clamor of pressure groups. Some of it is the result of real major problems. And the question of old age pensions now very much in the public mind is a case in point. Here indeed science and humanistic considerations meet. The medical profession aided by chemistry, biology, and other neighboring sciences has increased the lifespan of life's fair, presented us with a problem. In 1925, 5% of the population were over 65. Now it's 8 and a half. And in another 25 years, even if the medical sciences do nothing in the meanwhile, it'll be 11 and a half. An annuity to provide a pension of $100 a month costs at age 65 a little over $15,000. No wonder there is a bit of argument about as to who is going to pay the bill. We can be sure of two things. First, the elderly are not to be left in distress in the present temper of the country, and unless we lose our prosperity. Second, no matter who pays in the first instance. The burden will ultimately fall on those who produce. The chances are the long-suffering taxpayer will get the bulk of the charges directly. The question now is, how much can he stand without bringing about the collapse of the system on which all support of the elderly and unfortunate depends? This is a good place, however, in this talk to emphasize that our present dilemma is not merely due to some group of long-haired socialists in our midst. We're all involved. In this particular instance, the responsibility is that of the science, because it was their discovery of penicillin and various other aids that have increased the average life and brought us into the building. But in this instance, also management has been short-sighted. With notable exceptions, only half of the men above 65 are at work. It's reasonable to suppose that the agencies which have postponed death have also improved the general level of health of the old and postponed also the day of rural incompetence to earn a living. Yet industry has generally made no move to correspond. It is still customary to retire working men at the same ages that applied a generation ago, with surprisingly little attempt to keep old people learning, even at altered tasks and lessened income. Undoubtedly, businessmen and professionalmen need to retire from responsible positions on time, so as not to block the path of younger men who could outperform them if given the chance. Undoubtedly, also, we should not artificially guarantee a job to the old man at the cost of throwing the young man out of a job. For, in the last analysis, it's the last, it's the young man that's going to produce for all. But there are plenty of skilled workers whose loss of usefulness is postponed well beyond the time when executives block difficult decisions or coast in a changing environment. There are plenty of other problems besides that of old-age pensions. Well, we have merely allowed the situation to creep up on us. And about every section of the population has been at fault in allowing it to occur. And now we are faced with tough decisions. And we are tempted merely to spend and spend and hope that in some mysterious way the resiliency of the American system of production will provide. If we do so, that system may bog down, like a yoke of oxen when too many rocks are rolled onto the sledge they drag. There is little doubt that this country, if it could shake off its fallacies and face facts, if it ceased to drift because of the lure of individual benefits, which are themselves desirable, without really counting the cost, would call a halt. Now such a halt would not mean that we would turn the clock back, that we would frown on humanitarianism, that we would return to the good old days, that we would become reactionaries. It would not mean that we would cease to strive to adjust the relations between men so that there would be justice and reason in sharing the product which we all create. It would not mean that we would hesitate to extend the protecting hand of government to support the weak and the depressed. But regaining the use of our heads would not mean that we need to lose the impulses of our hearts. It would mean that we would count costs as well as benefits. It would mean that before we vote some special group a slice out of the Federal Treasury, we would balance affairs to see whether it is really just to take away the earnings from some larger group by taxing them in order that the benefit which is clambered for may be given. It would mean one more thing. It would mean that in a world where harsh fighting is still possible, we would not follow a will-o'-the-wisp over oppressors into ineptitude. It would mean that we would not, in the selfish interests of potato farmers for instance, who are doing pretty well already, hazard the overall national strength which today and someday soon we may need solely. For the question of whether we can avoid war depends to a great degree upon whether we can maintain our strength. The question of whether we can win a war without being set back for many generations, should we be forced into one, depends upon whether this country of ours is really strong. And this is not a matter of weapons or armies or appropriations. It's a question of whether the country as a whole is healthy, with a strong, vigorous, successful, independent industry, with a soundly balanced budget and unimpaired national credit, with progress on every front by pioneers and innovators. Whether we are sound or not depends upon how we control our selfishness, and it depends also upon how we control our desire to be kind. For even good things cannot come all at once. If we build well we can have security, genuine national security. But if we are deluded into believing that security of the individual, against all hazards and all ills, can be obtained by FIAT and by law, without limits and without deliberate progress toward an end, we will sacrifice the foundation which makes humanitarianism possible. And we will start the weary climb over again after a dark interval. The dangers of rushing into a welfare state are practical and they are immediate. Yet there is a more subtle danger than this in the present cry for personal security. The passion for personal security is an opiate, which tends to destroy the virile characteristics which have made us great. The danger of a central bureaucracy which plans all our lives, and doles out what we need, is much more than that it will plan badly, although it undoubtedly will. The greater danger is to ourselves that we will cease to think. That we will not exert ourselves when only a drab mediocrity lies ahead. And that we will substitute the arts of petty political maneuvering for a virile self-reliance. And this is the greatest danger. This country has the greatest standard of living that the world has ever seen, and it has not come about by chance. Some of it is due to our resources. Some of it is due to the fact that in two world wars, our land has not been devastated. The large fraction of it is due to the fact that we have a great homogeneous population which furnishes a mass mark. But the greater part of it is due to the fact that we have willed so. We have not as a country been lured by the mirage of restricted output. In spite of feather bedding and other short-sighted labor moves of which we have had too much, our men who labor have not in the past generally loafed on the job. Our business management has not in general grasped at cartels and combinations to restrict output and thus furnished profits in a stagnant instance. The fact that we have had antitrust laws has helped in this regard, much as they have been railed against, much as at times they have been operated in ways that border on the ludicrous. Their presence has been a large factor in preventing us from going down the path which England has pursued to its present dismay. We have in general had lively competition. The rapid introduction of new machines, lavish use of power, a mounting production of goods at an ever-decreasing cost. And now there is real danger that that trend may be reversed. If it is, it will be because the people fail to understand, and because our spirit of adventure, our readiness to run a risk, fails us. We cannot treat all phases of this problem. One that stands out as the matter of the advent of new industries. There is a distinct tendency for business to aggregate into large units. More than technical methods of mass production produce part of that tendency. Much of it is due merely to the very human tendency to build large structures. Many a great concern does blithely absorb its small competitor for this reason alone, without giving thought to the fact that by so doing it was putting itself in jeopardy. We have to have large organizations for large things. Our public utilities, for example, could hardly be managed soundly on a competitive basis. We also need large organizations for mass production of things that require large capital and extensive markets. Overdoing the matter, however, leads straight to the type of monopoly which can be disastrous. Not perhaps as much because it can control markets, as because in doing so it loses its vigorous nature. Much of our present safeguard against over-concentration is a legal one. And as things stand, we've not done badly at all. In fact, the amount of present concentration is probably somewhere near the optimum for maximum progress. And we certainly have vigorous competition in fields where it really counts. But not all of the offset concentration in the past has been due to legal restraints. A major part of it has been due to the constant advent of new, vigorous, small industrial units, which can often cut rings around the big boats and keep them on their toes. This is one of the greatest contributions in our day of the pioneering spirit, the willingness to take a risk, which was exemplified by the mechanic of New York, whose far-seeing benefaction of 90 years ago we celebrate tonight. And this is another reason why we need opportunity for that quality which will not rest content with increasing repetition of the accustomed, but strikes out on new paths, devises new undertakings, creates new things. And that spirit is being smothered. It's far more difficult today than it was 25 years ago to set up a new successful business in this country, and the rewards for doing so are far less. There are many reasons for this, but they nearly all go back, in one way or another, to our search for artificial personal security. And the accompanying tendency to tax heavily those who are prosperous to make the way easier for those who are not. One great factor is the system of taxation. This has dried up a large fraction of the venture capital, which used to make small starts possible. It's also borne heavily, indeed, on the successful pioneer who makes a successful sudden income. We fully accept today the graduated income tax and the graduated estate tax. We have enormous military burdens, burdens for foreign aid, payments to veterans, subsidies. We have to pay for them all. And it's reasonable that those who have prospered should pay a heavy share. We have gone so far, that the incentive to take a chance, to risk a novel product, to boost a novel idea, is nearly gone. It takes a bold man to venture his property, when a failure means a total loss. And success means a payment to government of a large fraction of what is gained. The second factor has been the tendency of the courts to weaken the patent system. Patents, like any other property, have been used improperly as restraint of trade. And it's correct, and in the public interest, when courts restrain such a use. Often, however, in this country, we take a broad lunge at the large misdoer, and hit a lot of little fellows in the process. And this is an instance. A smoothly working, effective system of patents is one of the primary reliances in this country of new industry. Often making a hazardous way in territory occupied previously by large industrial organizations. The tendency to restrict patent use, to interpret patents narrowly, is often no more than a matter of words. Patents set up a monopoly. Certainly they do. The basis for that monopoly lies in the Constitution, where it was placed for their very purpose of preventing secrecy and attracting venture capital. A temporary monopoly, in exchange for a full disclosure, was intended to make it possible to attract capital to an infant idea. And it has done just that, very effectively, throughout our industrial history. But to some, the word monopoly in so facto means an evil, and should be solved. There's no doubt that some of the present tendency to soften the patent system comes from this very field. Wherever it comes from, it's one more thing that makes the way of the pioneer hazards. Moreover, we regulate everything under the sun. And in so doing, we often waste most of the time of the pioneer filling out forms, when he ought to be out in the shop studying a new device in its first steps. Most of the form filling and inquiries and inspections occur because we are protecting somebody from something. It's usually well-intentioned and sometimes, sometimes necessary. We protect the public against improper stock issues and make it difficult for the small outfit to attain capital. We protect labor against a thousand kinds of exploitations. And a horde of officials gather statistics and ask questions. We protect and protect and bury the ventricious pioneer in industry. Before he can begin to give us one of the greatest protections we sorely need. The protection of recurrent youth against industrial synodal. In the last analysis where we go in this whole matter depends upon what we most desire in this world. It depends upon what our youth desires, for they will set the pattern. If we want a system in which, by every artifice that we can command, we protect the individual citizen against all the ills of nature and of grasping man, we can have it. We can legislate and set up new bureaus, systematize life to the utmost, plan and regulate, until we are insured against the hazards of existence and the injustice of our fellows in every way that we can devise. And when we have succeeded in doing so, we will have produced a dead level of existence far below our possibilities. We shall have stopped progress. And then we may succumb in a world where tough wars are still possible. On the other hand, if we want the kind of a country that has thus far prospered well, if the youth of our land wish adventure, and the conquest of new horizons, great possibilities lie before us. The application of science has much yet to offer. And a strong country can maintain national security and give us opportunity to develop our great potentiality. If we go down this path, we will temper our humanitarianism with hard common sense. We will protect the unfortunate. We will continue to strive for justice between men. We will guard against the vicissitudes of life by new combinations to meet emergencies in our personal life. But we will have no raids on the public puts. We will make sure that when we transfer a burden from one group to another within the population, we genuinely advance the common welfare. And above all, we will not block the path of the pioneer. The choice is an individual one. As youth selects its path, so will the country go. We have a magnificent asset. An old generation of lives guarded against disease as never before in history. With educational opportunities that are unmatched. The kind of world in which we live will be built by those who take over the management of the next generation. And it will be a world, either of progress or of settlement to a dead level, where the small securities have rendered impossible security in the larger sense. If youth, in its choice of jobs, in its potential power, in its words and acts, wishes us to, we can have an increasing standard of living. A country of color and of opportunity. And we can be secure as a nation. If we can then continue our adventure in the human enterprise. If you cannot make it penultimes, what של outlaw can determine when sano change. If there is no human wery. That deportment has been a foster power for the purpose animus system. So Mr. Eline Pekino uses two to fight ant for some array Easy lPRBarya, as have 1925-500 biurias in the freestyle文 an Arcoterie Smallist in industrial. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. With this memorable address of Dr. Bush, coupled with the memorable addresses of General Sarnoff and Mr. Frank Lloyd Wright, this convocation on the 90th anniversary of the founding of Cooper Union is closed. I love you. My daughter, I love you. Hello? With this premier in 속кон strategy, he was only able to in an end of his day so he willр作 çalış surfing. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.