We will open with the national anthem. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End It Had Become Badly badly polluted, with the result that bathing had been more or less prohibited at many of its beach facility locations. Recently, the Commissioner of Parks has succeeded in reclaiming one beach and is about to reclaim another, subject, of course, to the accomplishment of this particular project. Now, it is perhaps not out of order to express regret at the illness of Commissioner Zemelin for the particular reason that he was born in the Bronx, and perhaps that had something to do with finally bringing to fruition the hopes and aspirations of the people of this borough. It is also significant, and I hope not out of order, to note that several of the engineers, including the project engineer, are Bronx citizens, and they too are entitled to the thanks of the people of this community. One could not, however, pass the occasion without noting the fact that the help that has finally come required the support of the Board of Estimate. The financial backing, which has long been lacking for these projects, was more or less forced on us by the Interstate Sanitation Commission. And the Board of Estimate and its representative here today, the President of the Council, Joe Sharkey, have in recent years lent an exceeding sympathetic ear to the needs of this borough. And I think that you will all agree that more progress has been made in the last few years than in the previous generation. In closing, one can only say that he hopes that all the intents and purposes of this magnificent improvement, for it is magnificent despite the fact that it does not have the publicity and perhaps the glory that is sometimes attached to other types of work. Sanitation is, next to water supply, perhaps the most necessary of all public improvements for an urban community. But it lies much of it underground and seldom receives the recognition that should accrue to it. It is a difficult engineering project, requires a great deal of highly specialized knowledge. And the people of the Bronx, I'm sure, will be doubly grateful to the Board of Estimate, to the Department of Public Works, to the contractors, and to the engineers who have finally brought this project to fruition. Thank you. I might mention that the present chairman also resides in the Bronx, but he doesn't benefit. He's over on the other side of the Bronx. It would be rather foolish to attempt to introduce the next speaker. He's so well known that I believe it is only necessary to say that we will now hear from the Honorable Robert Moses. Chairman, Shockey, ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad that Arthur Sheridan spoke of the unsung heroes of the engineering profession who work on these somewhat undramatic or un-melodramatic projects like this one, which are forgotten because there are so many other things that have so much more appeal to the emotions and generally are not nearly as important. This is a basic thing, as Arthur has said. I don't know whether it comes before or after water supply, but they go together. Anyone who has worked on problems of municipalities here and elsewhere knows that those are the first things that you look at. And if you don't find them, you don't find any civilization. To analyze some of these countries that we're trying to help abroad, you find out that it's the lack of sanitation, the lack of water that makes them backward countries. I want to say, just emphasize just one thing. We're at the end of a campaign, which, if I may say so, without any disrespect to any of the contestants, including my friend Joe Sharkey, has not been distinguished for its emphasis on constructive matters. I don't see anything that this administration or the previous one has to apologize for when it comes to public improvements. I know that it makes a popular appeal to put on a television show, radio performance, circus. It has more appeal than it has to talk about a sewer program. But this administration and the previous one in this field inherited a god-awful mess. I was in the previous administration, I guess the only full commissioner who survived the 12 years. I don't know now how that happened, but so it was. In any event, the O'Dwyer administration, when it came in, face-to-face with a problem, which is, if you read your circular, you'll see, in the end, it's going to cost over $300 million to solve. There wasn't much done about it in previous administrations. My mind goes back to when I was a boy and began this kind of work in the Mitchell administration. The Mitchell administration made reports on everything under the sun, but did nothing about any of them. Now, when you think of the pollution of our waterfront, destruction of natural values, destruction of residential values, destruction of recreation, we were in desperate shape when this program got underway. And it's well underway now. It means that we're going to reclaim our waterfront. It means that after the first stage is finished, a large part of the reclamation will have been carried out, including the two parks that have been referred to. The one here in the Bronx, Ferry Point, which will relieve the pressure on Pelham Bay, Orchard Beach, the one across the way in Queens. And out of the byproducts of this and other plants come the material to make topsoil, which we couldn't get in any other way. I think it's a swell job. Nothing to apologize for. I might refer in passing to the fact that within the last year we've had a number of visiting firemen from many other countries who've been looking over our improvements. And among them, quite a few people from Brazil, and in particular from the city of Sao Paulo, which is, I suppose, the fastest growing city in the world. They have a terrible problem involving the treatment of sewage. These engineers who've come up here, including the new mayor, recently elected governor, all the top engineers have been amazed at the progress that's been made in this city in dealing with the sewage problem. Same thing applies to the garbage problem, which is also left to recent administrations. Garbage was just dumped, most of it on private land. The benefit, no doubt, of the private landowner, but it didn't do the people of the city much good. Now we're building plants, and in the interval, while the plants are being built, we're reclaiming and filling land for parks. Same thing applies to many other fields of public improvements. There's a lot been done here. You wouldn't think so if you read the papers during the election. This city hasn't so much to apologize for, but I wish that from now on there were more emphasis put on things of this kind and less on criticism, mud throwing, fouling our own nest, because this is quite a good town. I want to congratulate those who were responsible for the improvement. Commissioner Zermullin, they don't say much about people like that in the course of these mud slingings. as a first-class public servant. There are lots of them in the city of New York. There's only a minority of people that we have any occasion to be ashamed of. I want to congratulate the engineers and consulting engineers and the contractors, and last but not least, the men who did this job. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Morris. I'm going to ask before introducing the next speaker that the Reverend Jacob Wagner, who is president of the Bronx Division of the Protestant Council of New York, to deliver a prayer at this time. Let us pray. Almighty God, our eternal Father, in whom we live and move and have our being, we thank thee for our city. We bless thee for homes that are substantial, churches that are vital, and citizens who put public service above personal and petty selfishness. We pray thee, O God, bless this project designed to improve our city, provide for healthful and sanitary conditions, and we thank thee that thou hast given wisdom and strength to men who create it. We pray thee, O Lord, thy forgiveness upon us for the unmet needs of the multitudes of people in our city, and ask that there may rise up in our city a community of goodwill, of tolerance, of service, and faith, which will make our city more nearly the city of God. Amen. Thank you. It's now my pleasure to introduce to you the Honorable Joseph T. Sharkey, President of the City Council, and I hope that keeping him out here in the breezes of Hunts Point has not harmed that throat any. The Honorable Joe Sharkey. Thank you, Commissioner, Reverend Claygy, Commissioner Moses, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. New York is the finest and cleanest big city in the world, morally and physically. It's been my pleasure to come here today. Just a week ago, I was at the opening of the Rockaway Beach plant, and shortly we'll, I hope, open the Owl's Head plant in Brooklyn. We're doing something about pollution in this city, both of our waters, and our air. We have an air pollution program which we hope will eventually clean this town, and while we don't ever expect to make it as clean as a Kansas farm town, if we get a 75% improvement, it'll be well worthwhile living in, and something the people of this city really deserve. We do something about our morals, too. We get after them. We don't just let them linger on as they do at other places. This is the finest and the cleanest big city in the world. We've built 100 schools since World War II, and we're building them at a terrific cost. We're getting one school today where we used to get three. But thank God for men like Bob Moses and others who sat around a table six years ago, and a new administration came into power in the city and debated whether or not to go ahead with our building plans because of the excessive costs at that time. Thank God for their great and good judgment, they decided to go ahead. Of course, today this town would be in utter chaos if we hadn't continued to build, even in spite of the prices because they never did come down and continued to spiral upward in all that time. I'm proud to be a guest at this very important occasion. The opening of the Hunts Point Pollution Control Project is one of the last links in the vast system that is eliminating sewage pollution throughout our city. The conception and execution of projects such as this represents long-term municipal planning of the highest sort, and as a further indication of the many activities of your city's government and its desire to provide a healthy, wholesome atmosphere for the inhabitants of this city. Similar plans are to be constructed in other boroughs of the city. It is the aim of this administration that the overall plan will be completed by 1959. Recreational facilities will greatly benefit by the cleaning up of the waters in this city. Reclamation of the vast natural resources in this area, the transformation of previously unusable land into modern, fully equipped parks, bathing beaches, boating and fishing facilities are all being made possible through the sewage control projects conceived by our administration. I think it only fair to point out that these projects show a civic mindedness that is part of the makeup of every person in this administration. There are only a few of those who have been completed or planned during the past years and that the plans for the future are on an even more ambitious scale. This project stands as a tribute to our city and a stinging rebuke to those who would seek to defame it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be very brief because if I'm not, I'm afraid that some of us will be in the same position that Commissioner Zimulian is in. Thanks for being with us here today. Thank you. Sharky. Now, on behalf of the Department of Public Works, its engineers who have planned this plant and have struggled with it and have lived with it, who have been here with the contractors, on behalf of the individual men who have laid the bricks and the mortar and done all the other work, I wish to thank the Honorable Joe Sharky, Commissioner Moses, Commissioner Sheridan for coming here and officiating at this ceremony. I'm now going to ask Rabbi Abrahams, President of the Bronx Council of Rabbis, to say the benediction. Lord of the universe, who favorest men with knowledge and teachest mortals understanding, we come unto thee this day with rejoicing to praise and render thanks unto thy holy name for thy loving kindness and truth. O receive in mercy and in favor our prayers that thou establish this Hunts Point Pollution Center for the good of all the peoples who live in our wonderful city. Pour forth thy blessings on the founders, builders, and administrators of this great project, and upon all those who have gathered here to take part in the cornerstone laying ceremony. Preserve them from every evil, preserve their lives. May there be realized in them thy gracious promise, blessed art thou when thou comest in, blessed art thou when thou goest out. O spread thy tabernacle of peace over our country and over all the nations of the world. And let the pleasantness of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish thou the work of our hands for us. Yea, the work of our hands, establish thou it. Amen. We kind of reversed things a little bit today. We had our counterstone trial ceremony in advance, and this concludes the ceremonies, therefore, and I hope that nobody caught cold. Thank you. Thank you.