The other day the blockade was lifted and a free Western Germany was created. To General Clay, his family and his associates, on behalf of the people of this city, I say that we are proud and happy to extend this heartfelt welcome to a soldier who not only helped to win the recent war, but has also contributed immeasurably to what we all pray for, a lasting peace. May God bless him. I have the honor to present General Locius D. Clay. General Clay is now receiving the ovation of the crowd here in City Hall Park, and certainly everybody is most happy to applaud. General Clay. Mr. Whalen. Distinguished guests. And ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how to say thank you, because the welcome that I have received here today is almost beyond the ability of a soldier who has tried to do his duty to understand. I am indeed honored to be here, because I do know that this welcome is extended to me because of the fine men and women who represented America in Germany. I am particularly grateful that Ambassador Robert Murphy and General William Dreyfow are here, because from the earliest days of our occupation, they were veritable towers of strength to the accomplishment of our objectives in Germany. And they are also symbolic of the hundreds of others who gave beyond the call of duty to carry out our objectives. I cannot fail at this moment to pay a special tribute to the British and American airmen who flew the airlift day in and day out with safety conditions far below the minimum ever before used, and for which several gave their lives. As I crossed from Governor's Island today, and saw across the water this city, I thought to myself, it represents the strength and majesty and power of the United States. As I came down your streets, I realized that it meant much more than that, as I saw the friendly faces of the people of New York happy in their city and in their daily lives. And I could not help but think of the many parts of the world today where there is no freedom and where people walk in fear and trembling and where people share those who they are told to share. Only a four short years ago, we were at war with Germany. And we entered into an occupation to ensure that that Germany would never become an aggressive force in the world again. However, in the course of our occupation, we ran upon forces that were trying to enforce and implant their will upon a German people in the city of Berlin who were partly under our protection. We could not and we did not fail to meet that challenge. And though the cost was great, with an airlift, we kept the people of Berlin alive. I think in keeping them alive, we have perhaps accomplished far more than we know. Within these two million people, there has been reborn a soul, a willingness to sacrifice, to earn, to have what you here in New York have always had and what you will always have because you will never give it up. I am sure that there is only one basic fundamental thing that man cannot walk in dignity without. And that is freedom. And that is freedom. And you here in New York symbolize freedom. The right of every individual to live within a rule of law as he chooses to live. It is inspiring to have been there with you. It is inspiring to know that people can be and are as you are. To have seen the forces of evil firsthand makes you realize all anew the wonderful inheritance that is ours in this land. And forces in the world would tend to destroy us. But they cannot penetrate the real deep love that we have for what our country stands for. Again, I want to thank you sincerely and humbly for what has been to me an unbelievable and unforgettable day. Thank you. We have just heard General Lucius D. Clay reply to the mayor of the city of New York and to the people of the city of New York for the magnificent reception here at City Hall. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Whelan. We'll salute General Clay. You'll have your breakfast in there before, but you won't have a chair anymore. This is the Army, Mr. Clay. We'll fight your lover of fellow folks. You'll have your breakfast in there before, but you won't have a chair anymore. This is the Army, Mr. Clay. We like the parish nice and sweet You have a place to bring your form But she won't help you out anymore To watch the new world come back There in the army and not in the land It's in the army, Mr. Clay You and your baby, Mr. Clay You and your baby, Mr. Clay And she won't worry you anymore General Clay is waving his salute to the police glee club General Clay, Mayor O'Dwyer, Ambassador Murphy and Major General Draper will now inspect the honor guard In the many, many receptions here at City Hall Possibly none have been more brilliant in color and quality Than the reception here arranged by the Mayor's committee To General Lucius D. Clay No matter where you look, the color and beauty of the flags The uniforms and all the effects that do into a pageant such as this Is clearly demonstrated General Clay, unquestionably, is getting the thrill of his life In watching this tremendous sea of faces Which cover the complete area From City Hall steps right down to Vizie and Fulton Street Where owns old St. Paul's Chapel Where George Washington and the first government The Congress of the United States worshipped immediately after they took the oath of office A few blocks from here at Nassau and Wall Street This is all historic hallowed ground, every bit of it It represents the very essence of the United States of America The land below City Hall here The greatest colony of all the early Dutch colonies Started in New Amsterdam at the tip end of Manhattan Island Where the Great Brooklyn Tunnel is under construction Now with hardly a trace of any of the Dutch settlement Any way, shape or manner, except the memory of it And then that only extended as far as Wall Street A few courageous people did spread out in the meadows above Wall Street In the hills and dales of Manhattan Island Many of the Indians were still extant And from this development In a mere hundred and sixty years We have seen the tremendous development And the answer to man speaking to the perfect government In the organization of the United States of America And the establishment of that government under George Washington And the founding parties You hear the applause as General Clay walked along in the review He's now coming to the police and firemen of the city of New York 400 XDIs of these are lined up here in the plaza It seems strange, doesn't it, that from the early beginnings of the United States of America Only a hundred and sixty-six years That so much could be solved by this government And yet we look back on the centuries of history in the older countries Where they seem to prize everything but development and expansiveness of man's relation to man And his duty as a neighbor to a neighbor Possibly the situations there are not the same Yet the situations here were not likewise But they were created so and made so And we're still searching for the perfect form that will work out all the aspirations and hopes of mankind The Constitution of the United States The great spiritual document The great spiritual document Greater than any document anywhere else in the world Taking of course inspiration from many previous documents Is the foundation of all this And your oath as a citizen was demonstrated in Central Park Sunday When almost a million and a half people turned out in the And I am an American Day program organized by the Mariners committee To keep us reminded of the values of this twice-less citizenship Well, General Clay epitomizes all that has grown out of that idealism in the way he serves When an official enemy was banging on the gates of Stalingrad, the United States of America And Len Lee came to the aid of a nation that should be unsustainably our great and wonderful friend And yet it was the arbitrary situation created by them that created in itself the heroic consequences and career of General Lucius D. Clay In the administration of a situation that did well to be hopeless even before it was undertaken But there was no declaration of war, just a further and greater expression of peace To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... ... after ark méd石税 difícil... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... To be continued... ...to be continued... Oh, my God. I'll see you next time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END Thank you. Thank you.