Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, can we have guns and butter? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will present a frank analysis of the roles of government, the military services, industry, and labor in production for civilian and military needs. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Tool engineers, the men in American industry who are responsible for planning and providing its production facilities, are now engaged in an expansion program of tooling for security. This is an ambitious undertaking in which our nation hopes to expand its productive capacity to meet both civilian and military needs and still maintain a sound economy. The period of March 17 to 21 has been proclaimed Tooling for Security Week here in the city of Chicago and the state of Illinois. During this time, the American Society of Tool Engineers is sponsoring a huge industrial exposition of production equipment in the International Amphitheater. This in conjunction with a comprehensive technical program devoted to industrial production problems. Thousands of tool engineers from all over America are gathering in Chicago for this affair in the hope they may be able to get information which will enable them better to meet the needs of this expansion program. Now in view of this emphasis placed on production problems in America, we ask today, as you just heard, can we have both guns and butter? Grouped around us here at the microphone to discuss this important question are four men representing different points of view. Industry is represented by Mr. John S. Coleman, president of the Burroughs Adding Machine Company. Mr. A. M. Sargent, a past president of the American Society of Tool Engineers and president of Pioneer Engineering and Manufacturing Company, will reflect the attitude of tool engineers in industry. Representing the government is Mr. Swan E. Bergstrom, director of the Metal Working Equipment Division of the National Production Authority, who is now in Washington on leave from his position as vice president of the Cincinnati Milling Machine Company. And Mr. Yale Brosen, professor of economics at Northwestern University, will represent the point of view of the economist. Now, gentlemen, how do you answer this question? Can we have guns and butter? Mr. Coleman, what do you say? Yes. With the reduction of the current military budget from $71 billion to $52 billion, it seems to me that the threat of dangerous overloading is somewhat removed. Of course, while spending is at such a high level, the inflationary threat remains. But with good management, with good management, that is with economy and government expenditures, with credit controls, consumers and housing, with an appropriate monetary policy to restrain growth of the money supply, and with an appropriate taxation policy, we can have both guns and butter. Now, you have several provisos in that affirmative answer. Has this reduction in military budget already been accomplished? The one you referred to? I believe that it has, from $71 billion to approximately $51 billion. That that's a reduction from a dangerous overloading plan to a somewhat less dangerous overloading plan. Actually, we're increasing military expenditures. This year, ending in June 52, we'll spend about $39 billion. Next year, this reduced program of yours increases our spending by another $12 billion to over $51 billion. Well, what do you say, uh, uh, uh, Brozen, to our question, can we have guns and butter? I'd say no, we can't have guns and butter, if you mean by butter, the rise in the standards of living that we've been accustomed to in the past. That if we attempt a military program of this size of $51 to $52 billion a year, not only will we prevent further rise in the standards of living, but we'll end up weaker 10 or 20 years from now, even in the military sense, than we would if we cut our program back to $30 to $40 billion. Where do you stand, Bergstrom? I think we can have both guns and butter, provided, of course, that we, uh, that we, uh, spend for guns in a judicious manner. I think we've got to spend our money for our military requirements in much the same manner as we are trying to spend our money for butter. We've got to use, uh, good judgment, good management, and, uh, and, uh, economic spending. But does, uh, efficient spending of the military service, of the military services here, doesn't that mean that we could have a better guns program for about $10 to $15 billion less than we're planning here? I think we can if we, uh, if we would follow a, a, a good plan, a managed program. Where do you stand, Mr. Sergeant? I say yes, we can, outside of all-out war. We can and must have both guns and butter. Our, our economy cannot continue and remain healthy on expendables alone, any more than the human body could continue on only one item of diet, which had no nutritional value. We're not as yet facing the ultimate live-and-die ultimatum. When we do, we'll have to adjust all our planning accordingly. Well, now, we've had three provisional affirmative answers and one provisional negative answer to the question, can we have guns and butter? Which, uh, suggests to me that something may be wrong with our present gun and butter program. You think, uh, Sergeant, we're spending too much money on armaments now? We probably are not spending too much on armament as such, assuming that we're producing useful, necessary, or proper armament. What we are conducting, actually, is a wasteful and extravagant defense program of poorly planned production of the wrong thing, in the wrong plants, and in the wrong quantities. There is no honest answer presently available as to exactly how much we should spend. Well, that's, that's a pretty strong statement, uh, Brosin. Well, isn't the reason all this wasteful expenditure going on, though, result of the fact that we're trying to spend too much too soon? That is, we've jumped our armament expenditure from 21 billion dollars in 1951 to 39 billion dollars in 1952. And in 1951, we gave the military services authority to spend 59 billion dollars, though they spend only 21 billion of that. Now, isn't the reason for all this waste the result of the fact that we've dumped all this money in their laps? And when you've dumped the money in their laps, it's only human to just try and go out and spend it in almost any way you can. With the result, they do such things as buying a four-year supply of black pepper, and buy it not over four years to be delivered in this period of use of the black pepper, but to be delivered at once immediately in 1951. When you just simply try to dump all this money in the laps of people, you get the usual response of the man who suddenly has a million dollars handed to him and told that he can spend it any way he wants to. Was a little confused at first, trying to figure out just what he will spend it on. And he'll waste a lot of it then before he'll discover the things that do give him the most satisfaction for his money. What do you think of that analysis, Bergstrom? Well, I think that, as I said originally, that if we have a proper planning, I think we would cut down our cost of spending tremendously. Of course, it's awful hard for a military organization to determine just exactly what they need unless they know just what they're going to need it for. And at the present time, we are in a position where we don't know exactly where the next war is going to be fought. Different types of equipment is necessary for different types of warfare. And the best thing that they can do is to make a guess at what is going to be, what the final requirements are going to be. But I do feel this, that we ought to have enough money so that we can adequately build up the necessary facilities to provide for an all-out war. Now, you make a distinction between providing the facilities for producing military equipment and the actual production of those equipment. That's right. I think we should have the facilities. I want to bring that up because that is the basis in which we have to determine the, in which we have to produce the end item anyway. But I don't believe that we should produce any more military, military equipment than is necessary to, than is necessary to take care of our, of our present military requirements. Well, in your program here then, in producing facilities rather than end items, couldn't we do that job with about a $35 billion a year expenditure instead of a $52 billion a year expenditure? Now, excuse me, by end items you mean guns and tanks and, uh, aircraft and that sort of thing. Yes. It's distinguished from the production facilities. Well, I can't tell you how much we can save, uh, Mr. Brosnan, but I, uh, I would say that it would be a, uh, a lesser amount. Because, uh, it's the, uh, it's the cost of building up the facilities and the, uh, inventory for building up a tremendous amount of product to be manufactured in those facilities that are going to take the, the, uh, that are going to take the large, uh, uh, volume of, uh, of capital to finance this whole, whole program. Well, now the, the charge has been made here that we're spending an enormous sum of money annually on, uh, uh, military supplies and equipment of one kind or another, and, and that we're spending it, uh, it wastefully without any, any very clear, uh, plan, any integrated program. Do you go along with that, uh, Mr. Coleman? Well, let's look at the program a minute. How did it start and what's the program today? How did it start and, uh, we must remember that the program started in a binge of emotionalism that followed Korea and the, our action in Korea? It was further supplemented after the decision that was made at Yalu River. And the decision at that time seemed to be predicated upon the fact that we might have to fight World War III almost overnight. Hence, the program that was laid down about that time in 51, late 50 and 51, was one of rather gigantic proportions. Now subsequent events have indicated that Korea is a police action and that we are engaged in a rearmament effort. The Secretary of Defense, Mr. Lovett, has laid down the requirements of that rearmament effort as 21 full strength divisions for the Army, or approximately 3,600,000 men, I believe, 408 combat vessels and 16 carrier air groups for the Navy, three full divisions and three air wings for the Marine Corps and 153 wing air force. What does it cost, I submit, to pay for a program of that type? And furthermore, what is it going to cost after such a military's establishment is in effect? Well now, you say this, some of these earlier decisions at least, were made in a binge of emotionalism, which is certainly no way to make a decision of any kind. Are we continuing to make decisions under the influence of emotional binges, do you think? I think that that is something that's ever-present and is going to be with us. It is unfortunate indeed that when we talk about an armament effort, we have to, in turn, think of what is the use of that armament. And as we are engaged in an ideological war with a large segment of the world, undoubtedly, from time to time, crises, and we seem to live from week to week on crises, are going to occur. We might well ask our question, what is going to be the reaction of the American people if, for example, the Soviet moved into Yugoslovakia or into Southeastern Europe tomorrow? Well, at that time, do we as a people look at an armament effort through cold, calculating eyes, or do we immediately think without thinking or with our emotions? Well, that's exactly the point. The kind of program projected there is one for fighting another World War-style war rather than this ideological war that you referred to. In fighting this ideological war, one of our strongest weapons is the fact that the American system increases productivity and increases standards of living year after year. Now, with this kind of program, we're going to stop that rise in productivity and stop that rise in standards of living, and we'll throw away one of our strongest weapons, a weapon that's much greater than much of the armaments that we're building. If we're going to fight an ideological war, it's probably more important to spend a hundred million dollars on the Voice of America program than it is to spend it to equip another division. I would remind you that we did not start this thing. that another force, the Soviet, who apparently recognizes nothing but force, started it. And the only defense, it would appear, is one of rearming, of making ourselves strong and keeping ourselves strong. But we wish to preserve this liberty that you're talking about. It seems that we may have wandered a little bit from our basic question of wastefulness in production. It would seem to me that basically the three military branches should get together a little closer on the materials that they buy and that they use. I see no reason why we should have so many catalogues of similar things under different headings, and I don't see why the weapons and equipment for the various branches should have so many hundreds of minor variations. Why shouldn't the first move of our military be to get together on their requirements a little closer? I'd like to make a point here that one of the strongest weapons that this country has got is its ability to produce. To produce quantities of material, whether it be civilian durable goods or whether it be military end items. And it seems to me that we should give considerable thought to the possibility of building up the productive force, in which we are number one in the world, and to continue to sponsor that productive force, because without it, in modern warfare, we would be completely lost. Well, that's exactly the point, that our strongest weapon is our ability to produce. Now, if we're to develop our ability to produce, we must have the kind of tax structure which doesn't inhibit incentives to produce. Now, in trying to finance this kind of gigantic military program, we're erecting the kind of tax structure which does inhibit growth and efficiency, which does inhibit growth and productivity, and therefore does spoil our strongest weapon. And I would suggest then that for that reason, it would be better to reduce that program somewhat, in order to avoid having the kind of tax structure that has these effects of inhibiting productivity, and therefore has the effect then of destroying our strongest weapon. Markstrom? That's very true. Markstrom? And if we could properly build up our production system so that we could take care of both guns and butter, and properly administer that system, so that we would get the most material, both civilian and military, of our tax dollar and our earned dollar, I think that we could carry on a program of guns and butter that would be within our economic structure. Well, now, spell that out. How would you do it? Well, I'd say that we would have to have, first, carry on our regular civilian economy and the civilian production under its particular role. And then we either have to parallel or superimpose a facility that would take care of the manufacture of our military end items. Now, are you talking about two separate facilities, a great production facility for military goods, military end items, as you refer to them, and another production facility for civilian purposes, a dual system? Is that what you're talking about? I'm talking about a dual system, and I'm not saying that the military system should be a great big military system, as far as, I mean, as far as production of military end items is concerned. I'm saying this, that we built up in World War II a tremendous facility for the production of armaments that was owned by the taxpayers of this country. Then we tore it down. Then we tore it down. Now we're in the process of building it up again at very high cost because it's got to be done in a hurry. Now I say this, that we should build up our requirements for the manufacture of military end items and maintain that facility. How long? Indefinitely? Well, we should maintain it for at least a long enough period of time that we feel that the security of this country and what this country stands for has been attained. Of course, that's what European countries have been doing for years. Well, they've been doing for years. They've had to do that because they've always been faced with the danger of attack immediately from some of their neighbors. Now, what do you industrialists think of that kind of a program? That's new and different. Well, in the first place, the taxpayer wasn't responsible for making the decision on dismantling the plants. Second, it would seem to me that the military must determine what the range of equipment is if we're to set up plants, as Mr. Bergstrom states. For instance, if we were to make an all-purpose tank plant, we'd first have to know fundamental things. What is the smallest tank to be produced? What is the biggest tank to be produced? And how many tanks would they expect that plant to produce? Then it seems to me that it's a function of the military to learn to use that class of equipment, that size of equipment, and to make defensive or offensive plans accordingly. We certainly have to limit the product in some way. We just can't leave it wide open. Well, who would own this facility for military production? I would suggest that any of the facilities that were to produce the military product would be owned by the government, but the operation of those facilities should be under the direction of industry. Private industry, private industry, who would manage these various facilities, both during times of war and times of peace. You'll find that during times of war and emergency, like we're in at the present time, private industry is called upon to manage these plants in order to get the material out. But during times of war and times of war and times of war and times of war and times of war and times of war and times of war, it's not a problem. But might it not be better to have some of these armament facilities at work on civilian product at times when it's not at work on government product or armament product here? And to have it at work on civilian product, might it not be necessary to have these plants owned by civilian firms who would be ready to deliver armaments then by a fairly quick switch then in case need arose? It's not always possible to have a dual facility such as you suggest. Where during peace times or relatively peaceful times, you can make civilian products and then make armament. I would remind you that we live in a technological age and probably that is most evident within the armed services. And much of their, many of their requirements are of such a nature that they do require special facilities that cannot be used for anything else. Now I go along with Bergstrom on this program. I agree completely. I believe, however, that in the, these separate facilities under private management, we should use as many general purpose tools as we can. And in those plants where we have general purpose tools that can be retooled in a relatively short period of time for civilian production, we should use that portion of the plant. But always with the thought in view that if we are threatened or if it is necessary to produce more armament, that in the minimum amount of time and with the minimum amount of money, they can be converted to total armament producing plants. Again, I wholly subscribe to what Bergstrom said, that what is our real might, and it is the productive capacity of the United States. And it seems to me that we must orient defense production with our civilian production. Go ahead, go ahead, Mr. Sergeant. I agree with Mr. Coleman that we have to proceed along those lines. But modern economic engineered production is not one that can change just at the word. It takes time even with standard machines to create mass production or economic production. And you have to have skilled help for various operations and much special equipment even with the so-called standard facilities. Therefore, there is a time lag in the picture. There is also a vast amount of money involved, but it could be reduced greatly over what's being done now. You can't change a textile mill to a tank plant as well as you could other metalworking plants. Well, I can't go along with you, Mr. Sergeant, on your statement exactly, because in most cases the requirements in World War II and the requirements during this defense effort has been for standard general purpose tools. You can get into production on practically any type of equipment, military equipment, with a complement of standard general purpose machines. And then when you do want to get into higher production and you want to get into more efficient production, you can then supplant these tools, these general purpose tools, with more specialized types of equipment that will produce the product in a shorter period of time, less labor cost, and higher quantity. But I feel this way, that if we have had, if we had had, at the time of Korea, the tools that we had in World War II, standard machine tools, that we would have been far better off and much farther along in our entire program today than we are at the present time. Because, after all, the large quantity of tools that we have got to produce, have produced and got to produce for the next few months, are going to be primarily general purpose machine tools. Well, now, under, under a, under a dual system of the sort that you propose, in which we develop a special facility for the, the, the production of, uh, war, war products, distinguished from civilian products, who, who's going to make the decisions? Will it be the military? Will it be, uh, the, uh, how does the military enter into this, anyway? Will you restate your question? I quite understand. Yes. What, what, uh, to what extent does the military enter into production, whether it's a dual system, or whether it's the system we've got now? The military definitely determines what type of weapon they're going to need to find, to fight, uh, a war, or to, to, uh, carry on a defense program. And they, in, then, in turn, uh, make up the specifications for the, for the type of weapon that they need. Now, with the, uh, increase in the mechanical warfare that we have experienced in World War II and experiencing now, uh, they, uh, definitely, uh, enter into the picture as far as the, uh, as the specifications are concerned. But they also are entering into the picture as far as the actual end, uh, as far as the manufacturing is concerned. Well, as a layman, I'm suggesting the possibility here that part of our problem comes from the fact that the military is trying to tell us how to produce. Is there anything in that, Brosin? Well, I think as a result of the military trying to tell us how to produce, and that is my impression, certainly, from the previous discussion, that we're getting great inefficiencies in production that we could avoid if private management were allowed to produce in the most efficient possible way according to their own plans, as long as they fill the specifications for performance. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Can We Have Guns and Butter? We want to thank our guests for today, Swan Bergstrom, Chief of the Metal Working Equipment Division of the National Production Authority, Yale Brosin, Professor of Economics, Northwestern University, John Coleman, President of the Burroughs Adding Machine Company, and A.M. Sargent, President of the Pioneer Engineering and Manufacturing Company. We invite you to send for printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next 12 weeks, three dollars for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Recently, the problem of statehood for Alaska has again been in the news. Much has been said both for and against this proposal. Next week, the reviewing stand hopes to bring you a careful analysis of the larger political, geographical, commercial, and military relationships between Alaska and the rest of the North American continent. Our subject, what does Alaska mean to North America? Seated around the table with us will be Carl W. Jackson, a Chicago investment banker. Malcolm J. Proudfoot, Professor of Geography at Northwestern University. Brigadier General Joseph Layton Whitney of the United States Air Force Reserve. And Roland Young, Associate Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week as we ask, what does Alaska mean to North America? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast each week as a public service feature of Mutual. Walt Newton speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, the reviewing stand asks, can we have guns and butter? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will present a frank analysis of the roles of government, the military services, industry, and labor in production for civilian and military needs. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. The tool engineers, the men in American industry who are responsible for planning and providing production facilities, are now engaged in an expansion program of tooling for security. This is an ambitious undertaking in which our nation hopes to expand its productive capacity to meet both civilian and military needs and still maintain a sound economy. The period of March 17 to 21 has been proclaimed Tooling for Security Week here in the city of Chicago and the state of Illinois. During this time, the American Society of Tool Engineers is sponsoring a huge industrial exposition of production equipment in the International Amphitheater. This in conjunction with a comprehensive technical program devoted to industrial production problems. Thousands of tool engineers from all over America are gathering in Chicago for this affair in the hope they may be able to get information which will enable them better to meet the needs of this expansion program. Now, in view of this emphasis placed on production problems in America, we ask today, as you just heard, can we have both guns and butter? Grouped around us here at the microphone to discuss this important question are four men representing different points of view. Industry is represented by Mr. John S. Coleman, president of the Burroughs Adding Machine Company. Mr. A. M. Sargent, a past president of the American Society of Tool Engineers and president of Pioneer Engineering and Manufacturing Company, will reflect the attitude of tool engineers in industry. Representing the government is Mr. Swan E. Bergstrom, director of the Metal Working Equipment Division of the National Production Authority, who is now in Washington on leave from his position as vice president of the Cincinnati Milling Machine Company. And Mr. Yale Brozen, professor of economics at Northwestern University, will represent the point of view of the economist. Now, gentlemen, how do you answer this question? Can we have guns and butter? Mr. Coleman, what do you say? Yes. With the reduction of the current military budget from 71 billion to 52 billion, it seems to me that the threat of dangerous overloading is somewhat removed. Of course, while spending is at such a high level, the inflationary threat remains. But with good management, that is, with economy and government expenditures, with credit controls, consumers and housing, with an appropriate monetary policy to restrain growth of the money supply, and with an appropriate taxation policy, we can have both guns and butter. Now, you have several provisos in that affirmative answer. Has this reduction in military budget already been accomplished? The one you referred to? I believe that it has, from 71 billion to approximately 51 billion six. But that's a reduction from a dangerous overloading plan to a somewhat less dangerous overloading plan. Actually, we're increasing military expenditures. This year, ending in June 52, we'll spend about 39 billion dollars. Next year, this reduced program of yours increases our spending by another 12 billion dollars to over 51 billion. Well, what do you say, uh, uh, Brosin, to our question, can we have guns and butter? I'd say no, we can't have guns and butter, if you mean by butter the rise in the standards of living that we've been accustomed to in the past. That if we attempt a military program of this size of 51 to 52 billion dollars a year, not only will we prevent further rise in the standards of living, but we'll end up weaker 10 or 20 years from now, even in the military sense, than we would if we cut our program back to 30 to 40 billion dollars. Where do you stand, Brosin? I think we can have both guns and butter. Provided, of course, that we, uh, that we, uh, spend for guns in a judicious manner. I think we've got to spend our money for our military requirements in much the same manner as we are trying to spend our money for butter. And we've got to use, uh, good judgment, good management, and, uh, and, uh, economic spending. But does, uh, efficient spending of the military service, of the military services here, doesn't that mean that we could have a better guns program for about 10 to 15 billion dollars less than we're planning here? I think we can if we, uh, if we would follow a, a good plan, a managed program. Where do you stand, Mr. Sergeant? I say yes, we can. Outside of all-out war, we can and must have both guns and butter. Our c- our economy cannot continue and remain healthy on expendables alone, any more than the human body could continue on only one item of diet, which had no nutritional value. We're not as yet facing the ultimate live-and-die ultimate. When we do, we'll have to adjust all our planning accordingly. Well, now we've had three provisional affirmative answers and one provisional negative answer to the question, can we have guns and butter? Well, now we're going to have a plan, which, uh, suggests to me that something may be wrong with our present gun and butter program. You think, uh, Sergeant, we're spending too much money on armaments now? We probably are not spending too much on armament as such, assuming that we're producing useful, necessary, or proper armament. What we are conducting, actually, is a wasteful and extravagant defense program of poorly planned production of the wrong thing, in the wrong plants, and in the wrong quantities. There is no honest answer presently available as to exactly how much we should spend. Well, that's, that's a pretty strong statement, uh, Brosin. Well, isn't the reason all this wasteful expenditure going on, though, result of the fact that we're trying to spend too much too soon? That is, we've jumped our armament expenditure from $21 billion in 1951 to $39 billion in 1952. And in 1951, we gave the military services authority to spend $59 billion, though they spent only $21 billion of that. Now, isn't the reason for all this waste the result of the fact that we've dumped all this money in their laps? And when you've dumped the money in their laps, it's only human to just try and go out and spend it in almost any way you can. With the result, they do such things as buying a four-year supply of black pepper, and buy it not over four years to be delivered in this period of use of the black pepper, but to be delivered at once, immediately, in 1951. When you just simply try to dump all this money in the laps of people, you get the usual response of the man who suddenly has a million dollars handed to him and told that he can spend it any way he wants to. But he's a little confused at first, trying to figure out just what he will spend it on. And he'll waste a lot of it, then, before he'll discover the things that do give him the most satisfaction for his money. What do you think of that analysis, Bergstrom? Well, I think that, as I said originally, that if we have the proper planning, I think we would cut down our cost of spending tremendously. Of course, it's awful hard for a military organization to determine just exactly what they need unless they know just what they're going to need it for. And at the present time, we are in a position where we don't know exactly where the next war is going to be fought. Different types of equipment is necessary for different types of warfare. And the best thing that they can do is to make a guess at what is going to be, what the final requirements are going to be. But I do feel this, that we ought to have enough money so that we can adequately build up the necessary facilities to provide for an all-out war. Now, you make a distinction between providing the facilities... Oh, yes, definitely. ...for producing military equipment... That's right. ...and the actual production of those equipment. That's right. I think we should have the facilities. I want to bring that up because that is the basis in which we have to determine the... ...in which we have to produce the end item anyway. But I don't believe we should produce any more military equipment than is necessary to... ...than is necessary to take care of our present military requirements. Well, in your program here then, in producing facilities rather than end items, couldn't we do that job with about a $35 billion a year expenditure... ...instead of a $52 billion a year expenditure? Now, excuse me. By end items, you mean guns and tanks and aircraft and that sort of thing. Yes. ...is distinguished from the production facilities. Well, I can't tell you how much we can save, Mr. Brosnan, but I would say that it would be a lesser amount... ...because it's the cost of building up the facilities and the inventory for building up a tremendous amount of product to be manufactured in those facilities... ...that are going to take the large volume of capital to finance this whole program. Well, now the charge has been made here that we're spending an enormous sum of money annually on military supplies and equipment of one kind or another... ...and that we're spending it wastefully without any very clear plan, any integrated program. Do you go along with that, Mr. Coleman? Well, let's look at the program in a minute. How did it start and what's the program today? We must remember that the program started in a binge of emotionalism that followed Korea and the...our action in Korea. It was further supplemented after the decision that was made at Yalu River. And the decision at that time seemed to be predicated upon the fact that we might have to fight World War III almost overnight. We will make sure to pull that hue to Australia again. It's a spray responder to America so that it動画 means that other major導ers mightins own vernoncy. Itinformationудies. I think this can actually be invented by an atomic bomb, that has coursed at the aviation Żebyisson- party and facilities. And which Imagine Terry mentioned for the history of the marineanned pipingallows. ...I think that it were measured for 그만 immediately, because we are connected to the How soon to the standard of marinehum Their測 창.