There is an invisible but eternally vigilant agent within the fire department that keeps the firefighting force informed of the existence and locations of fire. This agent is the fire alarm telegraph system, which is the connecting link between the person who discovers a fire and the fireman who extinguishes it. The fire alarm plant very properly has been likened to the nervous system of the human body. It is as vital to the department as the nervous system is to the human body. A disordered nervous system will seriously interfere with the functioning of the body. A defective or inefficient fire alarm system will very seriously hamper the operations of a firefighting force. New York City maintains a modern, extensive and efficient fire alarm system for the purpose of notifying firemen in the shortest possible time of the existence and location of fires. The fire alarm system dates back to the inauguration of the paid department in 1865. But in the past 30 years, approximately $8 million has been expended in modernizing and extending the fire alarm system in the five boroughs of the city. Today, the city is protected by the best and largest fire alarm communication system in the world. The fire alarm facilities have extended and improved to keep pace with the growth of the city and to keep abreast of improvements in the communications field. Each year, funds are provided in the capital budget for these purposes. In the year 1949, it is expected that upwards of $1 million will be expended. A contract will be awarded for the purchase of 2,500 much needed fire alarm boxes. The fire alarm central office in the borough of Queens will be completely rehabilitated and enlarged. And a considerable amount of underground and aerial fire alarm cables will be installed throughout the borough of Queens to replace the existing aerial fire alarm wires, which are continually subject to destruction by storms resulting in the disablement of the fire alarm system. A comprehensive FM 2A radio system will be installed throughout the five boroughs to supplement the regular wired fire alarm system. This radio system will greatly improve the operating efficiency of the firefighting forces. However efficient and dependable a fire alarm system may be, it will not produce the best results unless there is complete cooperation on the part of the public. Each person should be familiar with the location of the fire alarm box nearest his home and place of business. He should also know what to do in order to send a fire alarm. Upon discovering a fire, he should go at once to the nearest fire alarm box, send the alarm in a accordance with the directions on the fire alarm box door, then await the arrival of the firemen and direct them to the location of the fire. The fire department has purposely made fire alarm boxes as simple and as easy to operate as possible. Persons without conscience who are so cowardly as to take unfair advantage of this public facility are criminally mischievous. They do not stop to think that they may be subjecting their own family and home to the ravages of death and destruction by depriving them of the fire protection which would normally be theirs if the fire engines had not been called out maliciously to gratify some brainless prank. The false alarm evil must be stopped and the public can help to end it by cooperating with the fire and police departments to apprehend senders of false alarms. Thank you.