The following program comes to you by transcription. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, are the public schools doing their job? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the criticisms of the schools and the problems which the schools face. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are George B. Christensen, partner in the legal firm Winston, Strawn, Shaw & Black, a member of the Board of Education in Glencoe, El Norte. Wilbur Helm, investment banker with the Central Republic Company, an acting president of the Friends of the Public Schools of America. Lloyd S. Michael, superintendent principal of the Evanston Township High School. And E.T. McSwain, Dean of the University College and Dean-elect of the School of Education at Northwestern University. Now gentlemen, the public schools have a tremendous job to do. And I think for the most part we'll agree that they're doing it well, often under serious handicaps. By 1957, we're told we shall have 10 million more children in the schools than we had in 1947, and need 330,000 additional teachers. Today we discuss a number of issues affecting the work of the schools and their day-by-day contact with our children. Issues with which all parents and teachers should be concerned. It is sometimes claimed that the schools are not doing, uh, Michael, as effective jobs as they used to do in teaching what's called fundamentals. Reading, writing, spelling, arithmetic, and the like. Do you think this is the case? I think we're doing an effective job in teaching the fundamentals. If we could do a more effective job, I don't believe there is any question. Fundamental teaching of fundamentals remains one of our primary objectives. There are others. In other words, it's teaching fundamentals plus. Other than the ones you mentioned, I think we would also have to add to the list of fundamentals the ability to speak effectively, ability to listen discriminately and certainly intelligently. Those are just two that I would add to the list you mentioned. What's your view on this, Chris T.C.? Well, I think that there isn't much doubt that in mere teaching of, uh, ability to read and write, the schools have done a job. That is, the rate of illiteracy between the two world wars was reduced, uh, by about, uh, one-half. But I doubt very much whether the schools today, and the people they do educate, are doing as good a job in training accuracy in the fundamentals. I don't think that there is any valid evidence to show that our children have as good a basic understanding of arithmetic, or are as accurate spellers, or are as quick and accurate readers as they were. Part of this undoubtedly comes from the necessity of mass education, which has resulted in having to lower the standards quite generally. Well, I think that the schools today generally are doing as good a job in teaching the fundamentals as has been the case in past years. Schools vary, of course, in terms of teachers, but all the research studies that we have, which are somewhat limited in scope, show that children are reading just as well today, they're spelling just as well, they're doing their arithmetic just as well. The school is trying to improve the quality of thinking that children are doing when they're using the fundamentals. I think that, uh, one of the problems is the fact that they bring in so many, uh, extra studies, and the result is that the time for drill in the classroom and for emphasis upon these, uh, reading, writing, and arithmetic activities that are so important in later life, that time is cut down. And also the fact that many teachers, parents feel that they have to spend, uh, more time than necessary, and keep the children up later than necessary, and, uh, helping them in the drill at home. Uh, because of the fact that the drill is not so thorough in the classroom itself. Well, how am I saying here that the schools are failing to, to drill the children in these, in these fundamentals we're referring to? That's one of the criticisms that you hear expressed by many people. How I, I'm sure that the schools are just as much concerned about helping children to develop mental abilities in using the fundamentals. We now know that it is much better to get meaning before you, uh, go to drill, and the drill is more and more practical, a meaningful practice. The drill doesn't educate. You have to get meaning first. Well, I don't like to disagree with an educator, uh, in his own field, but drill serves an end in and of itself. There have been too many of our elementary schools that have tried to sugarcoat learning for children, and have tried to inculcate in them the idea that life is pleasant and merry and non-competitive. Uh, there is something in having a child know that there are certain things in life that are just work and drudgery. That training is, has been missed in many of our schools. Well, I think many people think that the schools today are trying to make education easier for children, and letting children do as they please, and so on. But these accusations are without foundation. All we are trying to do is to give the child the benefit of research in psychology, and we do know that learning is hard work, and unless it's adapted to the meaning of the level of children, uh, they do not get the development that we want them to have. I'd like to substantiate what Dean McSwain says. I think there's one thing we know at the secondary school level, and that is that the student who comes to us, satisfied with his experience in his elementary school, along certainly with basic, uh, mastery of skills, is a student by and large that we can work with developing a, a program for him at the secondary school level. In other words, one who is well adjusted, who likes to go to school, who likes his teachers, without any reference to, as Mr. Christensen said, a sugar-coated type of education. Well, I think that the problem is whether we make it too easy, as Mr. Christensen said, learn the lazy way, depends a great upon the principal. I found that out from a discussion with some friends of mine who are in the school, public school work. Some principals, uh, in the schools, uh, demand a higher standard of drilling and so forth. Certain teachers who are brought up, perhaps when drill is more the custom, will see that their students have that, uh, type of drill also. Others may, who have brought up in a more modern system, will probably like the, the movie and the radio idea more. But in, as a businessman, I have, will have to say that, and I think many others are disappointed, uh, at the sort of, uh, knowledge that comes to us in the finished part of the school. The thing that interests me, Mr. Helms, that, as I know business, I admit I know very little about business in general, that the men, men in business are willing to accept scientific research to improve their product, and yet many of those are unwilling to grant to children the benefits of scientific research in the field of psychology, and this matter of drill has to be reinterpreted in terms of what we know about how children learn. Well, I, I don't think that you can properly compare, uh, scientific research and abstract sciences, and alleged scientific research that these educators are giving us in many fields, in the growth and development of a human being. The learning process is the same today as it was in the days of Aristotle, Aristotle, and all understanding of that subject didn't begin in the year 1930 or 1940 or 1950. I grant you that children, the human, human beings, uh, have the same biological patterns, and yet each one differs psychologically. Learning is a process of growth, and I don't see how you are unwilling to grant to these children better instructional methods based on what we have come to find out about how they learn. I'm not unwilling to grant better instructional methods. I'm for them. But I am saying that just because you change something doesn't mean that it's better. There isn't anyone that is willing to grant better instructional methods. Well, I understand that there's some change back to the, in the schools, too, having more drill. I've gathered that at least from some things I've heard in Edison. I know of a certain parent whose bone child was not taught spelling in a thorough, drilled manner. And now in the fifth or sixth grade, he's just beginning to learn to spell and being put back into the more or less of the drill method. Now, sometimes these psychological methods or modern studies aren't always so good. A lot of people feel that in the old one-room schoolhouse back in the country, they really learned and got some things that stuck with them from repetition alone of the other grades. Drill, drill, drill. Drill, drill, drill. We've had these questions raised about the teaching of fundamentals and the methods of doing it best. We seem to be agreed that drill in spelling, in reading, in writing, and as Mr. Michael would add in speaking, is an important factor. We want students to get these fundamentals. The issue seems to be how best to accomplish that, and there very clearly is a difference of opinion on that. on that and doubtless the the confidence with which this job is done would differ from school to school and teacher to teacher. Well I think we all agree on the importance of it and there's hope in the fact that we are studying and the different opinions are being brought forth and sooner rather we'll probably reach a more perfect method. Now Helm I want to ask you about another criticism that's often directed at the public schools the charge that they're they're not doing an adequate job in teaching citizenship American history and culture and building loyalties to the nation in our way of life. Do you share that view? Well I have a feeling that the fault is comes from above from the national some national associations and their policies their influence on the average teacher who feels he must follow and do as he's ordered or perhaps not advanced in profession. It's due to the issuing of teaching of history more of the social science which gives a chance to bring in certain what we might call most Marxian ideas also the question of the loyalty and sincerity of our forefathers when they started the Constitution is more to protect themselves and their land gambling and that's brought out in the debunking some of the debunking series. It seems to me that right now we allow no religious propaganda in our schools we allow no political propaganda in our schools or should not although the National Education Association in certain phases of it have asked teachers even to work against men who wouldn't favor certain federal aid bills I know that definitely and that's very enforcement. Why should we allow anti-American propaganda aimed at the abolition of private property and other fundamental institutions of our republic to be carried on? I'd like to make this one statement. Do you suggest that that is going on in the schools? I think it is true that the inferences of the textbooks, the things I read myself, the impressions I get and that many parents tell me, the letters I get about it as from because people know that I'm interested to the friends of public schools as a citizen not professionally. Now do you other men think this is the case? Michael? I've never heard associated with the National Education Association or any other professional organization at a national level the power and influence that Mr. Hounds would associate there with. I don't think there's any question that educators are very much concerned about this whole problem of citizenship education. Never a time when we're giving more time and more attention and thought and study to it. All of us I reckon I think recognize that if there's one primary function in America today is to save our freedom and that the responsibility of the public school as the most effective institution in America today for the training of youth has that as its primary purpose and objective. Christensen? Well I think that what Mr. Michaels has just said is very heartwarming and it is fine. However it comes a little bit late. The educators have not been on the job and by that I am referring not to our teachers in elementary schools who have to take what's dished down to them from up above from the educators of educators. I want to make the point that they haven't been given the proper guidance. You find in a textbook, a teacher's textbook, given to me by one of the most eminent educators in the country such statements in de-writing classical education as that now he's referring to children and I quote. If they use the traditional methods of instruction, quote, they are not likely to become explorers nor are they apt to like to live dangerously. They may choose the guidance of tradition of authoritarian conclusions and of complacency so long that they grow to deride change. They flee from revolution or even obvious evolution and cling to the institutions that change little or not at all. They thus lose their freedom, becoming slaves of existing conditions and now listen to this, and cowards of the future. For free men are revolutionary men in thought and dynamic men in action. Now that is the kind of doctrine that's historically wrong. We had two revolutions in this country under the traditional system of education. The second thing that is wrong with that is that we have got in this country certain traditions that are not subject to re-examination that we want to adhere to. And this system, this belief, sponsored largely by John Dewey and his Radical Progressive School, starting out with his desire to recognize that we can examine every fundamental of this country is wrong. It's resulted in the greatest batch of prison trials we have ever had. That's a rather broad generalization and accusation that you made, Christensen. I have read Dewey's writings very carefully. I don't believe that Dewey supported what you are saying there. You picked out an excerpt from a chapter. Dewey believes in the power of intelligence. He believes in critical thinking as a way of solving the problems of today. He believes in experimentalism, yet experimentalism supported by moral values, mental values. And I cannot see why people want to tie in many of the problems that they have. Many of the problems that they say exist in the school with one of America's outstanding philosophers whose concept of life, concept of mental development, concept of society, it seems to me is tied right in with the very basic principles of American democracy. And Mr. Dewey also believes there is no God. I deny that. Well, he has joined countless atheistic societies. He's the founder of the Ingersoll Memorial. Going back to the teaching of citizenship again. I think we're all impressed with the fact that knowledge in itself will never transfer to a behavior of a good citizen. That it's more than just knowing. It's a matter of also doing. And so our emphasis, I think, increasingly in the school is to give the student a chance to actually experience the ways of behaving democratically, as well as knowing facts about our history, our past, and the like, as important as they are. I'd like to emphasize the fact that this is a different period. Of course, we all know from any we've lived in before, the brush of threatening as it is. We've got to do something very serious to develop the nation of the future that's now in the schools into a enthusiastic, loyal, supporting group. And I believe on account of that, that this one subject transcends all the others. Not to neglect the fundamentals. They must be kept just as they have. It's a new, it adds a new story to the structure of education, I might say. And which, and every superintendent, and every teacher, and every parent, I think, must rally around to the fact that the children get the right idea of the American government. And to that end, these textbooks should be eliminated or changed. What textbooks? That I have referred to, like the Rugg books that weren't mentioned, and others who bring in the idea of the, of debunking, and who say that through the schools we will bring about a new social order. I have plenty of them here, and I could give more. And it's well known that that is true. Now, I blame businessmen, or men, people who feel as I do, for not assisting teachers who want to avoid those texts in having the texts issued. And I would like to call upon the listening public right now, to rally to the fact that we must do something to get proper textbooks into the schools, aside from putting these others out. Michael? I certainly would emphasize here the responsibility at the local community level, the local citizen, to see that what is being taught in the school is understood. I don't know of any school where parents are not welcome to review with the administration and with teachers the instructional materials which are there. We recognize certainly that schooling is not synonymous with education. We can't get citizenship education until we get the students in the community to participate in the life and functioning of community life. They're all tied in very closely together. Well, I want to emphasize that. Now, I'm a member of a board of education, and we have very little direct contact with the parents that we're supposed to represent. I think that the criticism that parents don't take enough interest in the schools, that is, effective interest by visiting the schools and then by going to their local boards of education and voicing their complaints, if they have them, is a valid criticism. Now, the suggestion has been made here in discussing this matter of teaching citizenship that our textbooks are loaded with socialistic doctrine, that we're getting bad advice from the teachers of teachers, and as a result, presumably, we're turning out young men and women who are less loyal, less informed about the culture and tradition of America. Now, you, I know, you, I know, McSwain, don't subscribe to that point of view. No, I do not subscribe to it. I'm not saying that there may be one, two, or three textbooks in which you would find something that you could question. But as I know schools from having visited in the modern world in this country for the last 27 years, that teachers are trying honestly to help children understand the basic principles of democratic citizenship. They're trying to help children to think about contemporary problems on the basis of their ability to interpret through thinking and critical reading. They're trying to help children to see what democracy has contributed in this country and help them to establish a firm faith in our democratic government. And I, uh, it seems to me that, uh, when we are too eager to throw out textbooks, or to say certain textbooks cannot be used, we are denying our children the opportunity to get information on both sides of a problem and under the guidance of a critical teacher, uh, think through. Uh, I think you can learn as much that is good about, uh, our institutions by learning what other people say is the negative. Of course, Christensen has been saying here, uh, rather effectively, it seems to me, that there's something, some, certain things that should not be examined, uh, critically. There's, there's certain verities, certain, uh, basic things that, that, uh, should be taught, I take it on an exhortatory basis, uh, uh, certain verities, am I right? That's correct. Now, I, I take it that the one fundamental difference we can all agree upon between our system, which I call Western Christian democracy, and the Russian system is the belief in the divinity of man. I realize very well the problems that confront, uh, uh, any public school, in getting into spiritual values, but they must be there. I think the, uh, McCollum decision by the Supreme Court, uh, very unfortunate. The dissent is wrong. Mr. Frankfurter's, uh, opinion is wrong historically. An interesting bit of legal gymnastics, but that's about all you can say for it. Uh, but that is, is absent in our instruction. Now, go back to the earliest laws you had, man doth not live by bread alone. And our children are getting no spiritual guidance. They're having educators that are saying such things as education has now become the chief problem of the world. It's one holy cause. Now, what kind of muddled thinking can use that word holy in there? That's been, what has been wrong with some of our teachers of teachers, and I'm excluding Dean McSwain. That's all right. I'm not, uh, bothered about your accusations, uh, but the word education can have many definitions, and I think your use of the term there is, uh, quite broad, and it would include in it the teaching of religion, the teaching of ethical values. I share with you the view that our, any sound democratic citizenship must be supported by a belief in the divine being. At the same time, our schools, as I know them, are struggling hard to help these children develop ethical values, learn respect for themselves, or consideration for respect for the truth, an honesty of thought, uh, integrity with reference to the rights of other people. Well, I think, uh, the school, but if you're going to bring in this matter of religious education, when it comes to a matter of creed, then I think you're going to have to throw your accusations also at the home and the church. The school alone cannot do everything that it seems to me this morning you're asking the schools to do. Well, I, I agree that the home and the churches must do more than they have done. Going back again to our citizenship education, uh, I think if there's one thing that the school is trying desperately hard to do, it is to respect the dignity and the worth of the individual student. That's certainly basic, Christensen, in what you've said, as the difference between our way of life and that being, uh, promoted by, uh, Russia today. If we accept that, as I say, basic in our thinking about citizenship education in the classroom and in the, in the, in the whole environment of the school, and I think increasingly in the home and in the community. I believe we're developing, uh, uh, uh, our, a basic approach to citizenship education. Well, I appreciate the, uh, points of view that we are hearing from businessmen and leaders in other civic organizations. I, we must recognize that we have in the next ten years thirty-nine million children in our schools. And what we want them to have in the way of good, sound education is a concern of everyone in the community. And let's be big enough to put our differences on the table and look at them on the basis of facts rather than wide general accusations. Well, I, for one, don't think anything I've said about this citizenship matter is, uh, is wide accusations. I have proof of these statements. I think the thing to do, uh, and I'm curious about what these men have said about the importance, agreeing with the importance of citizenship, is the checking up of the textbooks and is the giving to teachers the suggestions and guidebooks that will keep them from spraying off into these, uh, criticisms that are unfair. I want to make a suggestion. Uh, elementary education is basic. It, uh, starts the child out in life. Today it is largely, uh, teaching that is dominated by women. Uh, we are not today paying salaries that will enable a man to support a wife and child and earn his living teaching school to children. Uh, I don't know whether the taxpayers in my district are going to like it or not, but we must do something by the way of raising salaries so that we can bring more men into the education of children. And I don't mean by that federal aid to education. We don't want thought control from Washington by a bunch of bureaucrats. Now we're asking the, the schools to teach fundamentals more effectively, to teach citizenship more effectively, to teach morals and ethics more effectively. And here we have the member of the Board of Education saying that we're not, uh, paying teachers, uh, living wages. Uh, there are extenuating factors, un-unquestionably. Well, I, we're paying women pretty good salaries, but you've got to work out something so that men can go into the profession and earn a living at it. Teaching children in elementary schools. Take care of their families. Yes, sir. What do you say to that? Well, I certainly would underwrite what Christian has said about the importance of elementary school and what it does for children during those impressionable years. And there's no substitute for a competent, late, keen-minded teacher. And you cannot get many of the boys and girls, especially men, to enter the elementary field unless we have better salaries. And also, Christensen, unless we have a recognition from the public that it is an important job to do. I agree with you wholeheartedly. And I don't mean to exclude women. They need the influence of both men and women teachers. I'm very much interested in what Mr. Christensen says. I'm sure he's aware of the problem of the recruitment of the teacher in the United States. Certainly, the financial aspects are very, very important. And I would emphasize again what Dean McSwain says, that in addition to that, teachers are particularly concerned about their status in community life and the acceptance of the job which we think they're doing on behalf of our way of life. It occurs to me that one of the things that we can all do is to glorify the profession. Show to men who are considering life work and wondering what they're to do that the field of teaching probably has no superior. I looked upon it. I was in it 15 years, and I felt it was a duty, just as much a call as if I were going into the ministry. And I think if we can unite on that some policy of whereby we can glorify that and hold it out to young men as well as young women, we will be performing a function that's as important as almost anything else. To what extent, I wonder, do these problems that you attribute to the schools reflect the weaknesses and tensions in the home and local, state, and national communities? Well, I think that the schools, certainly in positional leadership, should have avoided a lot of the tensions that we have. They come from the confusion that has pervaded an educational sources in large measure. On the other hand, Mr. Christensen, I don't think there's any question that too many of us are willing to let many of the failures fall on contemporary education when they are ultimately and after all failures of our society as a whole. Well, society is proud of the education. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. Thank you. You've been listening to a transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. Are the public schools doing their job? Participating as guests today were George B. Christensen, partner in the legal firm of Winston, Strawn, Shaw, and Black, and member of the Board of Education in Glencoe, Illinois. Wilbur Helm, investment banker with the Central Republic Company and president of the Friends of the Public Schools of America. Lloyd S. Michael, superintendent, principal of Evanston Township High School. And E.T. McSwain, dean of the School of Education at Northwestern University. Printed copies of today's broadcast are not available. Next week the reviewing stand will discuss, is age 65 old age? Our guests will be Dr. C. H. Harden Branch, chairman of the Department of Psychiatry at the University of Utah School of Medicine, Paul C. Hatt, professor of sociology at Northwestern, and Clark Tibbetts, chairman of the Committee on Aging and Geriatrics Federal Security Agency. We invite you to listen again next week to the question, is age 65 old age? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.