We're now about to dedicate to the War Memorial here in Cadman Plaza Park in the borough of Brooklyn, the presence of the mayor of the city of New York and a distinguished company, and now your chairman, the Honorable Robert Moses. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Our national anthem sang by Everett M. Clark, accompanied by the police department band. Oh, Satan, you see by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming. Oh, what stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, o'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming. And the rocket's red glare that was bursting in air, they flew through the night that our flag was still there. Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave It is a privilege and an honor to introduce the Honorable Robert Moses Commissioner of Parks. The invocation will be pronounced by Rabbi Daniel Lowy, chaplain of the Jewish War Veterans. Our God and the God of our fathers, this afternoon we are gathered here to dedicate a monument to the servicemen of Brooklyn, who made the supreme sacrifice in World War II, that we may be reaffirm the American way of life and the foundations upon which it stands. Our God and the God of our fathers, this afternoon we are gathered here to dedicate a monument to the servicemen of Brooklyn, who made the supreme sacrifice in World War II, that we might reaffirm the American way of life and the foundations upon which it stands. Democracy, freedom, justice, and peace. For 175 years, our country has stood squarely on these four sturdy pillars. And it will do so in the future if we, the American people, continue to give these ideals a real concrete significance in our daily lives and in our relations with others. May we be able to repeat through our deeds the famous words of Abraham Lincoln, that we resolve that these men shall not have died in vain. I am the spiritual leader of a congregation made up entirely of veterans, organized at Manhattan Beach after World War II. Its charter members appropriately named it Temple Shomrei Shalom, the Temple of the Defenders of Peace. They earnestly sought, as did so many churches and synagogues throughout America, to confirm these ideals in our own minds and in the minds of their children. And they have used as their guide a simple yet profound maxim once uttered by a great sage. Make thy law a fixed duty. Say little and do much, and receive every man with a cheerful expression of face. Would that all peoples of the world knew and understand these words. We often say that the good will win. But saying it is not enough, we must do our share as responsible citizens of this nation to make the ideals laid down by our forefathers a reality. Today, as we dedicate this war memorial, we hope and pray to thee, O God, that it will become a living monument. One which by its very presence will arouse all who pass by to the responsibility of being an American. One which will prove to be a true milestone on the road to peace and civilization. Grant us the courage and the vision, the wisdom and the understanding, that by our deeds we might succeed in making the American way of life a world institution. Amen. I now present to you the man who really is the father of this whole plan. Frank Stroth of the Brooklyn Eagle. Commissioner Moses, Mr. Mayor, the Burr President, and Reverend Chaplin, ladies and gentlemen. Today we dedicate what was but an idea in June of 1904. Brooklyn can take great pride in this beautiful and impressive building which memorializes the 320,000 young people who served in the armed forces in World War II, and especially the 7,186 who sacrificed their lives in that struggle. Following World War I, many committees, communities erected a great number of small markers or monuments in the way of remembrance for those who served and died in that war. In the spring of 1944, Commissioner Moses expressed the hope that each of the five boroughs of the greater city would erect one lasting and living memorial that would be a credit to the various boroughs, that would be a substitute for and not in addition to the hundreds of pathetic and inadequate little markers all over the boroughs. We at the Brooklyn Eagle took this advice seriously and acted upon it immediately. We gave $5,000 for the best suggestion of a way to pay tribute to the members of the armed forces from this borough who served in the war. For the purpose of choosing the method of honoring the war heroes, we named the Brooklyn War Memorial Committee. To be composed of the Burr President John Cashmore Chairman, Mary E. Dillon, then President of the Board of Education, the late Edward C. Blum, Chairman of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences and Chairman of the Board of Abraham Strauss, Colonel John J. Bennett, former State Commander of the American Legion, and Dr. Harry S. Rogers, then President of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. On Mr. Blum's death, his place was filled by his son, Robert E. Blum, now President of the Brooklyn Institute. Following the award of the prize, the Brooklyn War Memorial Incorporated came into being, with George B. McLaughlin as President. This group was to raise the funds needed to translate into reality what had thus far been merely planned, all of the money to come from voluntary subscriptions. As a result of the efforts of Mr. McLaughlin and his associates, more than $500,000 was collected from 3,500 firms and individuals. Parenthetically, it should be said that the success of this campaign received its initial impetus and largest contribution of $50,000 from the firm of Abraham and Strauss. This limestone and granite building of great dignity and beauty is the simplified modification of the entry which won the prize. Stuart Constable's winning proposal was built around an auditorium for the use of veterans' gatherings and other suitable civic affairs to which this structure will be chiefly devoted. It is evident that the memorial fulfills the hopes of the people of the community, that it would measure up to what the members of the armed forces from Brooklyn deserve. It combines the spirit of patriotism and community pride. It will be a permanent memory for future generations. Throughout the seven years since the idea first took form, two men, more than any others, have devoted themselves wholeheartedly to the advancement of the project. It would be most inappropriate if I did not publicly call to the attention of the people of the borough. I refer to borough president John Cashmore and commissioner Robert Moses. The carrying out of this dream has been constantly on their minds. They have given selflessly of their time. It could not have been done without them. To them also is due the credit for the beautiful setting in which this little architectural jewel has been placed. By the action of the city's board of estimate, Cadman Plaza will be transformed into a lovely ten-acre park. The landscaping will be the sort to which the public is being accustomed since commissioner Moses has been planning for the city. It is most appropriate that this war memorial should be the focal point of the Brooklyn Civic Center, which is beginning to take form around it. It is not difficult to imagine the transition which will come when the public buildings finally take shape. And overlooking the memorial is the tower of the Brooklyn Bridge, which symbolizes our borough for us and for a great part of the people of the world. I am proud to have had even a modest part in this endeavor to make certain that the services and the sacrifices of our Brooklyn War heroes shall not soon be forgotten. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Frank Shroff. I now present Brigadier General Charles F. Craig, Commanding General at Camp Kilmer. Hello, Alex. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the National War of the National War of the National War of the National War of the National War. When the First World War ended 33 years ago, a feeling of relief swept the Western world. The war-to-end war had been fought and won. The Imperial German Army had been smashed and the world made safe for democracy. There was to be no more war. People welcomed peace. They were sick of the horrible cost of war. There had been enough suffering, enough separation, enough bloodshed. But wanting peace and preserving peace are not synonymous. For two decades, the democracies of the West toyed with the illusion that peace could be had by wishful thinking. By pretending that if no one recognized him, the bogeyman of war would drift away. But while the democracies were thus living in a dream world, there were others, vicious and cynical, who used the world's hope for peace as a vehicle for their own ambition. Relying on the democracies' abhorrence for war, they grew bolder and bolder. The Fuhrer and Douche taunted the decadent democracies, the soft democracies. They witnessed the leaders of the democratic nations plead at Munich for peace in our time. They grew bold, too bold. They foolishly interpreted the wish for peace as a willingness to have peace at any price. There they were wrong. And soon they were embroiled in a war that saw the free world, led by America and Britain, rise up to crush them. By August 1945, the Allied army had shattered the wild dreams of the conquest shared by Hitler, Michelinie and Tojo. And again there was peace. But this time the peace was a troubled peace, a wide-eyed peace. Another force was loose in the world, threatening to destroy us. What few illusions we had about our erstwhile enemies, the communists, were soon dispelled by their nefarious actions. While we recognized these communistic wolves in sheep's clothing, they were not cognizant of our awareness. Once again, our burning desire for peace had led an aggressor to believe we would be slow to react to the threat of engulfment. And so the communist jackals pounced upon the Republic of South Korea. Behind the southern attack across the 38th parallel lay a contempt for the peaceful aspirations of the free world and a complete disregard for the future of mankind. Peace was a screen behind which the communists and their satellites could prepare for aggression. Today, when we meet to commemorate our honored dead and to dedicate this magnificent memorial to the brave men and women of this borough who so nobly served their country, we have not abandoned our hope for peace. We still look forward to the day when there will be no wars, to the day when no man need fear the sound of an approaching airplane, to the day when the threat of atomic annihilation no longer troubles our sleep. America cherishes peace, but will be faithful to those who love freedom more than peace, and were willing to challenge death in order that their concept of life might be preserved. Today, we salute these heroic dead. This beautiful memorial is a tribute not only to the men and women who served its commemorate, but also to the people of the borough of Brooklyn and the city of New York. Only a people of great courage could have inspired it. Only a people of great faith could have built it. Thank you, General Craig. Now, representing the Navy, Captain C.L. Blackwell, Chief of Staff of the New York Naval Bank. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, there will be many addresses here today, so I shall make my remarks quite brief. I am particularly honored to represent the Navy at these dedication exercises honoring the men and women of Brooklyn. Brooklyn has always been dear and near to the heart of the Navy. From my association in that service, I am sure that this feeling is reciprocated by the men and women of Brooklyn. From almost the beginning of our country, many famous naval ships have been built in Brooklyn of various sizes and types, ranging from the 74-gun sailing ship Ohio, built in the early 1800s, down to the giant carrier, Franklin D. Roosevelt, and the battleship Missouri. Not only were these ships built in Brooklyn, they were, to a large extent, manned by the valiant citizens of your fine city. This permanent and dignified tribute, a record to the memory of those men and women of Brooklyn who so generously and courageously responded to the call of our country in World War II to serve as a continuous reminder of the patriotism that has always been extant in Brooklyn. How, without in any way diminishing our regards for this splendid remembrance, I am certain that those memorialized here today could wish that this tribute should serve as a constant reminder to all of us that there should be no let up in our efforts to secure permanent peace. Thus, during the ways of the need of ever again having to erect such a memorial. To the civic-minded citizens who have made this memorial a reality, I say a job well done. To the World War II veterans of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, I wish you the best of luck, peace, and happiness for the future. Thank you, Captain Blackwell. It's not enough to have a noble objective. You have to have people to carry it out. I always feel that the objective is going to be reached when you see at the front of those who are making it a reality, George V. McLaughlin, whom I now present to you. The Reverend Clergy. Ladies and gentlemen. I was told by Commissioner Moses, and when you're told anything by Commissioner Moses, that's nothing short of a command. That the time allotted to me would be two minutes. So I have made up my mind that if I am going to stay in his good graces, I'll consume half of that two minutes. They do that for a number of reasons. You've got able men here that have already given you inspirational talks, and out of my left eye I saw the mayor or President Cashmore with a carefully prepared manuscript, and I'm sure if they deliver all of it, they'll need my time. Now, Frank Fultz, who really conceived this idea, has given you the background of the Brooklyn War Memorial. We've raised approximately $600,000. I add a hundred to Frank. Being a banker, a hundred thousand dollars means a lot to me, not much to him. And of that $600,000, bear this in mind. Seventy percent of it came from the business people of this community, represented by just a hundred concerns. And he has put in a very good tribute for Bob Blum of Abrams-Strauss. I have no stock in the concern. I have great admiration for it. But I also want to say something about the great contribution that the savings banks made. Every one of the savings banks of this community were represented as the contributors. I know we were all badly upset about three or four weeks ago when our Dodgers didn't come through. But prior to that, I can tell you, they did come through for this war memorial and gave us something in excess of $25,000. I have more than consumed my time. I was told that my duties was a simple one. That I was merely to carry the keys that I have in my pocket. I don't mind telling you, they were given to me only a few months ago and I lost them. But before I lose them the second time, within your sight, I'm going to turn them over to John Cashmore. Thank you, George. The Reverend Theodore H. Winkert, chaplain of the American Legion, will now read from the scriptures. Here beginneth the 44th chapter of the Book of Ecclesiasticus. Let us now praise famous men and our fathers that begat us. The Lord hath wrought great glory by them through his great power from the beginning. Such as did bear rule in their kingdoms, men renowned for their power, giving counsel by their understanding and declaring prophecies. Leaders of the people by their counsels and by their knowledge of learning meet for the people, wise and eloquent in their instructions. Such as found out musical tunes and recited verses in writing. Rich men furnished with ability, living peaceably in their habitations. All these were honored in their generations and were the glory of their times. There be of them that have left a name behind them that their praises might be reported. And some there be which have no memorial, who are perished as though they had never been, and are become as though they had never been born, and their children after them. But these were merciful men whose righteousness hath not been forgotten. With their seed shall continually remain a good inheritance, and their children are within the covenant. Their seed standeth fast, and their children for their sakes. Their seed shall remain forever, and their glory shall not be blotted out. Their bodies are buried in peace, but their name liveth forevermore. The people will tell of their wisdom, and the congregation will show forth their praise. Here endeth the reading of the scripture. This is a big city. We're sometimes inclined to think that it's almost too big for the people who have to plan and govern it. And for this reason, in their wisdom, the makers of our several charters have decided that in order that the several boroughs may keep their autonomy, and be properly represented by people who really know their needs, that we shall have in each borough a president who speaks for his people. You have a very able, intelligent, persistent, and common sense borough president here in Brooklyn. And I mean exactly that. This is the beginning, and as Frank Schroth said, the key to a tremendous borough civic center. It's taken a long time to get started. It's not easy to do these things in old communities where there are many vested interests. As I've often said, many arthritic toes to be stepped on. It takes courage, time, energy. You have those here, and pretty soon, I think, before many of you realize it, and in spite of all the recent difficulties, priorities, controls, you're going to see the entire civic center plan carried out. I take pleasure now in presenting borough president John Cashmore. Reverend Clergy, Commissioner Moses, Mayor Impeleturi, Reverend Clergy again, and the distinguished guests, fellow Brooklynites, and last but very important, the Gold Star Mothers. At the outset, it becomes my duty as well as my privilege to thank all who have helped to make this magnificent war memorial a reality. As your borough president, I know that many contributed generously to its construction or helped otherwise to bring it to completion. Because of the triumphs to a lighthouse and experience to business, and of course, they're Jav to be happy to guide to fascinate someone, to be happy to begin. People are disappointed. Today, however, I want to thank in particular the debt of gratitude we owe to those who were mainly responsible for starting this memorial and bringing it to a successful conclusion. So first of all, let me thank Mr. Frank D. Schroth, the publisher of the Brooklyn Eagle, who suggested this memorial and gave it such strong support. Then our thanks are due to George V. McLaughlin and his committee for raising more than half a million dollars to meet the construction costs. We can never forget Bob Moses for all he did to advance this memorial and lay out this fine park, which provides it with such a beautiful setting. And last, but certainly not the least, Mr. Mayor, Brooklyn is grateful to you and to the members of the Board of Estimate for providing this site. And I am thankful for all the support you and the entire board has given me and everything that I have asked to make this memorial possible. Therefore, to one and all, I am grateful. And I am sure the people of Brooklyn, and especially our veterans, and all who served in the war, will remember your contributions and your splendid cooperation. Now today, few words are needed to dedicate this monument to the memory of the brave men and women of this borough who served our nation in the dark days of the Second World War. It is a memorial that is already dedicated in the minds and hearts of the grateful people of Brooklyn, whose contributions and sacrifices have made its erection possible. to the resolve of the un Assistant is the powerful activists at UNC motivations for forgiving and their intit Story and support. to the preservation of this nation will always be fresh in our memory. 326,000 of Brooklyn's finest went into battle, and 8,000 never returned. While we who mourn those brave men and women need no memorial of their valor, we dedicate this building today so that those who come after us may draw inspiration from the generous deeds of the young Brooklynites who gave an offer to give their lives for the cause of peace and the land they loved. We who are left realize full well that no monument can ever pay our debt to those we honor today. Monuments are but symbols of our gratitude and affection. The real proof of our gratitude must be not in symbols, but in deeds. Twice in one generation, we have sent our men to war in the name of peace and democracy. In conscience, we cannot leave their work half done. If we are not to break faith with those who fought and those who died, we must preserve the peace, the freedom, the democracy for which they gave so much. Thank you. I now give you, without further introduction, the holder of the toughest job in the most critical community in the world, Mayor Impilateri. Commissioner Moses, Reverend Clergy, Burr President John Cashmore, fellow veterans, Gold Star mothers who sit before me, ladies and gentlemen, and may I also include the thousands of people that I know are listening in to this broadcast. Brooklyn's pledge to her heroic sons, a solemn promise made while fighting men were dying on the beaches of Normandy and Saipan, will be fulfilled with the dedication of the Brooklyn War Memorial. Thus, the Brooklyn Eagle simply and tersely has stated the reason for which we are met this afternoon. It is always on occasions such as this that the immortal Lincoln's epic words given this same month of November, 88 years ago, when he dedicated the military cemetery at Gettysburg come to mind. The inscription on this imposing memorial, built by public subscription, and as an integral part of the Brooklyn Civic Center, states, it is dedicated to the heroic men and women of the borough of Brooklyn who fought for liberty in the Second World War, 1941 to 1945, and especially to those who suffered and died. May their sacrifice inspire future generations and lead to universal peace. Within the walls of this limestone memorial are inscribed the names of more than 7,000 Brooklynites who gave their lives during World War II. And our fervent prayer is, as the inscription states, that their supreme sacrifice may lead us and those who come after us in the ways of peace. As Lincoln said, in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The heroic men and women of Brooklyn, living and dead, have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or detract. It is for us to living, rather, to be dedicated here to the unfinished work which they have so nobly advanced. Recently, our city was host to the heroic co-patriots of 19 nations, including our own, joined under the banner of the United Nations, fighting communist aggression through the pooled strength of the freedom-loving peoples of the world. In honoring them, we also paid tribute to the heroic dead we memorialize today. Because the struggle in which they are engaged in Korea and in which many thousands from this and the other boroughs of our city are joined is in furtherance of our hope for world peace in our time. As in so many civic undertakings and community projects which have marked the growth of our city then during the past few decades, the city's able park commissioner and city construction coordinator and our presiding officer today emerges as one of the guiding lights of the great project we are dedicating today. It was Commissioner Moses who was among the first to urge that separate and substantial war memorials of a permanent nature and including community usefulness be set up in each of the boroughs. He has given his energy and strength to this project from the time it was initiated back in June of 1944, rather, when Mr. Frank D. Schroetz, publisher of the Brooklyn Eagle, borough president John Cashmore, who has been described to you very aptly and very fitly, both by Mr. Schroetz and by Commissioner Moses as one of the guiding lights in the dedication and in the progress of this war memorial, not only in Brooklyn but very actively in the Board of Estimates. And I, as mayor of the city of New York, want to particularly single him out for the tremendous drive and the spirit which he not only gives to his own borough of Brooklyn, but to every worthwhile endeavor that comes before us in the Board of Estimates that that is a benefit to the entire city of New York. Mary Dillon, the then president of the Board of Education. Mr. Edward C. Blum, chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Brooklyn Institute of Arts and Sciences. Colonel John J. Bennett and Dr. Harry S. Rogers, president of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, constituted a committee to formulate a plan for a Brooklyn War Memorial. The Brooklyn Eagle is to be commended for sponsoring the $5,000 prize contest to obtain ideas for an appropriate memorial. Credit is due to many other distinguished Brooklynites, in addition to those already mentioned. Among them, Mr. George V. McLaughlin, who you have already heard from today. Mr. Edward M. Clark, Mr. Gilbert C. Barrett, and Mr. H. Russell Burbank. The members of the design board of the Brooklyn War Memorial. Mr. Gil- Gilmore D. Clark, Mr. W. Earl Andrews, and Mr. Stuart Constable. The architects, Eggers and Higgins, and the late Charles Keck, the sculptor who executed the heroic statues, which flanked the inscription. For a full list of the distinguished New Yorkers and Brooklynites who have done so much to bring this memorial to a reality, may I refer you to the beautifully illustrated brochure that will be distributed in the program for these ceremonies. As the program points out, the dedication of this war memorial is only one important part of the total plan for the development of Brooklyn's Civic Center, which when completed, will be the realization of a most ambitious and carefully planned central urban development. To continue from the final paragraph in the program's outline of this project, may I quote, This is no paper job of theoretical planning. Embracing as it does, intelligent slum clearance and new housing privately financed. Planning and construction of arterial inter-borro connections and important East River crossings. Coordination of street plans with main traffic facilities. and the location design and construction of many new public buildings. The financing of all of these projects and their coordination into a unified, practical, and beautiful whole has required the skill of many firms of engineers and architects and the unceasing effort and cooperation of public officials at national, state, and local levels. Fortunately, this skill has been made available and the cooperation is still forthcoming. The completed Brooklyn Moore Memorial is a promise of things to come. A foretaste of the beauty and order which will mark the heart of Brooklyn when the center is fully completed. I should like to pay brief tribute to the county commanders of the veteran organizations who are here as honored guests for this solemn occasion. Representing as they do the American Legion, the veterans of foreign wars, the Marine Corps League, the Army and Navy Union, the disabled American veterans, the Catholic war veterans, the Jewish war veterans, and the Spanish-American war veterans, they are here to accept the homage of a grateful borough and city for the sacrifice of all of their comrades who served in our country. And in this list, as a matter of fact, heading this list, to whom we pay grateful and very humble homage today. are the many, many gold star mothers who we all are deeply appreciative of the sacrifices they made for democracy, coming as they do from the borough of Brooklyn, at this dedication of the Brooklyn War Memorial. It is indeed a high privilege for me, as chief executive of our city, to dedicate this war memorial to the heroic living and the immortal dead of Brooklyn. May Almighty God, in his infinite wisdom, inspire us to do all in our power to bring to fulfillment their desire for the liberty and peace for which they sacrificed their lives on so many battlefields. May we all, from these honored dead, take increased devotion to the cause for which they gave their last full measure of devotion. We the living and the generations who follow us will long remember their valiant deeds and supreme sacrifice in this shrine dedicated to their memory. Thank you. This concludes the ceremonies. You're all invited now to inspect the memorial. Benediction. Benediction. Benediction. Benediction. Benediction. Thank you. I'm sorry. I apologize for skipping a page in the program. Before the tour of inspection of the memorial, I call upon the Reverend Daniel J. Potterton, chaplain of the Catholic War veterans of Kings County, to deliver the benediction. Will you all please rise? Thank you, Mr. Collins. Let us place ourselves in the presence of Almighty God, who is the author and giver of every good blessing. Bless this war memorial, O Lord, dedicated to the memory of thy loyal American sons. May we or our children never have to build another. Bless our civic leaders, their loyal assistants, the citizens of our borough who planned and paid for this memorial. Bless those who gave the blueprints for it with their heroism, their blood, and their lives. May we never have to build another. Bless this building, this park, this entire site landscaped and beautified. May we never have to immortalize dead soldiers again to beautify our borough with another war memorial. Bless our war dead, O Lord, for because of them has America survived. Bless our nation's leaders, and by the inspiration of thy divine grace, enlighten them in their pursuit of peace, thy peace, the peace of justice and love. To them we look that America may prosper. To thee, O Lord, we look that we may never again have to build another war memorial. This we ask in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. . . . . . In the presence of the mayor of the city, Mr. Moses. Mr. Moses has just invited all to join in the inspection of this magnificent Cadman Plaza here in Brooklyn and the dedication of the war memorial which has taken place here. For the benefit of the radio audience, may we say that this magnificent building, located directly opposite Arne Street at Fulton, is a great building in itself and on the south wall of the building, inscribed in gold, are the names of the 7,000 veterans or more who are honored in this war memorial here today at Cadman Plaza Park. The extent of the park itself begins actually at Tillery Street and runs to the Brooklyn Bridge and takes in all the area between Tillery Street of Fulton and Washington Street, right to the tip of the Brooklyn Bridge where the bridge starts for the great borough of Manhattan. In this very historic part of Brooklyn Heights, this war memorial today has been dedicated in the presence of the elite of Brooklyn and all those who have done so much to make this the foremost and greatest borough of the five in New York City because of its tremendous population area and the people who comprise the people of this borough itself. The Brooklyn Heights section of Brooklyn is one of the most interesting and one of the most historical and has taken place at all times in the history and the development of this, the great nation of the United States. The early Dutch colonies settled here on Brooklyn or this end of Long Island, which is known as Brooklyn. And from that time on, from the early 17th century, Brooklyn has been a part of the developing American scene. The mayor of the City of New York and all the guests presented here today by the Honorable Robert Moses, coordinator of construction of the City of New York and among his other duties, Park Commissioner, who can certainly take orchids for the magnificent landscaping of Cadman Plaza Park here in the borough of Brooklyn. On this beautiful November evening, we take leave of you now from the very wall of this war memorial, which is a tribute indeed to those who have sacrificed so much. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System.