I don't want to turn away from the subject of opera by any means, because that is, in many ways, the heart of your book. But there is one portion of it which strikes a very responsive chord in me and will, I'm sure, in all of the readers that you have over here. And incidentally, I hope that you have a very great many. And that is that the opera work, though you're going to Germany, for example, to hear opera, to hear music, led you into work with refugees from Germany. I wish you'd talk about that for a bit, because that seems to me to be real substance in this book. Well, of course, it is to me, too. I feel that is the core of the book. It happened really very simply. We went, in our pursuit of opera, we went over to the Salzburg Festival, and there was conducting one of the greatest Austrian conductors, Clemens Krauss. And his wife was one of the principal singers there, a Romanian singer called Ursula Leac. We knew them slightly, and they introduced us to our first refugee, a friend of theirs who had to leave the country. And through this introduction, we began to see the whole refugee problem in a very simple way, really through the eyes of an ordinary middle-class family like ourselves. And rather before other English people. Yes, that's right. By the time it became tremendously sensational, it was difficult for people to understand it. Could you give me a date on that, just to make it quite clear? Yes. Yes. It was the summer that Dorfus was murdered, 34. Yes. And we started from our first refugee then, and began in a rather leisurely and friendly way to help our first family. Well, of course, we were recommended from one family to another, and we couldn't leave the work. It simply took hold of us. And the most extraordinary thing happened at that time, because for the first time I began to make money out of my writing. It very seldom happens like that. You either see the need and you haven't got the money, or you have the money and you don't see the need. But there it happened together. And suddenly, just as we needed it so terribly, I had money pouring in. And Louise, perhaps I'd say a bit about her part of the work then. Well, I wanted to help so much, and I learned German as my part, because many of these unfortunate people hadn't a word of English, of course. We went backwards and forwards to Germany and Austria regularly, every month or two, really. And we used to interview people, never refused to hear a story. And I would interpret for my sister, who doesn't speak any German. Of course, one of the striking things to me was the way in which you had established a kind of character for yourself, by going over there and wearing rather plain clothes and so on. Yes. And making almost a thriller out of it. It must have been thrilling. It was tremendously thrilling. We got rather nervous at one point, because we used to go, you see, rather often and for very short periods. Louise would leave the office on Friday. We'd catch the last airplane to Cologne, be in Cologne on Friday night. We'd catch the night train to Munich, be in Munich on Saturday and do our work. Come back through Holland on Sunday, because it was best to go out by one frontier and come back by another, if you were carrying jewellery, which we usually were. And then we'd cross by the night boat from Holland, and Louise would walk into the office on Monday morning with the job done. Well, of course, the Nazi authorities at the aerodrome began to be suspicious. And we were a little frightened. We were asked lots of questions. And then the extraordinary thing was that our operatic interests came to our rescue, because still our friend, Clemens Krauss and his wife, Krauss was then head of the Opera House in Munich. And before we left Germany, each time, he would get us to tell him which dates we wanted covered next time, sometimes just two days. He would tell us what he'd put on at the Opera House that night. If he was in a good mood, he'd let us choose our opera. And it would be perhaps two months hence. He'd give us every detail, and then we'd go home. Then when we came out to Germany on those appointed dates, we were simply mad operatic enthusiasts coming for a special performance. And we just received a colonial adrenals to say, oh, here's this crazy couple again. What's it this time in Munich? And we would have all the details. And we'd go down and have our operatic performance, and we'd do our refugee work undercover. So that our great opera love covered our refugee work. It was rather romantic. Yes, I see. You'd have to have established a reputation for being crazy opera lovers in order to get away with that. That is right, yes. We were considered high Nazis in Munich. Yes. Oh, really? We even had a window seat for the show, The 2000 Years of German Culture. Oh, yes. When they carried the fires of Wotan through the streets. Yes, I remember that. But we managed to put over quite a good show, usually. Were you ever apprehended in any way? No. The only time that we were really very scared was when we were bringing out a great deal more jewelry than we could have accounted for. And at that time, of all times, the black guard came on the train and stood outside our compartment for about half an hour. Why, I don't know. But we got through all right with our jewelry. And we didn't manage to... It represented that jewelry, of course, the capital for the unfortunate people who were getting out. Yes, it represented. The only thing they had in the world. Yes. Yes. If you could save their lives, there was something for them. You might explain that system of guarantee which you made use of. Well, very simply and quickly put, in the case of a woman, you could get her out on a domestic permit. In the case of a child, you had to have the child adopted. In the case of a man between 18 and 60, you had to have documentary proof that he was going on to another country. But during the waiting time, which usually took place before he could go to that country, you could, so to speak, import him into England, provided an English citizen would guarantee financially everything from the moment he left Europe until he reached the final country of his adoption. And, of course, as you will imagine, not many people could afford to do that. When we exhausted our own funds, we set to work to organize among people who could contribute a little, either a little money or a little hospitality. And then when we covered a case, perhaps three years' hospitality among six people, let us say, or perhaps so many pounds a week between 10 or 12 people, then we would get someone to give us the official guarantee on the understanding that that guarantee would never be called on and another life would be saved. We managed to get out 29 people. I was fascinated by the way that chance played into your hands in finding guarantors. Well, it was a little harder than chance. Sometimes one had to... Oh, I know you worked very hard at it. Yes, but it was. We were very lucky, too. And then, after a while, I got a chance of talking to, let us say, church circles. And then the whole congregation would take on a case, and the clergyman would give the guarantee, knowing that his congregation were behind him. I managed to do quite a lot that way. And once or twice I was allowed to write articles. And I remember very well the first article I ever wrote was simply called, Will Somebody Save Me? We got a couple of guarantees out of that, people we'd never seen in our lives. People responded very marvelously once they understood. I want to dramatize just a little bit that number, which you said almost under your breath. And I think it ought to be pointed out that the number is 29, which, after all, in the immensity of the need perhaps may not be a very great number. But I'm sure that it meant a very great deal to those 29. It meant life, obviously. Have you kept in touch with them since? Oh, nearly all of them, yes. Nearly all, yes. And when we come over to the States, we see a great number of them. Some of them are in England, some of them are over here. And one of the most moving things was our reception when we returned here after the war. Yes, it was like a star's dressing room, a room at the hotel. People who remembered us, you know, and brought floral tributes, chocolates, everything. It was wonderful. Terribly moving. Now, I hate to turn away from that subject because it is very significant and very moving, but I do want to ask you one or two more questions. Are you going to hear some music when you're over here this time? Well, we went last night to the council, which impressed us both enormously. We had heard the medium in London and been very much impressed. And we were determined to go to the council, and a good friend got us tickets beforehand. It is a really remarkable achievement, both dramatically and musically. It's difficult to say that one enjoyed it because it is such a harrowing experience, but a very remarkable work. I don't know what else we're going to manage because it's a very, very full visit with many friends. See, we shall get up in all we can. Are you still continuing your collection of records? Oh, yes. Yes, we have about between 2,000 and 3,000, I suppose. We aren't what usually ranks as actual collectors. If any collector is listening to this program, I'm sure they'll be rather sniffy and say, you've got to have 5,000 to be a collector. Oh, well, a number doesn't matter, of course. It's a discrimination with which you picked. After all, you are selecting only operatic records. Nearly all were operatic records. Of course, we've also kept up our treasured collection of snapshots of the stars. The book, as you know, is illustrated with my own snapshots, and we still take them from time to time. Were you ever rebuffed in getting pictures? No, I was slightly snubbed by Sir Thomas Beecham, who I think tried to shake my nerve, but I managed to get him just the same. Well, this has been another occasion when the almanac should be very much longer than the 25 minutes that we have at our disposal. All I can say, obviously, is that you listeners who have followed this should get We Followed Our Stars and read that full, exciting, warm account of a singular devotion to operatic singing and to those who do it superlatively well. But there is in it, too, a moving concern for people in trouble, as you will observe in some of what we were saying tonight. In the book, that was an organ note which suggested nobility of spirit through self-sacrifice and a great cause. But I don't want to shift the emphasis away from the lighthearted appreciation of the role of art in people's lives, which is in this book. Enthusiasm is still the word I want to leave with you listeners as hitting off what the Cook sisters really have, what their book brims over with. Read it, and you'll find it catchy.