Will you please rise for the Pledge of Allegiance led by Anthony Ferrara, student of the New York School of Printing, to be followed by our national anthem played by the New York School of Printing Orchestra. The Pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. Oh, so glad you see, why a dawn's early light, why so proudly we gail, at whose wild eyes has been, whose most light and bright stars, through the passion was high. For the land of the sea was, was so gallant and he's redeemed. And the hawk in its red glare, the birds we hear there. They took the night, that our flag was still there. Oh, say, God, that's a spectacle, banner and wave, on the land and of the free, and the home of the brave. Be seated, please. I have been asked by the Graphic Arts Educational Commission to be chairman of this meeting today to substitute for my father, Mr. William H. Friedman, who is out of town, and I am deeply honored. We are here today to commemorate the 246th anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin, one of America's greatest sons. His life history has made a lasting impression throughout the world. In our country, where individual enterprise is one of our greatest assets, he is especially honored for his achievements. His life story is one of greatness as a printer, author, publisher, scientist, philosopher, patriot, and statesman. Few careers in the history of civilization record examples of such an interesting, versatile, and humane personality. That was Franklin's. Few men rose from such humble beginnings to such great and enduring splendor. We are met today with leaders in the fields of labor, industry, education, and government to pay tribute to this great man of revered memory, Benjamin Franklin the printer. Our first speaker, representing a vast number of skilled men that form the backbone of our industry, is Mr. Charles A. McNally, President of the Allied Printing Trades Council of Greater New York, who will speak to us on Benjamin Franklin, an inspiration for youth. Mr. McNally. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, faculty and students of the New York School of Printing. On this occasion, the nation from coast to coast pays tribute to one who, in growing acclaim, has earned a place among the outstanding of our country's benefactors. Of some, their birthday has been officially designated for respect, recognition, and honor. But Benjamin Franklin, all tribute, profound, and just as extensive, has been unofficial and spontaneous, but as earnest and deep-seated. He was a man of many parts, honored and respected in all. From his early days of the founding of the Republic, he was never more esteemed than he is at the present. In a diversity of many interests, Franklin excelled in science, in philosophy, in diplomacy. He has no peers in his time. For practical and homey contributions, he was resourceful. As a force in promoting human relations, here and abroad, he was a master without equal. He gave much and is greatly honored. In our meeting today, the purpose is to bring to attention again what Franklin did to establish the nation and make part of the nation of the country. His deeds are being portrayed, but what of his influence. What of his influence as an inspiration to you. Influence is a powerful factor in molding the future of lives and events, whether excited for good or good, or good. It continues effective even when its presence is withdrawn, or not recognized. Influence is a common possession and cannot be escaped, either by him who exercises the power of the nation, or by the people who have been and cannot be escaped, either by him who exercises it, or him on whom it is working. It is given to each of us to use, and as it is used, we change our lives and those of others. The amazing thing about influence is that it is always at work and never gets tired. Once initiated, it continues without end and passes from one to another like the endless chain. It cannot be suppressed, but radiates a power that changes to some degree everyone it contacts. No one is without it. Therefore, it is important to think about it and to examine ourselves to find out how we are using it. Do you suppose that Benjamin Franklin, at the age of 17, that Sunday morning as he walked down Market Street in Philadelphia, had any idea that the influence he would exert was such that more than two centuries later, in another city, he would be proclaimed in a scene like this? Do you suppose that on the 246th anniversary of his birth, he would even be remembered and more, that people young and old, in cities and hamlets, in a nation greater than he ever thought of, would meet to praise him for the good he had done? What was there that made him different? Some will say he was born in a good home with plenty. Plenty, no. Others, that he had every opportunity. This is not the fact. Maybe he had a fine, thorough education. This is not so. It was the good in him, and his desire for the betterment of his fellow man, and his service in the cause of progress, that has made the sayings of poor Richard of tremendous influence over the ages. It was the influence of the author biography that has made it an inspiration. As to the influence of Benjamin Franklin, General George Marshall had this to say. My school teachers bored me with dates and dry figures. Even so fascinating a character as Benjamin Franklin, become loaded down with statistics. Yet in these days, I find some food for reflection and lessons for guidance in the methods and role of Franklin during a critical period in our history. His life gives some excellent illustrations of how to meet some of the problems of unity of command, of convincing our people of the necessity of organizing in times of peace for home defense. Moreover, his diplomatic actions furnish many guides that might be extremely useful to our representatives today. If in Franklin, General Marshall can find lessons for guidance, do you not think that in the same life there may be lessons to guide you and me? In his young manhood there was little in his favor. He had less than the young people within the reach of my voice. But of this little, he had the convictions that he could rise above his handicaps, the determination to make the best of what he had, instead of being discouraged. I offer to young people Benjamin Franklin, a poor boy by effort and determination came to stand before kings. I offer him to you as a guide and inspiration for your lives. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. McNally. Here in the historic chambers of City Hall, it is most appropriate that a representative of our active city administration discuss the fine examples set by Franklin's ideals of leadership. Representing our city government, we are honored to have the deputy mayor of the city of New York, who will discuss Benjamin Franklin, citizen and patriot. It is a pleasure to present to you, Honorable Charles Horowitz. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, students of the New York Printing School, other representatives of educational institutions and organizations interested in the life and career of Benjamin Franklin, ladies and gentlemen. As the official representative of Mayor Impelle Terry, it is a privilege and a pleasure for me to participate in these ceremonies, marking Printing Week in New York City and observing the 246th birthday anniversary of Benjamin Franklin, patron of printing. I should like to read to this gathering the official proclamation of the mayor, designating the period of January 13th to 19th 1952, as Printing Week in New York City. Quote, Proclamation. Quote, Proclamation. Quote, Proclamation. Quote, Pro détruis müt,... Quote, Proclamation. Quote, Proclamation. Quote, Proclamation. Quote, Proclamation. knowledge and information, and is the herald of tomorrow, and whereas New York City is the nation's greatest center for the purchasing and production of printed matters of all kinds, employing many thousands of our citizens, and whereas it is fitting that New York City participate in the nationwide observations of Printing Week held annually during the week marking the birthday anniversary of Benjamin Franklin, patron of printing. Now therefore I, Vincent Arum Pelletieri, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby proclaim January 13 to 19, 1952 as Printing Week in New York City, and urge our citizens to join the members of more than 60 graphic arts, advertising, educational, trade union, consumer, and civic associations in the programs and activities of the citywide observations of Printing Week in our city. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 30, this 20th day of December 1951, Vincent Arum Pelletieri, Mayor. May I now briefly discuss the role of Benjamin Franklin as citizen and patriot? Benjamin Franklin was a patriot, but a patriot with a difference, for all his patriotism, all his idealism, all his democratic philosophy might have gone for naught had he not been endowed with hard-headed practical ability. Just as he had harnessed the lightning, so Franklin harnessed his ideals to the common will. He was a genius of many gifts, and all of these gifts he turned to the service of his community and of his country. When at the age of 17, Franklin came to the city of Philadelphia, he found the streets muddy and sanitation non-existent. It was unsafe at night. There was no way of checking fires efficiently. The poverty-stricken sick were ignored and neglected, and the insane wandered at large. Worst of all, the city administration was apathetic. Like the good citizen he was, Franklin took upon himself the responsibility for changing all this. Through his Gunto Club, the great-grandfather of our civic betterment leagues, and through his newspaper, Franklin turned Philadelphia into a safe, comfortable, and organized city. In the young, growing metropolis, he instituted paved streets, better lighting, better lighting, and a system of street cleaning. He organized the first fire department, the first fire insurance company, and he reformed the place. He established the first library, the first college, and the first city of Philadelphia. Franklin was bound to the first place, Franklin was bound to find a wider field for his activities than just one city. This came about during the French and Indian War. After making a survey of the defenses of Philadelphia, Franklin decided that they were far from adequate, and he awakened his fellow citizens to the facts. As a result, an association of volunteer militiamen was formed throughout Pennsylvania. It was during this war that Franklin embarked on the diplomatic career that was to bring him greatest fame. He was sent as a commissioner to talk peace with the Indians. The first mistake in public business is the going into it, said poor Richard. Franklin's attitude toward civic service, however, was in practice not so cynical as this might indicate. Upon accepting his first important government post, that of deputy postmaster general, he announced that his rule for public office was, never ask, never refuse, or ever resign. Up to the time of his taking this office, the mails had been uncertain and irregular. The colonists could hardly be blamed for not placing much confidence in their own postal system. There was, for instance, only one mail a week between Philadelphia and New York, and that only in good weather. Franklin turned his talent for organization to the improvement of the mails. One of his most valuable contributions was to make the postmasters and postmen from New Hampshire to Georgia aware of the importance and unity of this new postal service. By improvements in the speed and safety of the mails, he led them to be increasingly used. This unified postal service, Franklin's handiwork, was at the time of the Revolution one of the strong factors which gave the colonists a sense of national solidarity. It was a great force in holding the colonies together. Franklin's activities during the Revolution, his work for the repeal of the Obnoxious Stamp Act, his drafting of the Declaration of Independence, his diplomacy which won the support of France, and his role of elder statesman at the Constitutional Convention, all these are too familiar to warrant more than passing mention. They are part and parcel of the mainstream of American history. The life and career of Benjamin Franklin and his many contributions to our country are indeed a source of great inspiration to every American. It is therefore fitting and proper that as we observe printing week, we continue to be mindful of this rich heritage, and in commemoration of the birthday of Benjamin Franklin, we rededicate ourselves to those high ideals and principles which made a great citizen and patriot. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Horowitz. Representing management in our tribute to Benjamin Franklin, we are honored to have the president of the New York Employing Printers Association and the president of the printing firm Roger Kellogg Stilson Incorporated, who will discuss Benjamin Franklin and industry, Mr. William Mr. William H. Walling. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen of the audience. Mr. William H. Walling, to the audience, and the people who are interested in the printing industry would seem about as necessary as preaching to a congregation of converts. And yet however many addresses are made on the subject of Franklin, the man himself endows the speaker with added stature merely by being the theme of the speech, supplying by his life and accomplishments material for fruitful listening. Therefore, I trust my words will take on some importance because of the subject. Each one of us, at one time or another, either in studying the history of our country or in our school days or when we came into the printing industry, has found something special about Franklin which has interested us. To me, he is the everlasting contradiction of that catch phrase, jack of all trades and master of none. Apparently, there was nothing he could not do and do well if he set his mind to it. And we here today have reason to be grateful that his long span of life allowed him time to set his mind to so many things. I sometimes wonder if we realize how much of our daily life is influenced by Franklin's broad interests. For instance, the next time someone tells you that the winters aren't so cold these days because of the Gulf Stream, ask him if he knows who made the first study on the effect of the Gulf Stream on climate. I'll bet he doesn't know that Benjamin Franklin provided him with that interesting topic of conversation. Every child knows the story of the kite, the key, and the lightning. But how many of us know who thought up bifocal glasses? Yes, again, that was Franklin. As the previous speaker said, he was the first man to organize a hospital in this country. So when we're sick, we are again indebted to Franklin. Did you ever say when somebody sneezed near you, oh, oh, now I suppose I'm going to get a cold? Stop to think of it. It was Franklin who discovered that the common cold was infectious long before there was any theory of germs. It is such reminders that make me think of Franklin as being a living continuance in our lives and our times, and which gives me a contemporary viewpoint on Benjamin Franklin and industry. It is evident that he approached industry with industry and made it his business to know every angle of his business. He learned to be a printer and an engraver. He used his ingenuity to meet problems when materials were short, and he kept his eye out for the main chance. At the age of 23, he conducted his own printing plant where currency for the government was printed and where he also handled printing for the state of Pennsylvania. So he must have been a pretty good salesman in addition to all that. Outside of the long hours he worked, for one of poor Richard's saying, which he completely ignored was early to bed and early to rise makes one healthy, wealthy, and wise, outside of those long hours, his methods were as an industrialist or as modern as today. He was fully acquainted with his work. He was his own efficiency expert. And by applying his knowledge and good business sense, he reaped the reward of a fortune at the age of 42. $100,000 is a lot of money today, but in those colonial days it was a fabulous sum. It is good to think that his success was justly deserved and that the fruits of his industry made possible his great service to his country. America will always be in Franklin's debt, and we of the printing industry are most fortunate to have so great an inspiration. Thank you, Mr. Walling. Benjamin Franklin prided himself on being a craftsman in his trade. It is quite fitting, therefore, that we have the president of the New York Club of Printing House Craftsmen do honor to Benjamin Franklin. I am pleased to present Mr. James L. Goggins, who will speak on Benjamin Franklin Genius. Mr. Goggins. Mr. Chairman, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, today being the first day of printing week, it is fitting that we meet to observe the 246th anniversary of the birth of one who, in truth, became a genius. The man who walked the highways seeking the opportunity to prove himself, this man who, two centuries later, is fondly called the patron saint of printers, was on this premise that he became the versatile Franklin because with the growing years he found his talents developed, multiplied, and practiced beyond expectations. Here was Franklin beginning with little, but through effort, winning distinction for his many accomplishments abroad as well as at home. Nature was not generous in endowing Benjamin Franklin. He was one of whom, it has been said, received little. But that little he used to such an advantage that he grew to fame and renown. This son of New England became the first great American. Of him, it has been said, quite possibly Franklin was the greatest man the Western Hemisphere has produced. His way of life and service was such that now, two and a half centuries after his birth, his purposes and ideals may well be looked upon as effective guides for the security of our country. Franklin was a genius. He was not limited to one sphere of activity, but excelled in many. And to whatever he set his hand in mind, there he gave phenomenal intellectual power. I find it hard to believe, as we sometimes hear and are told, that he was endowed by or with genius. Stripped of all glamour and all mystery, the genius of Franklin was but the issue of applied talent. We find nothing extraordinary in the life of either his father or mother to suggest anything of hereditary transmittal. His parents were just about like the New England folks of the time, hard-working, honest, calculating, thrifty, and with their usual concern for their reputation and the opinion of their neighbors. If again, as we are occasionally told, there are transmitted from parents to children tendencies and susceptibilities, there was nothing that young Franklin seemed to derive from his parents except a desire for right, thoughtful, and useful living. It is therefore possible, in fact, other competing factors being absent, that this implanted urge lies, in this implanted urge, lies the root of his future greatness. Again, we find nothing extraordinary in that other element that helps fashion men's lives, environment, that could claim credit for Franklin's genius. Considering that he was the eighth of ten children, little thought is required to vision this home, with its problems, its children, or the table at which Franklin says he remembers thirteen sat at one time. That home may not account for his greatness, except that in it he could have acquired two most valuable characteristics to serve him through life. One, that of being resourceful and self-reliant. The other, of getting along with his fellows. That is something we all need. His great ability was due neither to heredity nor to environment. That, of course, is my opinion. It was achieved, and I feel sure, that he must have really enjoyed doing the things that made him great. The more recent rediscovery of Franklin has much to commend it, especially at a time when guidance and inspiration, clear thinking, and pursuance of basic traditional principles are so much needed. In this Printing Week celebration throughout the nation, under the guidance of many and various organizations, knowledge of the achievements of Franklin will be spread. Our own International Association of the Club of Printing House Craftsmen, whose motto has been and will be, Share Your Knowledge, has endorsed Franklin Anniversary Day. And it will be observed by practically every local craftsman's club in this country and abroad. It is also being observed by some 49 junior Benjamin Franklin chapters in our own city schools. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking to you, I have chosen to keep away from the particular events which led to his greatness. These are all available in the records, and I'll only be boring you with those details. So I have chosen rather to show that the most versatile of our countrymen came to fame by no miracle. But by using to the full the talents of most people, the door of opportunity is open to all of us who will use the effort and the application. And I emphasize the word application, which is something we all miss a lot of times in our lives. A quotation at this point is one by a prominent publisher, which I read recently, which I quote. My own belief is that a great many people don't understand how much a man can do that he didn't know he could do until he had to do it. That may sound jumbled, but analyzed, it really makes sense. And now perhaps in these times of a greatly disturbed world, if we can get back to the clear thinking, to the basic principles that actuated Franklin in times just as difficult as they are today, If we can get clear of the useless and with vision keep our eyes clearly on worthy objectives, we shall not have met in vain in honoring Benjamin Franklin, a true genius. Thank you. One of the greatest contributions that Benjamin Franklin has made toward the encouragement of good habits has been his enthusiasm for his life. enthusiasm for thrift and savings. It is appropriate, therefore, that our next speaker, who is president of the International Benjamin Franklin Society and president of the Century Federal Savings and Loan Association, speak to us on Benjamin Franklin and savings. It is a pleasure to present Brigadier General George L. Bliss. Mr. Chairman, friends of Franklin, it seems to me that if Benjamin Franklin could return to be with us today, he would be saddened by the turmoil in his own country and others. But that would be no new story to him. There were confusion and turmoil here and abroad in his day. plenty of both. He would find himself surrounded by political uncertainties, corruption, and stupidity. This would be very familiar to him, too. The people of America were up to their eyebrows in those things all during his life. But with his help, the citizens of the new country pulled themselves together, compromised their differences, and they and their successors went on to create the greatest nation the world has ever seen. As I have said, Franklin would be saddened by some of the conditions existing today. But he would not be discouraged. And I'll wager he would come through with some ideas and actions which would help us mightily in our present troubles. There is one thing, however, which would please him greatly. As you know, one of the great foundations of his philosophy was thrift. He preached it all his life. He wrote about it and he practiced it. And now, as we enter not only Printing Week but National Thrift Week, he would be delighted at the way in which many of the American people have taken his words seriously to their very great advantage and pleasure. He would be almost staggered by the fact that the liquid savings of the American people in their savings accounts, in savings of loan associations, savings banks, insurance policies, and similar depositories are now at the huge total of 185 billions of dollars. Which is twice as much, by the way, as the total demand deposits in all of our banks. This would make him beam with pleasure because he was a kindly man and he would think of what this saved money will mean to so many millions of families and individuals in time of need. He would note with a feeling of exultation, I think, another form of savings in which the people of the country he helped so much lead the world. Home ownership. An almost unbelievable situation has come about in that for the first time in our history, the number of people in America who own the homes in which they live is greater than the number who are renting homes or apartments. This is an astonishing fact. Just think of it. Today, there are over 19 million American families living in their own homes as compared with 17 million families renting the places in which they live. Home ownership is thrift. Coupled with the liquid savings of 185 billions of dollars to which I've already referred, it means that Franklin's teachings have been put into practice to an extent that far exceeds the amount of money. That far exceeds anything he could have dreamed of when he wrote his wholesome and homely philosophies. Franklin was a good solid man. American citizens are good solid people. Franklin represented them well two and a half centuries ago. They represent him well on this, his 246th anniversary. Thank you. He said eso throughout his grandsame. Franklin is over a few weeks. Frankly, black no one was terrible. If we went up and had all those economism, the answer to him... Santa Feена. Hepole Pitcail victories for you.veis объясduon. And you know viewers every novel as well and a half centuries ago.форм statist careers over the past 14 years ago. In late last year, you know the entrepreneur users got blessed and were so celebrated should not include and successful. subcdegree, you know more books working as a big milestone or proof. For example including presidents forever and jewelry, Medicare sales, that he is actuallygaard-doctoral seen with the canon and zooms and big and most notably things as a major champions agens Off theyśmy-de hyvinettable than half mandate situations. The world has been taken with senior coaches and bad cars in the world than the world there were. Mr. H.B. LaQuarte will discuss Benjamin Franklin and advertising. Mr. LaQuarte. Chairman Friedman, distinguished guests of honor, members of the high school department of the New York School of Printing, and radio listeners. When Chairman Friedman advised me that I would be sixth on the list to address you today, you may know that I must have feared that everything that could be said about Franklin would have been covered before they got to my particular talk. I'm happy to tell you that that is not a fact. Among the many other firsts for which credit is given to the amazing Benjamin Franklin is that he is founder of advertising. And as such, we of the Advertising Club of New York are delighted to join with you in paying tribute to him today. Benjamin Franklin was the first to perceive that it is useless to have something that you want to sell if you don't let it be known that you are the one who wants to sell it. In those early days, he set forth his wants or his wares with this simple sentence. This is to give public notice that. And as one of his historians wrote of him, I quote, he then went on in words that fell trippingly from his mind, but measurably from his skill. Those words, written so long ago, have the artless sincerity of the artful simplicity for which all advertising copywriters today are so earnestly striving. And wonderful to relate, he always came to a halt when he had finished a thought. His ideas didn't need to hunt for words, although words said to relate so often must hunt for ideas. This is another example of Franklin's ability still marveled at today. He was so imbued, so convinced with the value of advertising that everything he said or did constituted advertising in its highest sense, namely, the molding of favorable public opinion. Sometimes he pioneered, invented what were then new methods of putting a message across. Other times he used old methods with a new success. But always he seemed to understand people and to give them the type of message that would appeal to them. He was the first to believe in display advertising. He was the first to illustrate a news story. He was the first to draw a cartoon. He was the first one-man advertising agency. Circumstances compelled him to be that. Today there are many forms of advertising and we find that Franklin used them all, including merchandising, sales promotion, direct mail, and public relations or propaganda. He used them all for three different purposes. First, promoting himself and the betterment of his printing business. Second, in his promoting of the various ideas he had for civic betterment. And finally, in the promoting of the best interest of America in England and France. His first and most effective advertising was in connection with his own business as a printer. He sensed that it was not enough to be able, honest, and industrious. People had to know that he had those qualities. He worked hard, but he took good care that his neighbors knew that he worked hard. He would stay up all night to complete a job in order to impress a customer with his speed and efficiency. To impress people that he was a low-cost printer, he avoided anything in his personal appearance that would be like that fact. He dressed plainly and was seen at no places of idle diversion. To show you how he met competition, let me tell you of a rival printer named Bradford who did all the government printing. Bradford officially printed an address by the governor to the assembly. Franklin reprinted the same address on his own initiative and sent a copy to all members of the assembly. Their work was so much better than Bradford's that Franklin got the government printing account. He started a magazine called the Pennsylvania Gazette for which he wrote originally all the text and most of the advertising copy. If he didn't like the advertising copy that was submitted to it, he rewrote it in his own characteristic style. He so firmly believed that advertising helped trade, he devoted more than half of each issue of this paper to advertising. Many of his issues contained as many as seven different advertisements for the sale of his own products or extra services. Through his intense attention to every detail, the Pennsylvania Gazette became the most attractive paper in the colonies in terms of topography, literary merit, and news interest and therefore carried more advertising than any other paper at that time. What I have said refers to his success as an advertising man in the promotion of his own business as a printer. But Franklin was an amazing man. He had many, many other interests and it was due to his advertising acumen and mobility that many of these incidental projects of his were developed. It was due to his belief in advertising as a promotional force and his ability as a practitioner of advertising that most of these ideas of his were so quickly adopted and so effectively developed. Finally, his belief in advertising laid the foundation for his great success when he was called to go to England and France as an ambassador for the colonies. Here again, he used to the fullest extent his ability as an advertising man with the gift of sales promotion to sell the story of America to those people before he came and after he arrived there. Time does not permit me to tell you some very interesting stories of his promotional activities both before he left for Europe and after he had arrived there and knew better the problems he had to face. He studied advertising and all its possibilities very earnestly. He realized that knowledge meant advancement and steady growth. He liked no company as much as that of his fellow printers, publishers, and advertising men. Franklin in this way gave to the advertising industry one basic thought. He said that for a man to be useful he must have knowledge. We in advertising today believe wholeheartedly in that doctrine. we say that advertising grows and will grow in usefulness as it grows in the knowledge of its task and how to perform it. The advertising world consistently encourages more education and better training for usefulness in every branch of our wide-flung activities. To that praiseworthy objective the Advertising Club of New York extends every possible cooperation. Franklin was the first to turn our minds to the value of effective advertising. Today, advertising is one of the greatest forces that has made and keeps America great. Today, more than 200 years after Franklin's time, every advertising man continues to pay homage and respect to the vision, the inspiration, and the talent of the amazing Benjamin Franklin. We have been honored by discussions on Benjamin Franklin by men of industry, labor, management, and government. These are, by and large, all part of the activities of the grown citizen. Our next speaker represents a phase of our life which is the basic foundation of fitness to be proper citizens. To give you statistics as to how large and intricate is our school system in New York City would take far more time than is allotted in this program. Those who are familiar with the activities of the New York public schools as well as the development of the excellent program on printing vocational education know of the fine work being done under the supervision of our next speaker. He is well qualified to discuss his topic, Benjamin Franklin and the educated citizen. I am deeply honored to present Dr. William Jansen, superintendent of schools, the city of New York, Dr. Jansen. Mr. Friedman, honored guests and students and faculty of the New York School for printing. You know, life is so hurried that we are apt to forget the men who made our nation great and I think all of us should be deeply grateful to the men of industry and of labor and management and others who each year make us stop for a while and think of the greatness of Ben Franklin. in our school system we realize that no one can learn everything. Life is too complex and so we are constantly interested in trying to find out what can we teach best to each individual depending upon his general ability and his aptitude. and Ben Franklin had that idea when he founded what later became the University of Pennsylvania. He said that there is two kinds of subject matter that each student should have the cultural and the practical and that is very much the type of education that you get for example today in a school of printing with a half day devoted to the cultural subjects and a half day devoted to the printing as a skill. In other words Ben Franklin many many years ago foresaw the type of education that is now prevalent in the field of vocation. He said that students ought to learn those things that are most useful and most ornamental but with regard to the professions which they intend to enter. All should be taught how to write a fair hand and swift as that is useful to all. Well the swiftness now we've replaced with shorthand and the typewriter. Drawing is useful he said to the mechanic for by a little skill of this kind the workman may perfect his own idea of the thing which is to be done and how it's to work and he can show a draft for the encouragement and satisfaction of his employer. He said that every child should learn the English language and history. He said people ought to learn a foreign language but only those who have the aptitude for it. And finally he said that students should also develop the idea of service to others and good manners or what he called good breeding. No one of course two centuries ago in colonial America could have envisaged envisaged the school program of today. Benjamin Franklin himself finished his formal school education at the age of 10 and it was 17 years after Franklin's death before a man named Lancaster came here from England and introduced the monitorial system. It had advantages and disadvantages but because it was cheap it did stimulate education for all. What we may well wonder was the lot of the average child or the underprivileged child in Franklin's day. What we may well wonder would have been Franklin's education if he had not been endowed with genius. Perhaps it is idle to speculate. Perhaps it is better to acknowledge the impressive fact of his genius and to rejoice that Providence gave to America a man who had so much to give to his country. The 17-year-old penniless boy who entered Philadelphia 249 years ago and became sole owner and editor of the Pennsylvania Gazette only seven years later through his genius caused that Gazette to reach the largest circulation of any periodical then in existence in the colonies. This was but a modest beginning of a life the story of which has gripped the imagination of the world for successive generations since Franklin published his autobiography. Printer editor writer linguist philosopher scientist educator statesman and patriot he lived through 84 years of one of history's most crucial periods. In fact he made history. Today we once again pay tribute to him with thanks in our heart for his great contribution in molding American life and character. Thank you. Thank you Dr. Jansen We would like to thank Mr. Ferdy Tegel principal of the New York School of Printing for the arrangements of the program. The New York School of Printing Orchestra under the direction of Mr. George Waldman for their part in this meeting and Mr. Seymour Siegel of the Municipal Broadcasting System for the courtesy of the radio facilities. After the singing of the National Hymn America we will all adjourn to the statue of Benjamin Franklin in Printing House Square where reads will be placed by the following representatives Advertising Club of New York Mr. H.B. Laquat Past President Allied Printing Trades Council of Greater New York Louis F. Donato Executive Secretary Benjamin Franklin High School General Organization Mr. Robert Bauman President Bookbinders and Machine Operators Union Number 25 Mr. Jacob Neumeier Business Representative International Benjamin Franklin Society Brigadier General George L. Bliss President International Graphic Arts Education Association Mr. Patrick F. Bogle New York Club of Printing House Craftsmen Mr. James L. Goggins President New York Employing Printers Association Mr. William H. Walling President New York Photo Engravers Union Number 1 Mr. Dennis M. Burke President New York Press Assistance Union Number 23 Mrs. Betty Hawley Donnelly New York Printing Pressman's Union Number 51 Mr. Walter Ray Curran President New York Typographical Union Number 6 Mr. Lawrence H. Victory President Printing Teachers Guild of New York Mr. Robert W. Sinar President And the New York School of Printing General Organization Mr. Leo Citrolla President Will you please rise? Councilmaan My darkly tears of thee, sweet land of liberty, only I see. And where my glory's run, and above the field will dry, for every hour, this hundred people will be. Meeting is adjourned. Your city station has brought you a special broadcast of the proceedings in today's dual celebration of printing week and the 246th anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin. Among our distinguished speakers today were Deputy Mayor Charles Horowitz, Superintendent of Schools, Dr. William Janssen, General George L. Bliss of the International Benjamin Franklin Society, and Charles A. McNally, William H. Walling, James L. Goggins, and H. B. Laquotte, all representing various faces of the printing industry, with Harry J. Friedman, sales manager of the Cary Press Corporation, presiding. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. It is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Yapatch Foundation has taken place and offices. This is theeler of Germanic Millennium and Performance Board Sets, the public affairs has already set and goal governor after strategic planning , Newким and Aerob Shape Professor és Corwin. For example, all these special presidents who have been executed today in the Descunes, the Acts of thekeep, the work of the Social Senate Board, we 협ynı di conseiller of People's Hall and or Toc. This is the people who �体사를 put this ground public in, it's important to fully verschiedenenyn fentanyi, theisin smoke, the corporation works together orxxed with wielding the whole state body and the company should deny vol' buildings, has to be manipulated depending on your screen, the end theater many been fairs.
