I realize that nine days is much too brief a time for a visitor to spend in this great country. But in that period, I have had the opportunity of having extended and frank discussions with Mr. Khrushchev and other leaders of your government. I have visited Leningrad, Siberia, and the Ural. And I've had the privilege of meeting thousands of people in all walks of life. What I would like to do now is to answer for the millions of people who are listening to this program some of the questions which were asked me over and over again on this trip so that you may get a true picture of the policies of the American government and of the American people. I should like to begin by answering a question which I have often heard. What are my impressions of this country and its people? While my visit was brief, I did have a chance, in addition to visiting this great capital city of Moscow, to see the beauty and culture of Leningrad. These brave people won the admiration of the world for their heroic defense of their city during the war. To savor the inspiring pioneer spirit of those of her. To witness firsthand the thriving productivity of the factory complex of the earth. I was greatly impressed by the efficient modern equipment of your factory. Your magnificent ballets in Leningrad and over the bridge. By the competitive drive for progress, which is evident on every town. But most of all, I was impressed by your people. After all, the greatest asset of a country is not its forests or its factories or its farms, but its people. These are some of the characteristics of the Soviet people, which I particularly noticed on this trip. First, their capacity for hard work. Their vitality. Their intense desire to improve their luck, to get ahead. This has ever been everywhere. There was another feature about the Soviet people, which I noticed, that may surprise you. And that is, in how many respects, you are like us Americans. We are similar in our love of humor. We laugh at the same joke. And incidentally, I want to apologize to this audience for taking you away from what I understand is one of your favorite programs. A program on humor. The people of your frontier east have much the same spirit of what was our frontier west. And we have a common love of sports. The name of Vasily Koneskov, your great decathlon champion, is known in the United States as well as it is in the Soviet Union. And we are both a hospitable, friendly people. When we meet each other, we tend to like each other personally, as so many of our soldiers who met during the last great war can attack. And above all, the American people and the Soviet people are as one in their desire for peace. And our desire for peace is not because either of us is weak. On the contrary, each of us is strong and respects the strength the other's strength. Now this means that if we are to have peace, it must be a justice based on mutual respect rather than the peace of surrender or dictation by either side. Putting it bluntly, both of our peoples want peace. But both of us also possess great strength. And much as we want peace, neither of us can or will tolerate being pushed around. That is why I was so surprised at a question that was asked me by a worker on the new scientific center outside of Nova Suburban. My heart went out to him as he told me that he had been wounded in World War II and that his father and mother had been killed by that. But then he said, I don't believe you when you say America is for peace. Nothing he could have said could have astonished or saddened me more. And so to the millions of Soviet people who suffered or lost their loved ones in war. To all of those in this great country who want peace. I say, if you doubt that the American government and the American people are as dedicated to peace as you are, look at our records, examine our policies, and you can reach only one conclusion. Only aggressor nations have anything to fear from the United States of America. We have fought in two world wars. And we have demanded and received not an acre of territory, not a cent in reparation. We enjoy the highest standard of living of any people in the world's history. And there is nothing whatever that we want from any other people in the world. Except to live in peace and friendship with them. No leader in the world today could be more dedicated to peace than our president. As his brother, who has honored us by making this visit with us, will tell you, President Eisenhower's whole life is proof of this stark but simple truth. That no one hates war more than one who has seen a lot of it. We know as you do that in this age of nuclear weapons, it is impossible for either of our nations to launch an attack which would not bring terrible destruction on itself. In this age, any leader who is so insane even to think of starting a war should well eat the account. Do not dig a pit for another. You may fall into it yourself. Why then is there any doubt that the American government and people are just as dedicated to peace as the people of the U.S.S. are? I think that part of the answer is to be found in another question, which was often asked me on this trip and which Mr. Khrushchev himself raised in this manner in his speech on July 28th. He said, if you believe in the peaceful intentions of our country, why do you continue the armed race? Why do you construct new military bases around our borders? Now, in answering this question, let me first point out that these bases are not maintained for purposes of attacking you, but for purposes of defending ourselves and our allies. Why did we think it was necessary to set up bases? Let us look at the record. We disarmed rapidly after World War II. And then came a series of events, events which threatened our friends abroad as well as ourselves. The Berlin-Brancais, the war in Korea, are typical of the actions which led the United States and our allies to rearm so that we could defend ourselves against aggression. And we also must remember that these events occurred before the 20th Party Congress changed the line to the one Mr. Khrushchev initiated again in his speech. That communism will now try to achieve its international objectives by peaceful means rather than by force. I could cite statement after statement made by previous leaders of the USSR which advocated and threatened the use of force against non-communist countries in order to achieve communist objectives. A striking illustration of why we maintain bases and strong military forces is the fact that one-fourth of the entire production of the USSR goes into armament. This, in effect, means that every worker in the Soviet Union works one day out of four for armament. And we in our country are also bearing a heavy burden of armament. Think what it could mean to both of our people if we could lift this burden from the backs of our people. Now some may ask why we don't get rid of the bases since the Soviet government declares today that it has only peaceful intentions. The answer is that whenever the fear and suspicion that caused us and our allies to take measures for collecting self-defense are removed, the reason for our maintaining bases will be removed. In other words, the only possible solution of this problem lies in mutual rather than unilateral action leading toward disarmament. Now another question which is often asked me was, why won't the United States agree to stop the test of atomic weapons? The answer in a nutshell is that the question is not whether we both should enter into an agreement to stop tests, but whether that agreement is one which will make sure that the tests actually are stopped. That is why we say that if both sides honestly want to stop tests, we must first agree to set up inspection procedures in both of our countries, which will make certain that the agreement is not violent. We believe this position is the only one that gives the assurance of accomplishing the objective of stopping tests rather than just signing an agreement to do so. We are encouraged by the fact that at least in this area, we are presently engaged in serious negotiations which have made some progress. And I know that I express the sentiments of the people of both of our countries when I say that I am hopeful that these negotiations will finally end in an agreement. Now another question that has often been asked me was something like this. The United States says it is for peace, but what the world wants are deeds, not words. In case, it is short on deeds and long on words. But nothing could be further from the truth. It is possible that many of you listening to me are not aware of the positive programs the United States proposed, which were designed to contribute to peace. Let me tell you about just a few of them. What happened to them? We had a monopoly on the atomic bomb when on June 14, 1946, we submitted the Baruch Plan for International Control of Atomic Energy. What happened? Rejected by the USSR. Under Article 43 of the United Nations Charter, provision was made for the establishment of the United Nations Armed Forces to keep the peace. On June 4, 1947, we made the first of many requests that agreement be reached. What happened? All have been rejected by the USSR. At the summit conference in June, on July 21, 1955, President Eisenhower made his offer of open skies aerial inspection. What happened? Rejected by the USSR. On May 1, 1958, the United States offered an Arctic aerial inspection plan to protect both of our nations from surprise attacks. What happened? It was rejected by the USSR. Now I realize that your government has indicated reasons for its rejection of each of these proposals. And I do not lift these proposals for the purpose of warming over past history. But simply to demonstrate the initiative that our government has taken to reduce tension and to find peaceful solutions for differences between us. I realize that my answers to these questions indicate that there are some very basic differences between us. But let me emphasize at the same time that the very fact that we have not made as much progress as we would like in the past in settling our differences is the strongest reason for us to redouble our efforts to create better understanding between our two countries. And why not go further and set up regular radio and television broadcasts by Mr. Khrushchev to the American people in return to President Eisenhower having the same privilege to talk to the Soviet people. Let us put a stop to the jamming of broadcasts so that the Soviet people may hear broadcasts from our country just as the American people can hear 40 hours of broadcasts a day from the Soviet Union. ...states last year. Now I recognize that freedom of information can be abused and that neither of us is free from blame and disrespect. Press, radio, television, and other means of communication such as film studios have a heavy responsibility for maintaining the spirit of truth and for preventing misinformation. But in the final analysis, the misrepresentation of facts or distortion of the truth defeats the stuff. Now let me give you an example from the experience that occurred to me on this trip. There was a report in profit to the effect that on the morning after I arrived in Moscow, I tried to give money to a poor Soviet citizen with the hope that American press photographers who were present might take pictures of the incident and send them around the world. Now there wasn't a spread of truth to this story. Let me tell you what actually happened. On an early morning visit to the Danilovsky market, I had talked to scores of people and I received a most friendly welcome. As I was about to leave, several of the people asked me for tickets to the American exhibition. I told them I didn't have any with me, but that I would be glad to buy some tickets for those present who wanted to attend the exhibition. One of the group explained that it was not a question of their not having money for the tickets, it was simply a question of their not being able to obtain them. I told him that I would be glad to check into the matter and see if I could get tickets for him. Now these are the simple facts as far as this incident was concerned. And I can only add that all irresponsible reporters should never forget that in the end the truth always catches up with a lot. Through a greater exchange of information between our two people, we not only learn from each other and improve our way of life, but we reduce suspicion and mistrust, fear and misunderstanding. We assure the understanding and friendship which will lead to the peace we all want. That is why to me, the concept of coexistence is completely inadequate and negative. Coexistence implies that the world must be divided into two hostile camps with a wall of hate and fear in between. What we need today is not two worlds, but one world, where different people choose the economic and political systems which they want, but where there is free communication among all the people living on this earth. Let us expand the concept of open skies. What the world also needs are open cities, open minds, open hearts. Let us have peaceful competition, not only in producing the best factories, but in producing better lives for our people. Let us cooperate in our exploration of outer space. As a worker told me in over-sistered earth, let us go to the moon together. Let our aim be not victory over other peoples, but victory of all mankind over hunger, want, misery and disease, wherever it exists in the world. Now I realize that this era of peaceful competition and even cooperation seems like an impossible dream when we consider the present differences we have between us. But the leaders of our country can help make this dream come true. So far as the leader of our country is concerned, I can assure you that President Eisenhower has no objective to which he is more dedicated. As far as Mr. Khrushchev is concerned, as I am sure you know, we disagree sharply on political and economic philosophy and on many world problems. But these characteristics are evident to anyone who meets him as I have. He is a self-made man who worked his way up from the bottom. He is an articulate spokesman for the economic system in which he believes. He has immense drive. In sum, he is one of those individuals who, whether you agree with him or disagree with him, is a born leader of men. Because he has these unique qualities, and because the decisions he makes will affect not only the 200 million people of the USSR, but the 3 billion people on this earth, he carries a tremendous responsibility on his shoulders. Now I would not be so presumptuous as to try to give him advice on how he should fulfill that responsibility. But could I relate something that I noted on the trip I just completed? In every factory, and on hundreds of billboards, I saw this slogan, Let us work for the victory of communism. Now, if Mr. Khrushchev means by this slogan, working for a better life for the people within the Soviet Union, that is one thing. If, on the other hand, he means the victory of communism over the United States and other countries, this is a horse of a different color. For we have our own ideas as to what system is best for us. If he devotes his immense energies and talents to building a better life for the people of his own country, Mr. Khrushchev can go down in history as one of the greatest leaders the Soviet people have ever produced. But, if he diverts the resources and talents of his people to the objective of promoting the communization of countries outside the Soviet Union, he will only assure that both he and his people will continue to live in an era of fear, of suspicion, of tactful. The Geneva conference is the case in place. It would not be proper for me to comment on the specific proposals that are pending before that conference at this time. But, agreements between great powers cannot be reached unless they take into account the views and interests of all parties concerned. I was encouraged to note in my conversation with Mr. Khrushchev that he recognizes this fact and agrees that a successful outcome of this conference could be a great step forward in settling some of the problems I have discussed tonight. I have just one final thought to add. Mr. Khrushchev predicted that our children in the United States, our grandchildren, would live under communism. And he reiterated this to me in our talks last Sunday. Let me say that we do not object to his saying this will happen. We only object if he tries to bring it about. And this is my answer to him. We do not say that your grandchildren will live under capitalism. We prefer our system. But the very essence of our belief is that we do not, and that we will not, try to impose our system on anyone else. We believe that you, all other peoples on this earth, should have the right to choose the kind of economic or political system which best fits your particular problem, and to do that without any foreign intervention. As I leave your country, I shall never forget an incident that occurred to me as I was driving through your beautiful Uramount. A group of children on the side of the road threw wildflowers into my car in the past and cried in English the word, friendship. Mr. Dukov told me that the first word children who study English are taught is the word, friendship. There could be no more eloquent expression of the attitude of the Soviet people, an attitude which I assure you tonight, we share in common with you. And finally, may I express on behalf of my wife and myself, and all the members of our party, our deep appreciation for the warm friendship, for the boundless hospitality we have found everywhere we have gone in the Soviet Union. And as I leave, I pledge to you that in the years to come, I shall devote my best efforts to the cause of peace with justice for all the people of the world. For sure, it's a favor. Go to the doctor.