Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, what should be our national labor policy? The 83rd Congress now is considering changes in our basic national labor statute, the Taft-Hartley Act of 1947. Our discussion today will center around the wisdom of amending that act and ways and means of doing so. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Thomas E. Harris, Associate General Counsel with the CIO. Theodore R. Iserman, Attorney with Kelly, Dry, Newhall, and McGinnis in New York City. Barnabas F. Sears, Employer's Attorney in Aurora and Chicago with Sears and Streit. And L. N. D. Wells, Jr., Attorney with the Texas State Federation of Labor with Mullinax and Wells in Dallas, Texas. Now I should say that all of our speakers today are members of the Council of the Section of Labor Relations Law of the American Bar Association, now in session in Chicago. The Section of Labor Relations Law includes over a thousand lawyers representing unions and management throughout the nation. This section works through committees to sponsor research in better methods of utilizing labor law as an instrument for improving labor management relations. To open the discussion, Iserman, I should like to ask whether our national labor policy should be one of encouraging labor organization and collective bargaining. What view do you take on that? Well, it depends on what you mean by encouraging. If you mean by that, that we ought to create an atmosphere favorable to the organizing of employees on a voluntary basis without compulsion or coercion either by employers or by unions or by the government, I think we should have that kind of a law. If, however, we mean by encouraging collective bargaining and labor organization, we mean that we should force people into the unions one way or the other, I don't think we should encourage them to that extent. And that's the, that's the way we have been operating for too many years. Well, now, just a minute there, Mr. Iserman. It was our national labor policy up until 1947 to encourage the practice of collective bargaining. But at that point, Taft-Hartley was enacted and we, uh, we set two diametrically opposed policies. One, we purported to continue a policy of, of encouraging labor organization. And on the other hand, we re, so restricted the process that we were that it made true collective bargaining very difficult. Well, not the, uh, the, uh, Taft-Hartley, I think we were that we were, so restricted the process, uh, that, uh, it made true collective bargaining very difficult. Well, not the, uh, the, uh, Taft-Hartley, I think we were that we were, uh, the, uh, the, uh, Taft-Hartley Act includes all of the protections of organizing, all of, all the protections of employees who wish to organize that the Wagner Act had. It also includes, however, a language that protects the rights of employees who, for one reason or another, uh, don't wish to, uh, join a union or to engage in a union strikes or other activities. Well, you'll recall, uh, uh, President Eisenhower's, uh, address in New York in, in November, uh, in which he indicated that the, uh, present Taft-Hartley law could, uh, be used to break unions, as he stated. He was, he was referring to one clause. And he suggested that that must be changed. He was referring to one clause of the Taft-Hartley Act, a clause that incidentally never has been used to bust a union, to my knowledge, or as, as far as I can find in the research. But, uh, by some far-fetched theory, it might conceivably sometime be used to bust a union. Well, are you suggesting that Senator Taft is a far-fetched theorist in the, some, what is it, 29 changes that he would make in the present law? Well, I would suggest... Most of those are administrative. Mr. Sears wants to work here. I would suggest to both of you gentlemen that we had a national labor policy, uh, prior to the passage of the Wagner Act. I mean, the courts had, for many years prior to that time, recognized labor organizations and the right to collective bargaining. And one of the classical opinions on that question was an opinion written by old Chief Justice Taft in the Tri-City Council's case. I mean, actually, we didn't have to, uh, implement, uh, this problem with a lot of detailed legislation, whether it favors an employer or favors an employee or a trade union. Well, now let me ask, uh, Wells here a, a specific question, if I may. What protections should our national labor policy give the employee who does not wish to take part in union affairs and, and activities? That's relevant to this matter we're talking about. Well, I think the basic premise of the, of the Wagner Act is, is a proper one. Uh, that we should encourage collective bargaining. That's, uh, a process by which grievances and difficulties between labor and management can be bargained out and settled by the parties without, uh, a bureaucratic, uh, intervention. Uh... You have no apprehension about the, the closed shop, then, I take it? Well, I am, uh, greatly in favor of the closed shop, which of course is outlawed by Taft Hartley. Uh, Taft Hartley has, uh, said to the printing trades and to the shipping, uh, interests and to the building trades, employers and unions, you can't even bargain about, uh, a closed shop. Only in limited circumstances can you even have a union shop. And what that statute has done is taken a hundred years of history and, uh, decent labor relations and thrown it out the window. How do you feel about that, Heisman? That's a question of whether or not working people are going to be free people. Under the closed shop and union shop conditions before Taft Hartley, a union leader could have a man fired from his job because that man criticized the union leader or because he criticized a union policy or because he disagreed one way or another with what the union leader thought the man ought to think. However, they had no right of free speech, not even in their own union halls. And the union had the power to get anybody fired for almost any fantastic reason that they dreamt up, an arbitrary and great power that subjugated the man to the union and the union leaders. You think the, the, the Taft Act has, uh, remedied that situation? To a very considerable extent. Yes. I think it's undoubtedly true that the closed shop does give the union some voice in hiring. Uh, without a closed shop and until the Wagner Act came along, of course the employer had absolute and unlimited discretion in hiring and firing. He still has virtually unlimited discretion. An employer now can fire a man for almost any reason except union membership or non-membership. He, as far as the national legislation goes, he can fire him for being a Catholic or a Jew or for having red hair or because he doesn't look at it like the way he looks. Yet these same employers who see nothing wrong in this unlimited employer discretion over hiring or firing, get excited when the unions seek a little influence in the field in order to protect their members and their own position. That is all that a closed shop does, is gives the union some voice along with the employer on hiring. I see nothing revolutionary about that. I don't see that it curtails the rights of the individual any more than the unlimited employer discretion on hiring does. Well, I think it's, I think it's a matter of principle. I think our present difficulty in many instances arises by virtue of our failure to adhere to certain recognized principles or traditions of this country. Now, encouraging labor organizations and collective bargaining, certainly no fair-minded citizen would say no to that question. I certainly believe that in the trade union movement, but I do not believe that any segment of society should have the right to say to another person who has to live in support of family that he must be a member of this particular organization. As a condition of employment. It seems to me that that does violence to the traditions of our life. And furthermore, now you take that to its ultimate. The ultimate of that will be that we will live in a society where every person earning a living shall belong to a particular organization as a condition of employment. Now, unions will never be weaker than when they reach that apparent strong economic point. When they can survey the field and say that everyone is organized, their job is done. And at that point, Uncle Sam will intervene and take over everything. Nobody's suggesting that Uncle Sam intervene and take over everything. If we're going to talk about matters of principle, I suppose the principle that is deeply rooted in our democracy is that of majority rule. Back in the early days of Taft-Hartley when you forget the first ten amendments to the Constitution when you say that. No, I don't. I don't. Majority rule. I mean, there are certain rights guaranteed to every American against which the majority is powerless. Well, but back in the early days of Taft-Hartley when the board was holding elections, the very astounding result was shown that 98.2% of the elections went in favor of the closed shop. The employees want this closed shop. Do the employers want it? Those that agree with the principle of collective bargaining and decent wages, hours, and working conditions do, as I mentioned earlier, in the printing trades, the shipping trades, and the building trades, employers and employees both want it and have wanted it for generations. It's been a sensible way to obtain employees, competent craftsmen. Well, I think that we ought to avoid unwarranted implications on people. I know some very fine employers who do not believe in the closed shop. I know of an employer, a very small employer, who is very violently opposed to the closed shop, and who this year is giving his employees through a profit-sharing plan over a half million dollars, and he doesn't represent over 200, he doesn't have over 250 employees. Yet the result of that profit-sharing plan which he himself instituted will result in an increase in wages to these employees of some 56 cents an hour. Now, he doesn't believe in the principles of the closed shop, and I don't think it's proper for us to say that only those employers who believe in decent wages, working hours, and conditions of employment believe in the closed shop, leaving the inference that those employers who do not believe in that, don't believe in decent wages, hours, and working conditions. Well, let's look at what this closed shop is that we're talking about. In the maritime industry, for example, what it means is that the shipping companies and the union get together and agree that the companies will take men referred to them from the union hiring hall, that the union will refer men to the company from which the companies will get the crews or their ships. Now, the union normally does that in rotation. They put each man who comes back from a voyage at the bottom of the list. Gradually, he rises to the top. When he gets there, he's referred to a shipping company for employment. Now, in contrast, we also have, say, on the New York waterfront, the shape-up system, where for a man to get work as a longshoreman, he has to stand in with or bribe the foreman of the long-shoring company. Now, let me, now that, of course, is not a union shop. It isn't a closed shop. Now, let me ask you, which man has got greater freedom? The fellow, the sailor who operates under a union-run hiring hall, or the longshoreman who has to square the boss's representative to get a job? Let me correct one statement of fact here. Mr. Harris evidently has not been following the revelations of the New York State Crime Commission when he says that the foreman hires the people for the employer. The foreman is a fellow who is put in there by the union, and the union controls the hiring on the New York waterfront, and everybody who's read the papers knows it. And look at the condition that arises when you have a situation in which the union does control the hiring, and where they have virtually a closed shop even today, notwithstanding Taft Hartley. Now, there's another thing that Mr. Harris said earlier that I'd like to respond to before we get too far away from it, and that is that employers have the absolute right of hiring and firing. But most employers, if not all of them, are interested in one thing, in having efficient workmen in their shops, and they hire men or firemen to have efficient work, good work. But the union leaders, they're interested in a lot of things that have nothing to do with a man's wages, hours, and working conditions. They're interested in subjecting that man to control so that they can perpetuate themselves in office and keep the powers that they exercise by virtue of having, of being leaders in the union. And those, a lot of times, those things have nothing to do with wages, hours, and working conditions. Ted, why is it, if that's so, and I just don't think it's so, why is it that the employers in the building trades industry, in the maritime industry, are very much for the closed shop? Isn't it true that they have found the closed shop a fair means of providing them with competent workmen? Now, now, Mr. Eisenman, let me answer the question that he asked me. If these unions are so valuable to the working people, why is it necessary for the unions to agree with the employers that the employees will be compelled to join the unions? If the unions run to the service, the employees will join voluntarily, and it wouldn't be necessary to compel them to join. That's very easily answered. In these unions, or in these industries where a job lasts only a very short time, such as long-shoring or the construction trades, for the union to exist at all, it must have the hiring hall through which the men are hired. The jobs last so short a time that the men hardly have time to join the union after going on the job. Under Taft Hartley, for example, Mr. Sears, I come back and say that we cannot sacrifice principle upon the altar of utility. Now, the question is not necessarily, this question is not necessarily one, whether it is functionally more desirable to have everybody belonging to a union, any more than it's functionally desirable to have everybody belong to a particular society, a fraternity, or a church. We are here dealing with the problem of a man earning a livelihood. Now, should he, as a condition of earning that livelihood, have to belong to a particular organization? To me, it doesn't make any difference whether it's a labor organization or what sort of organization. The element of compulsion, which is the thing that destroys the individual right and the dignity of that particular American citizen, is the thing to which I take the most violent objection. Now, Mr. Sears, in this matter of principle, I... Both Wells and Harris are anxious to reply. I think we've threshed this issue out to a point where we understand each other, at least. Certainly, we haven't reached agreement. There's, if I may forgo your reply, Mr. Wells, I'd like to raise another issue, if I may. And that's about the matter of, uh, of communist-dominated unions, uh, Sears. Um, what's the attitude of the law on that? Well, the present act provides... It's, it's, it's a labor poli... A national labor policy with respect to communist-dominated unions. And the present act provides that union officers must file an affidavit setting forth that they are not members of the Communist Party in substance. Now, the administration of that act by the National Labor Relations Board has been a very illusory one. That is to say, that board has not come to grasp with the problem. Now, the obvious intent of that statute was to outlaw from the industrial scene unions whose officers were communist-dominated. In fact, they're not unions at all. Now, it's to the eternal credit of the CIO that about three years ago, it outlawed many of those communist-dominated organizations. We have a case right now where unions are... Where a particular union, the Mine Mill and Smelter Workers Union, is claiming bargaining rights in a plant on the west side out in Chicago. And the three officers, the president, vice-president, and secretary-treasurer of that union, last October in Salt Lake City, before the McCarran Committee, were each shown photostatic copies of the Taft-Hartley affidavits and asked the questions as to whether or not their signatures appeared thereon, and each one of them individually refused to answer that question on the ground that it would tend to incriminate them, claiming the privilege of the Fifth Amendment. When asked the basic question whether they belonged to the Communist Party, they made a similar answer. Now, the board, when that... We tried to present that before the board here in October about a month ago, and tried to offer that in evidence, the board shut its eyes entirely and said, we have an administrative policy wherein we are going to determine that question ourselves. So the result of it is that we're faced with an election on March 3rd with that union on the ballot. Well, isn't the problem there, Barney, the fact that the present law doesn't deal realistically with the problem. Labor and management alike deplore communism and subversion. Exactly. But the law which the Congress has written doesn't deal realistically with that problem. Well, I see. The present law merely provides that union officers must swear that they're not communists. Now, all it means is that you hire a few more clerks in Washington to file papers. What we need is a law with some teeth in it, and an amendment of this law in that regard. What do you say to that, Harris? Unfortunately, I'm afraid I can't agree with Mr. Wells that all employers are exercised about this problem. The non-communist affidavit provision was put into the act in the first instance, of course, not to protect employers, but to protect the public interest in the national security. That is as it should be. I disagree with that. Now, at least some employers, I'm sure not any that Mr. Sears represents, but at least some employers have been only too happy to deal with communist-led unions for the reason that these unions are weak and on the run at the present time. Now, the Senate Labor Relations Committee only a few months ago severely criticized the General Electric Company for its willingness to deal with a communist-led union. Incidentally, I don't notice any such general outcry against that company as one might expect. The law compels the General Electric Company to deal with what Mr. Harris calls a communist-dominated union, and General Electric has no choice but to deal with that union or break the law. What the committee accused it of doing was a favoring that union, not simply of recognizing it as required by the law, but a favoring it over its non-communist rival. Well, that's a dispute between your electrical workers' union and the rival electrical workers' union, that you, having been more powerful, got the Senate subcommittee that was operating under Senator Humphrey to put something in its report that favored the CIO against this rival. Are you taking the same position as General Electric that this electrical workers' union, the UE, is not communist-led? No. Do you deny that it's communist-led? I don't know whether it's communist-led or not. The answer is this, it seems to me. All you have to do is give the present statute a common-sense application. I think that the provisions of that statute are sufficient because, properly construed, it would give the employer or the competing non-communist-dominated union an opportunity to prove the fact. Now, I don't agree with Mr. Harris when he says that that does, that act does not create a right in an employer. There isn't any person in society that's more interested in the problem than the employer, faced as he is with bargaining with a communist-dominated union. I certainly agree with you that he ought to be, but too many of them have been willing to take advantage of having a weak communist union in the plant and try to keep it there. Farther than just requiring the filing of an affidavit. Now, what's the sense of filing an affidavit? If the affidavit is to be false, I'm not to be permitted to show that the affidavit is false. Now, the letter killeth, the spirit giveth life. And the thing ought to have a common-sense construction. I say that Mr. Reiserman is right when he says what's General Electric. We're together on spirit, but it's the letter that's in the way, the letter of this law. You know that the board, within the last two or three weeks, tried to put some teeth into this provision of the law, and the district court and the district of Columbia said he couldn't do it. With a horseback, unorthodox method of procedure unknown to our basic law, by addressing a number of interrogatories to people without a record or anything of the sort, I never heard of such a horseback proceeding as the one the board tried to use as a result of the grand jury investigation. Well, whether a horseback or a foot, the board is trying to implement the policy of this statute, but the Congress hasn't given the board a statute which could effectively outlaw communist unions in this country. And what you're suggesting is that we ought to have an amendment to the law that would do that. No, I say that the board ought to follow the language of the Supreme Court with respect to the purpose of that particular statute. And all the board has to do is to say, now Mr. Employer or Mr. Competing Union, in a representation proceeding, where the question of whether this union has a right to represent those employees is to be decided, you have a right to prove by evidence in the traditional American manner that the members of this union, the officers of this union claiming bargaining rights, their officers are members of the Communist Party. Well, the Hartley Bill in the House of Representatives in 1947 had a procedure such as Barney Sears has just outlined here, and there are other methods of dealing with this problem of communist-dominated unions. The Hartley Bill had exactly that procedure, and it was changed to take away that procedure before it was passed by the Congress. That's correct. I think, Mr. Deid, out of fairness to the board, we should state that, and should state that the only court which has passed on the issue has held squarely against Mr. Sears. I think we're agreed. That's absolutely wrong. There are two circuit court of appeals cases that say that we have a right to present that evidence, inferentially at least. The record wasn't properly made in that case. And how many cases are there construing statutes which say that a case within the spirit but not within the letter is within the statute? I don't think the solution of this problem, Barney, is to encourage this board to reach out and grasp for authority which Congress deliberately decided not to give it. I certainly am not suggesting that. I'm suggesting that the board give it a common sense construction. A construction... Well, let the Congress be common sense about it and pass an effective law on this, and not one that just requires the filing of papers. Well, there may be some point in that last time. Regardless of whose fault it is, the law is ineffective, and I think we're agreed that the thing ought to be amended. But the only proposal now before the Congress for amending it is to require employers as well as unions to file these non-communist affidavits as though there were some danger that the communists were trying to dominate the corporations. Let me introduce a third issue here, if I may, in the time that remains. Harris, what attitude do you take on this industry-wide bargaining? What's the provision of the Taft-Hartley Act on that? Well, the Taft-Hartley Act provides that the board shall decide in the light of all the circumstances what the appropriate unit for collective bargaining is to be. That may be an industry-wide unit, an employer-wide unit, a plant unit, a regional unit, sometimes even just craft units within a plant. Though, of course, we think that the latter doesn't provide for very effective bargaining. What's your view of that, Iserman? Well, when you have this multiple employer or industry-wide bargaining, it seems to me that you get some results that are not desirable. Of course, we've all seen the industry-wide strikes in coal, the steel industry, on the railroads, and the regional strikes in trucking, and the tugboat and harbor strikes in New York and on the East Coast. And those are bad things. But also, when all the employers in an industry know that the union is going to impose on all of their competitors substantially the same adjustments in wages, hours, and working conditions, then there's less incentive on the part of the employers than there ought to be, less incentive than there ought to be, for them to resist uneconomic demands of the union. They all know they're going to be stuck with the same things and that they won't suffer any competitive disadvantage. And it seems to me that this results in labor costs being higher than they should be, and in prices being higher than they should be, and there's no protection to the public that we normally look for in competition. Let's give Harris a chance to reply to that. Well, I haven't finished. When I try to figure out what Mr. Eiserman means by all of these words, which I have some trouble doing, it seems to come down to the assertion that industry-wide bargaining has led to the workers in certain industries being paid too much. I'm awfully sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. That is not so. You've been listening to a Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, What Should Be Our National Labor Policy? We want to thank our guests for today, Thomas E. Harris, Associate General Counsel, CIO, Theodore Eiserman, Attorney with Kelly, Dry, Newhall, and McGinnis in New York, Barnabas F. Sears, Employers Attorney in Aurora in Chicago, and L.N.D. Wells, Jr., Attorney for the Texas State Federation of Labor and other AFL unions. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will ask, Can we expect relief from tax headaches? Our guest will be Wallace M. Jensen, partner in Touche, Niven, Bailey, and Smart, and chairman of the subcommittee on current tax legislation of the American Institute of Accountants. Edward H. McDermott, partner in McDermott, Will, and Emory, and former counsel with the Congressional Joint Committee on Internal Revenue Taxation. And William H. Pedrick, professor of law in the School of Law at Northwestern University. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, Can We Expect Relief from Tax Headaches? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jack Fuller. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.