Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today, the Reviewing Stand salutes the 4-H clubs of America and their National Congress now in session in Chicago. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the question, where lies America's future, city or country? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are four high school students, two from the city and two from the country, from the farms. I present first Coleman Brown, a student at Evanston Township High School in Evanston, Illinois, and president of the Evanston High School Central Council, and president, I might add, of the National Association of Student Councils. What is this national association, Coleman? Well, the NASC, as it is commonly known, has included in its membership most of the student councils in the country that are organized. It's an affiliate of the Association of Secondary School Principals, which is in turn an affiliate of the National Education Association. And this year, in Evanston, the national conference will be held, at which time, for about three days, students from all over the country will have an opportunity to get together and discuss problems of mutual interest, concerning especially student councils, but of mutual interest in many other lines also. Have you ever attended one of those national meetings, or will this Evanston meeting be your first? I've attended two, the one two years ago in Denver and the one this last summer in Wellesley Hills, Massachusetts. Now, our second speaker is Doris DeShay, from East Chattanooga, Tennessee. What is your high school, Doris? Tanner High School. Do you live on a farm down there? I guess you might call it a farm. It's 13 acres. What brings you to Chicago, young lady? I went a trip to the National 4-H Club Congress on a 4-H farm and home safety project. What kind of a project did you have? What did you do? Well, my project dealt with safety in the home, around the house, and on the farm. Do you have other projects in connection with this 4-H work? Yes, I completed 41. Well, tell us about 41. 41. Tell us about one of them, let's say. Well, I started out with poultry, but I didn't do too much in that. Then, I guess my next largest project to safety would be clothing. I've made all my clothes for eight years. Now, on this poultry project of yours, what kind of poultry were you interested in? I had white-leggers. Chickens, I take it. Chickens. Do you like white-leggers? Yes. Why? Eggs. Eggs, I see. Well, now let me present our next speaker, a lad from the city, Tom Knott from Nutriere Township High School. I take it that is a city high school, Tom. Yes, sir. Some people refer to it as being in the sticks, but it's in the city. Located out here along the... About 16 miles north of Chicago. Did you ever work on a farm, Tom? Yes, sir. One summer, I worked on a farm detastling corn. That was typical of farm life. I don't want any more of it. Then it would be fair to ask you, I take it, since you've worked on a farm, what you think of white-leggers and chickens. You'll pass that one with you? I have no preference. Our fourth speaker is Jim Rosenbaum from Charlo, Montana. Do I pronounce that correctly? Yes, sir. Charlo, Montana. What is your high school out there, Jim? It's the Charlo High School. Charlo High School. What brings you to Chicago? Well, I like Dorset in a national farm and home safety contest. The contest is sponsored by General Motors. And it's a county contest. The members of 4-H clubs enter this contest, compete for county competition, and then for state. And then it's sent on to the club congress for national. And the award in national is a scholarship to help the 4-H members go on to school. What competition particularly did you participate in? It was this home and farm safety competition, I take it. Yes, the main interest was on farm safety around home. And I worked some in the phase of highway safety and around the community and public meetings and the county fair. And mostly the project was in the home and on the farm where we live and spend our time. Do you, like Doris here, have any other projects of interest, Jim? Yes, I've completed many different agricultural projects. And probably the most interesting was my swine projects. I have Chester White Hogs. And in the last three years, I've built up a fair-sized herd of hogs. And they're now making me pretty good money, and I intend to go ahead and raise these. Well, why do you like Chester White's? Well, I've always had good luck with them. And I think the main point that I'd like to bring out there is I believe they'll feed out and be ready for market in the least time of any hogs that I know of. Do you ever make a pet out of a hog? Yes. Are they friendly? In a way. People say that hog can't be handled. But I found this to be very untrue because in the fairs, I always enter the showmanship contest. This is a contest in which the animals are showed to the judge to the best advantage. And they have to be trained so to be handled in any position or any place. And the hog is handled with a cane. There's no direct control. But if he's trained well with the cane, you can drive hogs up on steps and platforms in practically any place. And if you ever watch a showmanship contest with hogs, you'll see what I mean. Jim, how can you tell whether a hog will make a good pet or not? Well, it's not hard because about the first time you get in with them and start working with them, they're either real mean or else they're rather gentle. And if they're mean, you just about as well quit because they're really stubborn. You're going to have these city boys here interested in hogs as pets if we aren't careful. Let's talk about these 4-H clubs and the 4-H club Congress, which brings Doris and Jim here to Chicago. What is this 4-H club program all about, Doris? Well, our 4-H club has a four-fold development. It helps you to be a better citizen. And we learn better methods of farming and home economics. And we learn to work, live, and play together. What do the 4-Hs stand for? Head, heart, hand, and health. I wondered, is there any relationship between the future farmers of America, I believe it's called, and the 4-H? We in the city hear quite a little of both. I know they're separate, but are they rivals or what? Well, in a way, because most of our contests are between FFA and 4-H boys. And they have projects just like we do. But the only difference is that boys from 10 to 21 can be in the 4-H club, while only high school boys can be in the FFA. Does the 4-H offer a social and recreational program as well as its projects? Go ahead, answer that one, Jim. Well, there are several ways that the 4-H club work in social works. We have what is called a craft club, and they meet so often. And there's different craft work like leather craft. And then there's meetings. At the meetings, they have dances and all sorts of social work. And then there's another phase. We call it the builder's club, which is associated with 4-H. It's primarily a recreational club. And they have meetings, and there's a direct program sponsored. And they work with all sorts of social dancing and parties and all kinds of social work. How many delegates will come here to Chicago for this National Congress, Doris? From 12 to 1,500. Well, now, how are those people selected anyway? They've won some kind of a competition, I take it. Yes, they've won either in the state or regional contests. And what is the nature of this competition? I know you two are interested in this farm and home safety competition. But some of these young men and women, I take it, have won in poultry raising competition, in livestock. Is that correct? Yes, there's all sorts of competition. Primarily the agriculture and home economics contest. And then our activity contest. That takes in safety, health, conservation, recreation, rural arts. Now, do you exhibit here in Chicago? Well, many of the projects are exhibited. So clothing and recreation, rural arts. Do you bring any animals here with you? No, the livestock projects have submitted records for the competition, but there's no exhibition at the... Your exhibition is that, I take it, at county fairs in the like? Yes. I'm curious whether to know these 4-H... whether these 4-H clubs are maintained on a state or a county basis. Well, we have our local clubs, then we have county, district, state, and then nationals. Well, now, let's get to this question of ours. Where lies America's future? In the city or in the country? How would you answer that, Coleman? Well, I think that it's rather obvious that the two divisions are mutually interdependent on each other. American economy has become so specialized that it's almost unavoidable that the city must depend upon the country, and the country in turn upon the city. I think that it's a duty of American citizens, you might say, to try to understand better the other side, you might call it, because I definitely don't think you could have a say that in the future, that either America will depend upon the city or the country. I think the future of America is dependent upon the working together of those two parts of our society. Do you agree with that, Jim? I agree, but that's the only way that I can see that the future could be in any way, because country people, they depend on the city people to buy their products, and then in return, well, the city people, we depend on them to manufacture and industry to make the products and machinery and stuff we use on the farms, so they're definitely related, and everybody's got to work together. Do you think the differences between the city and farm life are as great as they used to be, Doris? No, I don't think so, because we have many modern conveniences on the farm now that help to make it almost as convenient as that in the city. I think probably the automobile, more than any one single thing, has brought the city and the country closer together, because you compare the farm of the 1870s, and you find the farmer almost completely remote from civilization, and now he's rarely over an hour's drive from at least a good-sized town. I believe in addition, radio and television have added to better communication facilities. I suspect that you people are right in that opinion. In my lifetime, I've seen the barriers between city and country break down considerably, largely because of improved communication. I'm thinking of the young men and women who come into our university, from the cities and from the farms and the country and the small villages, and the differences between them are hardly, hardly perceptible. These youngsters who come in from the farms are as sophisticated as young Doris here is from Chattanooga, Tennessee. I think those differences are breaking down. I do believe, though, that the countries do lack the modernization and progressiveness that the cities have. I also believe that the cities have the advantage as far as cultural, fine arts, theater, and museums are concerned. Now, Tom has expressed a definite preference for the city. You'd rather live in the city, would you, Tom? I sure would. I've always lived there, and I probably will always well. You say you worked on a farm one summer? One summer, I worked on a farm detasseling corn. How'd you like that job? Well, it was the most boring job I've ever had in my life. Jim, do you have any rebuttal to that case for the city? Well, I think Tom probably has not had much experience on the farm. He's had his own preference, as I do, but I'd much rather live on the farm, because I think we have, well, more room to move around, and we have, uh, I like the working with nature. We're closer to the soil and nature and the way it works, and I think the city people are more drawn away from that by industry. How long have you been in Chicago, Jim? Three days. Three days. Uh, what is your reaction to Chicago? Well, I like the way the people treat us, because they're all friendly, and they've been awful nice toward us, but, uh, I don't think I'd ever want to live in Chicago, because I can't get used to the traffic, and there's so many people, and everything's different, and I just don't like it. Roman? I think that word, uh, that phrase, everything's different, is probably the key to, uh, almost this whole discussion. What you get used to is what you often prefer. I think that I'd agree with Jim on the point of view of being closer to nature and closer to God, you might say, on the farm, uh, to some degree I'd agree with him, but you also have the, in the city, I think, a wider diversification of opportunity. Uh, you aren't necessarily limited to your activities in one particular field. What your mother and father do, or have done, doesn't limit you to what you must do, or, uh, what you must participate in, I think there's a, as you brought out, uh, Tom, in museums, and as well just in contacts, uh, in the city that gives it a definite advantage over the country. One thing I can't figure out, since I've been in Chicago, I see all these people rushing around, and I can't figure out where they're going. Uh, might this, uh, might this, uh, rushing around that you, she, and Chicago be a difference between the north and the south, Doris, rather than the difference between the city and the country? What do you think? Well, it could be. Uh, do they rush around in Chattanooga? No, we take our own good time. Well, that's probably a pretty good idea. Is your preference for the country, by the way? Yes, I'd, I'd rather live in, uh, a rural section. Why? Well, it's so much cleaner. There's so much smoke, and soot, and, well. It's cleaner in the, in the country. Any other reason? Well, not especially. How do you feel about this? Of course, you have to, you have to take into consideration that Chicago's probably about the dirtiest city in the United States, and, uh, you can't base your opinion just on in Chicago alone. Well, most of them are that way, though, to some extent. Well, now, uh, you young people are making the point, uh, and I, I think properly so, that the future of America lies in both city and country, and probably in, uh, in mutual understanding of the problems that arise in the farm and the problems that arise in the city. And I very much hope that this Northwestern University broadcast will be a means of bringing two young people from the farm and two young people from the city together in a context that will enable you to understand each other and your problems a little better. Uh, what would you say, uh, uh, Doris, are the more significant contributions of farmers and life in the country? That's not unlike the question I asked you a while ago, uh, why you prefer to, uh, to, uh, live in the country. What do the farmers give to this country? Well, the city more or less depends on the farm products, and, well, we have a neighborly attitude in the farms that seems to be absent in the city. Colman? Well, uh, although I personally would not want to live on the farm, I have a great respect for, uh, for that sort of intangible, uh, quality which, uh, the farmers have always carried through American history. I suppose you might call it sort of a, uh, an American conservatism and an Americanism which, although you wouldn't want entirely in the country, you want, uh, a balance. I think that it, it helps that balance by the, uh, type of people you find on the whole among, among your farmers. Do you think there's anything in the point that, uh, Jim was making here a while ago, Coleman, and I think, uh, Tom may have mentioned it too, that on the, uh, the farm, you're certainly closer to the soil, you're closer to, to nature. Uh, it may give you a better perspective on life and on human values. Do you think there's anything in that? I think there is very definitely. Uh, I think it's up to the person in the city to make the use of his opportunities to discover those same, uh, qualities, those same standards, but I think that a farmer has an easier, uh, it's brought to his attention more readily because of the fact that, as you say, he's right there and he sees that which is sublime, you might say. He's, he's, uh, he's certainly closer to it. Uh, how diversified a farm do you live on, Jim? Well, our farm is, uh, in a district where all, uh, all of it is diversified farming. We have dairy cattle and hogs, poultry, and a small amount of grain, but, uh, main interest is in the dairy industry. Do you think there's any advantage in that kind of diversification? I believe in a way that there is because if we have two or three different, uh, crops or livestock on the farm, if one should fail that year, we still have something to fall back on, and that way we don't lose all, everything if something goes wrong with one farm. Do you think there's an advantage in the, in, in, uh, farm life in the fact that a, a farmer is at one time an electrician, at another time a mechanic, at another time a tiller of the soil, that is, his job in the very nature of things is a diversified job. Yes, I think that holds true because I don't know much about city life, but, uh, people that work in factories or on this and that and the other and special jobs, they have just one thing to do and they do that day after day and every day on a farm we have different, uh, activities or work that faces us like now we have to keep accounts and in a way of bookkeeping and then we have our machinery to work with and mechanics and like you said like almost all farms are electrified now we work as electricians and there's a great many different fields that we run into every day. Uh, but isn't it true that, uh, recently and I'll say last 30 years that farm, farming has become a much more specialized vocation than, uh, than it was formerly. Yes, you'll find that true in most sections of the country. There's sections where it's specialties in corn or certain types of livestock and then there's places where it's all diversified farming where each farm is diversified but I think that you're right in the statement that there's more specialized farming than there was before. What are the principal problems faced by farmers today, Doris? Well, about the, um, most troubling problem of all and perhaps that's true of all people is the high cost of living. Why should you worry about the high cost of living on the farm when you, uh, produce everything that you eat? Well, you still have to buy seed and fertilizer and things like that. Now, you're, you're saying you're raising hogs out there in, uh, Montana, Jim. Are you gonna make any money on those hogs? Yes, we'll make some money but the problem that always faces a farmer is whether to put, it's more profitable to put that feed into the livestock or whether it'd be more profitable to sell, uh, feed. And this year I think that probably we'll make pretty good on the hogs although the prices have been dropping regularly. Uh, what do you, what do you feed those hogs out there in Montana? Corn? No, we don't raise corn in the part of Montana but, uh, we feed them wheat and barley mostly. And what would happen to, uh, the people in the city to Coleman here and Tom here if all of the farmers would decide to sell their grain rather than, uh, than, uh, feed it? Do you like pork, uh, Tom? I like all kinds of meat. You'd be in a sad state of affairs if that were to happen. Do you, do you regard this, uh, this, uh, price problem as the, as the most serious one farmers face? I think it's probably the most serious problem faced by the farmers because it's like in any other business while there's not getting as much for our products as we're paying for the things we need. Well, uh, I think that the high cost of living is, is a problem that is not individual to farmers alone. I think that we city folks are pretty much aware of, of that also. I think if you examine history a little bit you'll find that the farmers did receive a rather a raw deal up to about, up to the, about the 30s. However, I think recently, although they naturally do suffer as with all of us at this high cost of living, I think the farmers as a group are probably receiving as good a, a good a deal as any single group is. I agree with you, Coleman, and it appears to me to be a vicious circle. The city gripes of the food prices and the country seem to gripe of the clothing prices and so on. Yeah, yeah. Tom, let me ask you a question of somewhat different sort. We've been discussing the relative advantages and problems of the city and country. Do you think that a decentralization of our cities would bring about anything good? I think that'd be a very good idea from two points of view. First of all, it would provide better living conditions for the factory workers themselves, and in time of war, it would provide for a harder target to hit in case of bombing. I wonder how feasible that is, Coleman. I wouldn't think that what industry has already been set up could very easily be moved. I think that already you'll notice if you follow the building, and especially on the atomic energy plants, that they are trying to go to the country. I think that Oak Ridge, Tennessee now has almost gotten to the point where it's one of the biggest cities, although it's not even an incorporated town in Tennessee. And I think that in Washington and other places, the new industry is trying to go to the country. Well, I think you'll find that what Coleman said is true, because I know at home in the less populated areas, and there's not any big cities, we find that they're moving aluminum plants in different big plants and factories into smaller towns and spreading them out more. Of course, it has the economical disadvantage of source of supply and a source of distribution, such as you find in a city of Chicago or St. Louis, where you have everything centralized, you can more easily distribute it, and it's much more efficient. However, for the sake of those working, often I guess it would probably be best to try to get some of it into the country. The sociological advantages of decentralizing industry have been argued by a good many people. I can recall several discussions on this Northwestern University reviewing stand where those points have been made. But you enter a proper objection when you say that that kind of decentralization would take more people out of the cities into the country isn't always economically feasible. Now, do you plan to continue to live on a farm, Jim? Yes, I would like to live on a farm, but I think that when I get out of high school, that I'd like to go to an agricultural college and major in livestock specialist. And you'd continue to live on a farm? I would, if possible. After three days in Chicago, you still like Montana, is that right? Doris, what are you going to do? Well, I'd like to live in a rural area, and I'd like to go to college and major in home economics and be an interior decorator or a fashion illustrator. That will be your life career, I take it? Well, I hope not. Your father lives on 10 acres, you tell me, 10 or 13 acres. What are his plans? Well, he plans to purchase a larger farm in the spring, and my two brothers are coming on, and they're going to work with your father on the farm. Coleman, what are you going to do? Well, I'm planning on going to college, and after that, I think probably going to some field of journalism or some social study, something that involves liberal arts education from college. I haven't actually made up my mind yet. Are you going to stay in the city? I believe I'm going to stay in the suburbs. I think that distinction might be brought out. Tom and I are both suburban dwellers, and I think that you find in the suburbs an advantage of both the city and the country to a great degree. I don't know if Tom would agree with me there. Tom, what are you going to do? Well, I'm going to remain in the city or in the suburbs, as Coleman is, and I plan to attend some eastern college. I hope it's either Princeton or Cornell. At the moment, I'm applying for the Navy ROTC program. What are you going to do at Cornell if you go there? Well, I'll probably take up their famed hotel course there. They have a Statler Hotel from which they work. What would that do for you? Well, it would prepare me for almost any hotel job or any restaurant management job. Well, I'm sorry, Mr. Shea and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Where Lies America's Future, City or Country? Today's program was arranged in cooperation with the National 4-H Club Congress now meeting in Chicago. We want to thank our guests, Coleman Brown, student at Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Illinois. Lawrence Thompson Knott, Jr., student at New Trier Township High School, Winnetka, Illinois. Doris A. DeShea, State Farm and Home Safety Winner from East Chattanooga, Tennessee. And James Rosenbaum, State Farm and Home Safety Winner from Charlo, Montana. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to join our growing list of regular subscribers who read the reviewing stand transcripts weekly at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. And now about our program for next week. With the approach of Universal Bible Sunday, it is appropriate we devote our reviewing stand program next week to the ancient bestseller of all times. Should you and I read the Bible more often? Are there important values in the Bible which may have escaped our attention? These are just a few of the questions to be raised next week as we explore the topic Should More People Read the Bible? Our guests will be Rabbi Richard Hertz, Associate Rabbi of the Chicago Sinai Congregation, Reverend Charles Kohler, President of the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary, and Father Barnumus Mary, Professor of Sacred Scripture at the Passionist Theologate in Chicago. We hope you'll join us next week as we explore the question, should more people read the Bible? The Northwestern University reviewing stand has come to you from Chicago. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you.