We are at the beginning of another school year. Our summer work and summer play is over. We are starting a new pattern of living. The children are a year older, and their position in the family has shifted somewhat. Sue is a junior in high school now. John is entering the junior high school this fall. Bill is entering the fourth grade. The summer has been pleasant. We've tried to get away from routine as much as possible and to give the children as much freedom as we could, considering the work that had to be done. There's been considerable company, and Sue and John have each had a visit in a neighboring town with friends of their own age. But it's over now, and we are finding it a little hard to get into the new swing of things, although there is a distinct feeling of well-being over knowing that the wood is in, the fruit room filled, the winter clothing and some new bedding stored ready for the season ahead. It is Wednesday evening. Supper is over. The children want to go to bank night. They point out that they have had no time the whole day that was really their own. Surely they should be entitled to a couple of hours of relaxation before retiring. The program is really a very excellent one. After some discussion, the parents agree that the children should be allowed to go just this once. Daughter and mother hastily stack the dishes, for mother has a PTA meeting to attend, and father must straighten up some accounts before retiring. The children get in at 9.45, and the two younger ones retire under pressure from dad. Daughter has an assigned reading to do, so she stays up. Father goes to bed about 10. Mother gets in about 10.30. As she passes the room where Bill and John sleep, there are soiled clothes scattered about the room. One of Bill's shoes lies clear out in the hall. As she glances in, Bill grits his teeth and mumbles something unintelligible. Midnight finds Sue just switching off her lamp, her schoolwork safely done. Thursday morning arrives. Mother forgot to set the alarm last evening. She wakened once and looked at the clock, but decided to sleep a bit longer. Now suddenly she wakens to a realization that she's overslept. Quickly she slips out of bed, wakens father, arouses Sue and the boys, admonishes them to hurry, reminds Sue that this is the morning when she must be at Glee Club at 8 o'clock. In the rush to dress, Mother knocks the hand mirror off the bathroom shelf. She seems put out about this. A little later, she hurries breakfast and the bacon grease spatters over a fresh house dress and burns a hand. In the rush for the unguentine, she kicks the cat and says things about these pesky pets that the children insist on keeping underfoot. Between rushes, from stove to dining room table, Mother stops to call sharply to Sue to quit her stalling and get on to help to admonish John and Bill that they have work to do before school. From above come sounds of a three-cornered wrangle. Sue finally descends in all the splendor of her new fall woolen suit and her dress-up shoes. Mother takes her to task for wearing her good clothes when she should be wearing a simple school dress and points out that the weather is much too warm as yet for the woolen suit. She must change clothes as soon as she eats her breakfast. During this encounter, Father swallows his coffee at a temperature that makes him gasp and with the last bite of his food in his hand, he starts to the door. Just then, in comes John with his dirty shirt of the day before, open at the neck, exposing to the parents' inquiring gaze the fact that he has dispensed with underwear. Father stops just long enough to tell John that it's much too cold to go without underwear and that as soon as he gets his work done, he must go upstairs and put on a clean shirt. Then Father disappears at a dog trot. John insists that if it's too warm for Sue's woolen suit, it's too warm for underwear and that as for the shirt, only one is in his drawer and it has two buttons off it and there's no underwear to be had at all. Mother's sure that this couldn't be, but John brings down the shirt and Mother grabs a needle threads it and begins putting on buttons. Later, she'll hunt up that missing garment. Sue is quite content to let John have the floor. She slowly eats her breakfast and examines the morning paper, killing time, hoping against hope that there will not be time to change. She remembers how during these opening days at school, all the other girls are wearing their best clothes, impressing others, attempting to choose friends and be chosen for friends by the newcomers and even by the people of last year who seem to be realigning their allegiance to various cliques and factions of a very modern high school. Bill, by now, is crying because he can't find one of his shoes. And when he gets down, he's so dirty that Mother has to send him to the bathroom to wash before he is permitted to have any breakfast. Sue's ruse is successful, and finally Mother has to warn her to hurry with that last bite and run or she'll be late. Goody, she will look her best today after all. Mother is so worried over Bill's dirty hands, uncombed hair, so busy checking for underwear and issuing admonitions and detailed directions concerning the coming day's behavior, that she merely shrugs her shoulders as Sue disappears in all her glory, wool suit, Sunday shoes and all. Mother hastens about, getting on those buttons, helping John find his books, giving further directions regarding the day, seeing to it that John is wearing his glasses, that those glasses are clean, that he's carrying Kleenex so he can clean them instead of removing them when dirty and leaving them lying wherever he has to take them off. Bill leaves, and finally John gets away on the run to keep from being tardy. As the door slams, Mother sinks into a chair beside the table and looks over the wreckage. Her appetite's gone, dirty dishes, toast crumbs, a dirty shirt on a chair back and horrors, John's glasses that he forgot after all the trouble to get them cleaned. This day is wrecked. What is wrong with this family of hers? Are the children shiftless, lazy and unclean? Is hubby's temper growing short over the years? How can her children be so absurd in their attitudes toward clothes, work, parental wishes, home life, and all the rest? As she clears the table, washes the dishes from two meals, tidies the house, orders her groceries, prepares the lunch and the multitude of other things that only a mother ever finds time or energy to do, she's going over and over the whole matter. Gradually, things begin to take shape. She sees the origins and the immediate causes that are making this scrambled home of hers a daily breakfast situation. It seems to her that it all began in the unwillingness of her husband and herself to evaluate the demands on their time and to rule out activities that were of least value, leaving few enough calls on them so that they could give adequate time and attention to home and children. Why, really, the parents had hardly found time to talk to each other in the last month. Then, in the second place, she believed, and so did Hubby, in democracy in the home, in children making their own decisions. But if children were to do this, it took time to explain, to aid, to counsel during the establishment of right modes of choice. That took too much time. It was simpler to order, to admonish, in short, to nag. How could one possibly understand an adolescent daughter wanting to wear a wool suit on a warm fall day and endanger the suit's appearance? That is, if one had no time to sit down and get her viewpoint. Of course, there must be a reason if one only had time to discover it. There had been a lack of preparation for today. There were those dishes left over in the way while getting breakfast and giving one a sense of being in arrears on life's obligations. This week, there had been a rush of outside things and that shirt had gotten by without careful examination. Now that she thought of it, there were two others hanging in her closet awaiting an opportune moment for patching. Hubby was just as guilty here as she was for he'd gotten mixed up in a cooperative venture, a political campaign, and two or three other things and had not been able to give up any of his old connections. Neither of the parents had done anything to establish habits in the children with regard to keeping things in their places, putting dirty clothes in the laundry chute the moment you take them off, or laying out clothing where it would be handy for dressing in the morning, of checking to see that it was all ready. In fact, this summer, in the hope of freeing the children as much as possible, they'd broken down the former habits of division of labor in routine performances and of cooperative effort on the unusual. No wonder Sue did not get around the help of the breakfast. There had been, since school began, no schedule that gave definite free time to the children, and last night they had violated what they knew to be sensible procedure when they let the children go to a midweek show. None of them had had quite enough sleep to be in the best of tempers. And then there was the clock. Neither she nor her husband had wound it. When she wakened, she still did not get up or set the clock, but just had another nap. And when she finally did get up, she was peeved at her own failure, and so was sharp, irritable, and nervous. Her feeling that she had not lived up to the best that she knew made it doubly important that she should be a good mother in all the little things and had led her to excessive direction and admonition. And her nerves to breaking a mirror, frying bacon too fast, burning a hand, and kicking the cat. No, come to think of it, the family was not a bad family, nor she a bad mother. If anything, she was too good a mother. This whole business had been a comedy of errors. They were errors that could be easily corrected once you saw their causes. They could not be suddenly corrected, but one by one, habits of action could be established and desired results secured. How well she knew the joy of a quiet and unhurried breakfast with the family around the table. How much it meant to start off the day in a leisurely manner, to have just a minute in which to put a rosebud on hubby's coat lapel, to stand on the porch and wave goodbye to the children. Well, anyway, she could start in at lunch and change this family of hers. They were all making mistakes, but they were a grand bunch and, oh my, those beans need more water. Thank you, Dr. Chambers. Now that we come to think of it, although we have not put it this way before, I fear, we really are saying that it is strange how many people there are whom we dislike more or less. As we stop to look them over, it seems that somehow they fall into groups whom we dislike. Let us see of whom these groups are constituted. We dislike those who have more money than we do. Those with more power than we possess. Those with more education, formal or practical, than we have. Those with more social prestige. Those with better jobs than ours. Those who have risen further in our line of work than we have. Those who dress better than we do. Those with very different notions of religion, politics, patriotism, morals, or life values. And yet, while we do dislike them, we nevertheless are anxious in all, save perhaps the last few cases, and perhaps even then, to be seen in their company, to be invited to their homes, to have them treat us as though we were their equals. In private circles, you rarely hear the dean well spoken of, neither the local banker. But my, how hurt we are if we are not invited to their social functions, and how we pass the word along when we are given an invitation. You know, it seems that we dislike those who are markedly different, especially if they rank above us, and thus reduce our evaluation of ourselves. That old principle of self-regard seems to determine our likes and dislikes to an astonishing degree. Of course, we dislike those individuals more if they make a display of their money, their social position, their education, their jobs, their rise in the field of specialization, their dress, their religion, politics, patriotism, or morals. Even if they do not possess these advantages over us, but merely pretend to have them, still we dislike them, for then they have doubly offended us. They have attempted to steal from us by fraud a position which is rightfully ours. And on the other hand, they have put us in a position where good breeding forbids our calling their hands. In either case, we lose caste, if not in the eyes of others that beast in our own estimation. And of all the things for which we strive, there is no greater than self-regard. Others in this group whom we dislike because of their effect upon our regard for ourselves include the continuous talkers. They steal our portion of the conversation, or at least the portion that we would like to have for our own. For this reason, two excessive talkers nearly always hate each other. Then there's the sarcastic. They close off our speech and hurt our self-esteem. Next come those who laugh at us or to us about others who are not present or who gossip. If they laugh at us to our face, we're hurt. But if the other situations be true, we fear the individual will laugh or gossip the moment our backs are turned. That keeps us from talking or acting in their presence with freedom. Even though we hunt them up periodically to get the latest scandal, we do not like them. they're too dangerous. There are those who are strong on argument, who start arguments whenever they can, and worst of all, those who are proficient at arguing. To start an argument is an assumption of superior knowledge or superior intellect or both. That is to disparage us and to injure our self-feelings. But above all, it's unforgivable for a person to make such an assumption and then be able to down us in the argument. That is proof that his assumption was correct. Next are those who dislike us. They imply by their dislike that we are not as good or as important as our self-regard demands that we should be. Then there are those who do not listen to what we say and even worse, they ask us to repeat. Or again, those who forget our names or even disremember having met us. What could be harder on one's self-esteem than to be forgotten? Those who point out our moral obligations, reprimand us for our crimes of omission and commission, or even go so far as to attempt to convert us, next, earn our wrath. The implication with regard to us is evident. There are those who boss or attempt to boss us. Every attempt to boss is an assumption of a relatively great importance on the part of the person bossing as compared with the one being bossed. There are those who look upon us with suspicion, and the more justified the suspicion with which they look upon us, the more likely we are to heartily dislike them for it. If it is not justified, and if it does not materially injure us with others, we can be very tolerant concerning it. Now there are those who have our own weaknesses, and in whom we see exemplified all our most serious problems and their possible outcome in our own cases. Helmer Gantry, in the book of the same name, was an example of this. Reformers of the militant type, whether moral or others, are apt to be persons who see in the people about them the very weaknesses which they are having to fight in their own lives. Instead of spending their time in rooting out the characteristics from their own makeup, they spend their time trying to eradicate it from the minds of all others. They want you to clean up your backyard so there be less trash to roll over into their own. Frequently, the mistake is in the direction of the movement of the trash. This may go so far that we actually see trash in our neighbor's yard when there is none there, thus keeping up our opinion of ourselves by assuming that all others have our weakness, but in greater degree. The man who would take advantage of a somewhat shady financial deal with a defenseless widow comments that the business world is so ridden with shady practice that he is driven to this slightly questionable procedure much as he dislikes it. Then there are those who are always mentioning how inferior they are. This is usually an attempt to flatter the person to whom they are talking and at the same time to call attention to their own superiority. Only the most naive are taken in. We do not like the speaker who apologizes with every other breath for daring to express an opinion when Mr. Adams, superintendent of schools, is present. There is one thing in common in all these dislikes. We dislike those who somehow or other call into question either with others or with their own thinking our adequacy and thus hurt our self-regard. But there are other sides to our self-regard beside a feeling of adequacy. There is our demand for romance. Whom do we dislike more than someone who's thrown a wrench into a romance of ours? There's no one we dislike more than the former sweetheart, at least until we get safely engaged or happily married and she finds herself in the divorce courts. Then we can express our sorrow for her and tell what a nice girl she was. For much the same reason, we dislike the pessimist who says there is no romance in life. He causes us to doubt our ability to find romance and keep it. Here also, we place the vulgar. There is also, closely related, still another side of self-regard. We like to feel that we are important in this cosmic order. We, therefore, would like to live on forever. Now, when we're young, we ignore the future and assume that we will last. But as we grow older, we become more and more acutely aware of the menace of advancing years, of disease, and accident. For this reason, we dislike more and more as years go round those who remind us of our own short span here, of our ever-increasing age, of the hearse that is to be backed up to our door. So we dislike the people who recount disasters and people who tell their troubles. Still another side to this self-regard of ours. If we are mentally healthy individuals, then we men desire to be more masculine and you women to be more womanly. Unfortunately, we have so brought up women in an atmosphere of masculine supremacy that many women have come to desire to be more masculine instead of more effeminate. You can hardly fail to make a woman inflate with pride if you suggest that she handles a group of workers as though she were a man. Now, if we were all mentally healthy, then we would dislike those who made us feel or appear less masculine or less feminine as the case might be. At present, however, many women are certain to dislike those who make them feel more effeminate, even though the person does it in such a way as to by no means imply that femininity is an undesirable trait. Then, finally, there is that other great principle of least energy which so largely controls our lives. We all seek to expend as little energy beyond the amount which we consider play as we possibly can and still maintain our self-regard. Under this principle of least energy, we come, then, to another group of our dislikes. Some of these are first, the borrower and, about equally, he who will not lend. We want him to borrow occasionally to keep the route open for our own borrowing, but we want the balance of trade decidedly in our favor. B, those who ask favors and, about equally, those who do not proffer aid when they see our need. C, the fault finders and those who seek perfection in all they do or that others do. D, those who cannot be depended upon to do the things they promise to do at the time they promise to do them. Might I then summarize some of these bases for disliking those about us? The two big principles involved are these. First, we dislike those who injure our self-regard. And second, we dislike those who force us to violate the principle of least energy. Under the first, the principle of self-regard, we find ourselves disliking those who, first, remind us or taunt us with the brevity of life its dangers and futilities. Second, those who would smudge our romance, deprive us of it, or imply that it is not lasting. Third, those who would imply our inadequacy, absolute or relative, to meet life. And finally, those who would hint at, point to, or make us feel a lack of masculinity or femininity. Most of the things that we stress, both in our own lives and in those of our children, as being of most importance if we are to be liked, are in reality only of minor significance. Some of these things that we stress so much include quietness of dress, correctness of speech, care of skin. These things are desirable, but the possession of the entire list of these homely virtues without training along these other lines would make the individual no other than a marked and hated person. We shall attend to see how we can make others like us.