Tonight we continue with our second lecture in the series, Our Common Maladjustments. The title of our lecture and discussion this evening is Personal Aggression Against Environment. And we are very fortunate in having as a speaker Dr. Clifford J. Sager, a well-known psychiatrist, psychoanalyst, diplomate of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology. He is also associated as a dean with the Postgraduate School of Psychotherapy. We could go on like this, but I assure you that he is a very good man and very, very well-backed. And I also would just like to squeeze in here that he spent a long period of time working as head of the Neurology and Psychotherapy Departments of the Great Hospital in Manila during the war. So to all his other honors, please put down with you in your mental note that he also has a very nice war record. It's a pleasure to present to you Dr. Clifford J. Sager. Thank you, Sager. Thank you, Dr. Fairchild. Ladies and gentlemen, the topic tonight, Personal Aggression Against Environment, seems a little closer to me after reading the papers yesterday and today with a psychiatrist who was shot by a patient. This is really personal aggression. It's close. But in these days of increasing personal and national aggressions, it is wise to review our concepts of aggression, particularly as the term aggression is understood or used in the field of psychiatry and psychology. Aggression is a much-used word and has many meanings to many people. We are living in a time when so-called aggression is rampant. The succession of wars that we have had in recent years is, of course, uppermost in everybody's thoughts. In addition, the increase of crime and juvenile delinquency has been striking, particularly in our own country. One cannot pick up a newspaper without reading of various murders, rapes, lynches, and other violent crimes. The heroes of our movies, the heroes of our movies, stories, and other movies, glorify aggression, force, and general brutalization of the human being. These media of mass communication and education not only further additional demonstrations of aggression, but also reflect feelings and problems that are common to many people. The great American movie hero, that symbol of manhood, who smacks women around to the oohs and ahs of the audience, is not only contributing to further brutalization of the American public, but is accepted by large segments of the population because he can carry out activities that they themselves have a feeling and desire for, but are unable to execute because of better judgment, decency, or some other inhibiting factor. That so many people should empathize with brutality towards others, towards women particularly in this instance, is an indication of the frequency of such antisocial feelings. The same is true for our aggressive supermen, Captain Marvels, and Agents X, Y, and Z. Frequently, the aggression is made more socially acceptable by dressing it up in terms of serving a good cause, as patriotism, or the poor helpless masses of center city, and so on. Such heroes emphasize the negative, disturbed aspects of human conduct, but they are popular because they do reflect emotions that are contained within many people. The many uses of the term aggression can be illustrated in the story of the permissive psychiatrist who is standing on a street corner, engaged in conversation with a friend. A man who was walking past looked at the psychiatrist, strode over to him, and punched him in the nose without warning. The psychiatrist is really taking a beating tonight. The psychiatrist regained his composure as he watched the man stride away, and then resumed his conversation as if nothing had happened. A few minutes later, having walked around the block, the man again walked up to the psychiatrist and struck him on the nose, knocking him to the ground. As he brushed off his clothes and stood up, the psychiatrist was unable to control himself any longer and said to his friend, that man certainly has a problem of aggressive behavior. Many of us would feel that there was something wrong with the psychiatrist for not acting in what we might consider to be a more aggressive fashion to defend himself, rather than merely to consider the blows against himself as the other fellow's problem, despite the marked effect they had had on him. Obviously, then, there is a certain so-called aggressive behavior that we consider good and proper, other that we consider antisocial and harmful to others, or even to the perpetrator himself. I should like, therefore, to introduce the term self-assertion to denote those impulses and drives that further one's own needs without harming others. Such activity is socially good and can be found in all of us. It is this self-assertive tendency that makes us defend ourselves against aggression, that gives us the stimulus to further ourselves and our work, to earn a position of respect among our neighbors and confres, and the incentive to set up and work for various goals in life. People, in a non-competitive social setting, are essentially good, desirous of love and warmth, and able to give love and warmth to others, providing that the social organization that they have been brought up in and live in does not cause them to react in ways to stymie such feelings. A competitive social organization, where people feel that they can get the good things of life only at someone else's expense, interferes with a healthy self-assertion. Aggressive behavior, on the other hand, can be defined as behavior that is not called for by the objective situation. Behavior that is directed against others or one's own self and is essentially antisocial in nature. Aggressive activity so defined is not a healthy reaction, but rather an evidence of some damage to the psychological organization of the individual. We can illustrate the difference between self-assertion and aggression by the story of Mr. Smith, one of our Long Island homeowners who was bothered by the fact that his neighbor, Mr. Brown, borrowed his tools and forgot to return them on repeated occasions. Finally, after five or so such successive incidents, when the next request was made, Mr. Smith firmly told Mr. Brown he could not lend him his saw. His neighbor seemed a little surprised, but then cheerily said that he would try Mr. Jones, who lived on the other side of him. Well, here, our friend Smith was being self-assertive. He was resisting being taken advantage of by someone who had proven that he did not respect Smith's property or his needs. Well, about a week later, Smith noticed that his lawn needed cutting. On inspection, he realized that his lawnmower was broken and could not be repaired that weekend. He thought he might borrow Brown's lawnmower, but thought of how he had recently refused his neighbor the saw. He thought of how his own tools had not been returned and had been poorly cared for, and felt that Brown might think he would do the same, and that perhaps he would not even lend him the lawnmower, despite all the things that he had lent to him formerly. In fact, he became so sure that he would not get the mower, and so enraged at what he considered to be the unfairness of his neighbor, that he crossed the lawn to Brown's house and knocked on the door. When Brown answered the door, Smith loudly exclaimed to the astonished man, You can keep your darn lawnmower, you skin flint! Well, here we have an example of aggressive behavior, a reaction not founded on reality, but rather on a projection of one's own guilt, anxiety, and aggressive feelings. But what is the origin or source of this aggression? Is it something that we are born with? Is it something that must come out in people in some form or another? Or is it a distortion of a positive drive to be loved, to be accepted, to share in the good things of life? Well, Freud had some definite ideas about this. In 1922, he advanced the theory that aggressive behavior is a manifestation of a death instinct. He developed this theory as a result of the First World War, being struck by the fact that millions of men appear to don uniforms readily, and without any great resistance, faced up to death or mutilation on a firing line. These actions he was unable to explain in terms of his libido theory, the theory that considered all human motivation to arise from a broad sexual instinct. The desire for life and pleasure that was the basis of the libido theory could not be made to account for the seemingly willing mass slaughter that man subjected himself to. Hence, an antithetical instinct, the death instinct, was propounded. The death instinct is presumably an instinct of destruction and aggression. There are many objections to this theory. first, an instinct is a drive or characteristic that is inherited and apparently would be expected to be seen or observed in all men. But modern anthropology, and particularly the comparative personality structure studies of different cultures by Cardiner and others, prove conclusively that there is no instinct of aggression that is common to all cultures. Societies have been found where people are free of the acquisitive, annihilating, destructive characteristics that are found in other cultures. Secondly, it can be demonstrated that where aggressive antisocial forces are evident in an individual, these are reactions to frustration or to psychological injury. They are distortions of the healthy, self-assertive drives in people, people who have developed the misconception that acting against others will bring them the things that they want and need in life. Further, if this type of aggression were an instinct rather than a pathological reaction, it would not be very amenable to alteration. It would be immutable. But this is not so. Numerous individuals with severe aggressive tendencies have been successfully treated, not by channelizing any aggressive instinct into a socially acceptable form, but by removing the distortions of concept and perception that led these patients to perceive the world as a threatening place in which one can survive only by besting the other person. Pathological aggression, or as it is sometimes, or as it sometimes appears in its seeming opposite form of overcompliance and acquiescence to others, is present to an important degree in all emotionally disturbed patients. How then does aggression come into the picture if it is not an instinct? Well, if we watch mothers or fathers with their children, we're able to see very clearly how aggressive behavior begins to develop in the child as a reaction to the many frustrations his parents and the rest of his environment and pose on him. In Central Park, a couple of weeks ago, I heard an harassed mother say in 20 minutes' time 14 don'ts, drop-its, stop-its to a 4-year-old child. Two of these negative admonitions were accompanied by swats on a posterior, and they were hard ones, and two by jerks of the arm that looked as if they would separate the limb from the rest of the body. Well, there must have been an overwhelming effect on the child, an effect that convinced him of his helplessness before the superior force of his mother. Such a child will certainly develop aggressive behavior, and actually was demonstrating it by running away from his mother, by doing the things that she had especially forbidden one minute earlier. Such a child will also develop a feeling of underlying inferiority in himself. This feeling of inferiority becomes a frequent source of aggressive behavior. Unfortunately, nearly all children in our culture are brought up in such a way as to develop a basic feeling of uncertainty regarding themselves and their abilities. The child is made to feel in a thousand different ways that he's small, inadequate, puny, incapable, insufficient. Emphasis is on how big and strong he will be when he grows up, but not on how big and strong or smart he is for a four- or five- or six-year-old child. Comparison is almost invariably to adult standards, particularly in terms of one's own father or mother. At least in the earlier years, the child comes off second best in this comparison, feeling that there is something wrong with him, that he isn't as good as his parents. The child is made to feel that his realistic dependence on his parents is an evidence of inferiority of some sort on his part. Superman, an impossible standard for anyone to attain, is held up as the ideal for the child who, when he compares his own mortal and youthful prowess to Superman, is made to feel inferior and inadequate. Unfortunately, each youngster keeps his fears about himself to himself and does not appreciate that most other children have the same fears and doubts about themselves as he has. Children compare themselves to their parents, too, and their ability to get love and affection, and they frequently find themselves, sometimes realistically, sometimes only in their own fantasy, coming off second best. They are not taught to appreciate that there need be no competition for love, but that their mother or father has the capacity of loving them as well as loving one another, that there are different relationships in life, relationships that do not denote any inferiority and that are not mutually exclusive. The child must learn that there are those different relationships which are not competitive with one another. That a mother can love her husband and also her daughter or son or several children without taking away from any of the other relationships is hard to conceive. Many people never do learn this. Many adults never learn this. For example, we find that many mothers are jealous of the affection that their spouse shows their child, feeling that they themselves are unloved if they don't have a corner on the market. Many people have the feeling that there's only a certain amount of love available, let us say 100%. And that if 50% is given to their father or to their son or somebody else, that the donor then has only 50% left for them. As a result, they have to guard their share very, very carefully. Not only guard it, but find it necessary to try to take everybody else's share. Well, naturally, love and affection and warmth do not work on such a basis. But everybody has a capacity within them for loving and being warm with many people, not just with one. The young boy has a very difficult burden. And this usually starts the day of his birth. He has the burden of being a man. At the age of two, when Johnny bangs his finger and cries, he's told to be a man and stop crying. But he's unable to stop crying, having only the normal physiological and emotional development of a child of two. And so he's made to feel that he's inferior. Inferior because, actually, he cannot meet adult standards. At a little later age, Johnny will be able to stop crying, but will still have the desire to cry, and then, on that basis, will feel that he's inadequate as a man because he has the feeling to cry, whereas he's been taught the misconception that a man should not even have such a feeling at all. The factors that militate toward psychological injury in girls are similar. Only, if anything, they are more incapacitating because girls are also faced with the added realistic situation that they are living in what is essentially still a male-dominated society where the premium is put upon being a male, where there is not a real equality of opportunity and respect to both sexes. We see this very frequently in the emphasis that's put in many family groups on the birth of a boy. We see this, of course, realistically in job situations. We see it in many other ways. Women and girls are made to feel inferior because they are not males. In addition to the factors mentioned previously, there is this important factor that has to be kept in mind when one considers the aggressive feelings of women. To be sure, even under the most ideal circumstances, a child frequently will be frustrated by its parents or situations resulting from the nature of its environment. At such times, the child may, and rightly so, react with rage. Under such circumstances, the child should be allowed to express its reaction, channelizing it into a socially acceptable form. For example, if the mother of a five-year-old boy, Tommy, had to break a promise to him, his mother may properly expect a reaction from Tommy. Tommy should be free enough and given sufficient respect and equality as a human being to be able to give vent to his rage, let us say, at a broken promise of not being taken to the rodeo. And he can express this by crying, by verbal anger expressed at his mother, or by hitting out with his fists. Such channelizing, with an immediate effort on the part of mother to offer a constructive alternative, would be socially acceptable channelizing of a justifiable rage. rage. Now notice, this is not an instinct of regression, but a proper reaction of frustration. The adult must keep in mind what is justifiable rage, considering it from the child's point of view, at the child's particular physical and mental maturation level. Because a child's opinion of justifiable rage cannot be judged by adult standards. And actually, the more mature a person becomes, the less necessary it becomes to express oneself in terms of such rage. Although, even in very mature people, there are certainly times when rage and anger are the socially acceptable and the proper reaction in certain situations. the adult must be flexible enough not to judge the child by the same standard as he does his own peers, however. Well, in the frustration situation of Tommy, let us say that another child might pick up a hammer in an attempt to hit the parent over the head with a hammer and do him severe injury. Well, this would be an unacceptable channelizing of the rage. Now, please note that the expression of rage is something that today we consider as necessary and permissible for the child. But how it is channelized can be truly helpful or injurious to the psychological growth of the child. The child who is not allowed to express his rage will develop feelings of guilt and will find devious, anti-social, hostile, aggressive ways of dealing with an environment against which he feels he is well-nigh powerless. The over-permissive and usually vacillating parent is responsible for the type of child frequently referred to as a monster. Well, we've all met these monsters. This is a child who's been allowed to express his rage in an uninhibited manner with no respect for the needs or welfare of others. I've seen such children as a six-year-old who, under the so-called free tutelage of his parents, would think nothing of taking his penis out and urinating on the rug in the house where he was visiting or of the child who is so all-possessive in the supposed freedom that his parents actually have no freedom from him. If they're up till midnight or one or two o'clock every morning playing with the child, hoping that he'll finally get tired enough to go to sleep, usually they go to sleep first. Well, such parents are not helping their children, but only giving them a misconception of the world that will, in the long run, lead to future emotional problems for the child. As people grow up with false concepts of themselves as being inferior or having to overcompensate to be a superman in order to be accepted and loved by others, they frequently develop aggressive traits which are intended to serve the function of attempting to win love through power and domination of others. Naturally, this invariably fails. We're all familiar with the bully who, unsure of himself, bolsters his own ego by lauding it over others, or the member of a family who has to dominate and control the lives of others. Many aggressive traits, however, are much more subtle than this, much more subtle than the obvious bully. Shakespeare delineated an important mechanism of human conduct in his line, methinks the lady protesteth too much. of human conduct. This applies in many situations to many people and it is very evident in relation to the aggressive male who is bent on continuously proving his manhood by his athletic prowess and abilities, by his sexual conquest, by the fine manly clothes he wears, and so on. Such a person is protesting and proving his masculinity too much. And one may well suspect that such a person is essentially unsure of himself. The same is true generally for the woman who finds it necessary to be constantly preoccupied with her appearance and her conquests. Other subtle, aggressive traits appear in the form of intense, competitive feelings against other people. the feeling that every man or woman is a competitor with whom one is vying for the good things of life. We see this most clearly in the person who must always be bitter and who must have more than the next person. The person who can only knock someone else and who only begrudgingly, if ever, admits the worth of another individual. or there is the parent who has to show and prove his own ability and perfection to his children, not allowing them to complete anything themselves, and by doing this completely blocks the child's expression and development. These aggressive traits usually arise from a basic feeling of inferiority that had its origin in early childhood. Although subsequent realistic success can soften this neurotic reaction somewhat, it is always present under the surface and will reappear on the slightest pressure or challenge. Another major category of aggressive behavior is manifested by the people who do not openly show their aggression towards others but keep it within themselves. they are ever fearful that their real feelings will explode. They are afraid that if they ever showed others how destructive they were towards them, they would be disliked and rejected. Also, they often fear the violence of their own aggressiveness, that they might severely injure others physically or psychologically. Therefore, they must hide these feelings, feelings for which they actually despise themselves. They frequently bend over backwards to the extreme and have a false humility and modesty, are self-sacrificing and invariably, and usually when not asked to, put their own needs far behind those of others. And as a result, they frequently resent other people as if the other person had forced them into this secondary position. Or they throw up to others how much they have sacrificed for them, how much they have done for them, for a person who never asked for it. some become depressed as they sense these qualities within themselves. The depression serves as a further inhibition, actually at the price of most normal activity, to suppress their hostile tendencies, feel themselves to be really inferior human beings. Yet, simultaneously, there is often mixed with this feeling, a feeling of superiority or omnipotence, just the opposite, based on some particular attribute as one's intelligence, money, social position, athletic or musical ability, and so on. Frequently, this inwardly directed aggression is expressed in terms of frustrating one's own success. For instance, I had a patient, one of a couple, woman, who was a writer, her husband, a musician. This writer, however, in a certain period in her life, was unable to write because whenever her husband was working, she couldn't write because she regarded this as competing with him. She was afraid that her success in writing was a hostile thing, was a blow at her husband, and actually, to her, it did represent this. On the other hand, when her husband wasn't working or functioning as a musician, she couldn't write either because here, she felt it was unfair for her to go ahead and be productive in her field when her husband wasn't in his. Here was a person who was frustrating her own success, but her success to her represented a hostile, competitive act towards other people, an act which she felt she had to frustrate if she was to be liked, if she was to be desired and loved by her husband. Actually, the poor fellow would have been very happy if she did do a little writing. Well, these people regard their own success as a hostile act against others, and regarding it as such, there's an underlying projected fear of injury from others if they are successful. This is also clearly seen in a good student who can't do well on an examination although he does find otherwise, or the person who is ordinarily competent at his work but can't produce the day he is being rated for a better job. Now, in recent years, there's been a great deal of discussion of the psychological origins of delinquency and criminality. Although crime is certainly an aggression, an aggressive act against one's environment, in careful study, it becomes apparent that the basic factor that makes for crime is poverty rather than some particularly poor resolution of the Oedipus complex. Psychological criminals as such are the rare rather than the common case, despite many of our newspaper, newspapers, movies, and even some of our psychiatrists. At best, psychiatric treatment, whether it is psychoanalytical or some other form of psychotherapy, is an attempt to repair psychological damage. It is a reparative form of treatment, essentially, not a preventive form. The prevention of such damage through the clearance of slums, through the granting of economic security and equal opportunity for all, will go infinitely further to reduce our delinquency and criminality rate than will a psychiatric clinic on every corner. Until we have such preventive measures, I do believe that increased psychiatric facilities are necessary and will be of some small help. But let us not lose sight of the forest for the trees. All these aggressive feelings that I've discussed earlier are antisocial. They are harmful, at least in terms of good human relations, and often in terms of happiness for one's self and for the other people with whom one comes in contact and has to live with. Fortunately, these neurotic and character structure difficulties can be helped by modern psychotherapeutic techniques, particularly techniques along psychoanalytical lines. today, we are all faced with the question of a very important or pervasive type of aggression. That is, the aggression of war. I use aggression advisedly as I defined it before. Much has been written in recent years about the causes of war from the psychiatric point of view. Unfortunately, I think it would have been better if most of it had not been written. The most frequently advanced theory, psychologically, is the causes of war, has been the psychoanalytical theory of Freud that war is the result of the expression of an individual aggressive or death instinct. The fallacy of the concept of the existence of such an instinct I discussed earlier tonight and won't bother repeating here. In his UNESCO report to the International Conference on Tensions that Cause War, Gordon W. Alport, Professor of Social Relations at Harvard University, states, and I quote rather extensively, those who see the cause of aggression, the cause of aggressive nationalism, let me start over, those who see the cause of aggressive nationalism and human nature exclusively, sometimes say that every person has an instinct of pugnacity. What is more natural, therefore, than for him to rush to war whenever this biological instinct is provoked? Or, even if the instincts are left out of the explanation, it is stated that the frustrations of life are so great that anger, hostility, resentment, flow in every bosom. and one of the essential ways in which these strenuous antipathies are expressed is through war. Personal aggression, we are told, becomes displaced upon an external enemy. The enemy becomes a scapegoat and attracts the wrath logically pertinent to the frustrations encountered in our occupation or in our unsatisfactory family life. The fallacy of this purely personal explanation lies in the fact that howsoever pugnacious or frustrated an individual may be, he himself lacks the capacity to make organized warfare. He is capable of temper tantrums, also of chronic nagging, biting sarcasm, or personal cruelty. But he alone cannot invade an alien land or drop bombs upon a distant enemy to give vent to his own emotions. Furthermore, whereas national aggressiveness is a total, all citizens being involved in offensive and defensive efforts, relatively few of the citizens feel personally hostile towards the enemy. Studies of soldiers in combat show that hate and aggression are less commonly felt than fear, homesickness, and boredom. Few citizens in an aggressive nation actually feel aggressive. Thus, their warlike activity cannot be due solely to their personal motivations. Close quote. other workers have attempted to apply their knowledge of individual psychopathology to states or nations as a whole. Thus, a state suddenly finds itself being designated as paranoid or suffering from guilt feelings for having killed its father image or of being adolescent as the United States is sometimes accused of being and so on. Such a vulgarized and glib generalization from the individual to an entire nation does not hold up under serious study, does not take much scientific knowledge to appreciate that states function in their international relations according to their political economic systems and its needs. For instance, England, some months ago, recognized the new government of China despite the opposite position of the United States government on this question. I do not believe that this position of England's was really an evidence of its psychological ambivalent feelings towards the United States and it did not generate, as far as I am aware, a guilt reaction among the people of the United Kingdom. Rather, it represented very simply a cold, calm decision that did not produce any emotional crisis in the souls of most of the English peoples. To have considered England's actions a psychologically determined decision would, of course, be foolhardy and erroneous. And to make further gross applications and designation of guilt feelings for nations and so on is rather something which does not stand up. It doesn't hold up under observation because nations as such are not people. That the nation actually is something bigger than something with a different quality than the individual people who form the nation. other scientists have seriously advanced the idea that international tensions and wars are due to the neurotic ills of our leaders. Very simply, all that is necessary, they say, is to psychoanalyze all our national leaders. Occasionally, I'll grant that might be of some use. Yet, we can see that except for the absence of President Roosevelt, we and the Russians have essentially the same people dealing with one another today as during World War II when we got along on a fine, cooperative basis with the Soviet Union. Obviously, other forces and factors are at play that are infinitely more decisive than the personalities involved. Analyzing leaders who functioned cooperatively eight years ago but not today will not help the international situation. The lack of present cooperation, rather, is a reflection of government policy, not of any individual's idiosyncrasies. Government policy, despite many rumors to the contrary, is really not a thing of whimsy. It is my feeling that psychiatry and psychoanalysis can make some ancillary contributions to an understanding of the cause of peace and an understanding of the causes of war. However, I believe that the major contribution on this all-important question will have to come from economists and political scientists rather than from the students of individual behavior. Perhaps our greatest contribution as psychiatrists can be made by making it clear that war is not inevitable, that it is not an expression of the innate structure of human psychology. This important fact was agreed upon by the UNESCO Conference on Tensions that Cause War. Outstanding psychiatrists and social scientists from countries of various political beliefs, including three Americans and in Hungarian, agreed on 12 basic points in their recently published joint statement. I'd like to read some of these points that have the greatest bearing on the question of aggression that we're discussing tonight. The joint statement, as well as the individual reports, were recently published as a book by the University of Illinois Press. and I recommend it highly to everybody. I quote from the joint statement. Paragraph one, and these will not necessarily be the same number as they appear in the book as I've left some out. Paragraph one, to the best, and this is direct quote, to the best of our knowledge, there is no evidence to indicate that wars are necessary and inevitable consequences of human nature as such. While men vary greatly in their capacities and temperaments, we believe that there are vital needs common to all men which must be fulfilled in order to establish and maintain peace. Men everywhere want to be free from hunger and disease, from insecurity and fear. men everywhere want fellowship and the respect of their fellow men, the chance for personal growth and development. Two, the problem of peace is the problem of keeping group and national tensions and aggressions within manageable proportions and of directing them to ends that are at the same time personally and socially constructive so that men will no longer seek to exploit men. This goal cannot be achieved by surface reforms or isolated efforts. Fundamental changes in social organization and in our ways of thinking are essential. Paragraph three, if we are to avoid the kind of aggression that leads to armed conflict, we must, among other things, so planned and arranged the use of modern productive power and resources that there will be maximum social justice. Economic inequalities, insecurities, and frustrations create group and national conflicts. All this is an important source of tensions which have wrongly, which have often wrongly led one group to see another group as a menace through the acceptance of false images and oversimplified solutions and by making people susceptible to the scapegoating appeals of demagogues. Four, the prospect of a continuing inferior status is essentially unacceptable to any group of people. For this and other reasons, either colonial exploitation or oppression of minority groups within a nation is in the long run compatible with world peace. As social scientists, we know of no evidence that any ethnic group is inherently inferior. Close quote. There does seem to be a growing agreement among social scientists that individual aggression is not a very significant factor in the causation of war. The propaganda methods, however, that are utilized to induce the individual to accept war, if not enthusiastically, at least with a hopeless resignation, are of interest to psychiatry and psychology, but are beyond the scope of our discussion tonight. In closing, I hope that I've been able to separate in our thinking tonight the normal self-assertive drives from the antisocial, pathological, aggressive reactions. The latter play an important role in most neuroses and have their origin in the contradictory, frustrating, and depreciating situations in which children find themselves and which are perpetuated throughout the course of our life. For many of us, in their struggle to survive and get the good things of life, people who have been psychologically injured in one way or another are forced to utilize many mechanisms to cope with the world as they see it. These mechanisms include that of aggressive, antisocial behavior. Aggressive behavior is always a reaction to injury or frustration and is not an instinct in itself. Current psychological theories of the cause of wars were discussed with the conclusion that wars are not an inevitable consequence of some aggressive instinct and that individual psychological factors do not play an important role in their causation. I should imagine that everyone in the audience tonight has recognized a little something about himself and some of the traits of aggression that I have mentioned. Please do not be alarmed and rushed to the nearest couch. I've been speaking of the extremes of such tendencies, extremes that wreak havoc in the lives of some people. as long as we have some of these tendencies and who can escape them in what is really our highly competitive society, but we do not have them in sufficient quality or intensity to make ourselves or others unhappy, they are not of clinical significance and can frequently or usually be controlled by a little exercise of good judgment and self-critical analysis. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Saeger. We'll have a question period in just several minutes. Those people who would like to write in their question may do so. If we have time, we will ask some from the audience. Thank you.