From St. Louis, Missouri, the National Broadcasting Company brings you an address by the President of the United States. President Truman speaks today at the dedication of a Mississippi waterfront area where a memorial to Thomas Jefferson is planned to be called the Jefferson National Expansion Memorial. His speech is the climax of the 24th annual reunion of the World War I 35th Division. Introducing the President will be W. Stuart Symington, Chairman of the National Security Resources Board. Mr. Symington. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. Mr. Chairman, Governor Smith, Mayor Doris, His Excellency the Archbishop, members of the 35th Division, ladies and gentlemen. This is indeed a great occasion. I am happy to participate in the dedication of this historic site to the memory of Thomas Jefferson and the early pioneers and settlers of our westward expansion. I want to thank His Excellency the Ambassador of France for his invitation to me to visit his great country. Nothing, of course, would please me better. But the President of the United States, it seems, must stay within his own borders at least until after the first Tuesday next November. The park which is to be created here will bear witness to our gratitude to Jefferson and the brave men who explored and settled the area of the Louisiana Purchase. This park will commemorate a great act of statesmanship. When Jefferson purchased the Louisiana Territory, our country acquired a material basis for the kind of democratic society which Jefferson dreamed of. The abundant lands of the West made it possible for millions of families to settle on their own farms as freeholders and independent citizens. This rural society of free men fixed the democratic character of our institutions. After this, the country changed in many ways. And it was exposed to many dangers. But its democratic nature could never be shaken. The foes of democracy, whether they were the old Federalists or the monopolists of a later period, or the adherents of new tyrannies and dictatorships, have not been able to prevail against it and they never will. We sometimes forget that we owe the Louisiana Purchase to Jefferson's wisdom and experience in foreign affairs. Foreign policy was a matter of first importance in Jefferson's time, just as it is today. The United States in those days was a new nation and weak by comparison with the great European empires. Its continued survival as an independent country depended upon its having the goodwill and friendship of other countries. Today, our foreign policy is that of one of the strongest nations in the world. But the future welfare of our country still depends upon our foreign policy, just as it did in Jefferson's time. This is true not only because the world has shrunk in terms of space and time. It is also true because in our day totalitarian tyrannies have sprung up in the world. These tyrannies, whether of the left or of the right, have threatened free institutions and free government everywhere. In this situation, our country has been impelled by the principles of freedom for which we stand and by the needs of our national security. We have been impelled by the country to take a leading role in the search for a just and permanent peace among nations. We have taken the position of leadership that President Wilson wanted us to take after the First World War. Our aim today is the same as his aim was then, to establish a peaceful world order in which disputes between nations can be adjusted without bloodshed. And the individual can be sure of justice and freedom in his daily life. The creation of such a world order requires an international organization of free and independent nations cooperating voluntarily in the maintenance of peace. And it also requires collective action to prevent aggression. We refused to assume our responsibilities as a nation after the First World War. But by the end of the Second World War, we had learned our lesson. Since that time, we have joined with other nations in the formation of a world organization to keep the peace. We have used our resources to aid the recovery of war-shattered economies. We have aided in carrying on international activities in economic, social, and cultural fields. We have helped to build a greater degree of international cooperation than the world has ever known before. Our actions for peace have had the support of the American people without regard to political affiliation. Our foreign policy has been bipartisan, and I am confident that it will remain bipartisan. The steps we have taken toward international cooperation offer real hope and opportunity to mankind. But they have not yet provided us with the assurance of permanent peace. The reason is clear. In the five years that have passed since the end of the war, we have been confronted with a new, powerful imperialism. We had hoped that our wartime ally, the Soviet Union, would join in the efforts of the whole community of nations to build a peaceful world. Instead, the Soviet leaders have been an obstacle to peace. By means of infiltration, subversion, propaganda, and indirect aggression, the rulers of the Soviet Union have sought to extend the boundaries of their totalitarian control. With a cynical disregard for the hopes of mankind, the leaders of the Soviet Union have topped democracy and have set up dictatorships. They have proclaimed national independence, but imposed national slavery. They have preached peace, but devoted their energies to fomenting aggression and preparing for war. The result of these tactics has been to spur the free nations on to greater cooperation and more vigorous effort for the improvement in the defense of their own institutions. These efforts have been without parallel in history. Five years ago, we would not have dreamed that such joint efforts as the European Recovery Program or the Atlantic Defense Program were possible in times of peace. Measures of measures of even closer cooperation are now being planned and set up. We have made good progress so far. Because of this progress, we are confident that we can establish the conditions necessary to a genuine world peace. We know that the free world has both the will and the means to ensure its own survival. But I would like to emphasize the difference between confidence and complacency. We cannot be complacent. Our ultimate success depends on sustained further effort. We have joined with other nations in establishing a new and stronger kind of international association than we have ever known before. But there is a long road ahead. There are, of course, some people who are urging us to pull out of these joint efforts to achieve a lasting peace for the world. They point to the difficulties we've already experienced and that long road that lies ahead. They want us to reverse our foreign policy, withdraw from our cooperation with other nations, and retire behind our own defenses. These people are known as isolationists. They are dangerous, not only to the cause of world peace, but also to our own national security. The isolationists take an upside-down view of our affairs. They want us to stop giving aid to free nations that are able and willing to make good use of our health. They ask us to give up the very places where we are succeeding. Isn't that a fantastic suggestion? They say that cooperation with friendly nations is too expensive. But they forget how much more expensive it would be to abandon our allies to the aggressor and try to defend ourselves alone. Peace costs too much, they say. But their policy would permit free nations everywhere to be swallowed up one by one and would leave the United States alone as the sole defender of freedom. Isolationism is the road to war. Worse than that, isolationism is the road to defeat in war. The people who are striving to destroy our foreign aid programs and our programs for the common defense of the free nations are striking at our own national security. They may not mean to do us harm, but they are as dangerous to our future as those who deliberately puff against our freedom. Most of the American people know this. Most of us have enlisted in the struggle for world peace for the duration. We are not thinking of deserting. What we want to know is what progress we are now making in the struggle for peace and what we have to do in the future to achieve our goals. In looking at the current world situation, it is plain that the present policies and activities of the Soviet government are not contributing to peace. The Soviet government is refusing to participate in the work of the United Nations. Representatives of the Free Nations are being forced out of the satellite countries. In starkness of the battering Agency are внешận of free nations, their pushing of the EU sometimes cured after the S Station complexes Student State. In both sides of the EU the Soviet peacetime armed force in history, far greater than it needs for the defense of its own boundaries. The leaders of the Soviet Union, instead of using their resources to improve the well-being of their people, are devoting a massive share of those resources to the acquisition of further military strength. We've tried to dissuade the Soviet leaders from this militaristic course, so unnecessary, so costly to their people and to ours, so antagonistic to the pursuit of peace. After the war, we demobilized the bulk of our army, navy, and air force. In the United Nations, we put forward proposals to share with the world the development of atomic energy and to prevent the use of the atomic bomb. An unheard of proceeding by a great nation, absolutely unheard of in the history of the world. We urge general disarmament and the creation of United Nations forces. But despite all those peaceful efforts, Soviet armament has continued to increase. These ominous activities of the Soviet Union, however, are being offset by the growing strength of the free world. The free nations are making steady progress in creating more satisfactory conditions of life for their people and stronger defenses against aggression. Attention.