Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, welcoming you to the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our third series in the program, Our Common Maladjustments. And the discussion this evening is on the subject of the sources of tension. The speaker, Dr. Bella S. Van Barck. Dr. Van Barck is a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst and is an associate lecturer at American Institute for Psychoanalysis, lecturer for the New School for Social Research, and incidentally, lecturer at Cooper Union. And Dr. Van Barck has also been of great help in thinking along on this program. And I'd like to thank her personally for the work that she has done in helping us in every way possible. After all, the doctor is that kind of a person, and I'm glad to present her to you this evening, Dr. Bella Van Barck. I think Professor Fairchild's comment might create a little bit of tension in me, but I think I'll try to overcome that as we go along. Can you all hear me? No. Sir, you speak right now. Sir, you speak right now. I'll speak right now. Sir. What I said was that I think Professor Fairchild's kind comments might create a little bit of tension in me now. I'll try to overcome that and tell you later on perhaps some of the reasons why I might be feeling tense about his kind remarks. Now, why have I chosen the subject of tension? It's a very common individual personal phenomenon. All of you have experienced it. You probably will not remember your tension during the early years. Some people do. Some people remember incidents that cause them a great deal of pain and discomfort. But primarily I'm a doctor and a psychoanalyst. And although tension is not a sign of physical pain, it is a sign of something that is much more disturbing. Psychological, psychic pain. Now, I am emphasizing tension because most people are inclined to dismiss tension or to regard it as indicative of something or anything outside of their own psychological structure. Tension is uncomfortable because it produces suffering. Before we go on to any greater description of tension, I would like to tell you what the definition is in the dictionary. The dictionary says tension is a state of being stiff, rigid, tight, and taut. So that when you see an individual who is walking in a very stiff manner, you might not think that he was tense because he looks calm and poised. But actually he is psychologically a very tight and rigid individual. Now there are two kinds of tension. There is healthy tension that we experience. For example, the biological tensions. When you're hungry, you have a feeling of tension, a sensation in the stomach. We aren't quite sure what the exact explanation is for it. But when you have eaten, there is a satisfied feeling. Now psychological tension is quite different. Because the sources that create psychological tension make it impossible for anyone to more than temporarily relieve themselves of the discomfort. Healthy tension is a pleasant, agreeable experience. As my tension before with Professor Fairchild's remarks. You may feel tense at the idea of some anticipated event. As pleasurable as tingling sensation. On the whole, tension is a subjective experience. Nobody can tell you how tense you are, or how much it hurts you, or how much it pains you or upsets you. They may comment that you are tense. But for each individual, his particular tension has its particular qualitative and quantitative effect on him. Now in psychological tension, the outstanding point is discomfort. You are plainly bothered. Now we can't live in a state of being bothered all the time. So that we have ways of relieving ourselves of the tension unconsciously. And for that reason, a good part of our tension is expressed through the body. Now we all function as a whole individual. You think only your mind is working when you are studying, or when you are thinking, or when you are discussing something. But it isn't. All your organs are active. Your emotions are active. Everything that you are participates in everything that you do. Therefore, tension, which is a psychological phenomenon expressive of pain, pain in the heart, if you want to call it that, and real suffering, may be expressed through the body. And as a doctor, I'm interested in psychic pain because it needs to be relieved. And what is more important, it needs to be emphasized that it exists. Most of the time, the only thing you are aware of, you very generally, is a headache, or a stomachache, or some very uneasy feeling, or maybe you like to pull out of something, or shut your eyes on it, or go to sleep on it. There are various ways in which tension can be expressed physiologically and physically. Of course, tension can be expressed differently in various areas. People popularly speak of tension when they say, I'm jittery, or my nerves are all on edge, I feel I'm going to pieces, I could bust, I'm on the thin edge. And some people, patients often describe it as feeling very delicate. They are, because they are feeling very precariously balanced psychologically. I'm going to mention something about nervous breakdown later on, and what it means in terms of tension. Now, in a healthy individual, tension is a normal phenomenon. In order to start a task, you have to be at a certain level of tension. The tension that is the result of interest, of incentive, of pleasure in what you're going to do. And are a moderate amount of self-confidence. In psychological tension, none of these feelings exist. In healthy tension with these feelings, you are ready to take a chance. You're ready to try to handle the problems that face you. And you have the courage to tolerate the tension. You don't feel like you just take a hair out of something that doesn't happen to relieve the tension. In other words, in healthy psychological tension, there is a patience, there is an agreeable quality, and there is a capacity for tolerance. In unhealthy psychological tension, there is a very must state, an urgency feeling. I've got to get rid of this. So I'll eat another sundae, or I'll go to the movies, or I'll read a mystery story, or I'll go to sleep. Those are some of the more common ways of attempts to relieve psychic discomfort, which is not expressed as such, or experienced as such, by the individual. Now, in healthy tension, the individual can figure out how to solve his problem, and take steps in that direction. In unhealthy tension, the individual loses sight of any kind of capacity, whether it's his brain or his hands or his skills. He just forgets that he can solve a problem. And it seems to him as if there is nothing he can do, no resources he can tap, and everything is lost. Very frequently, this is met in a common cultural phenomenon, the urgency about finding a husband. It is called, it may sound a little funny, but it produces an enormous amount of suffering. Because for the individual, to whom love is the overall solution to all problems in living, and in thinking, and in acting, and in breathing, and in going on with life, love has the appearance of the answer to everything. And therefore, the search for love is very urgent. And when such an individual, as for example, one of my patients went away for a weekend, and she did have some success in making some acquaintances, but the success became bitter for her. Because as soon as she became successful, she became doubtful. Could she hold these people? She lost complete sight of her actual potential. She is pretty, she is bright, she is good looking, and she is young. So you would think looking at her that, reasonably, she ought to have a great deal of confidence in herself. But she doesn't. And therefore, in a state of acute tension, aroused by all the anxieties attendant on finding a husband, and the particular meaning of that for her, she loses sight of where she is going, what she is saying, what she wants to say, what she wants to do, whether she is interested in the man or not. And that is an acute state of suffering. Very acute tension can sometimes be felt as panic. Now I'd like to differentiate between panic and fear. Fear is usually attached to an object. In psychological fear, fear is expressed symbolically, such as fear of going into subways, fear of walking down stairs, fear of crossing streets. That is a symbolic expression for what is troubling the individual on a much deeper level. In tension, behind which there are fears, there is no object, is seen to this girl as if what she was afraid of was living without a man for the rest of her life. She was afraid of very much more. So that it did throw her into a great state of panic, which creates enormous tension, felt in muscles, creating a great deal of fatigue, and many other physical symptoms. Now panic is a state where an individual can temporarily really lose his head. And literally what is lost is the appreciation of one's own strength. For instance, if a fire broke out here, some of you might become panicky, others would keep cool. The people who would become panicky would for the moment lose sight of the fact that they're with other people, that presumably by and large everyone is fairly casually friendly towards them, that they're not alone, that somebody and many people here would be able to take care of them. But all the feeling of security that one does get from feeling that one is with other people is temporarily lost in a state of panic. I just thought of a popular phrase, he panicked me. And I've never thought of it this way, but I think this is literally what happens. The individual who is overwhelmed by another individual loses sight of reality contours and of what is actually there and of what is actually not there. So that they're literally thrown into a panic of confusion about reality. Now the other term is anxiety. Anxiety itself creates tension. I deliberately didn't use the word anxiety because it has a very specific meaning in a strict psychoanalytic sense. And when you say that you are anxious or someone else says they're anxious, they may be talking about quite two different subjective experiences. Psychologically when we use the word anxiety, we mean a series, a, well, a set of experiences which could be all phrased this way. I feel alone, I feel isolated, I feel helpless, I feel mad, there's no one here to help me. I feel I have no resources and I am simply out on the periphery in a very unfriendly world. That is what we mean psychologically by anxiety. But most people don't experience these thoughts or feelings when they are anxious. Most of the time I think what they are experiencing is tension. Anxiety itself, those particular feelings lead to a feeling of tension. Now the term worry, I'm so worried. You hear it all the time. I'm worrying about an exam and I'm worrying about meals and I'm worrying about what I'm going to wear tomorrow and I'm worrying what I'm going to eat tonight. Now are all these people worrying? What is actually going on when they're worrying? Are they really concerned? Now worry may create tension, but tension is not worry. And if you've watched a dog worry a bone, it is used in that sense, nibbles at it. He doesn't really get close up to the bone and take all the meat off and take a good bite into it. He worries and sort of plays around with it, teases it. And by and large, worrying is a teasing kind of movement in relation to a problem. It's not a real total involvement in a problem or a real total interest. But worrying itself can become a way of life that creates a lot of satisfaction for some people. They can gain attention by worrying. They can pass for feeling people, for sympathetic people, for sensitive people who are easily upset. And they can get a great deal of commiseration. And perhaps that's the only basis on which they can make contact with other people. So that worry is not necessarily an expression of internal distress. But it can be an expression of an attempt to relieve internal distress. If you are particularly bothered within you, it becomes a kind of relief to suddenly get awfully worried about how straight your closet is and what's happened to your dresses. And if you're really concerned about an exam, suddenly you become very preoccupied with where you put your pipes or your tobacco or whom you didn't call last year. And it's a method, a way, a device of taking you away from the inner discomfort of tension. Any other questions you have on this, will you please ask them afterwards? Because there may be other terms that you use that I'm not familiar with. And as I have emphasized, everyone does not experience tension directly as such. For instance, it is very common to feel tension coming from another person. And to feel sure that you yourself are completely calm and cool. Tension communicates itself between people. There's a feeling in the air. It's an aura, a little melody that gets played in a room. Now, I don't feel any particular tension in this room. I did speak at one time where it was a subject that was pretty touchy. And the whole room was sort of electrified. You could just feel tension just creeping out all over the place. That is, in an internal distress. Now, how much tension can a person tolerate? Well, I think individuals can bear a great deal of tension, provided there is some confidence about being able to handle it. And in the case of a nervous breakdown, what is actually happening is that the individual experiences of complete inability to cope with a problem which he feels affects him as a whole person. This woman that I mentioned before, about 20 years ago, she had had a very important relationship with a man. And then he left her something that she could never have foreseen and that was an enormous blow to everything that was important to her in life. And for the following five years, she didn't talk. She wouldn't eat. She had absolutely no interest in living. Now, human relationships are important to us. But actually, they're not more important than our individual lives. But when some event, like an examination or a love affair or the death of some very beloved person, produces a state of complete disinterest in oneself, then it is not just the person or the event that accounts for this reaction. But what has happened is that everything the person has considered important has been placed in this event. And therefore, what breaks down is the loss of the satisfaction from putting your life in someone else's hands or putting your self-esteem in the service of whether I pass that examination or not, or whether I go to that interview or not, or whether I get that job or not. In themselves, these events are pretty important. And I'm sure many people want to ask questions about most of our tensions from external sources. But what I am emphasizing tonight are the inner personal sources, the individual sources for personal tension, which make it even harder to bear the tensions that do exist in our society, in our culture, in our families, in our friends, in our close relations. Now, in terms of the degree of tension, tension may be a steady feeling accompanying every waking moment. Or it may be felt only on occasion, or it may never be felt, or it may only be experienced in physical terms, intellectual terms, like, I haven't got a thought in my head, or my head is all blocked up. That's an indication of tension. Or I can't think straight, or in forgetting, lapses of memory. There are various symptoms that I'm sure you're all familiar with, which are an expression of, and a reflection of, inner distress, which creates psychological tension, which affects all the functioning of your body. Now, since there are many people who do not know that they feel tense, and that they are under pressure, until they have been relieved of the pressure, I am emphasizing how you can tell when you are tense. In analytic treatment, it's not uncommon, after an individual has worked out a problem that's given him a great deal of concern, to suddenly light up and say, my goodness, I feel about 10 pounds lighter. Now, what has actually happened is that a great deal of tension associated with that problem has been relieved. And literally, you do feel lighter. And conversely, when you feel heavy, it is the result, not of increased weight, or what you ate, but the result of being weighed down by psychological tension. Now, from this point onwards, I would like to give you the main body of the talk on what bothers people, how do they express their being bothered, and what accounts for their being bothered. I've tried to simplify a very complex theory about structure of personality. And in its complexity, I may have oversimplified it. But I believe there will be some highlights that will be of some importance to most of you. And those who do feel confused about it, please ask questions afterwards. Now, if we see a man as an organism trying to realize his nature, which means trying to be himself, not trying to be the neighbor next door, or the man on the next block, or President Truman, or Margaret Truman, or anybody but oneself, we see, what we see mostly in our society are evidences of unhealthy ways of trying to live to be oneself. In a healthy state, man wants to be himself. He's not concerned with comparing himself so much with other people. He wants to be what he can be, to use his own potentials, to be alive, to be friendly, to be independent, to be able to make up his own mind, to be able to get mad if he wants to, to be able to express displeasure, and to function as honestly and as fully as possible. Now, every individual has to learn how to take care of himself, how to fulfill both his physiological, his psychological, physical, and intellectual, and emotional needs. The fortunate individual who gets a good start in this direction, when the adults who take care of him respect him, and are interested in his individuality, and he gets encouraged, can grow up to be himself, to be proud of being himself, and not concerned with how well he measures up to the guy next to him. However, when a growing individual does not get encouragement, guidance, understanding, and acceptance for himself as he is, and not as children tell me often, and grown-ups remember, look at that little girl next door, she keeps her dresses clean all the time, why can't you? Now, what that means to the child is, I who don't keep my dresses clean, I'm no good, the girl who keeps her dresses clean is good, so I have to do something to gain respect of my parents. From there on starts a development of the personality, in the service of not being oneself, but of being somebody who will gain some favor with the environment, and with himself. Now, in the process of this neurotic development, no, in this kind of unhealthy development, neurosis is born. Despite good endowment and potential, an individual may find, by the time he's 30, 40, 50, that he somehow has never quite achieved. There's a little poem in the post last week, that kind of brings out in a nutshell, not very elegant poetry, and not very aesthetic, but it says the thing. It says, I have my share of life's rewards, and yet at times I feel downhearted, because the me I thought I'd be, has somehow never gotten started. And that, in essence, is the cry of neurotic individuals, and partly that cry is justified. Partly, it is the result of neurotic development, which can be changed. Now, what takes place in the neurotic process that makes an individual, that produces tension in an individual, makes him unable to realize himself, disturbs his relations with others, results in lack of success, makes him unhappy, paralyzes him, immobilizes him, makes him ill more than his physical endowment would warrant, and produces all the very things we see in our present culture. In the process of developing an environment where an individual feels that he is not important as he is, that he is somehow not quite acceptable, as one schizophrenic boy put it, I think I didn't come into the world with the things that my parents wanted me to have, which is a very succinct way of putting it, because it is not quite true, but it is the way he felt it. And it's often done in an unthinking way, to say, well, why couldn't you be like your sister or your brother? And so, to be like the sister or the brother of being impossible, the growing individual has to develop some other ideas about who he is, and how he is, and what's important about him, and what he's got to cope with, to get along with, and how he can cope with life. In this process, the individual first tries to please, or to fight off his parents. But when this becomes untenable, he starts to move away from the parents, from the environment, by creating a fairytale picture of himself. Some of it is not so fairytale, because it actually takes into his composition what the individual has. Although it exaggerates and distorts it, and makes it pretty fantastic. So that at the basis of the sources of tension in individuals, adults, children, adolescents, even small infants, although this doesn't apply to small infants in terms of having developed any particular character structure, there is, there results, a creation of a false identity. Now, it would be alright if we created one false identity, and we sort of stuck to it. If you start when you're a little child thinking you're Cinderella, and you stick to it, you at least have some kind of continuity and consistency to the patterns you build up, to your security patterns, to the way you deal with people. There is a little quotation in one of Dr. Huynh's new books about a woman who remembered that when she was about three years, five years old, she had just been sitting in her corner thinking how nice she was. She was just a little princess. And her uncle came along and shattered the illusion and said, my goodness, what a dirty face you have. And she got furious, because you don't tell princesses that they have dirty faces. So the spell was broken. But unfortunately, in neurosis, the spell is not broken, except by hard knocks. And then it isn't broken because more defenses are built up to implement the original false identity. Now what goes into this false identity? For example, the child who feels that the only way you can get along is by being charming and endearing, and ingratiating, and self effacing, and loving, and bubbling all over the place, will develop a false identity about himself to this extent, that he will begin to believe that he is as loving, as kind, as warm, as friendly as he feels he has to be. Now that wouldn't be so bad if we could maintain that kind of relationship with ourselves and with others. But we aren't one-sided in our personalities. We have multiple needs. And so in the creation of this false identity, there come in inconsistent pictures, what one patient called, I play roles at the time. I play one role with my supervisor, another role with my teacher, and a third role with my husband, a fourth role with my mother, and when my friends come, I play the role of the great hostess. And it is a role, because it isn't real, and it isn't entirely wholehearted. It is what she should be in order to get along, and in order to make some relationships with people. Now one false identity, as I said before, wouldn't be quite so troublesome, but we create two false identities. So we get into double hot water. Not only do we glorify ourselves and raise ourselves above others, so that we don't feel conflicted, and we don't feel so anxious, and so lost, and so hopeless. And I think if you look back into yourself, you can remember the days when you used to spin tales and weave fantasies about who you thought you were, and who you thought you would be, and who you thought your parents were, and maybe you were a changeling, and maybe you got changed by mistake and you really belonged to some noble blood. Well, now that is more characteristic of childhood fantasies. But the fantasy picture that develops afterwards is just as unrealistic, except it's put in much more acceptable terms. I'm the most loving person. I'm the most saintly person. I'm the most self-sacrificing person. I'm the strongest person. I can manage any problem. I can even get through traffic when there are ten cars in front of me. I live on Ninth Street, and every once in a while, I get a reminder that tension exists all the time. There'll be a holdup in traffic, and every one of that line of cars will just hunk. Now, everyone knows that they're held up. Everyone knows that there's a block, and everyone knows that they can't move. But somehow or other, there's one or two drivers always who insist on asserting themselves, and crying out how unjust this all is that they can't fly over the other cars, and they hunk madly. They are under considerable tension. Now, what is the other false identity that happens? If you become a certain kind of person in your own mind, who wears gold and silver dresses, with apologies to the ladies, this is just an analogy, and you look at yourself and you're just wearing a plain cotton dress, or a plain wool dress, you're going to shrink. You're going to turn away, perhaps, in disgust, which is pretty unrealistic, because you're still a person, and the same person, whether you wear a cotton dress or a silk dress. But if to yourself you're only important when you wear a silk dress, then, by contrast, anything in yourself that is less than a silk dress, or that is less than what you think you should be, could be, ought to be, are, becomes something beneath notice. So that what you really are, what your real capacities are, how you really function with people, how you actually get along, sort of gets put into the discard. And then you have to do something. You can't, if you look with one eye, and attention comes out in dreams sometimes, and this is a dream that one person had. She was looking with one, just closed left eye, and with the right eye she was seeing a beautiful woman. And she closed the right eye, and with the left eye she was seeing a little hunchback. Now you can't possibly live with two such pictures of yourself. You've got to come to some sort of compromise of where you stand about yourself. Now in neurosis, usually, there is no actual realistic compromise. There are just compromises on compromises, so that the end result is a sort of patchwork quilt arrangement, with a little piece here that is nearer truth, and a little piece over there that's almost completely non-truth about oneself. Now in the course of building up the first false identity, a great deal of pride develops. Here I am, such a good person, I'm really proud of all these things that I'm doing with people. And the individual forgets that some of the things they do with themselves and for people, it's out of fear, not out of real liking for the people, nor out of real wish on the other person's part. So that, for example, the need to please and be ingratiating, becomes a characteristic of a very fine lady. Or the necessity to not call any reproaches down on your head, and to just stand quietly by and let people look at you, who was glorified by one woman as the pale lady, with the lily hands beside the Shalema. And what she was describing there was her solution to getting along. If you sit quietly on a couch, figuratively speaking, and you're just pallid and wan, and you make no noise, and you don't intrude, nobody really bothers you. Nobody knows who you are either. But there's less danger of getting into trouble with anyone. Now, this pride is a stinker. Because it gets you into an awful lot of tension and an awful lot of hot water. Now, there is a difference between real pride and neurotic pride. When you're really satisfied, really proud of what you are, of what you think, you have a kind of quiet acceptance and a mellow feeling. You aren't high up in the clouds thinking, oh, gee, I'm just something out of this world. Nor are you unable to look at yourself. Real pride is real satisfaction and real direction, and an honest feeling of knowing where you're going to a large extent. Not absolutely, but at least to some extent. In neurotic pride, there is a desperation. There is a must about it. I must think this way about myself. I must feel this way. I must act this way. I must say this. I must not say the other. And all these musts are turned into glorified values. I am so good because I don't say this, and I am bad when I do say it. And when I do say it, I develop guilt feelings and tension. Now, a lot of the tension comes, you can't be proud and not hypersensitive. I'm not talking about real sensitivity, which is a delicate appreciation of what goes on in yourself and in your relationship between yourself and another person. But hypersensitivity is touchiness, porcupine-like quality, where what goes on the outside gets delivered to you on the inside. So you prick the person on the outside, you get pricked on the inside. And whichever way it goes, it creates tension. Now, with false pride, there must be a hypersensitivity. Because if you're always defending some very necessary position about yourself, such as the fact that you can, what is it, that you can get by with automobile tickets. Everybody else gets them, but not you. You've managed to get by for a number of years, and then you get four in a row, and you go to pieces. Because it's been very important to see yourself as a person who was smart enough, and clever enough, and favored enough to get by. Because some people, when they get by with parking tickets, feel like it's a sign of being a special protege of God, or the traffic department. Somehow the policemen recognize that it was their car, and therefore they didn't get the ticket, which proves how really special they are, and how smart, and so forth. Now, in false pride of this kind, you're in danger, because you're on shaky ground. Because there's no real confidence in this false pride. No one, honestly, deep down within them, can believe that they can get away with everything all the time, at all times, and get by, and just smooth things over, without having some kind of penalty to pay, at some time or other. So that this false pride creates vulnerability. Now, how is this, how do you react when your pride is hurt? How are you going to know whether it's your false pride, or whether someone has really done you a real injury? Well, first of all, when your false pride is hurt, you sort of bristle inside. You begin to feel quite uncomfortable, irritable. You may not know why. You may not connect the irritability with what was said or what was done. But you will begin to feel maybe itchy all over, squirmy. You don't quite know why you're that way. Well, you may in time, if you look into yourself, find out that what somebody said stirs something up in you and raise doubts in you about yourself. Or you may insult easily. It's another way of reacting to false pride. Feeling insulted creates tension, unless you're the kind of person who doesn't mind hitting back. Now, there are types who feel very proud of the fact that they never let anybody get by with anything. You can't say good morning in a kind of grumpy voice without saying, what do you mean? Why do you say it that way? Why is this a purely pressure? Why is this a very pressure that you're proud? Why is this a private entity? And this is a very protective device, that's why it's a very prided device. Because I want to emphasize that every pride that you have is a protective device. A way of trying to deal with problems. A way of trying to relieve your feelings of inadequacy and inferiority. But every pride creates more feelings of inferiority. Tension is created then in the individual who has a pride in letting everybody get by with anything Now, you may also have two sets of values. I mustn't let anybody get by with anything that they do to me, and I must put up with everything. Then you're a real candidate for constant tension because you can't satisfy both at the same time. It's impossible. You can't be good and hostile at the same time without feeling uncomfortable. You can't feel proud of being such an understanding person and have to insult someone. It creates too much tension. So that one of the largest sources of tension is delicate pride. Now, another source of tension is the devices that we build up to keep our pride alive, which is heard in our culture quite often as shoulds. I should do this, and I should have done the other thing, and I should have said this, and I should have made out this way, and even though I had some very unfortunate experiences as a child, I shouldn't have built up these peculiar ideas about myself. I should have come out pure and clean and wholesome. Now, shoulds may sound to you like something that comes from the head, and therefore you can dispense with it and say, well, this is silly. I shouldn't expect this of myself. So it becomes another should. Nevertheless, shoulds have very powerful emotional value and create an enormous amount of tension. Perhaps all of you, one time or another, have had the experience of feeling embarrassed that you didn't, well, that you didn't show enough friendliness. Maybe other people might think you were not quite so friendly. You feel embarrassed, but the embarrassment is an expression of inner attention resulting from feeling ashamed in one's own eyes for not living up to this should. I should be friendly all the time even if the other person is nasty to me. I should turn the other cheap. So out of these shoulds and not living up to the shoulds come what many people are interested in, guilt feelings. And guilt feelings are one way of experiencing inner tension from not performing as one drives oneself to perform. I must get this paper done and I must do all this within three hours. And I should write to this person and I should answer the bills and I should have this. And if you are preoccupied with shoulds long enough, you don't have much time to sleep. That's sad. But if you live on the basis of shoulds, which are a way of keeping your pride alive, there is constant tension, constant self-recrimination, constant nagging at oneself and needling. Why didn't... You may say it in terms of why didn't I do that? But what you're actually saying to yourself is you failed because you should have done that regardless of what was in the way. Shoulds have no mercy. And this particular phenomenon has been called a tyranny of the shoulds. And many of us live under that kind of an inner dictatorship. I shouldn't ask for anything. I shouldn't ask directions. I shouldn't ask anybody for any money. I shouldn't ask for help. I should solve all my problems with my brain. I should never admit that I am in pain. I should never acknowledge that I'm suffering. And that kind of a should makes it impossible to feel tension at times, even when there is terrific tension. Now another source of shoulds is this other self, this attitude of I can't stand myself. I despise myself. Now you may say I hate myself for doing this or I hate myself for the way I look. But that is only a small fraction of what takes place in you when you really are experiencing disgust for yourself, for not performing according to your shoulds, or for not meeting with your pride, or for not measuring up to certain standards, or for not getting back at somebody. And self-hate creates almost as much tension in certain people as hurt pride in others. The two are together. The two sides of the coin. When your pride is hurt, and it can be secret pride because the person who seems to be so modest is secretly quite proud of his modesty, although openly he's quite modest. So that you can have hurt pride and self-hate at the same time. And self-hate can be expressed in any number of forms, creates a great deal of tension, blocks your mind, makes you extremely uncomfortable, and often you experience it as hating the other person. But what you hate actually is not the other person nearly so much as the fact that he has stirred you up, created doubts in you, or exposed you to your own uncertainty about yourself and your position in relation to the world and in relation to people. Now another source of tension are these enormous claims that develop on the basis of thinking we are a certain kind of person and having certain kind of needs. Now I want to also emphasize that you develop the kind of person you develop in terms of your inner needs as a person. And naturally all of us have different kinds of needs in different degrees. But on the basis of our inner needs, whether for love or for mastery or for getting things done or for success or for power or for great freedom, out of these needs grow great claims. Because I can't stand being held up in the line with a car, as I'm going to hunt my car, then anybody who holds me up is, well, he just is. The claim there is, since I get too disturbed when my plans are interfered with, the world should arrange it so that there are no traffic jams. And if you watch some drivers, I'm particularly sensitive about driving now. I'm trying to learn how. So I am observant. But this business about traffic lights and rules and regulations and the extreme resentment towards the powers that be who put traffic lights in the way when I want to go fast. I'm not talking about myself. But this kind of claim on the world, because I have so much to do, nobody should ask me a question, nobody should ask me a favor. Because I work so hard at my job, my wife shouldn't want to talk to me at night. She should just let me sit behind my paper. Because I am so good and conscientious, I ought to be rewarded with finding a husband the first time I walk into a room. Now that may sound very strange and irrational to you, but it's not. There's a very precise logic there, which stems from the way the individual feels about himself. Unable to live without love. Uncertain about what qualities he possesses to get that love, or what's necessary to get love. And therefore the claim is very justified. I've been so good all my life and I've done what's expected of me. And I've had so much trouble, therefore I should have this reward. The Cinderella myth goes on and on and on. It's very common. The Sleeping Beauty myth goes on too. Not so much in terms of love, but in terms of there should be somebody who would stimulate me enough so I would feel alive. And whether you believe, whether you interpret Sleeping Beauty as that or not, I do. As a symbol of a need for some very strong person to come along and stun you, sting you, excite you into aliveness so that you can feel that you have some movement of your own. But that kind of claim comes from people who feel very immobile inside, who have no particular incentive or drive. So you can understand that the claim is fairly well justified. It's not justified in terms of reality and it's not sensible, but the individual works that way. Now certain claims we have on ourselves. If I am a very bright person, I should be able to do this paper in a half hour. And if I set up that kind of a claim, it would seem quite reasonable if I must think of myself as a bright person. And if I think that bright people always work very rapidly, they don't have to think beforehand, they don't have to work anything through, then that kind of claim would seem very reasonable. So that if your friends seem to be unreasonable or your family or they seem to make demands on you that you consider irrational, unreasonable, unrealistic, it's very reasonable to them and you will save yourself a lot of tension and a lot of unhappiness if you don't try to persuade them by your reasonableness that they're unreasonable. Because you're not talking on the same basis of reasonableness. I wonder if I've got that over. It's rather important. Because we spend a lot of energy and a lot of heart and a lot of time and our thoughts and all our muscles get into trying to persuade someone to see the light. But you can't persuade them to see the light because you're trying to have them see the light that you see. But they are looking at another light. So that that is why there's so much misunderstanding at times we talk different languages. It may not seem reasonable to you, for example, that a person should not want to have traffic lights in the way when he wants to go fast. Because you'll see it reasonably that traffic lights are both for his welfare and the welfare of the community. He doesn't. He sees it as an infringement on his need for utter freedom. So that you argue from different premises. Now, other sources of tension that may be less clear to you and are only just now being worked out more carefully come from the battle that takes place within us when we try to change something. Now, not everybody has had analysis or is going to have analysis and centuries before there was no analysis and people did change their personalities. They changed their attitudes. They changed their ways of dealing with themselves and of dealing with people. In the course of analysis, we have found that one of the greatest sources of tension occurs when an individual is trying to get rid of some of these false values, some of this false pride, to get out of the belabourment and the concentration camp of these shoulds and to give up some of these claims. Then there is a great turmoil that takes place. Now, you may have had the experience yourself of trying to, what was it they used to, didn't they call it struggling with the devil in one century? I don't know, there was a special phrase for that. You exorcise the devil. Well, literally, this becomes an exorcising of the devil. Because this type of development of personality is devilish in its effect on the person and on those about them. Now, the last source of tension is the self-hate, which occurs when we find out that we aren't what we think we are, that we can't really succeed in going through that traffic line, that we can't get by with traffic tickets, that we can't get people to be our slaves, and so forth. And the way we feel the tension resulting from that. And most of the time, you won't think this of yourself because you'll see yourself as reasonable, as sensible in what you impose on yourself and on others, as accepting limitations, and it's quite realistic. And so it would surprise you to find out that in certain areas, you might not be so realistic in the way you're running your life. And when you come upon that realization, you may not realize that you've come upon it, but you may begin to feel cramped, tight, uncomfortable, inferior to those around you, uneasy. You may become suspicious. You may begin to think everybody's looking at you and wondering what's the matter with him or what's the matter with her. Now, those experiences needn't frighten you. They are expressions of inner tension due to some kind of process going on in you. Now, I thought that this could be done in two ways. Either taking up the various types of individual tentatively and saying something about the occasions on which such individuals would develop tension more likely than other individuals, or it could be done in question form. Now, would you like me to give you a few examples and then you can ask more questions on it? Or would you like me to leave it to you to ask the question of when would this all rise? The majority as I hear it. All right. Now, the first type of individual that results from trying to solve this battle between identities, the first solution that can take place, or one solution that can take place, is identifying yourself with this false self. I am what I think I am, I am what I should be, and I am what I ought to be. Now, such people look as if they are completely self-assured, as if they haven't got a doubt in their minds about their opinions or their wishes, as if they are completely in love with themselves, and they irk the hell out of people who don't feel that way. However, if you are terribly upset by a person who is openly arrogant, or openly very assured, or openly very expansive, like he has the best car and he has the best wife and he has the best furniture, it is a pretty good indication that secretly within you would also like to be able to function that way. But you have adopted a different kind of solution. Now, in this solution, such individuals, of course, can get along very well so long as they have around them people who stand in open eye, open mouth admiration of everything they say and do. Then they function pretty well. And since they have so little opened out and have pretty well squelched this feeling of being nobody and unimportant and inadequate and inferior, they do seem to function much better than the second solution that I am telling you about. However, their tensions arise from driving themselves mercilessly. If you read What Makes Sammy Run, you'll get a picture of an individual who just drives himself. He doesn't seem to know what his goal is. But it's on and on and on. They never seem to let go. They never know how many hours a day they ought to work. They're never tired. But when they come at a point in their lives where they can't have what they want, because the greatest appeal for these people lies in being able either to charm everybody or seduce everybody or win everybody over or persuade people, either by manners or by your intelligence or by personality to do as they want to, when that doesn't happen, they really go to pieces because they have nothing to stand on except that absolute assurance. Now, the tensions that they create in relation to other people come from the fact that they are sublimely indifferent to the fact that they might affect anybody else. If any of you have read a book called The Husband, there's an excellent picture there of how this kind of person who is on the expansive side, I'm all right, everything's just fine with me, looks up in absolute amazement that his wife could be hurt by something that he said. Because they feel that nobody should be touched by them. And if they are, nobody should say anything about it. They can become quite arrogant and quite vindictive. They are the people that I mentioned before who never let anybody get by with anything. That's just one type under the expansive. Now, that type has tension all the time. Because, although they seem to be self-assured, they are on the side of pride. And as you remember, I said pride makes you very vulnerable. Now, you can be proud all you want to in a vacuum because there's nobody there to show you any discrepancies or any shortcomings or to oppose you. But when you step out of the vacuum, there are plenty of opportunities in life that show you that the things you need to do to change yourself, to grow, to improve, to do something in the direction of getting what you want. Now, these people cannot do that. So that they're constantly hostile, constantly on the defensive, constantly with a chip on their shoulders. And as you can see, constantly under tension. You can get along with them if you don't get too much in their way. Or if you are the kind of person who wants somebody that'll take over for you. They'll do an awful lot of managing and they'll do just fine. And they will. They are good managers. Because their whole energies are devoted towards developing all capacities for mastering life. Which means that they do put out effort. They do have a lot of vitality, quite frequently. Now, the second solution to this battle between who am I, big or little, nobody or somebody, is to get on the side of I am just nobody. And all that I want out of life is love. Now, this is really one of the most painful situations to be in. Because such an individual is driven to all ends. If you remember of human bondage, how Philip degraded himself in order to get love from Mildred. There wasn't anything he wouldn't do. And Philip had his own potentials, but he paid little attention to them. Now, these people are very sensitive to what people say, the tone of voice they use, the black looks. And they cringe. They try very hard to keep peace all the time. They are the people who will do anything to avoid friction. And the result of that sometimes is that they don't develop a relationship with another person. Because where there's no friction, healthy or otherwise, there's also no movement. And these people have tension in themselves as a result of their constant concern with how am I doing? How am I affecting the other person? Do they like me? Am I better than they are? Am I worse? But they're on the side consciously of I am worse than the other person. I am inferior. Secretly, they don't feel that way. So that they are a little less, a little more puzzled about why they are tense so often. Why they are hurt, upset, irritated, feel guilty. In fact, with these people, guilt feelings are a kind of virtue. Because it fits in with the picture of, see, I don't count for very much. Everything that goes wrong, I did it. And in that way they calm the inner doubts about themselves. Thank you. Now the individuals who are out for love and affection are in a precarious position. In terms of the tension that they create for themselves, and the tension they create in others by the enormous demands for exclusive devotion, for absolute love, I'll love you till the day I die. And a constant necessity to have that love proven. And it doesn't matter how often it is done, these individuals are extremely insecure because of their complete lack of respect for themselves. They are nothing unless someone looks at them. As one woman said, if only I could get somebody to smile at me, the rest of my life would be happy. Now that seems like an enormous exaggeration. But within herself, this woman was actually feeling that there wasn't one friend in the world for her. Now the third way in which an individual can solve this problem, and relieve tensions for himself perhaps, is to sort of not get on either side and be a kind of mystery. And I'm sure you've met many people who can't quite tell whether they think well of themselves, where they stand about themselves, what they think, if they think at all, what they feel or what they want. Their whole interest is to keep their activity at a minimum, so that they will not feel themselves caught between the tensions created by pride and the tensions created by not thinking well of oneself. And such individuals simply just don't want to be bothered. So they won't enter into any arguments. And they will politely turn their backs on you, shut their ears, or deal with problems in such a way that you become tense with anxiety about what they really mean. And if you happen to be a self-effacing person or the person who feels very badly about himself, then you're sure that they're against you and they don't love you. And if you're the more expansive type, it may be irritating, because it might feel as if you haven't got them completely in your domination, because they slip out. They're very slippery people. Only by being slippery can they attain an equilibrium, so that they really never come out of the open as people in this kind of a solution. It is called a solution of resignation, where the object in life is to keep both oneself, one's needs, one's wishes, one's interests at a minimum, just to get by. And in our culture, they look like normal people. They are regarded as the successful people because they do the right things. They go to the right schools, they marry, they have children, they have jobs, they look to all intents and purposes like well-adjusted people. But they are living on the surface and at a minimum of their own potential. Now there are ways in which you can relieve tension that I'm sure you would want to know about. I'm going to leave that to your questions. I would just like to end up with some suggestions, very few, about what one can do to deal with tension in yourself when you recognize it or tension in others. As for yourself, it is important to develop some kind of courage and strength to tolerate tension, to live with it, so that you can give yourself a chance to investigate what's causing tension. Watch yourself. Watch the occasions where you begin to feel uncomfortable, where you sort of wish you hadn't ever gotten into a situation, where suddenly everything loses interest, where you begin to think about the atom bomb is going to drop down next week. When you begin to think the atom bomb is going to drop down next week, something is going on in you that is being expressed in that particular way. Now we're all concerned with the atom bomb. We don't keep it in the front of our minds. And when some thought like that pops up suddenly in the course of the day, you can be sure that you are in a state of internal distress, and that is a signal. And so instead of trying to say, well, I'm tense because my boss scolded me, or because I didn't eat breakfast, or because I had a headache, or a backache, or a stomachache, because the speaker spoke too long, look into yourself. Good night. Thank you very much, Dr. VanBark. Those of you who would like to ask questions, would you please come down? We can ask them directly on that side, or I'll take a written question. Now you sit down for about two minutes. All right. You're welcome. Dr. VanBark. After this, you're welcome. I'll take a minute. You're welcome. Thank you. Dr. VanBark. We'll be right back. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. VanBark. There are several questions. Dr. VanBark, there are several questions here about the problem of international and national tensions, and national tensions and pride with the national prides. Is there any way possible that you can say in about 10 seconds, tell us how we might relieve national and international tensions? You know, if I have said nothing about pride that has stuck, this is a very good example of some very fantastic claim on what another person might think I'm capable of. And a certain fantastic pride in being able to ask huge questions. I'm not trying to hurt the person's feelings, but a question of this kind takes in so much that I am completely unacquainted with, that I certainly will not answer a question asking how one can relieve national and international tensions. Our object is to relieve as much personal tension as possible. Dr. Van Barck, would you kindly explain the effects on one who constantly represses his selfish assertion for fear of antagonizing people and thus lose their friendship? You wanted that. Yes, I wanted that question because I felt it was rather important. There's a great emphasis in our particular society on how wonderful it is to be a peace-loving person and to not create friction and to try to keep things smooth and harmonious, so harmonious that there's no motion underneath the surface. Now, in repressing self-assertion, that starts out anyhow in the early years when a child is in an environment where it's literally dangerous to say what you think or what you feel because the adults will jump down your throat. So you start to keep it to yourself. Now, in the course of keeping it to yourself, it's particularly the self-effacing type who places such great value on not asserting himself. The resigned person that I mentioned before doesn't want to be bothered, but the type that's on the side of being inferior is in great need of people and their attention and their love and affection. And so they squelch what they think and what they feel. The disastrous and destructive effects of repressing self-assertion is first that you lose sight of what you really think. You really dull your critical senses. You become unaware of what you really feel. You become completely unaware of what you really want, which is most important. And although it may not create friction if you agree with the other person or you keep your thoughts to yourself or you bite your tongue instead of saying what you want, it doesn't create an openness in a relationship. Because your attention is going to show in some way or other. It's going to come out in some insidious fashion. You can hold back just so much of that anger or resentment. And no matter how proud an individual becomes, it isn't repressing his self-assertion. It's really taking a pride and not saying anything that might hurt the other person, which is another way of expressing I am not in a position to hurt the other person because it might boomerang on me. And what happens to the person who doesn't know who he is or what he wants or what he feels, that he becomes constricted. And then that makes the love of people even more necessary and he becomes more restricted and relationships get worse and worse. Because by and large, you don't really get along with people by not telling them what's on your mind. Not that you get along by always telling them what's on your mind. But it's not either or. Not that you get along with people by not telling them what's on your mind. All right, doctor. Thank you. Do hereditary characteristics determine the degree or capacity a person is able to readjust through treatment? How about heredity and treatment? Well, I personally would say that given people with equal endowment, equal potential, I'm not talking about educational background, but healthy people with average intelligence, average capacity to learn skills and so forth, the heredity plays little part in the capacity to change oneself. What really plays a part is the extent to which the individual has been crushed as a person, both in early life and by the various protective maneuvers and security devices that he has built up in his efforts to get along despite feeling crushed and being crushed. Doctor, is there a subconscious tension that produces, say, nightmares or perhaps physical pain and yet does not seem to be apparent during the time you're awake or in your conscious moments? Yes, that's quite true. Your dreams are a very good index of how you really felt when somebody said something to you. Because you may have felt nothing and in your dreams you're throwing them down the stairs. Our dreams are really more honest because some of the censorship is removed and the taboos. The taboos on expressing anger or vindictiveness or revenge are removed in dreams. But what usually happens is that if you have a dream that is a nightmare, that means that you are becoming more aware of something that would be intolerable for you and would throw you into terrific conflict. The nightmare is a way of trying to work out that tension in your dream so you won't have to face it in waking life. Doctor, do you suppose those of us who don't dream at all are in a very bad way? I heard we're in a worse way than anybody. Doctor, do you suppose those of us who don't dream at all? Well, I know that in comparing our experiences when we have analytic meetings, there are a number of people who just never dream. When they get into analysis, most of the time we say we never dream, but actually we don't remember our dreams. Because we're always trying to solve problems. And the dream life is one way of trying to solve problems. Now, you either say you don't dream because you don't remember your dreams, or you have a great vested interest in not remembering your dreams because they might upset you, or they might bring things to your consciousness that are disagreeable, or you are so controlled and so tight and so inwardly cramped that you haven't the freedom to permit yourself, even in your dreams, to have some kind of feeling that will remain with you in your waking life. But I don't think I can make any very positive correlation between not dreaming and what it might possibly indicate about the person as to whether they are more tense, or more involved, or less involved. I know that as one gets healthier in the course of analysis, the frequency of dreams decreases. And by the time you are practically through with your formal analysis, and after you have finished it, you will have a period where you don't dream at all. Now, we can speculate about what that might mean, but I don't think that would be of any particular value at right this moment. Thank you, Doctor. I always thought I was just tired when I went home and slept so well. Thank you very much, Dr. Van Bort.