This is Bob Everett, reporting from WPOE, Elizabeth, New Jersey. Death and destruction was rained down on Elizabeth again today for the second time within six weeks. A two-engine American Airlines Convair plane, flight number 6780 from Buffalo to Newark, coming in for an instrument landing in murky weather, let down into the roof of a four-story brick building at 310 Williamson Street in Elizabeth, just across the street from the Batten High School at 3.45 p.m. The plane exploded on landing on the roof, then plummeted down into a dwelling, completely obliterating it. Balls of flame mushroomed over the entire area when I got to the scene about five minutes after it happened. It was a holocaust of destruction and burning planes, flames, buildings. It was almost indescribable scene. I recall being at the site of the C-46 non-sked crash in the Elizabeth River, and it was almost mute alongside of this one. Rubble from the buildings was strewn all over an empty lot, and already people were flocking to the scene in the thousands, with their cars jamming the highways, blocking ambulance and rescue crews, as firemen and policemen also battled to get to the scene. However, Elizabeth Fire Force and police reserves were there, trying to control the flames which were spreading rapidly to adjoining buildings. In back of the big three-story brick building, which was gouged out by the plane, an explosion, a number of garages caught fire, and in one was a converted machine shop in which two people were carried out to safety. The latest reports have it that 23 people were in the plane, and as far as I could determine, they must have been dead, for there was no sign of the plane itself, except for one little piece of a wingtip lying in the lot next door. The brick building housed three families, and on the bottom floor was a candy store, in which at the time of the crash were ten schoolchildren having candy and cokes. As the brick and glass shattered down, the children ran screaming to safety across the street. But I don't think that that was the case with, I know, a number of people that were living in not only the brick building, but also the frame dwelling next door. I heard one woman hysterically cry out, my friend is on the third floor of that building, and she's sick and couldn't move. At the present time, police have reported that twelve bodies have been taken from the wreckage, possibly the plane wreckage. They didn't explain just where they had retrieved them. But they will undoubtedly be bringing more out as night goes on. Late after the, not long after the crash occurred, an acrid, heavy black smoke started to cover the scene and make it difficult for firemen and other rescue crews to do their job. And then as night fell, the firemen were able to bring up their big white searchlights and start digging into the rubble for any survivors, for the bodies of those who must certainly have been killed in this terrible catastrophe that visited Elizabeth again. Some bodies, rather some people, who were burned in the explosion and the fire of the buildings were taken to St. Elizabeth Hospital. We haven't been able to determine their condition, for the phone lines are completely jammed in Elizabeth. No phone within that area, at least a mile square or up to two miles. No one with a phone is able to call out. Only the phone calls come in, and police and firemen are hampered in that respect from not being able to contact those areas that they want for other rescue equipment. As I came back from the scene, I had to practically battle my way along the streets, dodging people, driving madly to get to the scene, and blocking rescue crews and ambulances coming from all the municipalities in Union County. I believe even some came from Newark, as they did during the last crash. At the present time, firemen are bringing the flames under control, and as soon as the rubble has been cooled off, undoubtedly they will be able to dig further in and find out just how many people suffered in this terrible tragedy in Elizabeth. Well, thank you very much, Bob Everett of radio station WPOE and the Elizabeth Daily Journal for your eyewitness account of this plane crash this afternoon in Elizabeth, New Jersey. Good night. Good night. Good night. Hello, this is radio station WNYC Newsroom in New York City. Who is this, please? Just a minute, please. Hello? Hey, Mary. This is radio station WNYC Newsroom in New York City. Yes. May I have your name, please? Well, don't point it. It's the principal here. Mr. Alice O'Carrier. The principal? Yes. Did you see the plane crash that occurred this afternoon? Well, from my desk. What happened? Can you tell me? Well, as I saw, we heard a noise, you know, a very strange noise. I looked out and immediately with the noise, there seems to be an explosion and the flames. All happened, seemed to all happen at once. I see. And what about the girls' school nearby, Batten High School? Did it miss the high school? Oh, yes. It missed the high school. It struck a... Well, I don't know whether it struck, but I mean, the three-family house is still burning now. It's still in flames. Can you look out your window right now? I'm doing that. And what do you see right now? I see mobs of people and I see the flames. Of course, they've subsided. But in the fire, of course, the hose is being poured on the building. And people are milling backwards and forwards. Everyone's trying to take pictures. Are there police... Oh, many. Policemen around? Yes, surely. All right. And how about rescue squads? Yeah, there's rescue squad. I've seen three ambulances already. Did you count the number of people that... After the plane crash, you seen any people coming out of the wreckage at all? It was reported that they took two out of the airplane alive. Now, that was the last report we got here in the office. Two alive? Do you know how many people there were on a plane altogether? No, we asked that question. We didn't know that either. Well, the information we have here says there were 18 passengers and a crew of three. Well, I don't know. But I mean, we don't know. I didn't hear that in the office here. I see. And that's the situation over Elizabeth right now. Flash in Elizabeth, New Jersey, where some 30 people died this afternoon. We aren't quite sure of the exact count in this trajety, but we can't tell you what we're looking at right now as we stand on the first floor of Batten High School, on the corner of Williamson Street and South in Elizabeth. This is about five blocks from the heart of the city's downtown section. Directly across the street from me now is the scene of the tragedy. We inspected the wreck a few moments ago. The plane is completely demolished. There are bits of metal and fuselage lying all over the ground, buried under a mountain of debris. The house, which collapsed immediately when it was hit by the low-flying plane, is just a mass of rubble right now. The scene is almost impenetrable because of the clouds of smoke and steam coming from it. Tremendous crowds of people have been drawn to the area, but they're being kept back by civil defense, volunteer workers, and police and firemen from many surrounding communities. Firemen are pouring streams of water on the smoking parts of the wreck still. You can occasionally see the flash of photographers' bulbs as they try to penetrate the dense smoke screen in order to get a picture of this. There are three figures standing on top of the demolished house at 308 Williamson Avenue. Just the side wall, which is lying completely flat, provides them the platform. There are three firemen. They're peering down into the murky blackness trying to find out where, if, and when there are any people still alive in this wreck. It's almost certain that there's no one who escaped the crash. However, there was one fortunate thing. The building next to the demolished building is a three-story brick affair with a store, a candy store, on the ground floor. It's a candy store that's frequented quite often by schoolchildren. At the time of the crash, there were at least ten schoolchildren from Batten High School and St. Mary's in there talking, chatting away, never knowing that the plane was going to wipe out many lives and perhaps theirs in a few moments. The one fortunate thing in this whole tragedy is that these ten children escaped alive. None of them were injured seriously. They were badly shocked by the impact of the crash, however. The inside of that building is completely gutted from top of the roof to the ground floor. Tons of water have been poured into it. They're just charred bricks standing up in a skeleton of blackness. Next door at 312 Williamson Avenue is a gutted house. The inside is completely filled with water, charred beams, windows broken, and debris scattered all over the floors. Several women were in the house at the time of the crash. Mrs. Mary Casper and Mr. and Mrs. John Worth live next door at 314 Williamson Avenue. Mrs. Worth was with Mrs. Casper at the time of the crash. Mrs. Casper is standing right next to me, and she is looking over at what remains of her house. The front of the house looks very good right now, but inside it's quite bad. We walked upstairs to the top of it. It was pretty precarious, covered with water and debris, as we told you a moment ago. Firemen are peering out the rear windows and shooting streams of water down on the wreckage as we stand here right now. Mrs. Casper, just tell me in your own words what happened, what you were doing at the time of the crash, will you? Well, we were standing in the kitchen, and all of a sudden the... dingen to smoke them and добр- scriptures. It says xi'ngp des roifs guevrouze that Their without Heavens ochsanousse realizar