The Northwestern University reviewing stand. What can medicine do for the aged? I believe it should do more research on how to prevent premature aging and to promote healthful aging. Medicine can keep old people happy, keep them at work, and keep them independent. But medicine can do very little if the aged are ill-fed, ill-housed, and ill-clad. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, the program in its 16th year on the air. Today the reviewing stand analyzes the physical and psychological problems of the aged. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the steps which should be taken to make our added living more worthwhile living. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Nathan Smith Davis, Professor of Medicine in the School of Medicine at Northwestern University. Dr. Andrew C. Ivey, Vice President of the University of Illinois, in charge of the Schools of Medicine, Pharmacy, Dentistry, and Nursing. And Dr. Henry T. Ricketts, Professor of Medicine in the School of Medicine at the University of Chicago, and chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Central Service for the Chronically Ill. Now we are discussing what medicine can do for the ages. Let's look at the extent of this problem first, Dr. Ivey. Is our population getting older? What are the facts on that? Yes, it is getting older, and within recent years, getting older at a faster rate than we had expected. A hundred years ago, that is about 1850, when a baby was born, it could expect to live on an average of about 35 years. Today, the figure is 70 years. What do you estimate for the future on this gentleman? Well, I did some figuring on that several years ago, when I wrote a couple of articles for the magazine called Hygieia, and I came out with the figure of 150 years. That's a fairly ripe old age, Doctor. Yes, that was the maximum possible. I think the figure of a hundred years is a more realistic figure. Do you concur in that, Dr. Ricketts? Yes, I certainly do. It seems to be 150 years, perhaps a little longer than most of us would care to live, even if we could. We get back to the figures on the increased longevity and the increased life expectancy. Most of that increase has been for the ages under 60. When you reach 60, there's been very little increase over the period of 50 years in the life expectancy. Well, using that figure of the age of 60, to which Dr. Davis just referred, how many persons over 60 do we have today, Dr. Ivey? Somewhere between 10 and 15 million. And by 1970, that figure is conservatively estimated to be 25 million, almost double the number that we have now over 60. Well, how does that mean that we have as many over 60 as we have under 20, probably, at least by the 18th, or 1970? Yes, that is correct. The increased life expectancy has been due principally to the prevention of acute infectious diseases, but we have added a few years on the other end of life by taking care of such diseases as pneumonia, with the penicillin and the sulfa drugs. So we have added a few years at the other end of life, at the old end of life. I was just going to ask about that. How do you explain this rapid rise in life expectancy, Dr. Ricketts? Well, certainly one of the most important factors has already been referred to by Dr. Ivey, when he spoke about the number of years which a baby, now born, might be expected to live. Actually, from a statistical point of view, the increase in average duration of life has been in large measure due to the marked reduction in fetal mortality, or rather infant mortality. But you also have to take into consideration the public health measures that have decreased typhoid, tuberculosis, and other infectious diseases that used to have a cause of many deaths in the 20s and 30s, and the more recent introduction of the sulfa drugs and penicillin and so on that has just been mentioned. Well, what about insulin? Hasn't that added to the longevity of the ages? Indeed it has. Very real. Liver extract and the anemia, pernicious anemia, of course, has also done the same thing. Are there any special factors operating against longevity in our society, Ricketts? Yes. I think one of the most important, perhaps, is the stress and strain of modern existence. One has the example of many of these acquaintances being stricken at the age of 40 or 45 or 50 with coronary heart disease. And the consensus is, I believe, that the stress and strain of modern existence has predisposed to this high incidence of coronary disease in the middle-aged population. I think that the old age pensions also contribute because they ensure the age of idleness, which certainly is not good for long life. You'd rather have them scratch for a living after the age of 60. Absolutely. And most of them will not get enough to enable them to afford to be well-fed, well-housed, and well-clad. And so will increase illness rates. Well, I think another factor which is operating against longevity in our society and the health of the old aging is that in government circles, they're putting too much emphasis upon building more and more beds for custodial care and too little emphasis upon the need of doing research to prevent the need for custodial beds. Yes, you're speaking of the ounce of prevention, aren't you? Yes. Now, what kind of a problem does this aging population present for the medical profession? What should be the aims of the medical profession in dealing with the problem that you people are describing here, Dr. Ricketts? Well, Dr. Ivey has just touched on the key to that, I'm sure. The principal aim of medicine ought to be to carry on more research on the causes of the degenerative diseases to which old age of age, diseases to which older people are subject. Well, now, do you regard this as a special medical field, a special medical problem, Dr. Ricketts? You mean the field of old age? The whole field of the ages, yes. Yes, in a way it is a special problem. Just as pediatrics is a special problem at the other end of the life scale. I think, however, that there's some danger that geriatrics, the science of the diseases of older people, may be given undue emphasis. It may become too much departmentalized, and it seems to me that we have to guard against that, because the older people, after all, are being cared for, for the most part, by general practitioners who cannot be specialists in geriatrics. Another reason why the geriatrician, as an exclusive specialty, would be handicapped is that these degenerative diseases of old age probably all begin, at least in young adult or middle life, possibly some of them even during the pediatrician's period of supervision. And, consequently, anything that's done for the prevention of them will have to begin at a period before the people are classified as belonging to the geriatrician. Well, I view that problem in this way. Gerontology is the study of the aging process. And I subdivide gerontology into two subheads. Eugeria, a study of healthful aging, and how to promote healthful aging, and how to prevent premature aging, and then geriatrics, the study of the disease of the aged. I think we must have all of these different viewpoints in order to really do a complete piece of work on this subject. Are these terms relatively new in the medical world, might I ask? As I'm familiar with the pediatrician, but these terms, geriatrics and others that you're using? Yes, they are relatively new. Gerontology, however, is quite old, and geriatrics, 10 or 12 years old. Eugeria, which means healthful aging, is a brand new term. Well, now, are these problems of the aged, Dr. Ricketts, primarily physical or psychological? What would you say to that? I don't think one can say primarily either. Both fields are certainly involved. These people are subject to physical disability, and as everyone knows, the process of aging brings its own peculiar psychological problems as well. I think there's a combination of the two. I think the physical problems represent perhaps 50% and the psychological problems the other 50% of the total picture. But we must not neglect one for the other. We've got to go forward in the solution of this problem along both of these lines. What we are saying then is well summarized by another new medical term, psychosomatic medicine. Is that right? I mean both the psychic and the bodily functions are involved to an almost equal degree in this problem. Yes, attitudes of mind, tension states, serve as excitatory causes for some of these chronic illnesses. Well, now let's talk about... And particularly the duration of the chronic illness and the lack of the patient being able to help himself to do something. And the chronic illness also affects the psychological state. Very much so. Well, let's talk about some of these chronic illnesses for a few minutes. What do you consider the major diseases of the aged to be? Well, the cardiovascular diseases, especially arteriosclerosis, I think are much the most important. Cancer... That first one would be heart disease? Heart and arterial disease, including strokes and some of the kidney diseases as well. Hardening of the arteries. Hardening of the arteries plus high blood pressure. And that's number one. Number one. And then cancer, diabetes, rheumatism causes a great deal of disability, but not very many deaths in the aged. Do you include arthritis there? Yes. Arthritis is part of the picture in rheumatism. And otherwise, the complication of having some of these degenerative diseases when the patient is attacked by an acute disease common at any age of life. Well, how about the nervous and mental diseases? Would you add those, Dr. Ivey, to this list? Yes. And so far as days are lost, the nervous and mental diseases rank first. And then I should include tuberculosis. Of course, tuberculosis has acute and chronic aspects, but it is generally listed under the chronic diseases. And we've got to detect these patients, isolate them, and cure them. And we have to develop a vaccination program for young people in order to prevent the disease to a greater extent than can be done by simple detection, isolation, and treatment. Now, one mustn't forget, I think, in referring to nervous and mental disease, that a high proportion of these diseases are themselves due to disease of the blood vessels supplying the brain. In other words, we get right back to the cardiovascular system of which Dr. Davis spoke. Oh. As I recall, the figure there is 25%, 25% of the nervous and mental diseases is due to hardening of the arteries, premature hardening of the arteries. Yes. In referring again to tuberculosis, it's generally been believed that a person gets beyond 40 or 45, and his chances of dying of tuberculosis are pretty slim. But as the population is aging, we're finding more and more people in the older age group are dying of active tuberculosis. Which leads me to ask whether the incidence of the diseases of old age has changed as a result of longer life expectancy? Yes, I'm sure it has changed. In other words, how did heart disease and cancer achieve the dubious distinction of being first and second in your list? Principally, of course, because by better medical care, we have enabled people to live long enough to acquire these diseases. Well, gentlemen, what progress is being made in fighting these diseases? What would you say to that, Dr. Ricketts? The early detection of diseases, I think, has contributed, perhaps more than anything else, to preventing early deaths from these chronic conditions to which we have just referred. The early detection of cancer, for example, has resulted certainly in fewer deaths from cancer. The education of the public to have periodic health examinations is resulting in the early detection of chronic disease, which might otherwise lead to early death. The early detection of diabetes, on which subject the American Diabetes Association has recently been putting on annual campaigns, is another example. The early detection of heart disease is a fourth example. Well, Dr. Ricketts emphasizes the early detection of these diseases. Dr. Ivey? Well, I would like to ask Dr. Davis, who has had a great deal of experience with the diseases of the aged and the prevention of the diseases of the aged. If you detect high blood pressure early or if you detect rheumatism early, can't something be done to delay the rate of progress of those diseases right now? Dr. I think a great deal can be done. You have to perhaps teach the people how to live a little more sanely than they have in the past. In hypertensive conditions particularly, they should learn to relax and it keeps them to eat more properly. If they're overweight, lose weight. It's also helpful in the heart disease in general because it means the heart has less work to do. And there are a great many ways in which they can be improved. Now, getting back to the question that Mr. McBurney asked in the beginning, what progress is being made, one mustn't forget to emphasize, I think, the tremendous importance of research in these fields. We've been talking about early detection, which is principally a clinical activity, so to speak. But research on these diseases certainly is mandatory to any real progress. I should like to point out in that connection, at the present time, we can produce arteriosclerosis in chickens and rabbits and guinea pigs and dogs. And we're beginning to make progress now relative to how to reverse or prevent the development of arteriosclerosis in the animals under experimental conditions. And that means that we can have hope so far as preventing arteriosclerosis, the premature type of aging which occurs in the blood vessels. Because of the progress made in the field of animal experimentation comes first and then the knowledge that we get there can be applied to the human being. But I should like to point out that this is expensive research. That in the past, our research on acute diseases, we could answer questions in a relatively short period of time. But in the case of the chronic diseases, the diseases of the aging, it takes long periods of time, and that means an expensive type of research. The problem of nutrition needs to be investigated very thoroughly along those lines. It's been shown in some experimental work that if you underfeed animals but give them plenty of vitamins and minerals, they'll live longer than if you overfeed them. But I think there also has been some contradictory experiments. Yes, but isn't it true that Dr. Davis and the human being that if you're overweight, that tends to shorten life? Absolutely. Well, now we've been discussing these physical disabilities of the of the aging. Earlier, Dr. Ricketts, you referred to the psychological problems. Now, what do you mean by these psychological problems as they relate to the aging? Well, as I stated, I believe old age brings its own peculiar psychological problems. And I would suppose that among these, the first in importance would be the problem involved when the individual retires, when he's put on the shelf, when he stops being productive, when he stops feeling useful to society, to his family, and to himself. And I think another psychological problem that confronts elderly people is that they don't like to be a burden to their children. The other thing is they have nothing to do. And they're just inclined to sit and vegetate. And that makes them age more rapidly. If they have hobbies, whether they're productive financially or not, they can keep happier. Well, do you think that the elderly person should feel that they are a burden to one's children? No, I think they should remind the children that the elderly people had supported the children for many years. Well, do you think that the elderly person should remind the children of that? Or that the children should always keep that in mind? He should remind them of it long before he becomes dependent upon them. Perhaps we can do a service today if we succeed in reminding a few children of that responsibility. Dr. Ricketts, what do you have to say? Well, I was just referring to Dr. Davis' comment on hobbies. One shouldn't be under the illusion, I think, that one can suddenly develop a hobby at the age of 65. I think it's highly important for people as they reach middle age to start developing hobbies with which they can continue after actual retirement has occurred. Yes, I think they should do something in the way of a little physical exercise. Of course, you can get stiff from over-exercising, but you can get stiff from doing nothing. And if they're going to take a little exercise, remember that it takes the older person longer to get in shape to take exercise. And about the hobbies, the fellow who wanted to hunt mountain goats always, That's not a good hobby to put into execution after 65. Yes, it isn't a good idea to change one's hobbies into passions. I know some people who collect stamps for a hobby, and within a short period of time it becomes a passion. They can't sleep because of their anxiety to get the certain stamps. At least they're interested, however. The future man of 150 years hunting mountain goats creates quite a picture, doesn't it, gentlemen? Much better off collecting stamps. Well, now you've been making some fairly specific recommendations here on these problems of the aged. Let's explore that a bit further. I'm interested in your attitudes on employment and retirement for the aged. What is your position there, Dr. Ivey? Well, I believe that people should be retired on the basis of a physiological age, rather than on the basis of a chronological age. In other words, what do you mean by that? Well, when they no longer can keep up with the production line, then they can be put into another area where they can do things that they like at their own time. You mean in the same firm, the same company? Yes. Yes. For example, only a year ago I was consulted about this matter by the board of directors of a cotton mill, and I suggested that if they had some vacant space that they were not using, they might take some of their pensioners and put them in this vacant space and let them select something to be done with the raw materials that come into this cotton mill, such as weaving or making hooked rugs or things of that sort. And then the people who make these products can then sell them and they can add to their pension income. You run into some problems with that kind of proposal, don't you, Doctor? The present practice generally is to retire people at a certain chronological age, let's say 60 or 65, and then they're on the shelf as far as industry is concerned. Yes, and then everyone forgets about them. Now when I've talked to management about this particular problem of finding something for the physiologically retired individuals to do, they said, well, labor won't fall in line with that. And when I've talked with some of the leaders in labor, they said, well, that's an interesting idea, we should look into it. I think another difficulty as far as the employers are concerned is that under the present practices, many of the degenerative diseases are classified as occupational diseases. And they have to pay pensions to these people because of a disease really due to natural causes. That if a person who is completely disabled by a disease due to natural causes could receive a pension of the same amount he'd get if it were an occupational disease, they'd cease to be occupational diseases and people would be more interested in employing the ages. Don't you think this whole area needs very careful study and investigation and some workshops and some experiments set up to answer some of these questions, which the medical profession and I'm sure the sociologists have in mind? I think very decidedly so. I've often felt that a workshop for the ages where they could come and try out various things and sell the produce as you sell, express, that would be very valuable. Wouldn't this be a very good place for labor and management to have a collaborative and cooperative enterprise beneficial to both sides? Yes, then they could set up a pension station, a pension system on a rational basis, a scientific basis. Well, now you mentioned earlier, Dr. Davis, the living conditions as a factor affecting the ages. What kind of living conditions do you recommend? I'm thinking of such practical questions as these. Should the old person live with his children? Should he live alone or live in an institution? What are your views on that? Well, he often creates a problem when he's living with his children and grandchildren, and perhaps is happier if he's living alone, although if he's alone he should have access to other people to have some social life. I think next to the problem of basic medical research, this is the most difficult problem that we're confronted with. Whether or not an old person should live with his children. I think that is a question that must be individualized. Sometimes it is better for the old person to live with his children and sometimes it is not. Now, insofar as an institution is concerned, I believe that the institution should accept both those who are, do not have a disease, and those which do have a disease, that the two should be separated in the institution, but that the person who are healthy, the old persons who are healthy, should help take care of the old persons who are sick, to the extent of their abilities and capacities. That gives them something interesting to do and worthwhile to do. Yes, I quite agree with Dr. Ivey about that. There is a tendency on the part of some social sociologists, shall I say, to regard the problem of the healthy ages as quite different from the problem of the sick ages. It seems to me it is quite impossible to separate these on any categorical basis. One has to recognize that if individuals reach the ages of 70, 75, 80, they are much more prone than younger persons to be sick, and facilities must be provided for the care of the sick people along with the well-old people. Well, gentlemen, in brief summary, we have noted the rapid increase of older men and women in our population and some of the things which medical science is doing and needs to do to meet the physical and psychological problems of the ages. Our speakers predict continued increase in life expectancy and better health for the ages. A particular interest, I think, is our unanimous recommendation that, more than anything else, our older people need congenial living and useful employment. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion What Can Medicine Do for the Aging? This is only one of many broadcasts we have presented on questions of health and disease. In the past year, we have discussed cancer, heart disease, and research in atomic energy as it relates to medical science. Why not send now for printed copies of these broadcasts with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. Nathan Smith Davis, Professor of Medicine at Northwestern University, Dr. A.C. Ivey, Vice President of the University of Illinois, in charge of the Schools of Medicine, Pharmacy, Dentistry, and Nursing, and Dr. Henry T. Ricketts, Professor of Medicine at the University of Chicago School of Medicine and Chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Central Service for the Chronically Ill. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will present a second in its series on old age problems when we consider the question, what should the government do for the ages? Our guests will be Pat Greathouse, Director of Region 4 of the United Automobile Workers with the CIO, Edgar A. Jonas, United States Representative from Illinois, and Alton Lindgren, Professor in the School of Social Service Administration at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week. What should the government do for the ages? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
