The following program was transcribed earlier for presentation at this time. Good afternoon from the Hotel Asteroof in Times Square. Your city station is about to bring you the after-luncheon ceremonies in connection with the breaking of ground for the third tube of the Lincoln Tunnel connecting New York and New Jersey. The speakers this afternoon include the Lieutenant Governor of New York State, Frank C. Moore, Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere, Manhattan Borough President Robert Wagner, Jr., Ransford J. Abbott, Commissioner of the New Jersey State Highway Department, Paul L. Trost, Chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, and Harold W. McGraw, Chairman of the West Side Association of Commerce. And now the master of ceremonies this afternoon is Howard S. Coleman, Chairman of the Port of New York Authority. And so to the rostrum and Mr. Coleman. Ladies and gentlemen, after our television program a short time aglow, I'm very happy to greet you face to face. And the start of construction of this Lincoln Tunnel 3rd 2 is gratifying to you and gratifying to us at the Port of New York Authority. We are confident that its completion in 1957 will be an important step in the relief of traffic congestion caused by the heavy tires of vehicles which flow back and forth between the two states. In establishing the Port Authority, the states of New Jersey and New York created a Board of Commissioners whose members are appointed by and are responsible to the two governors. While we are very sorry that previous engagements made it impossible for Governor Dewey to be here today, we are delighted to have with us the distinguished Lieutenant Governor of the State of New York, the Honorable Frank C. Moore. It is my pleasure to introduce Lieutenant Governor Moore. Mr. Coleman, Mayor Pelletari, Mr. Wagner, members of the Authority, my distinguished associates here, ladies and gentlemen, you've had somewhat of a lengthy program to date, and I understand there are several other speakers. your present speaker has a sore throat and has no great inclination to talk at any length. I'm going to content myself with a few brief remarks to this effect. I'm very sorry that Governor Dewey couldn't be here and express to you the great enthusiasm that he and we and all of the people of this state feel for this new and greater undertaking of the Port Authority. We're proud of the Port Authority. It's the first authority in the nation, first in our state. It's had amazing success. We're proud of the membership on it. We're proud of New York State's contribution as well as New Jersey's to that authority. We're glad that this new venture has been undertaken. As I said earlier today, we hope that you will achieve it even more effectively than you planned and sooner than you now hope. On behalf of all of the people of the state, that includes not only this great city, but the rest of the fire-flowing state, the state that has everything, we are very glad to have added to that everything this third too. Thank you very much and best wishes. Thank you, Governor Moore. As you all know, the Port Authority's responsibility for developing transportation and terminal facilities lies within a so-called port district, which comprises the area of the two states within a radius of about 25 miles of the Statue of Liberty. On the New York State side, the City of New York is, of course, the major part of the district. Many of our facilities are located within New York City and are designed to improve the handling of persons and freight in this immense metropolis, the greatest city in the world. It is therefore with great pride that I present to you the mayor of that city, the Honorable Vincent Impellitari. Mayor Impellitari. Howard Cullman, Lieutenant Governor Moore, Burr-Bride Blankham, Chief Justice John Lauren of the Court of Appeals of the State of New York, Commissioners of the Court of New York Authority, ladies and gentlemen. I'm told that most of you witnessed the proceedings over at the dedication ceremonies attending the start of construction on the 3rd too. And you'll notice that all the other speakers got through without any difficulties at all. But you will also notice, if you watched the show, and I think you did, that I was only about halfway through when somebody committed an act of sabotage. I don't know whether it was Hallie, but I do know that the whistles, I do know that the whistles started to blow. I don't think it is necessary for me to dwell upon the obvious significance the construction of this new tunnel has in helping us to keep abreast of the great traffic ordeal, which surely represents one of the inexorable headaches for the City of New York. For that matter, it is a most troublesome problem for most all of the great metropolitan centers throughout the nation. This is a great event in the history of our busy and ever-growing metropolis. The benefits which will accrue upon the completion of this tunnel are, of course, in my judgment, self-evident, and will be a most welcome assist in the vital flow of commercial as well as passenger car traffic in and out of the City of New York. I don't think I have to go into further detail concerning these benefits. However, there is another significance to this occasion, which is perhaps not quite so obvious. It is a significance about which I feel the compulsion of saying just a few words. It is the fact that this ceremony today marks the successful development of a project which has illustrated the very essence of our American democratic way of public planning. You will recall that, as in the case of most public improvements of this magnitude, it was not conceived without considerable discussion and very long hours of difficult planning. There are many agencies, factors, and personalities in these complicated enterprises, and their aims and efforts must be coordinated and synchronized. This, quite naturally, involves some degree of confusion which too often becomes exaggerated into what might seem to be apparent controversy. We must realize that there are always obstacles which must be hurtled before it can be finally determined where, what kind, and how public improvements can be developed to serve best the people of our city. This project, which we are concerned with today, was certainly no exception to this rule of controversy. The important thing, I submit, is that such controversy is healthy and constructive and in the final analysis produces concrete and sound accomplishments in the best interests of the public generally. I am sure that when we behold the completion of this project and see the manifest benefits derived from it, we will all feel a definite pride in having participated in its development, however spirited the participation. Here, then, is the kind of much-needed public improvement that will help immeasurably in bringing about relief from the traffic congestion which confronts us. I am determined that within the fiscal structures available, the greatest possible progress shall be made in alleviating this traffic problem here in the city of New York. The objective of assuring a free flow of traffic is second to none in its vital effect upon the life of our metropolis. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to reiterate what I have often stated, that there is no one cure-all solution for this problem. Whatever the reasons, the fact remains that earlier city planners failed to anticipate the present overwhelming congestion which has caused millions of dollars of business losses in this city and has jangled an awful lot of nerves. We cannot make the same mistakes in our planning or traffic relief. Progress can only be made with an engineering approach well sprinkled with the exercise of common sense by the agencies of government involved. This great engineering feat which we launched today is a fine example of what can be achieved through healthy discussion, cooperation, and ultimate agreement for the common good. I think we are making substantial progress in the right direction on the overall problem and however difficult to challenge. I am optimistic about the future. I feel that the problem is being met with resourcefulness, ingenuity, and determination. So I say, in this instance, let us get to work on the new tunnel and let us carry it across Manhattan and well into New Jersey. Let us do a bang-up job from the very beginning and be sure we don't leave any incipient headaches for the future. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor and Pelletieri. I don't think our engineering had anything to do with those sound effects. I think as a prominent Democrat, they probably gave you some sound effects as a whistle stop. Now, in the state of New Jersey, the Port of New York Authority 2 has been most fortunate in that the commissioners and staff of the New Jersey State Highway Department are among the most competent and forward-looking public officials to be found in this country today. The energetic interest and the wholehearted cooperation that can be enjoyed only as a result of the finest type of public service has been available to the people of the Port District through the well-known and honored commissioners of the New Jersey State Highway Department. It therefore gives me great satisfaction and great personal pleasure to introduce to you our good friend and the Port Authorities, the Honorable Ransford J. Abbott, Commissioner. Thank you, Commissioner Coleman. I think after the remarks made by Governor Moore and Mayor Impelet-Perry, there is little left for me to say, either for New Jersey, who I represent, of course, or New York, I understand you saw the whole show out at the groundbreaking on television. I can assure you that those pickaxes were no phonies. And I looked down the line and after Mayor Impelet-Perry and Governor Moore and Commissioner Moses had been hacking away a little bit, they began to get winded, and I think that whistle was designed to give them a break and it didn't work until the mayor got up to make a speech. I think the thing was really loused up on the schedule and really was there to help them out. Ladies and gentlemen, this, of course, is a New York City luncheon, but as we look around, if we were not aware of that, we could well presume that this luncheon is in New Jersey because New Jersey is today well represented by its most distinguished officials, of which I am sure you'll agree with me I am the least. When I look around and see our members of Congress from New Jersey and our members of our New Jersey Senate and New Jersey House of Assembly as well as our cabinet members, our state treasurers over here, our attorney general is here and so forth, we in New Jersey have a full part in the activities of the New York Court Authority. Added to that are the other functions of government of which I happen to be a small part, namely the New Jersey State Highway Department as well as the newest of authorities, the New Jersey Highway Authority. I think that you might excuse me if I for a moment digress in order to tell you that on this new authority, the baby authority in New Jersey and of which the New York Port Authority is a senior member. First we had the New York Port Authority, then the New Jersey Turnpike Authority that's done such a marvelous job, and now the baby of them all, the New Jersey Highway Authority. I would like to call to your attention that I am being a member of that authority and particularly pleased to be a member because of my two associates, and I think they are here. And if I may, I'd like to introduce to you Commissioner Byard England, if he is here, and Commissioner De Neuer, both the other two members of the authority. If they're present, I'd like to have you know who they are. I think they're here. Thank you. That New Jersey Highway Authority has their work and they can't hang around. Ladies and gentlemen, I again, as we did on television, want to congratulate the New York Port Authority on the marvelous job they are doing on this new project, keeping the old pace they have set. And as I said before, we are trying to follow in their example. We are now trying just quickly to build the New Jersey Garden State Parkway running all the way to the New York State line to Cape May. We're trying to do it in the quickest possible time. It's now under construction. I might tell you that when the authority was really in operation only 60 days, we had let our first two contracts. If you want to live with this Governor Driscoll that we have in New Jersey and particularly when it applies to highways, you better get things done or else, and that's why we are doing what we are. Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be here and to be a part of New Jersey's representation in congratulating the New York Port Authority on this fine project. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Commissioner Abbott. And as you said, one of the greatest highways in the nation and the world is now the New Jersey Turnpike. We realize that the bold planning, the tremendous financing, the speedy construction have been the admiration of engineers, bankers, the motoring public alike. Now you're planning even more. I understand it's too small already. Certainly the key to the tremendous success of this new agency is the dynamic, vital chairman of your New Jersey Turnpike Authority. It gives me great pleasure to introduce him to you, the Honorable Paul L. Trost. Mr. Coleman, Governor Moore, Mayor Impelitari, my colleague in New Jersey, Rance Abbott, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. May I convey to you, Mr. Coleman, to your fellow commissioners, to your very able staff, the sincere congratulations of the members of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, my colleagues, Commissioner George F. Smith and Maxwell Lester Jr., on this occasion. We know of no facility which is more sorely needed and needed now than the additional capacity in the Lincoln Tunnel. It seems but yesterday that we opened the New Jersey Turnpike to traffic, but already the combined entries and exits at our Turnpike-Lincoln Tunnel interchange are currently running some 90,000 cars a week and in eight short months 2,700,000 automobiles have already used this interchange. Already we have had one occasion when traffic from the Lincoln Tunnel backed up far enough so that it extended through our tollboost at this location and it was necessary to send traffic on to your other facility, the George Washington Bridge. We urgently need relief and we need it as quickly as you can get it to us. A condition is rapidly developing also at our George Washington Bridge interchange where entries and exits total now 125,000 cars each week and where 4 million cars have used this particular interchange again in eight short months. This emphasizes, too, the necessity of further crossings of the Hudson connecting with northern New Jersey. Our part in developing the highway system in our state is already advanced in the planning stages. Included in these studies are the enlargement of the present turnpike so that there will be a six-lane highway all the way from the George Washington Bridge to our interchange number 4 serving Camden in Philadelphia. A connection between the New Jersey turnpike and a further easterly extension of the Pennsylvania turnpike has now reached the discussion stage and the planning stage where Pennsylvania is about to break ground the latter part of this month for an extension carrying that facility all the way from the Ohio Line to the edge of the Delaware River. We, in turn, have our plans ready and if we can resolve some difficulties about a bridge across the Delaware, that, too, will be available in another short two years. An extension of the turnpike is also currently being planned and plans are almost ready to go to bed to carry the turnpike from our Newark interchange at the airport, at your Newark airport, across Newark Bay to the easterly side of the Hudson County Peninsula and then to extend northward with a limited access highway directly to your Holland Tunnel Plaza. Another extension of the turnpike has been agreed upon between Governor Dewey of New York and Governor Driscoll of New Jersey extending north through Burton County to connect with an extension from the New York State Thruway where a new bridge is currently being built across from roughly in the location of Nyack to on east across and connecting with the highways leading to New England. A further, larger project is being studied and will undoubtedly be built. This is an east-west turnpike beginning from possibly some new facility, some new crossing of the Hudson provided by your authority connecting with the present New Jersey turnpike extending west through Newark through the northerly part of Newark serving West Essex on through Morris County the southerly tip of Sussex County on through Warren to the new bridges currently being built by the Upper Delaware River Bridge Authority serving Pennsylvania. Traffic for the first year of operation on the New Jersey turnpike in eight and a fraction short months has already passed 13 million vehicles and the 1952 traffic should approach 18 million cars. This extraordinary use of our single facility when considered in the light of projected improvements and extensions emphasizes the need of additional crossings of the Hudson which should be provided in the shortest possible space of time. The most expeditious construction program would still mean that traffic conditions in our state will be intolerable at the time they are available for use. Studies, planning, and construction are constantly going forward in New Jersey at an ever-accelerated pace and ours are but a small part of the whole. If we are to keep peace with the expanding economy of our great state of New Jersey and you here with your great state of New York it is incumbent upon all of us to be even more alert than we have been in the past. It is good to see this beginning being made today and I am sure that other and even more important facilities are being studied and will be expedited. Thank you very much. Thank you, Paul. As you realize in all our undertakings the Port Authority has received the overwhelming support of the civic associations of the two states we represent. Their backing has always been a source of tremendous encouragement to our efforts to improve the facilities of the Port District. In no case was this more true than in the past year and a half since the Port Authority announced plans for a third two. Their constant unremitting support as well as the approval by the local newspapers were of tremendous assistance in carrying forward this project which was started and outlined to you today. As a representative of one of these civic organizations but in effect speaking for them all Harold McGraw who holds the title of Chairman of the West Side Association of Commerce which really is a misnomer because Harold McGraw represents as Al Smith used to say East Side West Side all around the town Harold McGraw Commissioner Coleman Governor Moore Mayor and Pelleter other distinguished guests I have the honor today to represent the chambers of commerce of this area that have a vital interest in the traffic problem in both New York and New Jersey. A great engineering feat was started today this new tube that will help remedy the traffic problem the bottleneck around the Lincoln Tunnel. Commissioner Coleman told me a little while ago that if he could keep the half dozen workmen that he had this morning on the original digging that he could build it in less than five years. I want to take this opportunity as I said on behalf of the chambers to thank the states of New York and New Jersey to thank Mayor and Pelleteri and city officials the commissioners of the port authority and the staff for the forward thinking and the planning that they are doing to relieve this situation in New York. Thank you. Thank you, Harold, on behalf of your good organization and all the organizations. And now on behalf of the commissioners of the port of New York authority, I want to thank you all for being with us today on land, on the roof, and on the air. As the construction of the third tube goes on, we'll keep you informed of the progress on this important transportation artery in the years to come. And in conclusion, may I extend my warm appreciation to my co-host, Vice Chairman Byrne, who was your master of ceremonies while we were on the air. Thank you all again for coming. Ladies and gentlemen, from the Hotel Asteroof in Times Square, your city station has brought you the after-luncheon ceremonies in connection with the breaking of ground for the third tube of the Lincoln Tunnel connecting New York and New Jersey. The speakers were the Honorable Frank C. Moore, Lieutenant Governor of New York State, representing Governor Dewey, Mayor Vincent R. Ampella Terry, Ransford J. Abbott, Commissioner of the New Jersey State Highway Department, Paul L. Trost, Chairman of the New Jersey Turnpike Authority, and Harold W. McGraw, Chairman of the West Side Association of Comers. The master of ceremonies was Howard S. Coleman, Chairman of the Port of New York Authority. We might mention at this point that the $90 million third tube of the Lincoln Tunnel is expected to increase the capacity of the tunnel by 50%. Port Authority officials say when the new tube is completed in 1957, it will be used to ease congestion in the rush hours. The tube will handle eastbound traffic during the morning rush hour and westbound traffic in the evening. This program from the Hotel Astoroof was presented by your city station in line with its policy of going directly to the scene for programs of outstanding public interest and was transcribed earlier for presentation at this time. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.
