Well, a very remarkable scene is taking place here in the Legislative Hall of City Hall. In the Council Chamber of City Hall, this beautiful Christmas tree and youngsters from Coney Island General Hospital, Lincoln, Queens General, Governor, and Staten Island Hospitals. And Santa Claus is going to be here. The presents are piled high around the desk. And the mayor is about to enter the City Hall and Maestro Celebré gives us some Christmas music for the mayor's entrance. Maestro Celebré and the Sanitation Band. Here you are, children. Here comes Santa Claus and the mayor now. Here comes the mayor and Santa Claus. Mayor Impeletari and Santa Claus, who is represented by Commissioner Jimmy Slaughter, are now entering the Council Chamber, which is transformed into this Christmas holiday party for the youngsters from the hospitals. There's Santa Claus now in his traditional red uniform and white fur and white beard. And the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arum, very, Vincent Arum-Peletari, very happy, very smiling at the happiness of these youngsters. Merry Christmas, Mr. Mayor. Merry Christmas, Mr. Mayor. Children, first of all, let me wish you a very Merry Christmas. Merry Christmas, Mr. Mayor. If you noticed, just a few minutes ago, I came into this Council Chamber where you're sitting, and I personally escorted Santa Claus so that he could be with you for this Christmas season. Santa, first of all, let me thank you for coming all the way from the North Pole down here to City Hall. Did you have a tough time getting down the chimney here at City Hall? We didn't have the bad time we had last year, Mr. Mayor, because you widened the chimney, and it made it so much easier. But you've done so many wonderful things for this city that I wasn't surprised that you had done this as well for me just for this year. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Well, Santa, I'm glad that we widened the chimney a little bit, but looking you over this year, it looks to me as though you put on a little more weight than you had last year when you were here. Well, I'm sure, Mr. Mayor, that if there's more room needed, you'll make the chimney wider next year. Uh, Santa, uh, did you have difficulty coming down from the North Pole last night? A great deal of the time it was very tough going until I came to the Westchester County line, and when I got to Bronx from then on it was very easy going because of the wonderful condition of the city and the wonderful condition of all the men of the police department and the fire department who keep everything so wonderfully organized here, and it was easy from there on, Mr. Mayor. Well, Santa, I'm very, very pleased that in your busy schedule at Christmas time that you had enough time to pay us a visit here in the city of New York. These children that you see before you, Santa, are all children that are taken care of by our great hospital department, and the hospital department is represented by our very able hospital commissioner, Dr. Kogel, who stands alongside of me. And, Doctor, as I look at these children, they don't look a bit sick to me today. Will you tell us about that? Well, Mr. Mayor, they come from the, uh, clinics of our various hospitals, and the reason they look so well is because they've been pretty well taken care of, and they now are really on the road to recovery. Well, thanks very much, Doctor, and I, I've noticed, uh, coming in here with Santa Claus, the police commissioner of the city of New York, Honorable George Monaghan, and evidently he had something to do with saying to it that Santa got through our very difficult traffic problems here in the city of New York, and perhaps the police commissioner would tell the children present here and the people of the city of New York how he got Santa Claus through our traffic maze. Mr. Mayor and kids, it's great to see you here, and I'm glad that I had a little to do with getting the truck, these big buses, down here, and also, and principally so, to get Santa here on time. Last night, he had, I understand now that he has one of these two-way radio things on his sleigh. When I went to bed last night, I heard through the, uh, receiver, the transmitter at the head of my bed, I heard this, uh, voice. I recognized this old Saint Nick here with these wonderful whiskers. So I called the police and told them to get out the helicopter, get out the motorcycles, and get Santa here by one o'clock today, and here he is. Wonderful fella. Commissioner, you know where the helicopter picked me up? You know where the helicopter picked me up right at the Westchester County line, at the Bronx County line, and I knew it was yours because I could see some of your own whiskers hanging on the helicopter from your many trips. That's wonderful. But I would like to seriously say, Commissioner Monaghan, that the work that you're doing all through the 365 days of the year for the children of the city of New York, through your wonderful police athletic league, is the greatest help that Santa Claus has the 364 days that he's not actively working. You're doing the work all that time, and it's perfectly wonderful that the people of this wonderful city helped so much for these great kids of ours. Thank you very much, Santa. That's a great lift for the force. Thank you very much, Commissioner Monaghan and Santa Claus. I know that these children came here to really meet Santa Claus and not meet the mayor. Of course, I, as the mayor, am very happy to see these children. I know that they're here to find out whether or not Santa brought something to them from the North Pole. I'm inclined to think that he did. But I'd rather have Santa take over from now on and let him tell you what he intends to do for you kids. Santa Claus, it's now your job to take care of our children. Mr. Mayor, I brought a lot, a lot of things for the children. But first, I brought from the North Pole, and then I picked up from all the people of the five boroughs the happiest and heartiest of Christmas greetings for our very great mayor and his wonderful wife, Betty, who I'm sure is home listening to us now at Gracie Mansion. And they also picked up wonderful, wonderful, I flew over Ireland and saw some of my old friends there. And they, they sent me with the, with the greatest compliments of the season for Police Commissioner George Monaghan and Mrs. Monaghan. And I also brought them from Cannondaga, in case she's listening. And then I brought wonderful Christmas greetings too, to Dr. Kogel, who does such a wonderful job here with the hospitals every year. And then to the men who make this party possible, like Colonel Edward Rickett and Commissioner Sid Barron and Mauro Contestano, who is your wonderful and Deputy Mayor Charlie Horowitz and Mrs. Horowitz, who is here. And the wonderful sanitation band with our own John Celebray at the helm. And then the fact that the New York City station, WNYC, who through the year bring us all so much happiness, broadcast these little greetings. Greetings, and that they have Seymour Siegel and Tommy Cowan at the microphone to tell us everything. And then I want to thank, too, all the wonderful men of the Press Photographers Association, the newspaper men, who make it possible for all of us to go ahead and, and tell the story of Santa Claus, because it's so important. And again, Mr. Maher, Merry, Merry Christmas to you and to your very lovely ladies. And let me add thanks also to radio station WNYC, the city broadcasting station, for providing us with the facilities, which makes it possible to broadcast this Christmas party to all the people of our city. Now, right behind my microphone is Johnny DeCrosbro, who in WNYC does such a wonderful job. And I'm sure from the hospital department, Commissioner DiCioli, who is over here, whom we, whom we didn't even see before because he's so modest and is hiding in the back. And the deputy mayor I see has just come through the door. Deputy Mayor Horowitz, Merry Christmas to you, Mr. Mayor. Merry Christmas. Now, children, what is there that we could do for you today before we start to pass out the presents? Sing a song. Sing a song. What kind of a song would you like? Jingle bells. Jingle bells. Why don't we all sing jingle bells for Mayor Impelitari and for Commissioner Monaghan and for Dr. Kogel, who have done so much here today? Ready? John, can you lead us in it? The bells, jingle bells, jingle all the day. Oh, what fun it is to ride in the one horse open shay. Oh, jingle bells, jingle bells, Commissioner Monaghan. Won't you join us over here, Commissioner Monaghan. Jingle bells, jingle bells, jingle all the day. Oh, what fun it is to ride in the one horse open shay. The Jesuits will be happy and proud of us. Oh, what fun it is to ride in the one horse open shay. Oh, what fun it is to ride in the one horse open shay. Hey! We're not as good as Lucy Monroe, but we're all right. We're looking for today, isn't he? We're looking for today, isn't he? Oh, what fun it is to ride in the one horse open shay. Oh, what fun it is to ride in the one horse open shay. Thank you! I'm listening to Mayor Impelitari's Christmas party at City Hall in the Council Chamber. Mr. Mayor? Commissioner Sauter, Sandy Claus, and Master of Ceremony. Sandy Claus! We're ready now if you would start bringing and giving to the children some of the presents which you have gotten together for them. I know they're all anxious, they've seen enough and heard enough, now they'd like to get enough. All right. How do you want to get enough? Right. Now, Mayor Impelitari is... Wait a minute. I'm just going to have some pictures taken and then I'll have the boys fall in on one side. You're right. Yeah. And now, Mayor Impelitari is stepping up there with Sandy Claus, Commissioner Monaghan, Commissioner Kogel, and the youngsters from the five hospitals who are in this party here today. Coney Island Hospital, Lincoln Hospital, Queens General, Governor Hospital, and the Staten Island Hospitals. And these youngsters certainly, their little faces show the imagination and the spirit of Christmas better than any of we adults who've had a little more experience can possibly imagine. It's wonderful to see their eager faces. And the Mayor himself, in his direct and simple manner, is very able to epitomize this situation in handing out, as he tenderly does, the beautiful presents that are wrapped up here on the platform, where the President of the City Council and the members of the Council have to storm through the rigors of legislation for a great and wonder city like New York of 8 million people, which today is transformed into a beautiful living room, we might say, with a great big Christmas tree and all the aspects of Christmas for these youngsters from the hospitals. Will the time ever come when government can orientate itself in the spirit of Christmas and bring about all the essential factors of government with less of the friction and less of the misunderstanding that we adults accumulate as we leave our childhood behind us and go into the rigors and trials of manhood? Well, the Mayor is very busy now handing out these packages and we do know the difficulties that the Mayor of the City of New York faces. New York City and its fiscal policies are indeed a great problem. It seems to most of us a greater problem than any one man should be asked to face and yet that is the way we do it. We used to crown kings to carry on the government and everything that was wrong was wrong with the king. And then from then on we had the situations that prevailed. But we do hope as we stand here in this Council Chamber here today and recognize the beauty of the spirit of Christmas and the eager faces of these children. And as we look at the spots where the men charged with the legislation of our city sit to carry on the rigors of the government. Well, let us hope that sooner than we think a little child shall lead them and lead us all. And we'll all get into the spirit of Christmas and carry out all the aspects of life with the love and fealty and faith that Christmas epitomizes. And that is so important. We're just waiting now for a few moments of interest that may occur as these youngsters eagerly grasp the packages that the mayor hands them. The faithful cameramen are there to see that not an item of this ceremony is lost. And when we want to refer back and catch the atmosphere of these situations, well, we know that a picture does it more than a million words could ever hope to do. And a picture is the thing. And the alert cameraman gets his picture. He may temporarily, well, shall we say, displace or transcend the requirements of protocol. But if he does, more power to him because we want the picture more than we want the procedure when we're looking for reference material and want to recapture the essence of the event. Those cameras are clicking over there. And the tinsel and different colored trimmings of the Christmas tree pick up the flashes of the camera bulbs as they flash a picture as an eager youngster reaches up to take from the hands of the mayor of the city of New York the package which he is handing to him. The day that we all believe in Santa Claus, and we believe in the essence and the spiritual value of Santa Claus, will rob us of the great deal of the cynicism which makes us do the things we do now. There's nothing wrong with being faithful. There's nothing wrong in holding up the aspects and the beauty of faith. All of us have it from time to time in our lives. We should never let it go. And now the mayor of the city of New York is still very busy. And we'll have a little final number by Maestro Celebré and the band because we don't want to leave this program with chin music when we can have some good music by the sanitation group. Maestro Celebré and the band. Celebré is in a little conference now. There it is. It's a lovely one. Thanks así. Whooうん. We'll wait half an hour later... Because you should break it.огоan niña Lettuce be connected. There it is. They are epic! But you're perfect at a time to eat. And they'll get yourself. pest of the ngày really is negative. The breeze has been об ICU in the morning but despite it... And now Eve is the best. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Holy infant so tender and mild, sleep in heavenly peace. Sleep in heavenly peace. It was a holy night when a little child was born, a child who was the promise of redemption for the world. He was born not in a palace, not in a conference, not in a group of any kind. He was born in a stable among the animals and the essence of labor that produces life in the world. And let us hope that out of these simple circumstances will sometime evolve the simple factor that we all love one another and that we get together as neighbors and friends and carry out the destinies of life without any of the frictions or anxieties that seem to pertain as we have such a difficulty in discarding the traditions and the inheritances of history. May these things come to pass. And as we look at the smiling face of these youngsters from the hospitals, let us hope that as the child in Bethlehem was the hope of leadership and redemption and kindness and faith and love for each other. Well, that a little child shall lead sometime in the halls of legislation. And following the text that a little child shall lead them, let us leave you from the stormy council chamber of City Hall where the legislation of the city takes place in the more, might we say, worldly aspects of life itself. But those men have a responsibility and they must meet it with their lights. Well, what do you think of City Hall, Sandy Claus? Tommy, I think City Hall is the greatest place in the whole country, in the whole world because there's more heart and more love and more devotion to the people and to the kids of the city than I find almost any place else. And I want to say again that you, Tommy Cowan, do more to make this sort of thing. I know you and another guy. Well, you're a Sandy Claus, not me. That's right. I'm Sandy Claus and you always have been a Sandy Claus to the people and your wonderful announcing that I have been listening to at the North Pole for nearly 30 years since the old days of WJZ when you and I were both little boys, it's always given me a big thrill. That takes a memory. My Aunt Ellie even remembers this sort of thing. What a wonderful woman she is. And a million good wishes to Aunt Ellie too because she's a wonderful woman. And now we take leave of you from the council chamber in City Hall because Mayor Impelletari has about passed out the packages and the last wistful smiling face of the youngsters from the hospitals in the presence of the police commissioner and the commissioner of hospitals is finally returning to his seat with the gift that Sandy Claus brought him with all the imagination that does nothing to distort the beauty of the mind of a child. If we could only equal it as adults, what a wonderful world it would be. A little child shall lead them. That is all from City Hall. A very Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.