In the course of the next hour and a half, Magistrate Philip Thurston, Chief Justice Irving Ben Cooper of Special Sessions, and Chief Justice Warren Hill of Domestic Relations will appear before a jury of the public and leaders of 15 civic organizations to plead for improved probation services in the courts dealing with children, families, and crime. The presiding will be Austin H. McCormick, former Commissioner of Correction and Executive Director of the Osborne Association currently. And now to open our hearing, we'll turn our microphones over to Austin H. McCormick, who will tell you what the hearing is about and introduce the speakers. Mr. McCormick. In the interest of time, I'm going to read what introductory statement I have that bears on the subject of probation in general. And I think for those in the room, it's unnecessary to tell what the purpose of the meeting is. But in order that the people who are listening in on the program may know exactly what it's all about, I'll say that in a sort of mixed up form of a court or grand jury or something of the sort, we're trying to bring to the attention of the public the state of affairs and the probation systems of the court of special sessions, the domestic relations court, and the magistrates courts of this city. We'll have three judges speak on their particular courts. We hope then, before we go off the air, to have time for six or seven people whom we've asked to speak very briefly. People who are professionally engaged in probation work are very close to it and who can bring us concrete facts particularly. That's what we're concerned with most today. And we're hoping that the impact of facts will perhaps do things that no other impact has apparently been able to accomplish. The title of our program is The Threat to Probation in New York City. And I think we may well think of it in terms of the threat to the city, to its children, to which adults are in trouble and to their families. And now for a rather general statement on probation without particular reference to these courts. As a background for our consideration of the inadequacy of probation services in the three courts being considered here today, there are certain facts about probation in general that we should keep in mind. That probation services adequately staffed are an indispensable tool of both juvenile and adult courts is now generally recognized and is no longer a subject of debate. It is not a theoretical assumption. It is a practical and proven fact. Experience in many courts and over many years has now fully demonstrated that probation is of enormous benefit to the general public as well as to the offenders who receive its strict but helpful services. It turns a large percentage of its clients from the paths of delinquency and crime. It does so at one-tenth to one-twentieth of the cost of maintaining offenders in institutions. Translate this saving into tax dollars the country over and it is a tremendous sum. Add to that the substantial sums in restitution and fines from adult offenders on probation and the welfare funds that are saved because they are in supervised freedom in the community, supporting their families. The social gain from holding families together and all the other savings in human happiness and in the welfare and safety of society which probation produces are incalculable. What can the public expect from a sound probation system? Based on actual performances over a term of years, a good children's court and probation service operating in a community with adequate social resources and utilizing them fully can put as high as 90 percent of its juvenile delinquents on probation the first time around and 50 to 75 percent the second or third time around and get as high as 75 to 80 percent successes. These figures I am giving were worked out quite carefully and they were published in an article which I wrote that appeared in focus the National Probation and Parole Association's publication. The National Probation and Parole Association's Court of the United States is a good adult court and probation service. Dealing with the general run of offenders, if adequately staffed, can put more than 50 percent on probation and get 75 to 80 percent successes. The Court of General Sessions in this city, dealing with some of the worst criminals in America, puts only 25 to 30 percent on probation but it gets over 90 percent successes. Los Angeles County, which also has one of the finest probation services in the country, in a recent year put 52 percent of its superior court cases and 69 percent of its inferior court cases on probation and got about 90 percent of satisfactory final disposals. In spite of the strictness and care with which good probation services operate, there are still many people who look on probation as a mere act of leniency based on sentimental kindliness rather than sound common sense. This is not so. Realistic probation is what the Army and Navy call taking calculated risks. Decisions to place an offender on probation or not to do so are based on an exhaustive investigation by trained probation officers. The judge then decides on the basis of all the facts whether or not probation in this particular case is best for all concerned, the offender, his family, the community, and society in general. If the child or the adult is placed on probation, he is given careful supervision by a probation officer whose caseload is not so heavy that he cannot do a thorough job. This is the kind of probation service that pays off. This is the kind we have in many courts in other cities and in some of the courts of New York City. This is the kind we want in all the courts of New York City, not only on humanitarian grounds, but for the practical purpose of protecting our citizens from delinquency and crime. And may I add to that prepared statement to say that we need it most of all in the courts represented here today, which are closest to the people of the city and to their children. And now we'll pass on to the, what you may call, testimony. Although we put these judges in rather a queer position when we expect them to sit up here and testify at any rate. And may I say that Judge Murtaugh is not able to be here because he is appearing before a grand jury again, I think. But it's one of those performances in which you see more than the hands only, as I understand it. The first of the three judges who will speak is Judge Hill, the presiding justice of the Domestic Relations Court. I'm not going to go into labored introductions of any of these judges. They're well known to you all, except to speak of one or two things which perhaps are not known to all of you. Judge Hill was missing during the war. We missed him greatly here, at least those who are staying around here did. But the GIs in the European theater didn't miss him a bit. He was in the Judge Advocate General's department, and as many a GI who, if he'd known to whom he could be thankful, would have been thankful for the justice and wisdom with which Judge Hill handled his case. Judge John Warren Hill of the Domestic Relations Court. Mr. McCormick and friends, Americans are big-hearted, sympathetic people. Americans prove themselves really intelligent when funds are being raised to prevent physical disease, to correct social injustices, and to support worthwhile charities. Here, they respond to the logic that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. But we as a people seem to have an entirely different reaction to the disease known as crime. We hate crime. Most of us like to be in on the kill. The key fover committee hearings prove this. We have an absorbing interest in the expose of crime. But when it comes to the subject of crime prevention, of probation which actually reforms criminals, we find that there is little interest. You have to issue a subpoena to get people present at a meeting like this. Of course, I jest. I fear you could not get Mr. John Average Citizen here even with a warrant. It costs us more than $5 billion per year to police this country, to provide grand juries, petty juries and judges, and to maintain all of our prisons. The Wickersham Commission figured that property loss and damage caused by crime amounts to untold additional billions of dollars per year. It is therefore a sad commentary that our citizenry takes so little interest in probation when recognized authorities, experts in the field like Mr. McCormick, agree that probation reforms the criminal and decreases crime. Dean Pound was talking just about crime prevention when he said probation is the greatest advance in the field of penology in the last century. Now, I shall not waste time before you who are here this afternoon in justifying probation as a crime preventive, as a method of saving the taxpayers countless dollars. You are here because you believe in this method of treatment, because you know that it is the training school, the reformatory and the penitentiary, which turn out the greatest number of recidivists, men who are post-graduate experts in crime. It is the recidivist who makes the cost of crime prevention so costly. You are here because you and I know that more children and more adults are cured by probation than by imprisonment. But I want to thank you for your presence and for your abiding interest in our work and in our employees who do this work. It has been your interest and encouragement which have inspired us to continue our efforts when the outlook was exceedingly dark. You are familiar with the value of probation, so I shall not dwell on that aspect of the case. But I do want to add this little note for the information of the citizen in his capacity as a taxpayer. The citizen who will cheerfully contribute to these worthwhile drives to stamp out and to find cures for disease, probably because he feels that he or his family may someday be affected by disease, but who is not interested in crime prevention because he believes that he and his are far removed from crime. Mr. Taxpayer, in our court, a probation officer who averages $3,300 per year, that's average, not the starting salary, is carrying a caseload of 50 delinquent and neglected children. Thirty-five of these are delinquent children. If there were no probation officer in our court to take care of these children, most, if not all of them, would have been committed to some institution. It cost the City of New York $800 per year board bill for each child so committed. If there were no probation officer to treat these 35 children, to watch them and to assist them to adjust in the community, the cost to the City of New York for their caring institutions would amount to $28,000 per year per child for the 35. The services of each of the 60 field probation officers in our children's court affects, therefore, a net saving for the City of New York after deducting salaries of $24,700 per year. And the City of New York, you must remember, pays only a small share of the board bill per child. The average cost to charitable citizens in the case of private schools and to the State of New York for their state schools is not less than $2,500 per year. A total cost for these 35 children of $87,500 per year, of which cost the City pays only $28,000. And the same probation officer, be it remembered, is also supervising 15 neglected children, keeping many of them out of institutions, and saving the City additional thousands of dollars for their foster care. Thus, probation pays for itself currently, to say nothing of the long-term savings affected by a substantial reduction in recidivism, and of course, every child reclaimed to good citizenship by probation is a priceless asset transferred to the credit side of society's ledger. Now agreed that probation services are essential to the courts and to society in their work of character reconstruction, and that these services actually save the taxpayers vast sums of money, we are bound to be interested in the question of whether or not the City of New York is penny-wise and pound-foolish in the paltry investment which it is making in this service for these courts. The starting salary of a probation officer in these courts, presently authorized by the City of New York, in the sum of $2,710, is too low to attract competent, qualified people to our work, and to keep those who do come here in this work after they have become experienced. As a result, the work of this court, which depends chiefly for its efficiency on the ability of probation officers, is seriously handicapped. The Welfare Council of this City has recently studied this situation and has recommended to the City of New York, and has gone on record in no uncertain terms in recommending that the entrance salary of a probation officer in these courts should be $3,500 per annum as a starting salary. This recommendation is embodied in a report which was approved by the Board of Directors of the Welfare Council on January 25, 1951. This report covers salaries of officers on a supervisory and on an administrative level. These recommendations of the Welfare Council were applied to salary requests made by the three presiding justices of the three courts represented here today. The New York State Probation Commission has recommended to the administration of this City salaries for these officers on a basis comparable to those which are urged by the Welfare Council. The experience of administration in the salary of domestic relations proves that the present starting salary of $2710 per annum is completely inadequate to meet the needs of that court for a trained, competent probation staff. It does not attract the right people to probation work in that court. This is clearly proven by the court's experience in the holding of open competitive examinations for the position of probation officer in the court. Probation officers, be it remembered, are appointed from a list certified by the New York City Municipal Civil Service Commission, consisting of those who successfully passed examination for appointment. Two open competitive examinations for this position have been held in the last 15 years. In 1949, the first open competitive examination for probation officer in these courts was held after 13 years without such an examination. Only 250 persons who applied qualified to take the examination, and the qualification requirements were not too high. This was a substantially lesser number than had applied for such an examination 13 years before, when the starting salary was substantially less. Of those who applied and were qualified, only 151 of those examined passed the examination. Eighty-six positions had to be filled in our court, the Domestic Relations Court, from this list. It is very significant that out of the 151 who passed the above-mentioned examination, a substantial number declined appointment to this court. These had hoped that the starting salary advertised would be increased. When it came time for appointment, and they found that the salary had not been increased, they declined appointment because the salary was too low. After the new civil service list came out in 1950, and since some 86 vacancies were filled from this list in July and August of 1950, we have had 15 additional resignations and 11 officers dropped as unsatisfactory employees. Within the very last month, a probation officers list was certified to our court by the Civil Service Commission in order to fill nine vacancies which exist right now. This list contained 25 names, all who remained who were at that time willing to be appointed. Of these, 20 of those notified declined appointment because the salary offered was too low, leaving us only five persons from whom to fill the nine positions. Two of these subsequently declined. The work of this court for children and for broken families in which probation services are so essential requires highly educated and highly trained officers for such work to be effective. After the examination which I have told you about was advertised and completed, it was generally admitted by all concern that it was because of the low salary offered that there were so few candidates attracted who had the necessary qualifications. In other words, trained persons were not attracted to our work by this salary. Salaries paid in persons engaged in similar work by private agencies is higher. We have stated that even after we obtain officers for this work, we are unable to keep them with the salary now paid. There has been a demoralizing and startling turnover in the probation staff of our court during the last ten years. In 1949, the turnover out of a total of 120 field probation officers was 43 officers. That was just one year. It was by reason of resignation. Probation officers who have had the required education and training for appointment to these three courts start off with a salary of $2,710 plus a cost of living bonus and the sum of $250 per annum. That cost of living bonus is uncertain and cannot be used as a basis for pension. These people come to this court with high hopes, but they soon become very discouraged at the amount of work they are called upon to perform and the inadequate salary they receive. We no sooner get them trained than they feel obliged to accept employment elsewhere at a more lucrative salary. This makes for a constant staff turnover which has a disturbing effect upon our work and places us in a position of a mere training post. Our supervisors are obliged to spend too much time training new officers in our methods and work time which should be spent in supervising active cases. The only way we can put a stop to this is to raise the starting salary and give these officers an incentive to come to us, to remain with us, and to do good work. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Linked. of this meeting, and at that time their names will be called by the foreman so that those listening will know who they are. The next judge who is to speak to us is having a rather difficult job of substituting at the last minute for Judge Murtaugh. Judge Murtaugh, as you know, is detained on official business, and Magistrate Philip Thurston has agreed to speak for him. Judge Philip Thurston. Mr. McCormick, Judge Hill, Judge Cooper, ladies and gentlemen of the jury, ladies and gentlemen, I know how deeply Chief Magistrate Murtaugh regrets his other call to public service is making it impossible for him to participate. I only hope that he may arrive before this program is over. Meanwhile, I assume he has asked me to pinch hit because during almost 50 percent of my over five years of service in the Magistrate's court, I have been particularly concerned with youth 16 to 21 in our youth and girls' term parts, where the problem of adequate probation service is most vital. I don't want to repeat or seem repetitious of what Judge Hill has said, but the problems that he has indicated could be duplicated in stories that I could tell. I want to try to add something a little different, something further for the benefit particularly of the jury and the public who may be listening. Now, particularly in dealing with the 16 to 21-year-old boy or girl who may be on probation as a result of a wayward minor charge or perhaps a more serious original charge which has been reduced to such charge, we have a very delicate and very often disturbed home situation to deal with. And that requires concentration and continuity. We have developed, we think, very high standards of investigation and original probation reports. But when, because of this problem that Judge Hill has already alluded to, of the low salaries and the pressure of insufficient number of probation officers, the turnover in probation officers on a single case, and these are not exceptions, these within recent years are true examples. In a single case in girls' term court, one girl will have to have four or five or even six probation officers. In a matter of months, you simply are not able to do the job as it should be done. And it's tragic, both to the people involved, the defendant, the families, and even what is less realized, but in the long run is the basic problem that any court has to face, the public. Because if we don't succeed on probation, those figures that Judge Hill has indicated, the public is simply going to pay more for keeping that person in institutions, and if they come repeaters, that's going on for years. Whereas if we'd been able to meet the problem adequately, and had the better success that might have been our lot, we would have saved all that to say nothing of the individual. Now, I say this speaking particularly for girls' term and youth' term, but there are other branches of the magistrates' courts to which probation service is very vital, could be even more so if our staff were of sufficient size, and if the turnover due to inadequate pay were cut down. Now, we're talking here today about the threat to probation. Now, this threat is not a theory, not something that we think somebody is inadequately paid, and that they ought to get more. It's a practical problem. Regardless of what we may think about what they ought to be paid, we can't get them at the salaries that we're paying, and we can't keep them. That's the threat. So, we can't theorize about this ought to be enough. It isn't. It won't attract the right kind of people. It won't keep the right kind of people on the job. Somehow or other, we've got to convince the public and those in authority as the result of the realization of the public, because the public that has to make their will known that to save money in the long run, we must have in the magistrates' courts and in the other courts represented here today probation officers who are properly paid sufficient numbers to do the job and to do the job in a continuity of interest and support that simply cannot be achieved now. That is the real threat to probation and I hope that we can inform the public of this fact through the good work of meetings like this. Thank you. APPLAUSE Thank you, Judge Thurston. The third of the judges to testify at this meeting is Judge Irving Ben Cooper, the Chief Justice of the Court of Special Sessions, also with experience in the magistrates' courts, an experience that goes far beyond that. Judge Cooper is well known to everyone. I introduce him to you. I'm not very tall, Mr. Announcer. If this doesn't go over, will you tell me and I'll sit down? I think I'd do a little better if I stand up. Commissioner McCormick, presiding Judge Hill, Judge Thurston, ladies and gentlemen, you're coming together this afternoon as a source of real inspiration to those of us who are laboring under severe handicaps. The jury is composed of outstanding citizens who devote their time to giving. They are not on the receiving end. And so their presence here this afternoon is a source of great encouragement. I must bear in mind that those of you here this afternoon in the audience have a pretty good idea as to the effectiveness of probation. But I must also remember that the public knows very little about this entire subject. and it's in the public's hands that this issue may be resolved one way or the other. We believe, I'm sure, all of us with Emerson, that the true test of civilization is not in the census nor in the size of the cities nor in the crops, but in the kind of man the country turns out. And while endless debates go on as to the correct blueprint for utopia, I think we must concern ourselves with a tremendous force of simple truths. We realize, for instance, that poverty of the mind and spirit is as awful as poverty of the body. That in indifference to misery and helplessness lies disaster. We know that in a fuller, richer, real democracy, everyone counts. We are determined and must be determined to teach them to understand the minds of others, to weigh their interests alongside their own without bias of any kind, pointing out that it is not wisdom just to be wise, urging them to get rid of false estimates and set up the higher ideals. We must convince them that in our social order, the ladder of opportunity is not so high above the ground that you must have a ladder of influence to get to the lowest rung. Into this court of special sessions of the city of New York each year come some 30,000 defendants. of that number, 20,000 are charged with the commission of crimes other than gambling. What do you do with the girl who is a graduate of a high school, valedictorian, who enters a college here in the city, performs beautifully as a student, goes into a department store and succumbs to the temptation of picking up a piece of jewelry which she hopes to wear at her marriage two weeks thence? Is she a criminal type? Is she to be put in an institution? What do you do with the boy who comes from a fine home who has an excellent work record and who in a moment of silliness commits an act that the law declares a crime? Is he a criminal within the common acceptance of that term? Is he to go to jail? Should he have the stigma of fingerprints and the awful consequences that flow in its wake? I am not talking about the hardened offender. He is, comparatively speaking, easily disposed of. I am talking about your neighbors and mine. I am talking about people who come from fine, law-abiding American families. I am talking about the 16 to 19-year-olds who have never been in a court before. I am talking about the young drug addict. I am talking about the young person who has excellent qualities but in a moment of succumbing to the superior will, shall we say, or force of a companion does an act which the law calls a crime. You see these faces before you as we do in the court day in and day out, helpless, crying out for aid. And how do we handle them? we know that they need help. We know that they need the kindly smile of a deep understanding heart. We feel they need some guidance. and for the thousands and thousands of such persons each year, we have in the court of special sessions but 28 probation officers. Judge Hill, Judge Thurston, pointed out to you already the miserable pay that is provided for people who are to do work of reformation, reconstruction, human beings. What we have really in essence is a veritable clinic. They come to us with deep wounds, not flesh wounds but wounds induced by utter frustration, fear, torment, horror, and we're given band-aids with which to dress those deep wounds. I feel deeply about it and so does every judge of this court and I'm sure that's true of every judge in the domestic relations court and every magistrate in the magistrates courts. It's all right to have these statements to the effect that the higher courts will take care of themselves and it's the lower courts that should be looked after. But it's repeatedly the same story. The poor, the handicapped, the underprivileged are always given the short end of the stick. it's in these courts that these people come in these large numbers. Where is the emphasis to be? On nomenclature or on the human being? Shall we say that when the boy grabs somebody's purse, hoping it's filled with money, that it's more important that that purse should contain $500 than $50? That if it contains $500 it goes to one court and if it should have but $50 it goes to another court? Shall the accent be on the degree of the offense or shall it be on the human being? Let's not worry about the equipment of those courts which handle the hardened offender. They are well equipped and I'll tell you why and perhaps properly so. They are called mandatory courts. They can tell the city how many employees they need and how much each employee should receive and the city must pay the bill. them. The result is that they have this outstanding probation system in general sessions. Remarkable chief probation officer in Mr. Irving Halpern. But he has the equipment. The results I think Commissioner McCormick you said were 90% successes. 90% successes. And in our courts where these young people come we've got to have a probation officer take six times the norm. let me tell you something. I have from time to time over the years seen what can be done with these young people in particular under the guidance of a trained probation officer. Wherever a trained probation officer has had the chance, the opportunity to follow through with a probationer there has been a veritable metamorphosis. It's unbelievable to see that same human being who a year before came in whipped change into a human being with confidence, with determination to be a fine citizen ready to do his share in the community. I have but recently become chief justice of this court, but I would remind you that for some 12 or 13 years, I have been in the operating room, and I have seen, because that's my approach, the tragedy, because I've always insisted upon tearing aside the veil and looking behind the charge. What were the circumstances that brought the defendant to the court? Some of you have seen the play Death of a Salesman. In that play you will recall there was a deep feeling, the father against the son, and the son against the father. But that deep feeling was never, or the play does not reflect, that it ever resolved itself into physical outburst. The father does not assault the son, the son does not physically assault the father. But we have the assorts, and when you look into them, and you find what went on, you have all the circumstances unfolded upon the stage in Death of a Salesman, in a hundred variations. ships. I don't know how much time I've got where I look my head. I find it extremely difficult. I find it extremely difficult. I find it extremely to cover a subject so vital to the true administration of justice in this court in such short a time. I find it difficult to suppress my emotions, but I think it's a sad commentary indeed. I think it's something that cries out for remedy, that public officials trying their best to do their job should be so handicapped. The weapons we have, I tell you, are blunted. They are outworn. They are outmoded. I'd like to see the day come when with sufficient help, trained help, mind you, well-paid help, we could have a setup along the lines already initiated in this court whereby a criminal record might be avoided even though an offense has been committed. How can you do it all alone, no matter how you feel within you? It's like asking a surgeon, and a competent one, if you will, because I look upon the judges of these courts as competent people. It's like asking a competent surgeon to perform an operation without the anesthetist there, without the nurses in attendance. Only an enlightened enlightened public can do something about this situation. How can a probation officer exist on $2,710 a year? Ask yourselves, what time, what freedom of action has such a person? Some way or other he must seek other avenues to, in the evening possibly, to add to his salary? Some succeed, some can't. Most of them are fighting and fight hard to keep their self-respect and to perform their duties. It's encouraging when you hear so much dirt, and most of it is well founded. I have a right to tell you that in my time, I've done as much exposing as the next one. But I say when you have good public officials, ready, willing, able to perform their duty, their hands must be held up high. Only, only, if we approach this will there be an end to this tragic sight, day in and day out. We must have and show by tangible overt action that we believe in the spirit of the remarks of Joshua Liebman in his book Peace of Mind when he wrote there comes a time in the development of ourselves when receiving from others, which is the essence of selfishness, gives way to the irresistible urge to give to others, to grow beyond the limits of one's own skin, whether in the creation of a family or the building of a good society. life. We reach a point when we become satiated with ourselves and when life demands that we turn outward toward other human life. then we cease being the passive vessel and ourselves become the living spring. Life forces us to renounce our status as parasites upon life and summons us to become the patrons of life. thank you very much for your attendance. Before we pass on to the taking of evidence from others, I'd like to thank for you all three of the judges who have contributed here from so obvious a deep knowledge of the subject and an equally deep feeling with regard to the necessity of doing something about the situation in which we now are. We have thought of six or seven people who can contribute something of great value to this discussion and I'm going to call on them one after the other. I shall ask them to come to this microphone here at the end of the table and must also ask that each one do his best to confine his remarks to three minutes. We're on a rather tight time schedule and I realize that's a great restriction but we must observe it. The first one I'll call on of this group is Mr. Leonard Probst who is vice chairman of the state probation commission and is chairman of its metropolitan committee Mr. Probst. Mr. Cooper has to stand up and I'm a slow with this so you hear me. Somebody found it possible to call you ladies and gentlemen the grand jury to take testimony and before I make my remarks this afternoon I want to impress on this audience that anything I say is not to be charged to my probation commission. I always talk for myself. They saw fit to call you the grand jury. Frankly I'd like to see you return an indictment against the city of New York. In 1941 the mayor of this city Mayor LaGuardia asked Governor Lehman to appoint a commission to take testimony what's wrong with the probation system in the city of New York. A lot of it is wrong. It was wrong in 1941 and it's wrong today. I don't agree with everything that Jeff Seabury said in 1942. What does that mean? Two minutes? I'll give you my summation very fast. I don't agree with every finding of these eight gentlemen. but I say that when they came out with their report and they said you'll never get a good probation system in this city unless you pay more money to the probation officers, that report never saw the light of day and you can't produce ten of them in the city of New York today. Commissioner Gonzalez was on that commission. They buried that report. They didn't want it. Very few people know that it was ever written. On February 20th, 1946, after many conferences in the mayor's office, I'm talking of Mayor O'Dwyer, the mayor promised me that he would fight for increased salaries for the probation officers. He asked me to make a survey of every department in the city of New York. We did make that survey. We wasted the money of the people of the state of New York. We gave the mayor about ten reports, and I think they found their place in the waste paper baskets of the city and other departments. In 1949, the mayor of the city wanted a report on the children's court, and I said he'll never get that report, because I would not waste the people's money. You cannot get anywhere in this city unless the people in charge of the city, unless the people who know what it's all about have the guts to act, have the courage to make statements. Get up before you people. Get up before the press and tell them what's right and what's wrong. In this administration, and I've got to talk fast, I've only got a half a minute left, in this administration, the Civil Service Commission, the Municipal Civil Service Commission, had its representative come to my office. They suggested that the city could save some money, and we thought it was a good idea. It's about time to save some money where it can't be saved, and I tell you, we can save an awful lot of money for the city of New York. We're wasting too much money in the city of New York, and remember, I'm not referring to this administration. It's a new administration. Let's get that clear on the record. I'm referring to previous administrations. we met at the mayor's office. Judge Cooper was there, Judge Hill was there, and Judge Murtaugh. Dr. Floria, Dr. Furia, Mr. Winston, and the three Civil Service Commissioners are there. And we sat around the table like businessmen, and instead of giving three examinations for Civil Service for probation officers, we're going to give one. the city is going to save money, and credit is due to Mayor Impoletari for the support in saving money for the city. Now, that's the first act on the part of this administration. Now, I say to you that no business firm would tolerate for one minute what can go with the actions of its employees that was done in the past few years. It was just a waste. Reports, reports, reports, and those reports went down the sewer. You know, it's very, Mr. Patterson, who's our budget director, knows very much about the requirements of the city. He knows how to make up a budget. But you know, it's a lot different from deciding the value of this desk, or making a decision as to the construction of a bridge. And when you deal with a bunch of human beings, I tell you the city of New York should be indicted because the judges are sending children to institutions knowing that they cabined enough probation officers to care for these children. If you had enough probation officers, good probation officers, more children would be walking the streets today and in their homes. I call your attention to the time, Mr. Probst. I'm very sorry to have to make a interruption. Don't you see, at least I got the words out in public and I can't throw it in the waste paper basket. Unless you people have the guts and talk up, and I'm talking as a state official, you'll never get anywhere. The next one to testify is Miss Doris Clark, the chief probation officer of the magistrate's court. Commissioner Cormick, honored judges, members of the grand jury, and members of the audience. It would take me not three minutes, but no less than three hours to try to put across to you some of the headaches that a probation administrator goes through as a result of what you've heard described as our impossible salary levels. probation officers. I could, just off the top of my head, run down a series of facts and figures that would take me the next ten minutes just to enumerate to you. I'm going to try to make them as short, sweet, punchy, and to the point as I possibly can. In the last five years, in the New York City magistrate's court, I've had 150 different probation officers on 50 different lines. In June of 1950, 43 out of my total 60 probation officers were certified anew to me. Since that certification in June of 1950, 15 of the 43 probation officers have resigned, so that I have had a total staff turnover just in the past year that represents something close to 48 to 53 different people whom we have tried to train in to deal with the most serious types of problems, adolescents, disturbed husbands and wives, vagrants, prostitutes, degenerates. we deal with the little people concerned with behavior problems that are more or less of a quasi-criminal antisocial nature rather than a serious criminal nature. Now, in addition to that staff turnover, let me tell you that if it were just a question of having a vacancy occur and immediately replace, you have to take the man hours of time that are lost. You cannot replace a vacancy until you get a certification. That takes you two weeks to two months to get from the budget director's office. When you get the certification, you cannot fill that vacancy until you get a list from the Civil Service Commission. That takes you two weeks to a month. So you lose anywhere from six weeks to two and a half to three months before your vacancy is filled. Then you start training your probation officer. And I tell you that the mere six months probationary period that the Civil Service Commission allots you for training a probation officer trains that probation officer only in the bare essentials of how he is expected to perform his job. It does not train him in the kind of skill, the kind of patience, the kind of fortitude that he needs for dealing with the disturbed individuals who are constantly coming before our courts. Now, don't forget that my probation staff is not only concerned with the problems of emotionally disturbed individuals. They are themselves expected to be balanced individuals of excellent professional background and training who are free of insecurities and concerns of their own. Now, I ask you, how can you develop the kind of probation service that is needed in the courts that we are dealing with when you are trying to train in individuals who are getting $2,710 a year, who are married, who have families of their own to support, who are not free from the insecurities and the uncertainties of their very people with whom they are dealing. Consequently, what has happened in the magistrate's court? We are rapidly becoming the training ground, not only for the city of New York, but for all over the country. Of those 150 people who have resigned in the past five years, we have innumerable people go to other states where they have immediately been appointed on the basis of the service and the training that they've had in the magistrate's court to jobs paying them $800 to $1,500 more a year to begin with. In addition to that, we are rapidly servicing state probation departments, state parole departments, they're going to the other courts, they're going into the educational field, they're going into jobs which are immediately paying them more than $1,500 a year to start with the result that you cannot have a probation service in this kind of a court setup that has any continuity, that has any tenure, that has any incentive to the staff to remain in the department. There are no promotional opportunities created within the department. Is that a signal that my three minutes have run out? There are no promotional opportunities within the department. There is no way in which you can stimulate within your department the desire on the part of the probation officers themselves to continue to grow, progress, and develop. This, mind you, in the face of the fact that out of the self-same New York City budget, the similar titles in the courts which Judge Cooper has referred to as our mandatory courts, the salaries are as much as double the salaries that are being paid in the magistrate's court system. In the so-called higher courts, probation officers alone with tenure are paid higher salaries than the chief probation officer of the magistrate's court. Magistrate's court system handling more than a million people a year, having 58 courts in the five boroughs of the city of New York, staffed by a chief city magistrate and 49 magistrates, has a total probation staff of 60 probation officers. I tell you, it is a simply impossible and a simply ridiculous situation, and Commissioner Probst, I have never hesitated to say this publicly again and again and again. It is contained in all my published reports, it is contained in all my budget statements before the budget director, but once again we have had a budget returned to us where, in spite of the fact that we requested double the amount of staff we had at salaries more nearly commensurate with the probation staffs of the so-called higher courts, the budget has again been returned to us with not one single penny, with not one single addition of staff. Run over my three minutes. I told you it could take three hours. I'd be delighted at any time to give anyone facts and figures. They're all reduced to writing, and I just hope an alert, awakened public is just going to demand that something be done and be done immediately to remedy this situation. Thank you. I don't need to explain to you that I'm very reluctant to cut the time of a person who's struggling with a problem Doris Clark is, and a person who's been working in this field and related fields as valiantly as she has. We'll have to be strict, however. I'll ask the rest of you to do your best to hit three minutes. The next speaker is Mr. Lloyd Thompson, who is president of the Probation Officers Association. Thank you. Mr. Horstyn, honorable justices, jury. The Probation Officers Association of Greater New York represents the Probation Officers in the three courts who are under consideration here today. For the past six years, we have carried on an intensive program to bring to the attention of the citizens of New York and the administration the needs of the probation service and the vital work that it does for children and youth in this city. To do this, we have consistently seen all the city administration people from the budget director up to the mayor. We have talked to the budget bureau, and no later than January the 9th of this year, we spoke with the deputy mayor of New York City. On October the 27th, 1947, we finally gained audience with Mayor O'Dwyer, and after 25 minutes of relaying to him the difficulties in the probation staff, he called in the budget director and relayed to him what we had said and asked him what was he going to do about it. Mr. Patterson said that within a week he planned to discuss it with the mayor, and the mayor said to us, something will be done. We asked how will we check on that. He says, come and live with me at Gracie Mansion. But he said, I don't want to be short. If you don't get an answer in a month, come back here again. We are still trying to get back. The probation officers' association has endeavored to reach the public through the newspapers. We have seen editors of the Times, the New York Post, the now defunct Sun, the Long Island Daily Press, the Brooklyn Eagle, and have convinced them of the purpose of probation and the difficulties under which we work. we have received extreme help from these papers. Those of you who read the New York Times will know that I at least have had at least six letters there with accompanying editorials, the tenor of which was to call for the support of the public for this vital service. This vital service. The New York Times has gone to the extent of saying that the probation service should be upgraded before an overall city increase in pay. In 1944, Mr. Leonard Harrison, now in the jury here, was called in by Mayor LaGuardia to make a survey of the Domestic Relations Court tantamount to an efficiency situation. I know what Mr. Harrison recommended, but his recommendations are buried in the archives of City Hall. In 1946, the Citizens Budget Commission, which is supposed to be an economy-minded group, recommended to the mayor that the magistrate's court probation service should immediately be upgraded. Colonel Regleman, before the budget hearing two years ago, made that definite recommendation, nothing has been done about it. Let's look at the economy that's practiced by the Budget Bureau. As you have heard, from 1936 to 1949, there was not an open competitive examination given in the probation service. The service has been graded since 1938. There has never been a promotional examination until 1949. When the open competitive examination was given, there were 152 vacancies in the probation service consisting of 249 probation officers. Peace out for yourself how much accruals existed on account of that. By accruals, we mean that when a probation officer leaves a top salary, his place is filled by a probation officer at the bottom salary. And probably it's not filled at all. Figure out for yourself the accruals. Figure out the economy that the city has practiced in probation throughout all these years. We have never been considered as a career service. We never had supervisors on a civil service basis in the domestic relations court. In the special sessions court, I don't think there's yet supervisors. There are supervisors, but they are not given the status of supervisors. The city, it would take me three hours to go into details of what we have done over six years. We welcome this opportunity to call to the public the need for their support. The children and youth of New York City are crying for the help that we are giving them. No political or personal interest or false economy should deny it to them. It was the greatest philosopher, the greatest jurist, the greatest social worker, the greatest probation officer who said, suffer little children to come unto me and forbid them not. For if such is the kingdom of heaven. And we, in all humility and reference, would comment, and if such is the kingdom of New York City. Thank you. Thank you. We wanted to hear from both Miss Brennan of the Children's Court and Mr. Leeds of the Family Court. We had to choose one, and we agreed among us it would be Mr. Leeds. May I ask you, Mr. Leeds, in the interest of time, we have to try to stop this part of it somewhere near 445. Perhaps you'll endorse the very fine check that your chief has already written, your judge. Thank you, Mr. McCormick. Honorable judges, members of the jury, and guests. I think on this matter of improved salaries for probation people, the Domestic Relations Court comes into court with clean hands. Because we have always seen improved salaries for probation staff. as something more than merely getting more money for ourselves, a better standard of living, although I think that's quite an appropriate end. But we've seen it, I think, in terms of what it means in raising standards, in getting better qualified personnel in order that service can be improved to the public. And I think at this point, I would like to say that those of us who are in the Domestic Relations Court probation service and who've been associated with presiding Justice Hill are deeply indebted to him for his untiring and unceasing efforts in getting standards for better and improved service in our court raised over the last 18 or 19 years that he has been there. I'd like to just very briefly review the record in that regard for you because I think that it, more than anything, demonstrates exactly what I've said. If you go back to 1931, when I came to the court, the qualifications for a probation officer at that time were high school graduation or its equivalent. And the equivalent more often prevailed than the requirement that you be a high school graduate. I saw people come in who had much less than high school graduation and who were qualified on the basis of a couple of years of detective work. At that time, I can recall in our department, we had not more than three or four people who were college graduates. In 1939 and in 1936, 1936 and 1939, for the first time, Judge Hill was able to get any recognition in the qualifications for the examinations at that time that recognized a higher standard. And then the commission did take into consideration college training, and that was admitted, but always with some qualification. It wasn't until the last examination... That clock is two minutes slow. Well, that's... Go ahead, I think. All right. The... The last examination did, without qualification, include college graduation, with one year of paid experience for all people coming into the service. Now, today, we do have in our staff a very large proportion who are college-trained people, and some of them who have done graduate work in recognized schools of social work. And I think that looking back over 20 years, we've made very, very great strides in the way of qualifications. But on salaries, what do we have? If we go back to 1931, the city was paying $1,860 for a high school graduation or less. Today, they're paying $2710. I think just without straining our minds and our arithmetic, considering the increased cost of living, I think it's clear that the city of New York today is getting something, a tremendous increment in training and experience for the people who are now on the staff for which it is paying little or nothing if we make a comparison back 20 years ago. And I think that those who have the job of recruiting are faced with this problem, that salaries must either break and go up, or standards will probably have to be sacrificed if service to the courts are to be maintained. And I think we'd all agree that that would be a real catastrophe. Thank you. Thank you. We had hoped to have time for Judge Anna Cross, for Leonard Harrison of the Community Service Society, and Will Turnblah of the National Probation and Parole Association. We can't because of the clock being slow and because we're close to the time when the jury must get in before we go off the wire. And I'm going to call on Will Turnblah because he's able to contribute some facts about comparative figures, salaries, and so on, that most of us don't have. Mr. Turnblah. Mr. Chairman, members of the judiciary, ladies and gentlemen, I'll try to be brief. Unfortunately, I learned to say in 30 minutes what could be said in three, but I didn't learn the reverse process. I think that our judges present here today have stated clearly and very forcefully the case for probation, the case for probation in our courts. I think it's a tragedy. I think it's almost a miscarriage that our courts, our judges, with these high objectives that mean so much in our social order are unable to carry forward these objectives because of handicaps over which they have no control. Now, I think it's very clear that the city of New York has not kept apace with other communities throughout the country. I'm going to read just a few salary figures of comparable jurisdictions, if I may. Now, here in the city of New York, the Court of General Sessions, the salary range for probation officers is $3,800 to $5,200. In Kings County, $3,500 to $6,000. I call your attention to the fact that that is against a background of $2,710 in these three courts. In Los Angeles, California, without the benefit of California sunshine, the salaries for probation officers are $4,040 to $5,500. In Boston, the two courts up there, $3,700 to $5,250. Now, I could go on down the list through Minneapolis, Cincinnati, comparable jurisdictions throughout the country. But I think it's eminently clear that the salaries, the budget that has been promulgated and proposed for these courts is not adequate to guarantee the protection of the public, the protection of children, the preservation of family life in our great city that it should. The prevailing wage in New York is substantially lower than the prevailing wage throughout the country, and I think it needs immediate remedy. Applause Now, being slaves to the clock, we'll have to speed up the concluding part of the program. I'm going to call on Mr. Leonard Mayo, foreman of the jury with many other titles, and here today as president of the Citizens Committee on Children of New York City. I'm not going to charge the jury. I think it'd be quite unnecessary. I'm going to ask the foreman whether it's a good legal procedure or not to give a summary of the findings and to return the verdict and to poll the jury or to tell who they are. Applause Mr. McCormick and your honors, if the chairman finds himself somewhat unknowledgeable with respect to court protocol and procedure, he has nothing on the form of the jury, I will proceed, however, in accordance with what I understand to be the proper procedure and in a very few moments present findings, summation of the findings, in which I hope there will be substantial agreement on the part of the jury. You will note that we have not had an extended time in which to retire and consider these findings in detail. However, when I read you the names of the members of the jury, you will be convinced, just as I am, that all of them are people with experience and knowledge in this field and I think that I know enough about their points of view that having heard this testimony this afternoon, they will substantially agree in the summary as presented. Members of the jury are as follows. Lady Armstrong, Mrs. Doris Qby of the Jewish Board of Guardians, Mr. Adrian P. Burke, New York City Youth Board, John W. Burke, Jr., the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, Mrs. H. Lester Cudahy, Catholic Big Sisters, George Hallett of the Citizens Union of the City of New York, Leonard V. Harrison, Community Service Society of New York, James Dumpson, staff member of the Welfare Council of New York City, Dean Kenneth D. Johnson, Dean of the New York School of Social Work, Columbia University, Mrs. David M. Levy, President of the Citizens Committee on Children of New York City, Incorporated, Edward S. Lewis of the Urban League of Greater New York, Mrs. James M. Nicely of the Protestant Big Sisters, Mrs. Thomas Phillips of the Women's City Club of New York, Mrs. Milton Sparrow of the Jewish Big Sisters, and Will C. Turnblot, whom you have just heard, of the National Probation and Parole Association. One of the most impressive things, I believe, the jury would agree about this testimony this afternoon is that it represents a very important and a very significant development in the whole history of probation and parole as far as that goes. Charles Chute, for many years President, or Director, rather, of the Probation Association of America will agree heartily, I am sure when I say that it was not always true that judges of our courts were willing to appear in public meetings and with conviction present the point of view that probation service was an essential to the proper conduct of their court. That in itself is a great and a very significant step in advance. It is the second step in an important phase of treatment in society of offenders. The first being the dawning of conviction on the part of a good number of intelligent citizens, including some professional people, that probation was a method that was essential in the proper treatment of the offender, whether of younger age or older. The second stage has been a very logical one, namely, the conviction on the part of the court itself that this was an essential aspect of the service they render. And it is the third phase with which we are so deeply concerned in coming here this afternoon, namely, that that conviction extend to the total public. The question that we're faced with really this afternoon is not whether we shall have adequate salaries for probation officers, although that's the immediate question and the superficial question. The real question is, do the people of the city of New York believe in probation? Because if the people of the city of New York believe in probation, they'll pay for it. That has been true of every great social movement. It's been true of the development of probation and parole in every state and every city in the country. As people have come to see the need, they have not blocked when it comes to making adequate financial provision. I think the jury will agree with the foreman that we have heard this afternoon the kind of testimony which makes it not only proper but important for us to reaffirm our conviction with respect to the essentiality of probation service in the city of New York at a high level. Second, that the testimony presented with respect to the need has been convincing and the suggestions and recommendations made with respect to salary adjustments are reasonable and fair and equitable and are essential if we are to maintain an adequate probation departments. And third, I think we are convinced from the point of view of testimony rendered by those who are themselves engaged in probation that in men and women of the type who have here testified we are very we are highly fortunate in fact too lucky to have in them a people of high quality who are willing at low salaries to give a high grade of public service. And it is the recommendation of the judges and of others who have here testified one, that salaries be placed at an adequate level and two, that all reports and testimony with respect to the need thereof be made public documents as is, of course, sound and good public policy. And third, we believe that this presentation of need is timely because the American people and particularly the citizens of New York City have had an opportunity to see in visual as well as auditory form. the great need for an intelligent and vigorous and statesmanlike crusading approach to the problems of crime and delinquency. In view of these findings, the jury, Mr. Chairman, presents here with its formal findings. In summary, we, the jury, find that the salaries paid to probation officers in the special sessions, domestic relations, and magistrates' courts are so inadequate as to jeopardize the essential probation services in these courts. We find this to be of such urgency that it would require the immediate attention of the mayor of the city of New York. The jury, therefore, recommends that a representative committee present the findings of this session to the mayor of New York and urge that he give priority to this need in the 1951-1952 budget. applause I ask the jury to indicate by a show of hands whether these are their findings, their conclusions, recommendations. We'll be going off the air in a moment and I want to speak of one last thing which was a paper which was given me which is of great interest. It's a petition or rather statement which is signed not only by representatives of the courts represented here today but by representatives of the Queens County Court, Kings County Court, Court of General Sessions, City Court of Mount Vernon, City Court of Yonkers, endorsing all the things that have been said here in anticipation, knowing they would be said, and stressing one point. May I ask how much time we have? A minute and a half. I'm stressing one point which perhaps hasn't been brought out sufficiently here. When you talk of low salaries, of discouraged people, of people struggling along, you're inclined to think of people who can't possibly be doing a good job or who are so thoroughly demoralized that they may be objects of pity but you can't go beyond that. We all know that that isn't so, that somehow human beings do succeed in doing jobs when they're dealing with human problems no matter how crushed down they are by inadequate salaries and heavy caseloads and everything else. And this statement stresses that fact that these services have been able to operate at all only because a nucleus of dedicated men and women have remained on the job out of sheer devotion and at incalculable cost to themselves and their families. And then it goes on it is inhuman to expect these faithful men and women to carry the burden any longer. Their situation is critical at this moment when living costs have risen far beyond their capacity to provide for themselves and their families and this at a time when they are called upon to make even greater efforts than before to combat the rising tide of delinquency especially among children and adolescents. And so let's think of the probation officers themselves let's think of their clients let's think of their families let's think of the city as a whole. We can stay and have open discussion after this but if you care to we'll go off the air very shortly and I want to say just before we do that I shall soon appoint a committee which will wait on the mayor and take to him your findings and recommendations. Thank you very much to all of you. Thank you Mr. McCormick. You've been listening to a broadcast of a public hearing on the question the threat to probation in New York City a plea for improved probation services. You heard Chief Justice Irving Ben Cooper of Special Sessions Chief Justice Warren Hill of Domestic Relations and Magistrate Philip Thurston all of them pleading before a jury of the public and leaders of 15 civic organizations for improved probation services in the courts dealing with children families and crime. presiding has been Austin H. McCormick former Commissioner of Correction. This has been a public service presentation of your city station. This is the municipal broadcasting system. federal attorney'suters ex-info
