Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable has the privilege of presenting the Honorable Lyakit Ali Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan, in a discussion on problems facing Pakistan. Introducing today's distinguished guest will be Phillips Talbot, political scientist of the University of Chicago. Mr. Talbot last week returned from four months in southern Asia, including Pakistan. Joining in today's program on problems facing Pakistan is W. Norman Brown, chairman of the South Asia Regional Studies Department of the University of Pennsylvania. And now Mr. Talbot. Less than three years ago, Pakistan was born on the other side of the world as an important new nation. Even the name was then hardly known to the West, Pakistan, land of the pure. Having been carved out of India, primarily to make a separate homeland for Muslims, Pakistan exhibited several singular features. It was, and remains, divided into two large areas, separated by 1,000 miles of foreign territory, because those were the areas where Muslims were most numerous. It set out consciously to become an Islamic state in the modern world. Americans have now heard much about Pakistan, its relations with India, and the Kashmir problem. With more than 75 million people who live in the crucial region of South Asia, Pakistan has taken a significant place in the world. Like any young nation, it has many problems. Like any young hopeful, it has great dreams for the future. Mr. Prime Minister, you have had a long political career in India, and have directed the development of Pakistan since its foundation. I believe that this is your first visit to the United States. And I wonder why mainly you have come here? Well, I am glad you have asked me that question, because there seems to be quite a lot of confusion in this country about the visit of people who are serving foreign states. It seems to be an idea, amongst majority of the people here, that any foreigner who comes here, comes to ask for dollars as charity. Well, that is not the object of my visit. Neither am I on a visit to discover America, but I am here, really, on a mission to assist the people of this great country to discover Pakistan, which, as you, Mr. Talbot has rightly pointed out, is not even three years old yet. That's right. Mr. Brown, out of your long experience in the South Asian region, I know that when you made your last visit, you went through Pakistan, and I wonder what your most general impression was. I was in Pakistan about three months after the establishment of the state, and I was impressed particularly with two things. One was the great fervor and enthusiasm of the officers of the state, whom I met, in the prosecution of their work. And the other thing was the sense of important problems which they all faced, and which they felt had to be solved in spite of pressing difficulties. One of the things that strikes any visitor to Pakistan is the fact that West Pakistan and East Pakistan are so far apart and look so different. I wonder if it hasn't proved an almost insuperable administrative problem to achieve unity in this state of two sections. Well, it would strike one, as you have put it, that there must be some difficulties because of the distance of nearly a thousand miles that separates east of Pakistan from the west of Pakistan. But to understand this, one must know as to what was responsible for the creation of Pakistan. It was the urge of 100 million Muslims to live their own lives independently and freely, of the country. So that they could safeguard their culture, have their own economic programs, show to the world that there was an ideology which might, I mean I wouldn't be so presumptuous as to say that ours is the best, which might assist the world today in finding a solution to these problems. But your country, with its two peoples, the west and the east, is composed of folk who speak different languages, who look racially somewhat different, and who must have very great difficulties in communications, one with the other. Yes, that is so. But as you know that in Islam, it's the spirit that comes, and not these racial distinctions. We may, to an outsider, appear racially different, but we are spiritually one. And that is the most cementing force that binds together the people of east Pakistan and the people of west Pakistan. And I assure you, Mr Talbot, that is the best force that can bind two people today. I'm interested to hear you speak about this closely binding force, because I certainly felt that that existed. Yet I felt also that you were facing certain problems, which you had to use that binding force to solve. The problem of difference in language, which Mr Talbot has mentioned, seemed to me to be one of them. You spoke Bengali in eastern Pakistan, where the greater part of your population lives. The general literary language of western Pakistan was Urdu. That made a difference in habits of speech between the two great parts of your country. That also was combined with the great difficulties coming from getting your economic products back and forth, because you have two different types of economy in eastern and western Pakistan. Yes, that is that is so, Mr Brown. The languages are different. But as you know, love has only one language, language. And that is the language of unity of hearts. And the unity of hearts and the unity of faith that exists between the people of east and west Pakistan is, as I just now stated, the most important cementing force. As far as language is concerned, you have been in that part of the world. As a matter of fact, I think you have spent some time in the old Indian subcontinent. You must know that in that subcontinent, there are many languages. And what we have decided to solve this problem of language is this, that with regard to east Pakistan, we have decided that their provincial language will be Bengali. But there will be one language, which will be the national language of the people of Pakistan, which will be Urdu. And I have no doubt in my mind that it won't take very long before the people of all the parts of Pakistan, where so many different languages are spoken, will be able to converse and communicate with each other in their national language. Mr. Prime Minister, in our part of the world, the relations between church and state have long been a topic of discussion. And we speak of a secular state. You have made reference to the Islamic state in the modern world. I wonder if you could describe to us the main outlines of that. Well, I tell you, Mr. Talbot, this is due to the misconception that people have about Islam. Islam does not mean only to show you the way as to how to worship God. It's a whole code of life, a man's life, from the time he gets up, in the morning to the time that he goes to bed, or, if I may say so, from the time he is born to the time that he is put in the grave. So therefore, there is no question of state being separate from the church. For one thing, as you have in the West, this conception of church, well, we have no such thing in Islam. There is no theocracy in Islam. As a matter of fact, every individual has got the fullest right to understand, study, and interpret Islam according to the book of God that has been given to us. So therefore, there is no question of being like you have in the West, that the state and the church are different, because you have made that distinction. I don't think God ever wanted that this distinction should be made. Well, Islam, church, and state are the same, in the sense that it teaches you how to lead your lives in all its spheres of activity. And that is really the difference. And that's why we say that we want to build Pakistan on the Islamic principles. Mr. Prime Minister, in identifying church and state in the way in which you have, you bring up a point which I'm sure most Americans would be glad to have you clear for them. There is a general impression in America that Islam has built its state upon the theory that there is this part of the world in which Islam prevails, and that is the part of the world which is ruled, therefore, according to Islamic principles. That the rest of the world, however, which does not have Islam, is a part of the world which it is the duty of the Islamic world to convert, by some means or other, to Islam. In consequence, Islam has been a strongly missionary religion, and it has spread itself by means of preaching, and sometimes we understand in this country by force. And I would like you to explain what the position of Pakistan is with respect to that conception which is surely general in this country. Well, let me tell you, Mr. Brown, that the misconception that people have about Islam and the Islamic State of the type that we want to build up Islam is based on their ignorance of true Islam. There is no question that we want to impose our will on anybody else. There are certain fundamentals that we believe in, and we believe that as far as we are concerned, we cannot change them. For instance, the most important of all the fundamentals is this, that we have belief in one God, and we believe that the whole universe belongs to God. And as such, all the authority and all the power that we derive is from God. That is one fundamental difference between Islam and other philosophies of life, or shall I say, other methods of government. We hear a good deal about Islamic democracy, Islamic socialism, and Islamic capitalism. Yes, I think, let me just say it briefly, as to what we in Pakistan understand by Islamic democracy, Islamic socialism, and Islamic economics, may I say. Well, equality means to us, according to us, and that's exactly what the Pakistan Constituent Assembly has decided, that in an Islamic State, every individual, irrespective of what religion he professes will have equal rights and equal opportunities. Excuse me, I was just going to ask how that applies to the question of the Hindus, who remain in Pakistan. As far as the Hindus are concerned, they will have, as a matter of fact, they do have today, equal rights and equal opportunities with the Muslims. And we have, in our objectives resolution, laid it down. And we have pledged, because as you know, Pakistan is a country where something like 80 percent, or 75 percent to 80 percent of the population is Muslim. But we have laid it down, and we have given a pledge, not only to our own people, but to the world at large, that in our constitution, according to our conception of Islam, every citizen of Pakistan shall have equal rights and equal opportunities as anybody else would have. I'd like to ask you to extend that just a little farther in your explanation. By every citizen, you must, of course, include women as well as men. Oh, yes. As a matter of fact, let me tell you, and I think this is one of the great claims that Islam can make. Today, Islam was the only religion that gave rights to women. You know, that no other religion gave any rights to women. As a matter of fact, in some of your Western countries, it's only recently that women have been given some rights. In Islam, women have got equal rights. They have rights of inheritance. They have rights, you see, of equal citizenship. And let me tell you, I mean, I'll just give you one instance. In Punjab, where we are holding elections for the provincial parliament, we have decided that there shall be adult franchise, and women will have the same franchise as men, and they will be eligible for election to the parliament in the same way as any man. I'd like to go back to the question of the relations between the different communities. And in the past, we know, of course, that among the difficulties that have faced both India and Pakistan since independence have been the problems between Muslims and Hindus, resulting in some cases in very, very large-scale migrations. The problem of Pakistan's relations with India has attracted more attention in this country. And indeed, it seemed to me during my visit in recent months in Pakistan and in India, it was absorbing the attention and the emotions of the people there more than practically anything else. It seemed to me a few weeks ago that Pakistan and India came very close to the brink of hostilities. Immediately after that, you, Mr. Prime Minister, had a series of meetings with Prime Minister Netteru of India. I wonder whether you would comment on the present state of relations between Pakistan and India. You are perfectly right, Mr. Talbot. The relations between India and Pakistan had deteriorated to such an extent that we were, as Pandit Nehru put it, on the edge of a precipice. And, well, I don't want in this short time to tell you what were the reasons for that. We did have a meeting. I went to Delhi because I found that the situation was too serious. And I really went to Delhi to have a talk with Pandit Nehru. I went to Delhi, not so much because I thought that it was only a political problem, but because I recognized that it was a human problem. On the peace between India and Pakistan depends and depended the peace of the world. I was very happy to find a response in Pandit Nehru to come to some settlement regarding the various problems that have been poisoning our relations in the past. And we entered into an agreement. The first problem that we tackled was the minorities problem, because to us it appeared that that was of immediate importance, and it was, apart from being a political problem, a human problem. You mean the Hindu minorities in Pakistan and the Muslim minorities in India? That's right. And we came to an agreement in which both of us, and when I say both of us, I mean both the governments, the people of the countries have ensured full rights for the minorities in the two countries, and we have pledged ourselves to give fullest protection to their life, property, and honor. I would like to ask something for information here. Mr. President, in consequence of that agreement, I wonder what has happened to the many refugees who recently left East Pakistan to go into India and left India to go into East Pakistan. What has been the consequence of that new agreement between you, Mr. Prime Minister, and India to rehabilitate those refugees and to restore a state of equilibrium? Mr. Prime Minister, I am very glad you have asked me this question, because just before I left Washington, I got information from Pakistan that the agreement was working satisfactorily, so much so that the confidence had been restored to such an extent in Pakistan that something like 3,000 Hindus were returning every day to East Pakistan from India, where they had gone due to the disturbances that had taken place. And that, I think, is a very satisfactory result of the agreement that's been arrived at. Mr. Prime Minister, the Kashmir dispute has been called the most dangerous threat to peace in the world today. Did you and Prime Minister Nehru reach any conclusions about Kashmir? Well, it is the most dangerous dispute that is facing the world today, you have put it very correctly, because I have said it before and I don't mind repeating it now in front of you, because the good relations and the peace between India and Pakistan depends on the just solution of the Kashmir problem, which, as you know, has been agreed to by India and Pakistan, that the question of accession of Kashmir to either India or Pakistan shall be decided by means of plebiscite. And, well, I did have a talk with a friend of Nehru. Maybe that it was too near our last agreement, too near the time that the conditions were changing for the better. I'm afraid I did not make much progress. Would you like to name, very briefly, the principal respects in which the Kashmir issue affects the national life of Pakistan? Well, you see, Mr. Brown, Kashmir geographically, economically, is really a part of Pakistan, in fact. Economically, in the sense that all the rivers into Pakistan, into Punjab, on which the prosperity, well, I would even say the very life of millions of people, depends, have their sources in Kashmir. Well, from that point of view, it is of vital importance that Kashmir's issue should be settled. And as you know, Kashmir is a state where 80% of the people are Muslim. Well, from the point of view of communications, all the communications into Kashmir, buying one little strip of road from India into Kashmir, all the communications into Kashmir are from Pakistan, and all the communications from Kashmir are into Pakistan. Then, culturally, also, the 80% of the population is similar to Pakistan. So, therefore, I mean, from all these points of view, Kashmir is of vital importance to the future prosperity and safety of Pakistan. But at the same time, I would be the last person to say that any part of any country should join any country, unless the people of that country wanted to, because I think that is the only democratic way of solving such problems like Kashmir. Mr. Prime Minister, you know better than I that the Indian government has put up other arguments in respect to Kashmir, and this leaves the United States, it seems to me, in something of a dilemma. So far as we can learn, the American attitude has been completely non-partisan. The United States government has sought to help the parties to this dispute to some sort of settlement. Now, the dilemma is that if the United States supports one country against the other, the other country is bound to react very vigorously. And if the American objective is to bring peace and goodwill in Southern Asia as elsewhere in the world, it's hard to see what the approach should be. I wonder if you have any comment on that. It is really not a question of supporting one country against the other. Both the countries have agreed on the solution of Kashmir, and that is that by means of a fair and free plebiscite. Well, the United States government, and I think the people of the United States, are committed to it in the sense that this has been accepted by the Security Council of which the United States is a member. And now all that is expected of the United States is to see that that agreement, which is an international agreement, is implemented. I mean, I quite understand what you said. I don't want, I don't want the United States or any other country of the world to support me in an unjust cause. But at the same time, I think they will be failing in their duty if they shirk their responsibility in doing everything to see that justice is done, and that the agreements that are entered into between governments are implemented. I take it you feel that the United States should take a more active role in the Kashmir problem? Well, I do. If the United States is really interested and concerned about the peace of the world, it should. Well, in that case, sir, I'd be very much interested to know what the Pakistan position is in respect to some of the difficulties the United States finds itself in, particularly, of course, the Cold War. Well, you see, for one thing, this expression of Cold War probably has been discovered in cold countries. Well, I tell you what, and I'm going to be very frank with you, because after all, I think it's when I come all this way, if I kept anything in my heart and didn't tell the people of the United States what people in the East feel, I would be failing in my duty. There is an impression in the East that the United States is only interested in war with Russia, not in peace in the world in the sense that it's not doing all that that it should to secure peace, which means to see that the condition of the people in the East is made better and that these countries are developed more economically. And on that, let me tell you, my dear friend, depends the peace of the world, because on the peace of Asia, it depends the peace throughout Asia. Mr. Prime Minister, can you say specifically what Pakistan would like to receive from the United States? Well, what Pakistan would like to receive from the United States, first of all, is understanding of Pakistan and its problems. And secondly, help Pakistan in developing its resources so that Pakistan may be able to make its fullest contribution towards the peace of the world, for which I know that every Pakistani has the greatest concern. Thank you, Prime Minister Lyakot Ali Khan. There are, of course, many problems that we have not had time in this discussion to treat. Education, the literacy of the people, land reform, some of the great social changes that are occurring. We could go on all day if we had the time. Well, it seems to me, Mr. Tal, but I'll have to come to America again. We hope that you will, sir. You have been very helpful in illuminating many of the major problems and the prospects facing Pakistan. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on problems facing Pakistan, with the Honorable Lyakot Ali Khan, Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr. W. Norman Brown, Chairman of the South Asia Regional Studies Department of the University of Pennsylvania, Mr. Phillips Talbot, political scientist of the University of Chicago, who has just returned from four months in South Asia. You will want to order a printed copy of this week's roundtable pamphlet, which includes the full text of today's discussion on problems facing Pakistan. This pamphlet also contains special maps, charts, and important documents on the new country of Pakistan. You will want to order a copy of this pamphlet and to read and study this special booklet of materials in Pakistan. Individual copies are ten cents in coin. Send your order to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. A full year's subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. By sending $3 to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, you may receive these important pamphlets for the next 52 weeks. Write today and begin your subscription with this week's program. Next week, the roundtable will discuss nutrition and old age. Today's roundtable originated in Radio City, New York. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. .