Mr. Chairman, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, and our special guest of honor, Father Nickerbacher, who seems to me has surprisingly returned safe and intact in body, and I hope in soul. I greet you today on behalf of the Honorable Charles Sawyer, Secretary of Commerce, who regrets that he was unable to be here on account of the previous engagement. His regret, however, is my gain, as this allows me to present in my own hometown and to this distinguished gathering our thoughts on these important problems. I therefore come to you today as an expert from town, not from out of town, which might make me a degree more palatable. I resigned from the Department of the Air Force to take the Commerce Post because I felt that the basic problems of defense were largely sponsored to how to acquire economic security still remains a supreme challenge to the United States. Let us look back for a moment at the two years, 1947 and 1948, through which we have steered steadfastly on rough and forbidding waters in search of a happier sea beyond. Perhaps like the ancient mariner, we may be the first to burst into that silent sea. In mid-1947, then, the American people awoke to the horrid fact, which some had already suspected, that the greatest war of all time had been fought and won, but that the fruits of victory were rotting on the vine. In their place, a thing called a cold war had been substituted, which in fact appeared to be as deadly as the real McCoy and far more elusive. This was not a war of our choosing. No one knew the weapons nor the rules by which it was to be played. It was a shock to discover that the aims and ambitions of the world were divided. On one side stood those who believed generally that a one-world federation could be accomplished, while still preserving the government, the customs, the religions, the arts, and the philosophies of every member. And that wars among members could be prevented by an international force designed to serve them all. On the other side stood those who also desired a one-world federation, but one in which all the freedoms listed above were to be denied every member, and where a military force would be employed to impose the will of the minority upon the other members. Mind you, this was never the professed desire of this group, but it was in fact what the group was actually doing on the continent of Europe and Asia. This spectacle, therefore, caused us such alarm that we were forced to abandon a policy of disarmament, and very much against our every instinct, decide for our own security and that of our friends to rearm. This was a bitter pill to swallow, but we faced up to it as we had through other great crises in our national history. We did this just in time, just in time, just in time, to bolster the fast-failing spirit of men in other lands, who felt as we did about these principles. Thus, in the nick of time, we gave heart to the free people of Greece, Italy, France, and certainly to others as well. Then came the blockading of Berlin, a deliberate attempt to force American citizens out of Europe, a cold act in which any means, including the threat to starve two million human beings, was to have justified the end. This is what I mean when I say we did not know what weapons would be employed in the Cold War. The Berlin blockade was a surprise weapon, but one which was very obvious to all. There have been far more subtle weapons employed against us. For example, one I might call the use of the fellow traveler. This device consists in seducing people who do not have very fixed ideas of their own to follow false gods. Such people, who are perhaps already dissatisfied, are promised brighter horizons. These unhappy people are ignorant or powerfully ambitious persons. The dominant characteristic must be that the victims do not have too much brains, and are therefore malleable and unsuspective. It is through such people that a most insidious kind of fifth-column work is being now conducted. For the people themselves may be perfectly innocent of the damage they are doing. They may be good citizens, the dukes of smarter brains than their own. But these masterminds are working on a long-range policy and plan inimical to the best interests of the United States. This weapon of the Cold War is my dear villain in concept, for it may result in patriotic citizens betraying their country's interests without their being aware of it. And two such tactics are difficult to ferret out, and even when spotted, harder to bring to account. This is indeed an elusive weapon, but we must realize that it is being employed against us today. Now with the lifting of the Berlin blockade, perhaps the trying period of 1947 and 1948 will have ended, and we may embark on a more hopeful era. At any rate, it appears now that the American people have accepted the fact that they must support an adequate defense program. They have in fact adopted an adequate defense program. That program is well underway. The United States will not be caught unprepared again. So now we may turn to the economic problem of the future. How can the United States keep up her own high level of prosperity? How can we help others to acquire standards comparable to our own? How can we continue our goal of achieving peace and security for all nations, big and small? How can we help others to achieve a greater degree of economic stability in the world than we have today? How can we help others to achieve a better career of the future? Let us suggest some methods whereby the government and business might make an invincible team working together towards this goal. The Marshall Plan was designed as the only practical way to start Europe and England on the road to recovery. Russia bitterly opposed this way. Russia bitterly opposed this way. For where prosperity exists, communism is rejected. And where poverty and chaos exist, communism comes in. It is like a weed which thrives on neglected grounds. Important strides are being made towards European recovery. This is good news. For on it, much of our future economic prosperity hangs. For business prosperity depends on the businessman's state of mind. If he feels secure, he will work. If he fears the future, he will slow down. He is only human. I mention this matter of security because our job in this respect is not yet completed. You cannot expect the European to work all out. If down deep, he fears the future. So we must help him to be secure. We must assist him to arm himself. Do not let us fail in this respect. We have gone so far as it is. We certainly should not leave one weak link in the chain. The task is not easy. The stakes are tremendous. The stakes are tremendous. Peace and prosperity against war and chaos. There will be a time very soon when our direct aid to Europe will cease. That is the time we must plan for now. In 1948, we exported slightly in excess of $12.5 billion of merchandise. In the same year, we imported a little more than $7 billion. Other countries were able to sustain their high rate of buying from us in large measure because of grants and loans from the American people to their friends abroad. In volume, these exports represented an increase of 100% over pre-war years and in imports less than a 25% gain. The President of the United States has pointed out in broad terms a way for us to take up some part of the slack which will be caused when our direct foreign aid ceases. I refer to its point-to-run program. Increased American investment abroad, that is the broad principle underlying the point-four. Its public reception was at first lukewarm. Its soundness of concept is gaining ground rapidly as people try to translate the principle into practical proposals. It has been truly said that at any given instant in time, we stand at the beginning of all the future of mankind. Yet some moments represent turning points so important that they can be called the times of great decisions. It may be true that our policy of international unselfishness had its birth and necessity, but it seems to me clear that out of the adoption of this policy, we have grown as a nation, not only in material, but in spiritual stature. It seems to me that today, our world leadership is a leadership that springs from a genuine good will of the people and a real desire to help lift up those who, through no fault of their own, have not achieved those things with which Divine Providence has blessed us. This, it seems to me, that the great change that has taken place in our time is that we want these things not just for ourselves, but for other people of the world also. It is only a few short months since the President put forward the Point Four program. At first, many people undoubtedly welcomed it as a somewhat visionary dream, only to be realized in the far future. But in point of acceptance by both political parties and by millions of Americans, it is already a moving world force. If I did not believe that the Department of Commerce was destined to be helpful in the implementation of the Point Four concept, I would not be here today. I want now to address myself to the question of how the cooperation of our Department can be made effective in the New World Program. A government Department, in some ways, resembles a machine tool or typewriter. You will not get production from the tool if you just sit and look at it, or if you devote your time to being critical of it, because it was not built in some other or different way. You will not get a letter out of the typewriter until you know how the machine functions and do what you must do to make it operate. You will not get a letter out of the way. We must, a way must be found to increase our imports from other countries, to increase American travel in other countries, to increase foreign investment. All of these things will provide the dollars with which others can import from us, and with which others can travel in our country, and with which others can invest in our enterprises. For this undertaking, in order to succeed, must be a two-way street. We recognize the tightrope we must walk in promoting imports. We know that we must be watchful of enduring any American industry, or creating unemployment among American workers. However, there are many fields in which our lives can be enriched with the goods of others, without injury to our own economy. So the Department of Commerce, with the cooperation of the ECA, and other agencies, is studying means to provide foreign producers with the technical, commercial, and financial knowledge necessary to sell more goods in this market. The Department will try to help importers by finding out commodity by commodity just what goods can be imported, without serious competitive repercussions to our own economy. To obtain balance, the Department is shifting emphasis from control to promotion of exports. Our Office of International Trade has removed quantitative export controls completely from hundreds of items that are not war materials. The Department will give you more and more help from our field officers, and our Washington staff, in finding export markets. Business will find real value in familiarizing itself with our trade lists, our World Trade Directory, and the Trade Contact Service. With our Foreign Commerce Weekly, the World Trade in Commodities, the International Reference Service, these are geared to be of specific value to business. The Department is studying the promotional value of international trade fairs. We have interested a number of American cities, and we expect that an international trade fair will be held in the United States next spring. Another dynamic feature factor in our foreign trade is American travel abroad. If we can supplement the export business of the countries we are trying to help with another billion dollars of this invisible export, it may relieve us of the burden of supplying them with funds for which we get no material returns. Here again, we must protect our domestic travel and resort business, which is a very considerable one. In all this promotion of foreign investment, gentlemen, the Department of Commerce feels its primary responsibility is to the people back home. I intend to see that we never lose sight of this fact. There is left the question of new private investments by Americans in foreign lands. In Point Four, President Truman proposed that this nation help the underdeveloped areas of the world make use of their material and human resources to the benefit of their own people and the stability of the world. Foreign investments of Americans directly stimulate our exports. They financed the shipment of American equipment for new factories, mines, and utilities to the benefit of local people. Some of the dollars pay for the native materials and personal services and then flow back to the United States to buy other American merchandise. New American capital invested in Africa, South America, Asia, and Canada can provide the United States, the industrial nations of Western Europe, and the newly industrialized areas themselves with critical minerals and other raw materials. To the extent we ourselves import these materials, the ability of the world to buy our own product is increased. When our own resources and materials are limited, we shall be serving our own security by importing. Our goal is to add at least $1 billion a year to the long-term investment of private Americans in foreign enterprises. Under the direction of Secretary Sawyer, and in cooperation with the Department of State and other agencies, the Department of Commerce is planning its contribution to the working of Point Four. Much of the contribution will be made by adapting and extending services we are already providing. These services are of two kinds. First, the services to business, which will foster capital investment abroad. Members of our staff have talked with important business groups to learn their views on the help needed. All agree that we first must learn much more about specific projects suitable for the investment of private capital. We know a good deal about the geographic areas and types of projects which currently interest our investors. We want to broaden the scope and interest new investors. Where are the unexplored opportunities? What kind? What will they contribute to the countries of their location? Where can the new products be sold? And under what governmental conditions will American funds and management operate? In any such program, we must rely heavily on the cooperation of business, which will join the government and the foreign countries themselves in deciding where and how our investigation should be made. Business advisory committees, perhaps augmentations of those already functioning, would be most valuable in all of the Commerce Department's Point Four activities. The second type of service which the Department can render under Point Four is technical. With technical help, other countries can make themselves more attractive to investors and do more for themselves. Technical advice and scientific knowledge also directly helps American investors. Work of this type can be made available by our Bureau of Census, the Weather Bureau, National Bureau of Standards, Civil Aeronautics Administration, Coast and Geodetic Survey, Patent Office, and the Office of Business Economics. Gentlemen, this program is difficult enough in itself. First, to get all factions of Americans behind it. Second, to enlist friendly support from abroad. These are both great problems, but not insurmountable. Yet in addition, we have every indication that the Russian Eastern Bloc will be, shall I say, unsympathetic. On May 16th, Paul Porter, United States delegate, issued this statement from Geneva. The plain fact is that economic development in Eastern Europe is subordinated to political and ideological preoccupations. That trade is distorted to political ends by the imposition of force, be it physical or political. In such a way as to subordinate the legitimate economic interests of weaker areas to the selfish ends of stronger ones. And to reduce the living standards of all people to that of the Soviet Union. So have I named this address, the challenge to American trade. In Point Four Concepts, President Truman has given to the world a great challenge. This is more than just Point Four. The policy represents an investment in freedom. It is nothing more nor less than the golden rule. Doing unto others as we would have them do unto us. Above all, it is a market plan. By developing the undeveloped areas in which free people live, we open new markets for labor, to our capital, and to our technical skills. It is also a conservation plan. A security program. Since it contemplates the development of natural resources in other sections of the world. And frees us of the threat that once again we might have to deplete our own natural resources in the cause of world peace. It is a world fellowship plan in which we invest our capital, our skills, and our technical knowledge. And from which there is every reason to expect dividends in prosperity and peace. Let us start now to translate Point Four into Point Forward. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.