John Golden, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it's a genuine pleasure for me to welcome you all here to this little ceremony this afternoon. I don't think that we could turn out at any time or place for a better man than our distinguished fellow citizen of Queens, our good John Golden. We're here today to pay him just a slight tribute for all of the mighty nice things he's done, particularly for the children of the Bayside community. John Golden has saved the city a lot of money by providing a private playground for the kids and making it possible for them to thoroughly enjoy themselves every day in the air. All right, it's past the 75th year mark now, and it seems to me that it's fitting and proper to pay that little bit of respect that we owe him for all that he has done for us. So I have proclaimed this day a John Golden Day in Queens, and I would like very much to read the proclamation to you and then present that proclamation to our guest of honor. Please. Borough of Queens, City of New York, Proclamation. Reading. Whereas John Golden is a resident of the Borough of Queens, and whereas John Golden has brought distinction not only to himself, but to the entire Borough of Queens as playwrights, theatrical producers, and philanthropists. And whereas he has aided many causes for the civic betterment in the Borough of Queens, and whereas he is respected and loved by the people of our Borough, and whereas on June 27, 1949, John Golden celebrated his 75th birthday, and whereas the people of Queens wish him continued good health, and whereas it is most fitting to do him honor. Now, therefore, I, James A. Burke, President of the Borough of Queens, City of New York, hereby proclaim Tuesday, July 5th, John Golden Day in the Borough of Queens, done at Borough Hall, Two Gardens, in the City of New York, on this, the 28th day of June, in the year of our Lord, 1949. John Golden, on behalf of the 1,500,000 fellow citizens of yours, and this great Borough of Queens, I present this proclamation to you. Thank you. This looks longer than it is. Mr. Mayor, Borough of Queens, Bronx, Manhattan, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, and my neighbors. My ambitions have never been modest, but in their fanciest flights, they never reached even the vaguest hope that someday I should have not only a street but a day named for me. Independence Day, Mother's Day, Flag Day, even poor old neglected Father's Day, they were all something on a separate stratosphere. And now, here I am, by courtesy of the Mayor, the City Council, Jim Burke, Jim Lyons, and a few more friends, a new member of those Olympians. And several million good people in the great Borough of Queens are told that it is John Golden Day. Permit me here and now to express my deep appreciation, my profound gratitude to those who have brought this about, to Mayor O'Dwyer, that brilliant, that great gentleman, who has no mayor ever before him and is being urged, begged, pleaded with by a vast majority of the people of the city to stay where he is. To our Borough President, Jim Burke, that fine, competent, loyal fighter for his people in Queens. I'm waiting for the hand. A little Milton Burrow of May. To the Honorable James Lyons, the first gentleman of the Bronx, to his friendship I owe much. Over the course of my long life there have been a number of high peaks of treasured experiences. Each one at the time brought another strong, exultant emotion. This, I think, is the grandest of them all. This gesture evidences that my life cannot have been entirely in vain. That I have good, yes, great friends. These friendships are a celestial treasure which Earth cannot take away. I think the one greatest reward of age is in the making of real friends. Every one of those close contacts becomes a part of the very best of us. What am I but what you and others have made me? What are any of us but an accumulation of these loves and these friendships? Like the chameleon who takes on all colors, I have appreciated and I think I have taken the values that came from many of my friends. And I've done what I could to make them a part of myself. You, dear folks, and I could if I liked, name a number of you right here. And what I got from you have been great contributors. In short, as the old song went, you made me what I am today, I hope you're satisfied. It was Emerson, I think, who said, to have a friend, be one. And to that principle I believe I can attribute whatever successes I've had in this world. And you have put a crown of jewels on this gift today by naming a street for me, John Golden Lane. This bower, these few quiet little blocks between where we stand down to the shores of Little Neck Bay, we are now christening. We must put a few benches here facing the park. Benches with welcoming, opening arms. In the years to come, to be visited by hundreds of young and old, a retreat for tired folks, rest for the weary, for better air and health for mothers and kids, a bracer for the discouraged, a trysting place for lovers. And so on this July 5th day, with emotions of great pride and deep humility, I give my name to this lane. Let's dedicate it to people who care for each other. Lovers, family, friends, and best of all, I shall transfer to it the great luck that has been mine from the day I came to Bayside. It shall be a lucky lane. I have lived beyond the Bible's allotted space to three store and ten, and I look back happily to the sunrise and forward contentedly to the sunset. Half a century of my life has been in the theater. The world of make believe where everyone either loves or plays at loving everyone else. And I think that superficial habit tends in the direction of another biblical suggestion. We are told to love our neighbors. And we folks in the theater have played at that so long. But the idea, we've made it, we've made the idea a practical formula for ourselves. A short time ago, one of our very great actresses, Helen Hayes, was in charge of a drive for fun. She asked me to bring ex-president Herbert Hoover to the party. To be sure that I could deliver that great gentleman, I brought with me several decoys in the form of actresses. There were around us, besides Miss Hayes, Ruth Gordon, Gertrude Lawrence, Catherine Hepburn, and Tallulah Bankhead. Pretty good cast, don't you think? Mr. Hoover is not too loquacious. And he sat listening to the ladies as they went to exert two prelatives of rapture, of affectionate expression. Miss Gordon said, listen, darling, I love that hat. Do you, precious, replied Bankhead. I think yours is divine, terrific. So do I, Angel, said Miss Lawrence. Listen, sweethearts, I started in when Mr. Hoover came in with his slow drawl and said, Excuse me, John, for interrupting your loving discourse, but I am curious to know, what word do you folks of the theater use when you really mean it? The words that I can use and that I mean from the depth of my heart now are, Thank you, my dear, dear friends, thank you and God bless you. Now ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed fortunate in having visited our fair borough today with a mayor of the city of Moran. Mayor Dwyer has been a very, very good friend of Flint. He is a very, very good friend of John Gold. Mighty glad he is here, because we are going to put up the sign naming the streets today, and I have a sneaky suspicion it won't be legal till tomorrow morning. I don't think he will quarrel with it, however, and I am pretty sure he wants to join all of us in honoring the first citizens, not only of Bayside, but of Queens itself. I introduce to you now the mayor of the city of New York, William O'Doick. Thank you very much. Thank you. Lord President Burke, Mr. and Mrs. Gulland, distinguished visitors, neighbors and children, and also a very, very good friend of Jim Burks. I'm waiting for these boys. See, it's a little on the warm side up here on this platform. Seats are very warm. The hottest seat that I've been sitting on for a long time, except the one that John Goldin would like to have me go back to down at City Hall. During that fifty years that Mr. Gulland has been such a prominent, beloved figure in our city, none of us ever believed that he lived in Queens. We didn't know where he lived. All we knew is that everywhere there was trouble, and we picked up the telephone and told John about it. John was there, and we forgot to ask him where he lived. That term of endearment that President Hoover tried to extract from you, John, to show what theatrical people really used when they're deeply in love. We'd like to know that, too. But I betcha, it was a golden word, whatever it was. We're dedicating a lane today. A lane to honor someone who has honored not only the lane, not only Queens, but his city, his state, and the nation. When they counseled, passed their legislation naming this lane, they called it the Golden Lane. And when we found out the mistake, we quickly corrected it, and made it the John Golden Lane. Frankly, even in its present form, it's a mistake, because I think it should be the Golden John Lane, because of the sweetness of a whole life. Those 75 years, in themselves, have made a long, long lane. That's truly the John Golden Lane. A lane that ran through a city struggling with its growing pains, further was, of course, as in all such cases, a great deal of unhappiness. And the lane that... Put it on. Is that all right? Yeah. The lane that... The lane that John made, over his lifetime, passed for the most part through troubled people. People, sometimes without too much hope. The sick. The downtrodden. Those discriminated against. Those who had... To live deprived... Of... A fair, square shape. In a democracy where... Equal rights were guaranteed. People who were at times hungry... Unbeclosed. Children on the doorstep of life. Heading out into the great unknown. These were the people... That cheered when were happy... Beside the highway... Where John came. And when he did come. He brought that gaiety with him. That peace. That sense of peace. That sense of peace. step of life, heading out into the great unknown. These were the people that cheered when we're happy beside the highway where John came. And when he did come, he brought that gaiety with him, that peace, that sense of security, that sense of friendship. It was his greatest gift. And to borrow from current musical history, as he passed by, it was younger than springtime, and gayer than laughter itself. And so this afternoon, we do but come here to join in, for a spiritual blessing to an occasion. That has made as much as it can of a truly lovable, sweet person, to beg him to be himself for another 75 years. To beg him to understand how much affection he brings as we come to see this way, dedicated to his honor. And John, when you put the badges in, and after you have provided for the lovers, save one seat for the next mayor, the grand place of the world. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I think you will agree there could hardly be a nicer tribute to John Golden and the just and faithful him by the mayor of the city of New York. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to proceed at this time to set up the sign naming John Golden Lane. That will consist of the dedication of the Lane and from then on, we want all of the boys and girls, men and women of the community to enjoy the Lane. the lane. What have we got there? Well, after we name it. Then we cut the tape and let the folks use the lane. So now we proceed to do that. Some time ago, John Golden wrote a song for the Department of Sanitation Band. John wants to come up here to the microphones right now and sing that song for you, accompanied by the band for whom he wrote it. We'll have John now sing in the famous Department of Sanitation Band song. Come on, John. I'm doing this not because he asked me to, but because I want to. About three or four years ago. Mayor. Mr. Mayor. Hey, you asked for this performance. I want you to hear this song and see if you can keep it for the sanitation department. I wrote it especially for them. And if it's no good, I'll write another one. So let's go, will you, Johnny? Johnny Celebrity, the leader. Take it away. Take it away. Take it away. Take it away. That's the motto we have got all the way. Yes, the voice of sanitation wins the hearty admiration of the folks of each location every day. East side and west side and all around the town. Proud of our renown. We're cleaning up the town. Swinging along with safe elation. Singing a song of sanitation. Take it away. Take it away. Take it away. From the blast of height and die, we're residents' wealth. From our arrival, cheer of the sun. This is one word for all we're worth. A wing of the guardians of their health. The different troops of health and wealth. We'll make New York the wealthiest town on earth. We're the greatest in the nation and we love our sanitation. If I don't know the other words at the moment of an Asian. Take it away. Take it away. Take it away. That's the motto we have got all the way. Yes, the voice of sanitation wins the hearty admiration of the folks of each location every day. East side and west side and all around the town. Proud of our renown. We're cleaning up the town. Swinging along with great elation. Singing a song of sanitation. Take it away. Take it away. Take it away. Take it away. Commissioner of Sanitation Powell. He's learning the song and will sing it for you at the next, my next 75th birthday. I killed out. I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. It's like I'm so sorry. Oh, thanks. Oh, yes, for Filipic. A while. And John Golden, a singular guest to follow me. No. You mean? You and John Golden? No. You're in this memory. Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it's a genuine pleasure for me to welcome you all here to this little ceremony this afternoon. I don't think that we could turn out at any time or place for a better man than our distinguished fellow citizen of Queens, our good John Dole. We're here today to pay him just a slight credit for all of the mighty nice things that he's done, particularly for the children of the Bayside community. John Dole has saved the city a lot of money by providing a private playground for the kids and making it possible to them to thoroughly enjoy themselves every day in the air. All right, he's passed the southern side of this year, Martin. And has made as much as it can of a truly lovable, sweet person to beg him to be himself for another 75 years, to beg him to understand how much affection we bring as we come to see this lady dedicated to his honor. And John, when you put the benches in, the nephew who provided for the lovers, saved one seat for the next mayor, a grand place to be. Thank you. Well, I think you will agree that there could hardly be a nice exhibit to John Golden than the just and paid for him by the mayor of the city of New York. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to proceed at this time to set up the sign naming John Golden Lane. That will consist of the dedication of the lane. And from then on, we want all of the boys and girls, men and women of the community, to enjoy the lane. What have we got? Well, after we name it, then we cut the tape and let the folks use the lane. So now we proceed to do that.