Good afternoon. We're speaking to you again from Madison Square Garden, where the afternoon session of the American Legion Convention is being held. In just a few moments, we will hear the convention's principal speaker of the day, the Democratic nominee for the President of the United States, Governor Adlai Stevenson of Illinois. To introduce Governor Stevenson will be the National Commander of the American Legion, Donald R. Wilson. The Governor has just arrived and he's being greeted up at the Speaker's Ross Room by Commander Wilson. The demonstration started here at Madison Square Garden was much like that, given the reception of General Eisenhower when he spoke here Monday. Governor Stevenson and Commander Wilson are standing now for many of the news photographers who are busy taking pictures. Now here is Commander Wilson. Governor Stevenson and Commander Wilson are standing now for many of the news photographers who are busy taking pictures. Now here is Commander Wilson. Governor Stevenson and Commander Wilson, ladies and gentlemen. May we have a moment of quiet, please. Governor Stevenson and President of the National Convention. This 34th National Convention is the first in American Legion history to have the opportunity of greeting and hearing from the presidential of greeting and hearing from the presidential nominees of both major political parties. It is a first which reflects in my judgment not only the courteous cooperation of two extremely busy individuals, but also the unique stature of the American Legion as an all-inclusive cross-section of the American people. I have the high honor to present to you now a gentleman who has achieved in a comparatively brief time a formidable name as a political statesman. Born in California, he is nevertheless both son and resident of the prairie and proud of it. But if science supported the theory, then certainly his affinity and his talent for great public service could be attributed to heredity. For he comes of a family in which outstanding public service has long been the rule. He is known in professional circles as an attorney of eminent distinction. He is known to those with whom he has served the government as assistant to the secretaries of state and navy, as a conscientious and gifted public servant. And he is rapidly becoming known to all Americans as one of the nation's most articulate spokesmen. Delegates to this convention, ladies and gentlemen, it is my very dear and great privilege to present to you the distinguished governor of the state of Illinois, a member of Adlai E. Stevenson. The Democratic nominee for the office of the presidency of the United States, the honorable Adlai E. Stevenson. The Democratic nominee for the presidency of the U.S. The Democratic nominee for the presidency of the U.S. Mayor Impilateri, my fellow legionnaires and delegates and guests of the convention, may I at the very outset express my thanks to Commander Broutigan, past Commander Shaw of the Illinois Department for escorting me here this afternoon. And all I ask of you gentlemen is that you stick with me until November. I was gratified to hear that Illinois Post won five of the championships in the competitions this year. Of course, that doesn't surprise me. And neither am I surprised that nobody else did as well. I've attended too many conventions not to know how you are all beginning to feel here on the afternoon of the third day. I know that you work hard at Legion business most of the day and then devote the balance of your time to the museums, the art galleries, the concerts, and the other cultural monuments of New York. And of course, you also incidentally have to listen to speeches. I console myself with the thought that this punishment, while cruel, is not unusual. I have no claim, as many of you do, to the honored title of old soldier, nor have I risen to high rank in the armed services. My own military career was brief. It was also lowly. An apprentice seaman in a naval training unit was not, as some of you may recall, exactly a powerful command position in World War I. My experience thus provided me with a very special view, what could be called a worm's eye view, of the armed services. In 1918, I doubt if there was anything more worm-like than an apprentice seaman. I must add, though, that from a very topside position in the Navy Department during the frenzy of the last war, I sometimes had, and I suspect many of you had the same experience, very nostalgic recollections of apprentice seamanship when someone else had to make all of the decisions. After the first war, many Americans lost sight of the fact that only the strong can be free. Many mistook an ominous lull for permanent peace. In those days, the American Legion knew, however, that he who is not prepared today will be less so tomorrow, and that only a society which could fight for survival could survive. The Legion's campaign... The Legion's campaign to awaken America to the need for military preparedness is now largely one. We have made great advances in understanding the problem of national security in the modern world. We no longer think in terms of American resources alone. For the most part, we now understand the need for a great international system of security, and we have taken the lead in building it. We have joined our strength... APPLAUSE We have joined our strength with that of others, and we have done so in self-protection. We seek no dominion over any other nation, and the whole free world knows it. If there are those behind the Iron Curtain who don't know it, it is because their masters don't want them to know it. APPLAUSE I'm not sure that historically there has ever been another powerful nation that has been trusted as the United States is today. It is something new under the sun when the proudest nations on earth have not only accepted American leadership in the common defense effort, but have also welcomed our troops and bases to their territory. Ports of the world around are open to American warships day and night. Our airmen are stationed in the most distant lands. Yet, all is by no means perfect. There are still vital interests which we and our allies are not militarily prepared to defend. Some of us are reluctant to admit that security cannot be won cheaply by some clever diplomatic maneuver or by propaganda. We have not yet really faced up to the problem of defending our cities against the rapidly growing threat of Soviet air power. There is, for example, a great shortage of volunteers for our Civil Defense Ground Observation Corps. And many people only partly understand or are loath to acknowledge that the costs of waging the Cold War are but a fraction of the cost of hot war. So there remain important tasks to be done. I believe in a strong national defense and I believe that we must press forward to improve our position and not waver or hesitate in this interval when the scales... APPLAUSE And particularly now when the scales are so precariously balanced. While I think it is true that the fight for preparedness is going well, there are other and even more difficult tasks that we dare not neglect. The United States has a very large power in the world today. And the partner of power, the corollary, is responsibility. It is our high task to use our power with a sure hand and a steady touch, with the self-restraint that goes with confident strength. The purpose of our power must never be lost in the fact of our power. And the purpose, I take it... APPLAUSE And the purpose of our power, I take it, is the promotion of freedom, of justice, and of peace in the world. APPLAUSE Now, my friends, we talk a great deal about patriotism. What do we mean by patriotism in the context of our times? I venture to suggest that what we mean is a sense of national responsibility which will enable America to remain master of her power, to walk with it in serenity and wisdom, with self-respect and with the respect of all mankind. A patriotism that puts country ahead of self. A patriotism which is not short, frenzied outbursts of emotion, but the tranquil and steady dedication of a lifetime. APPLAUSE I said the dedication of a lifetime. These words are easy to utter. But this is a mighty assignment, for it is often easier to fight for principles than it is to live up to them. APPLAUSE Patriotism, I have said, means putting country before self. This is no abstract phrase. And unhappily, we find some things in American life today of which we cannot be proud. I have been consider the groups who seek to identify their special interests with the general welfare. I find it sobering to think that their pressures may one day be focused on me. I have resisted them before, and I hope the Almighty will give me the strength to do so again and again. APPLAUSE And I should tell you, my fellow Legionnaires, as I would tell all other organized groups, that I intend to resist pressures from veterans also. I intend to resist them if I think their demands are excessive or in conflict with the public interest, which must always be the paramount interest. APPLAUSE And let me suggest, incidentally, that we are rapidly becoming a nation of veterans. If we were all to claim a special reward for our service, beyond that to which specific disability or sacrifice has created a just claim, who would be left to pay the bill? After all, we are Americans first and veterans second. APPLAUSE And I think the best maxim for any administration is still Jefferson's equal rights for all and special privileges for none. APPLAUSE Now it seems to me that true patriotism is based on tolerance and a large measure of humility. There are men among us who use patriotism as a club for attacking other Americans. What can we say for the self-styled patriot who thinks that a Negro, a Jew, a Catholic, or a Japanese American is less an American than he? That betrays the deepest article of our faith. APPLAUSE That, I say, betrays the deepest article of our faith, the belief in individual liberty and equality, which has always been the heart and the soul of the American idea. Now what can we say, too, for the man who proclaims himself a patriot and then, for political or for personal reasons, attacks the patriotism of faithful public servants? I give you, as a shocking example... APPLAUSE I give you, if I may, as a shocking example the attacks which have been made on the loyalty and the motives of our great wartime Chief of Staff, General Marshall. APPLAUSE To me, this is the type of patriotism which is, in General Johnson, or in Dr. Johnson's phrase, the last refuge of scoundrels. APPLAUSE I say to you that the anatomy of patriotism is complex, but surely intolerance and public irresponsibility cannot be cloaked in the shining armour of rectitude and of righteousness, nor can the denial of the right to hold ideas that are different, the freedom of man to think as he pleases, to strike freedom of the mind with the fist of patriotism is an old and an ugly subtlety. And the freedom of the mind, my friends, has served America well. APPLAUSE The vigor of our political life, our capacity for change, our cultural, scientific, and industrial achievements, all derive from free inquiry, from the free mind, from the imagination, the resourcefulness, and the daring of men who are not afraid of new ideas. APPLAUSE Most all of us favour free enterprise for business. Let's also favour free enterprise for the mind. APPLAUSE For in the last analysis, there isn't a man in this room who wouldn't fight to the death, to protect it, to protect the freedom of inquiry and the freedom of the mind. Why is it, then, that we are sometimes slow to detect or are indifferent to the dangers that beset it? Many of the threats to our cherished freedoms in these anxious and troubled times arise, it seems to me, from a healthy apprehension about the communist menace within our country. communism is abhorrent. Communism is strangulation for the individual and death for the soul. Americans who have surrendered to this misbegotten idol have surrendered their right to our trust, and there can be no secure place for them in our public life. yet, yet, as I have said before, we must take care not to burn down the barn to kill the rats. applause All of us, all of us, and especially patriotic organizations of enormous influence like the American Legion, must be vigilant in protecting our birthright from its too zealous friends while protecting it from its evil enemies. The tragedy of our day is the climate of fear in which we live, and fear always breeds repression. Too often, sinister threats to the Bill of Rights, to the freedom of the mind, are concealed under the patriotic cloak of anti-communism. applause I could add, I could add, incidentally, from my own experience, that it is never necessary to call a man a communist to make political capital. applause Those of us who have undertaken to practice the ancient but imperfect art of government will always make enough mistakes to keep our critics well supplied with ammunition. applause There is never any need for poison gas. applause Now another feature of our current scene that I think invites a similar restraint is the recurrent attacks in some communities upon our public schools. applause To my way of thinking, there is no justification for indiscriminate attacks on our schools and on the sincere, devoted, and by no means overpaid teachers who labor within them. applause If there are communist teachers, of course they should be excluded. But the task is not one for self-appointed thought police or for ill-informed censors. applause Even as a very practical matter, we do not stop communist activity or education in this way. What we do is give the communist material with which to defame us. And we also stifle the initiative of teachers and depreciate the prestige of the teaching profession which should be as honorable and as esteemed as any among us. applause Let me now, in my concluding words, inquire with you how we may affirm our patriotism in the troubled yet hopeful years that lie ahead of us. The central concern of the American Legion, the ideal which holds it together, the vitality which animates it is patriotism. And those voices which we have heard most clearly and which are best remembered in our public life have always had the accent of patriotism. It was always accounted a virtue in a man to love his country. With us, it is now something more than a virtue. it is a necessity, a condition if you please of survival. When an American says he loves his country, he means not only that he loves the New England hills, the prairies glistening in the sun, or the wide rising plains, the mountains and the sea. He means that he loves an inner air, an inner light in which freedom lives and in which a man can draw the breath of self-respect. Men like many of you who have offered their lives for their country know that patriotism is not the fear of something, it is the love of something. And I say that patriotism with us is not hatred of Russia, it is love of this republic. It is love of the ideal of liberty of man and of mind in which this republic was born and to which it is dedicated. With this patriotism, patriotism in its large and wholesome meaning, America can master its power and turn it to the noble cause of peace. We can maintain military power without militarism, political power without oppression, and moral power without compulsion or complacency. Now the road we must travel is long, but at the end lies the grail of peace. And in the valley of peace we see the faint outlines of a new world, fertile and strong. It's odd that one of the keys to abundance should have been handed to civilization on a platter of destruction. But the power of the atom to work evil gives only the merest hint of its power to do good. I believe that man stands on the eve of his greatest day. I know too that that day is not a gift but a prize, that we shall not reach it until we have won it. Legionnaires are united by memories of war and therefore no group is more devoted to peace. I say to you now that there is work to be done, that the difficulties and the dangers that beset our path at home and abroad are incalculable. There is sweat and there is sacrifice and there is still more of patience and of quiet persistence in our horoscope. Perhaps the goal is not even for us to see in our lifetime but we are embarked on a great adventure and I say let us proclaim our faith in the future of man. Of good heart and of good cheer, faithful to ourselves and our traditions, we can lift the cause of free men so high no power on earth can tear it down. We can pluck, we can pluck if you please this flower safety from this nettle danger. Living, speaking, like men, like Americans, we can lead the way to our rendezvous in a happy and peaceful world. I thank you for your cordial reception to me this afternoon and I apologize for speaking to you for so long and I hope you will forgive me if I have trespassed. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have been listening to Governor Adlai Stevenson of Illinois, the Democratic Presidential Nominee, in an address to the 34th Annual Convention of the American Legion here in Madison Square Garden. In the public interest, your city station has brought you this special broadcast as part of our complete on-the-spot coverage of the Legion Convention. The final session of the convention will be held here tomorrow and your city station will broadcast more of the highlights. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.