This is Earl Wilson. I'm usually kidding about life in my column, but now I want to be serious for a second. I took an airplane trip around Europe this summer and visited all kinds of famous places, but I didn't see anything anywhere to compare with New York City's 86 voluntary hospitals. For my money, every one of them is worth our attention. And when I say for my money, I mean it literally, because it's a privilege to kick in your fair share to the United Hospital Fund, whether that fair share is a dime or a hundred dollars. Send yours today to United Hospital Fund, New York City. Hello everyone, this is Robert Merrill. One of my favorite songs is Brother Can You Spare a Dime? Translated into 1949 language, that's Brother, You Can Spare a Buck, for New York's United Hospital Fund. This fund helps support our 86 great voluntary hospitals, which give the world's finest hospital care to all us New Yorkers. They take in everybody, whether he can pay or not, and trust in you and me to make up the resulting deficit. How can any New Yorker refuse them when they never refuse any New Yorker? Brother, spare that buck. Send it to the United Hospital Fund, New York City. This is Ed Sullivan. I'd like to propose the toast of the town, New York City's 86th grade voluntary hospitals, because they give the world's finest medical care, because they give it to all New Yorkers, regardless of race, creed, or ability to pay, because they train the doctors and nurses of tomorrow, because there are front line against disease and suffering and death. I know you'll want to join in this toast with me. Say it with dollars. Send a contribution today to the fund which keeps those hospitals going full and steam ahead. The United Hospital Fund, New York City. This is Alfred Drake to sing a song of praise to New York City's 86 great voluntary hospitals. Their doors and hearts stand open to all New Yorkers around the clock and around the calendar. They're always ready to give the world's finest hospital care to you and your family, whether you can pay for it or not. And they're 97% self-supporting. All they ask from you and me is to make up the other 3%. Send your fair share of that 3% today to the United Hospital Fund, New York City. Hello, kiddies. This is Ted Husing with a selection of favorites that registers top any week in the five boroughs of the greatest city in the world. When I say it's the selection of any week, naturally I'm talking about your 86 voluntary non-profit hospitals in the city of New York. Each year, one out of every three New York families calls upon one of these great hospitals to come to their aid when sickness or emergency strikes. So let's all help to keep our voluntary hospital system operating at peak efficiency by lending our support to the United Hospital Fund. This is Harry Hirschfield. I wish more people knew the true meaning of the words voluntary hospital. I wish they would take time to find out what they mean to one out of every three families in our big city. To the people who do know, it means care and treatment to all New Yorkers, regardless of race, creed, or the ability to pay. Talking of paying, you remember the story of the fellow who swallowed a chicken bone and was dying fast. Oh, he was sick. He called a doctor in the nick of time, removed the bone, and he breathed easy. Soon he was easily breathing. He said to the doctor, what do I owe you? And the doctor said, at least half of what you were ready to give me when the bone was still in your throat. So won't you do your part now by lending your support to the United Hospital Fund? Thank you. This is Ray Bolger. I'm the one guy who knows where Charlie is, and I'm not going to tell you. I am going to tell you about New York City's 86 great voluntary hospitals. Even my aunt from Brazil, where the nuts come from, knows there's a voluntary hospital in almost every neighborhood in this big city of New York. And the door of everyone is open day and night to every New Yorker, regardless of race, creed, or ability to pay. Now those doors don't stand open to all by accident. They're propped open by the dimes and dollars we give to the United Hospital Fund. So send your gift today to the United Hospital Fund, New York City. And thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt. I should like to talk to you for a moment about the United Hospital Fund's 71st annual campaign. This year, the fund asks nearly three and a half million dollars, a figure which represents part of the 1948 operating deficits in the 86 voluntary non-profit hospitals in the five boroughs. Last year, more than one million persons were treated in these hospitals regardless of race, creed, or ability to pay. I'm sure you'll do your part to see that the high standard of medical care is maintained in our city by giving your generous support to the United Hospital Fund. This is Paul Hartman with a few words about the United Hospital Fund. Oh, are you going to tell everyone about the United Hospital Fund, Paul? Yes, Grace. You see? Oh, I think that's wonderful. Because, you know, I just heard that last year, more than one million persons were treated in the fund's 86 voluntary hospitals. Did you know that they had that many hospitals? No. Well, anyway, did you also know that 90 percent of the babies born in New York City were born in the voluntary hospitals last year? Involuntarily? No. No, voluntarily in the voluntary hospitals. And if you didn't know that, do you know that the United Hospital Fund is currently conducting its annual drive for funds? And I really think that we should give all our dimes and our dollars or nickels or whatever you have to give to this worthy cause. Isn't that what you were going to say, dear? Well, uh, well, yes, it was, Grace. Hello, folks. This is Ethel Merman. No one ever plans on being sick, but everyone needs a place to go and provide proper care and treatment when illness strikes. You and I know that this care costs money. In your voluntary hospitals, these services are, and always will be, available to every New Yorker, regardless of race, creed, or ability to pay. But to maintain this high standard of medical care, we must all do our part. Make a gift the size of your heart to the United Hospital Fund, New York. Hello, everybody. This is Kate Smith. Night and day, the year around, our 86 great voluntary hospitals stand ready to take in any New Yorker who needs their help, whether he can pay for it or not. Last year, they took in one million of us and gave us the finest hospital care the world affords. Let's give our share to the United Hospital Fund. Send your contribution today to United Hospital Fund, New York City. Thank you. This is Ezio Pinza. We people in the entertainment world do think about and appreciate our community obligations. And I am indeed happy to be able to speak for the United Hospital Fund. I have traveled and visited nearly every part of the world, except, curiously enough, the South Pacific. Unless you have spent a great deal of time outside of the United States, you cannot appreciate the high standard of hospital care available to every person in the city of New York. Rich and poor alike. Rich and poor alike. Let's all do our part so that the 86 voluntary hospitals in our city can carry on their most vital work. Make a generous contribution to the United Hospital Fund and help ensure this medical care for all in our community. This is Mary Margaret McBride. I've just been reading some thrilling statistics about New York City's 86 wonderful voluntary hospitals. Last year, they gave the world's finest medical care to one out of every three New York families. Think of that. And 90% of our babies were born in these hospitals. Now, of course, some of those families couldn't pay the full cost of care. And some of those babies bowed in without a single cent to their names. The result? An overall deficit of 3%, which you and I can easily make up if just each one of us gives his fair share to the United Hospital Fund. The United Hospital Fund. Maybe you can only give a dime or a dollar. But please do give something to the United Hospital Fund, New York City. Thank you very much. Thank you very much for joining us. Thank you very much.
