The End The End Silent night Holy night All is calm All is bright Round yon virgin Mother and child Holy infant So tender And mild Sleep in heavenly peace Sleep in heavenly peace Good afternoon. We're speaking to you right now from the council chambers at City Hall, where this afternoon the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletteri, Mayor of the City of New York, is host at a special Christmas party given by the city for many of New York's underprivileged children. Over 200 children are present in the council chambers. They are a handful and a rather large handful of young folks brought here to City Hall by special buses and with special police department escorts. And these children were brought here for Christmas merrymaking from five of New York City's hospitals. One hospital representing each of the five boroughs. And you know nothing has been spared to make this a big occasion for our young friends. After arriving at City Hall, they were treated to fine box lunches, a big thing in the life of little tots. And each young man, each young lady had been given a large red stocking. We see the stockings, but we haven't discovered just what's inside because we didn't get any. Christmas hats and Christmas candy and Christmas noisemakers, I'm sure you can hear those, have been given out with no lack of generosity. And there's still a large, mysterious pile of Christmas packages, which haven't been touched as yet. We're waiting to see what's inside there. We'll tell you more about what's going on here in the council chambers in just a moment, but right now, here is music by the Department of Sanitation Band. That's a secret. This is for the Chocolate diocese town band. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End
