The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What does Korea mean to America? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the Korean situation. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the wisdom of our commitments in Korea and the implications of these commitments. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are three experts on the Far East. Captain Michael Fielding, lecturer and author, Frederick S. Marquardt, telegraph editor of the Chicago Sun-Times, and William McGovern, professor of political science at Northwestern University. Now how do you gentlemen size up this Korean situation? Do you think we made a mistake in committing ourselves there, Fielding? Well, yes, McBurney, I think we did. Not that we committed ourselves, but that we went too far in this commitment. When the North Koreans attacked, quite obviously at the behest of Soviet Russia, it was a challenge to the United States directly. We had to respond to that challenge or lose out completely in Asia. We began by committing our Air Force and Navy, in which we are very, very strong, and then later on, as you know, we committed ground troops. I think the commitment of ground troops was a very grave mistake. Why do you feel that way? Well, in the first place, as I'll explain later on in the program, I think that the Russians laid a beautiful trap for us in Korea, with a view to luring our ground forces, our very limited ground forces, into an area that I do not believe is nearly as strategic as some other areas around this globe. In other words, we've gotten ourselves into a difficult situation. I think we've gotten ourselves into a very difficult situation. How do you feel about it, Marquardt? There's no question about our being in a difficult situation in Korea today. However, your question is whether we made a mistake in committing ourselves as far as we have. I think that was no mistake. I think we had no option. I think that we had to commit ourselves or else lose face, lose support, all through Asia and destroy the United Nations at the same time. McGovern, how do you feel about this? I think that we made our great initial mistake in withdrawing our troops in 1949. In fact, I wrote a paper in 1948 clearly pointing out that if we'd withdrew our troops, we'd be thought that the Russians would come in or the North Koreans would come in and seize the whole of South Korea. Our terrible mistake was in withdrawing those troops. Our terrible mistake is not being prepared for this attack, which is so clearly visible to my mind. But once we had made the mistake of clearing out, once we'd made the mistake of making ourselves so ridiculously weak, it was essential that we go back into Korea. I disagree very violently with my good friend Michael Keeling on that particular point in several respects. First of all, the commitment of air and of sea would not have been sufficient. In a modern warfare that you're going to win, you've got to have the cooperation of air and sea. For us to have committed our air and our sea forces, we would have been licked in Korea and would have simply lost more pace than ever. The second thing is that I think that Korea is a very great important strategic. It is one of the strategic highest spots of the Far East. The control of Eastern Asia, whether it remains free or goes under Soviet tutelage, it depends in large matter whether we are or are not successful in Korea. Well, Jim, when we first decided to support the South Koreans, we had never actually committed ourselves to reconquer South Korea. We had merely decided to give whatever support we could to the South Koreans in their battle against the North Koreans. And to that extent, our face was involved. Now, by sending in our Navy and our Air Force, I think that we had done enough to salvage American face in Korea. It is perfectly true that our Navy and Air Force alone could not have actually saved South Korea. But as I said before, South Korea, to my mind, is not nearly as strategic as Bill McGovern seems to think. And furthermore, I think it's important to realize this one fact. In this global war with Soviet Russia, we are always going to be behind the Eighth War when it comes to manpower. The Western powers, including the United States, cannot hope to match the Russians in manpower. And so, if we take our very limited manpower and commit it to these remote areas that are not nearly as strategic as some other very important areas in the world, the Russians are going to pin us down in these far-off areas and then hit us in a really strategic area and catch us off at us. Well, I think that the question of a commitment is quite simple. You either commit yourself or you don't commit yourself. If we were going to make a small commitment and then pull out admitting failure, it would have been better never to have committed ourselves at all. You either go in and you salvage a situation or you stay out of it, and we have taken the course, which I'm sure history will prove to have been the correct one, that of salvaging the situation. Well, do you think our military position in Korea is a terrible one, McGovern? Well, there is... Can we win in Korea? Yes, I think we can. And may I say, first of all, that I agree with Mark here and that I think it was absolutely silly to use our Air Force and our Sea Forces unless we were willing to use our Grand Force. If we're going to lose, don't commit ourselves at all. Either go in and win or else keep out. Having committed ourselves, we're now in a position where we must win. The whole American prestige and the whole of the Far East, the whole American prestige and the whole world will depend upon our success or failure in Korea. And on this particular thing, I think that we can win. We've had a tough going, a very tough going, but I think that we can hold. We already have air supremacy. We have sea supremacy. And as a matter of fact, once you've got more equipment and more troops and better equipment in there, then I think that we can not only hold, but push back to what is going to be a difficult situation. Building? In the long run, I agree that now that we are committed with Grand Forces, there's nothing we can do but go ahead. We've got to go ahead. Quite obviously, inasmuch as the initial issue was the commitment of American face, I don't see that our face has been particularly enhanced by what has happened in Korea. We're in a very bad position at the present time. The next 10 days, it's going to tell the story. Now, I feel sure that in the long range, we can actually win out, but it's going to be an extremely costly victory. And when we have won out, it means that we will have to commit from six to eight divisions of American ground troops to occupy Korea. And where are we going to get these ground troops? Well, I'd like to make the point, Bernie, that we are committing six to eight divisions, presumably to win, to drive the North Koreans back across the parallel or wherever at that time our strategy determined we should go. However, I'd like to make it clear that there's more involved in this than just the United States. This is a United Nations action. When Captain Fielding said that we could not meet the enemy on terms of manpower, I think he was perhaps making a slight mistake. The matter of fact is that there are more people in the free world than there are in the totalitarian world. There is more manpower on our side of the Iron Curtain than there is on the other side of the Iron Curtain. Yes, that's perfectly true, but after all, it does happen to be a very unhappy fact that while the Russians, for some unaccountable reason, are able to get these stooges, these stooges of theirs, to fight for them, we find it infinitely difficult to get stooges to fight for us. In other words, while the Russians are committing stooges manpower, we're committing our own manpower because we have to. We can't get these local people to fight for us. Well, I think that you're taking the situation in Korea and extending it all over the world. I certainly wouldn't speak of the British and the French and the Dutch armies, which are on our side in Europe and will certainly fight for themselves as stooges. The South Koreans did what they could with what they had and they're still fighting on our side. Thailand has pledged troops. Turkey has pledged troops. Cuba and Brazil have pledged military aid. So it's the Philippines. In other words, it's not a complete American show, although it has to be for the time being because we were close as to Korea. As far as that's concerned, if I may break in just for a second here, that we have learned a lesson and a very important lesson in Korea. We Americans who are getting along a little bit too soft, we're taking too much for granted. Oh, everything is going to be easy. We can just stand in half a division in there and things will be all right. We had exactly, we're making the same mistake in 1950 that we made in 1941 when you have the lessons of Pearl Harbor and Bataan and Hong Kong and Singapore. As usual, we start out underestimating the enemy and then we rush to the other extreme and overestimate the enemy. There was a time way back in 1940, 41 when all of our younger officers at all, you know, the Japanese can't fly, the Japanese can't shoot, the Japanese ships or go to the old term table and that wasn't true. The same way I've heard many people here last year saying, oh, naturally, we only send in the battalion up there and we can let those North Koreans which I knew was not true because the Russians, don't forget, had been training these Koreans in many cases long before the war. They had a Korean force in Siberia that's been training since 1936 and they've been slowly training up in here and from 1945, they actually trained, whereas that we only had a police force in South Korea which hadn't been very steeped because it was all we had. So I'm not at all surprised. But the main thing is that in the fight Michael Felix brought up here will we have to commit indefinitely to a division's career force not. We may well have to have six to eight or even ten divisions in order to conquer, reconquer Korea for the democratic forces. On the other hand, we've been able to hold Japan a much larger, more important country for a division. Now, if we knew all this Russian fomentation was going on up there in North Korea, that they were arming, getting ready for this thing, and if we regarded Korea as being something strategically important, then why didn't we prepare? Why didn't we do something about it? Well, that I think is the real thing that I'm driving at. As a matter of fact, I don't claim to be our mission to that may I again repeat that it's here in 1848. In 1948, I pointed out very clearly what it's likely to happen or what it's going to happen. And I think it's exactly happened. I was wrong about six weeks and I'm not alone. They're waiting at the people. Many of our military leaders did think so. I think it was one of the greatest political mistakes that we were not prepared either politically or military to face the situation. Now, last year, last year, Bill, I gave a talk called Red Shadows Across Asia in which I pointed out the great error, in my opinion, that we had made, that was not to actually intervene in China at the time that the Chiang Kai-shek, Krum and Tank armies were actually in being. A couple of American divisions to stick in those armies would have done wonders. But as you know, we pulled out and decided we were not going to risk American manpower in China. It became inevitable then that there would be a spot where we would have to risk American manpower and Korea happens to be at the present time. To get back to this manpower situation again, Fred, you mentioned, for instance, the British and the French, the Dutch. Well, of course, the British, as you know, are pretty badly pinned down in so far as manpower, as manpower is concerned, limited manpower in Hong Kong and Malaya. They have something like 40,000 troops in Hong Kong, something like 22,000 troops in Malaya. The French have 150,000 troops pinned down in Indochina. And when you come right down to this question of where the manpower is coming from, you've got to take those things into account. The Russians know perfectly well that these troops, these Western troops, American, British, and French, are pinned down fighting Russian students, not Russians, but Russian students. I think that the point you made is a tenable one, but the Russians, until they commit Russian troops, the fact of the matter is that they are not, it is not World War III. That it's merely a police action in Korea, and that we will be able to handle the situation without the terrific manpower which you seem to think is necessary. I'd like to get on this question, though, of our military position, whether we can win. I think we're all agreed that we can win, that we will win in Korea, and that the problems thereafter will have to be solved when they come up. But the reason that we're in the position that we're in in Korea is one of the basic decisions which was made in Washington, which I think most Americans went along with at the time. That was a withdrawal from the Far East. I thought it was wrong then, I think it is wrong now. But in 1949, we were pulling out all through Asia and all through the Far East. Today we're going back in at the cost of money and manpower in a tremendous way. May I just add a word that I thoroughly agree with Martha. That's one of our greatest mistakes we made was the mistake made in 1948 for a man to withdraw from the Far East. We announced publicly we're not interested in the Far East in general. We announced that we do not consider Korea of any importance. We announced that we're waiting for the dust to settle in China. We say that we're not interested in having the various free Far East and countries unite in the Pacific past. Therefore, we seem to be surprised when the trouble happens only a year later. In other words, the trouble about it is the Russians knew this. The Russians knew exactly to tell the government and I'm perfectly convinced that the Russians thought they could just move into Korea without any trouble. The Russians are not prepared now for World War III. World War III, it is possible, may come, but it will come only if we get ourselves so thorough elected in the Far East as that Russia thinks that we are so weak that we have actually been attacked us with infinity. In other words, it is essential to protect ourselves from World War III that we have restored the prestige of American forces in the Far East in Korea. Bernie, whether or not we were wise or unwise in committing our ground troop to South Korea is determined, I think, by whether our commitment came as a surprise to Soviet Russia or whether it was welcomed by Soviet Russia. You think it was welcomed? I think it was welcomed. I think that Korea is a trap that the Russians laid for us to lure us into that particular situation with ground forces and there is very definite evidence to point to that fact. Let's have the evidence. I'd like to give you four points, events that have actually happened. In the first place, if the North Koreans had merely gone out to destroy the South Koreans and unify the country, they did not have to indulge in a brazen aggression, which was an obvious challenge to the United States. They could have brought about that unification, that taking over of South Korea in the form of a civil war or something like that. Thank you. Number one, but they didn't. They went in brazenly. It was a challenge to us. Number two, the North Koreans, certainly knowing the weakness of the South Koreans, which has since been made very clear to us, knowing that weakness, they did not have to go in in the force they did. A fraction of that force could have destroyed the South Koreans, but actually, the force that they had at their disposal shows definitely that they were ready to meet American ground forces on better than even terms. Three, their North Korean attack was based on spearheading by tanks. Now, you don't send tanks into a country like Korea during the monsoon season, the worst possible season for tank operations, and yet that's precisely what they did. What does that indicate? It indicates that they anticipated least intervention by the United States in the air, and the monsoons, of course, are the best deterrent against bomb, because of the rains. And four, and this, to my mind, is the most important of all, most important point, pointing to the fact that this is a crack. Three days, or approximately three days after the North Korean attack was launched, the South Korean army was completely shattered. It was in rot. At that point, the North Koreans could have just swept right down into South Korea, could have taken South Korea without any chance of intervention by us, that is, effective intervention on the ground, but they didn't do it. For some mysterious reason, this victorious North Korean army held up its advance for an entire week, and it did not advance again until after American ground forces had been committed. Now, if that doesn't show that this was a trap, then I'd like to know why it doesn't show it. Well, Captain Fielding, I'm not going to try to take those points up one at a time. I disagree thoroughly that this was any trap except insofar as politically, the Russians, politically and militarily, prepared North Korea for war, while we failed very miserably to prepare South Korea for war. You know the reason that we didn't because Syngman Rhee repeatedly said that he was ready to invade North Korea, and we therefore didn't give the South Korean army the tanks and the planes which they needed for such an invasion. I agree with McGovern when I was in Korea last year. Everyone that I talked to was certain that war was going to come, and most people in the South expected they would be invaded by the North. But because we had gone along hoping that we would be able to unify Korea under the Potsdam Agreement while the Russians had been stalling and preparing for the war, we were simply caught flat-footed. Now I don't think that this was baiting a trap for us at all. I think that if North Korea could have taken South Korea in a week, they would have done it. I think that if they can take it next week, they'll do it. And I think that the, that they did try civil war. They had at Pyongyang a revolutionary school that kept sending agents into South Korea, and they were constantly picked up by the Constabulary. They pulled, the Communist pulled revolutions in two or three provinces in South Korea, and they repeatedly tried to upset that government. They couldn't do it without foreign, outside intervention from North Korea, which is exactly what's happening now. Yes, but I say the outside intervention did not have to be in the force, in the strength, that the North Koreans finally launched it. I never knew a military man who didn't want to have odds of 50 to 1 if he could get them. We all know how Montgomery always fought with odds of 10 to 1. Every military man wants everything that he can possibly have before he starts a war. Oh, I'm not going to be with Martin, this point of view. Anyone who knows the military factors there, you want to have the surprise factor, and you want to have the force and the punch factor, and the fact that they've just been slowly able to win over South Korea would have meant little to them, but they're trying to impress with force and with power, and the use of the tanks, the use of this force here is an indication that the Soviet buildup, the Communist buildup, trying to strike terror into the hands of the people of the far east and indirect into that of Europe. As a matter of fact, I am thoroughly convinced and I have some inside knowledge on the subject, and that is the Russians did not expect us to react. The Russians are engaged, and I think Fielding will agree with me, in a worldwide campaign for world conquest of being very smart people. They're trying to choose, first of all, the weak things, the things they can take the most with the least amount of resistance. They are not prepared for World War I, but they're trying to strengthen themselves and grab as much territory as they can short of a World War III. They've been able to secure control of Mongolia, Chinese Turkestan, they've got control of China. And now they thought that when we told them flat-footedly that we're not interested in Korea, that we're not interested in the defense of Korea, when we gave specific orders to MacArthur that he was not to prepare for any possible defense of Korea, the Russians knew that and they thought this is our chance to move down in there through a stooge and we'll now be able to get a terrific prestige for the conquest of Korea and at the same time make no serious commitments. Now, was there a time when our State Department thought that Korea was unimportant? Oh, no question, but I just said it very definitely. Well, that is essentially what you're feeling is saying here today. Both Korea and Formosa were written off. Why have we changed our mind about that? Because we realized what we should have realized then, that the importance of the Far East, the strength of the Far East will depend upon our possession in Formosa and in Korea. But I think that is one of the figures that this is, all the troubles we're getting in the Far East in the present time isn't very largely to deal with the policy in Washington of a year and a half, a year ago in which they definitely wrote out the whole of the Far East. I think we all agreed on that point. Yeah, I think so. And McBernie, may I make this point that we followed this, that Washington and the United States has followed the same strategy in the Cold War that it followed in World War II. Europe first, Asia second. That's why we considered Korea and these other places in Asia unimportant up until the time when we saw the mistake that we made. Now, you're saying that Korea is militarily important or psychologically important? Most of them, primarily psychologically. In other words, if we lose South and Korea, our position in Japan, in Formosa, in the Philippines, in Indochina, and in Thailand and Siam is gone. Now, Fielding is saying, as I understand him, that it's not militarily important and that it's important psychologically because we've chosen to make it important. I agree that now that we are committed to this thing, any defeat, any defeat inflicted upon us will go very badly with us throughout Asia, but I say we should have avoided this all-out commitment at the very start and nearly gone in for a partial commitment. Well, I think the... As a United Nations force, not as an American... No, may I agree and disagree violently on that. Either no commitment or a pro-commitment and a partial commitment of God is even worse off than we are at the present time. The other thing is, from a strictly military point of view, if we're interested in holding Japan as a bastion of pro-American, pro-Democratic sympathy, Korea is of major importance from a strictly military point of view. The Japanese have consistently held it off from that Korea is a dagger pointed to the heart of Japan, that Korea is controlled by a hostile force such as Communist Russia through a stooge state here, but just in peril of possession of Japan. If the Russians through the puppet or stooge state control Korea, the Japanese will be forced to go along with the Russians and go inside of the Soviet orbit, and the Japanese are thoroughly aware of that factor, so even psychological and military factor means that if we hold Japan, we must hold Korea. The very essentials of the situation, McBurney, are these, that if we commit ourselves fully to every remote area of the world where the Russians decide to make trouble, we are going to spread ourselves so thin on manpower that we will not be able to meet Soviet Russia when the chips are ready down. Do you think that's the Russian tactic? And I think that is the Russian tactic, is to get us to spread ourselves so thin in these remote areas with limited manpower that we possess that when they hit us, for instance, in Germany or someplace like that, we are simply not going to have the manpower to stop us. Where are these remote areas you're talking about? Well, there are nine areas in which the Russians might very likely hit us. Of these nine areas, I've got six of them that I call likely and three of them less likely. The likely areas are Formosa, French Indo-China, Burma, Tibet, Greece and Berlin. The less likely areas are Iran, Turkey, and Yugoslavia. Now, the reason I differentiate between these two areas is this. I agree with McGovern and with Marquard that the Russians are not willing to go to make this a world war at the present time. We know that if the Russians commit their own forces at any time along the line that we will make this a world war, we will actually go to war to prevent it. We'd have no choice. We'd have no choice. And so, the Russians, in order to keep this thing from the coming of the world war, are merely going to strike in those areas in which they can strike us with stooge, what I call stooge forces. And Formosa, French Indo-China, Burma, Tibet, Greece and Berlin are areas in which they can hit us with stooge forces without committing their own troops at all. Do you think, then, Fielding, that you say that we made a mistake in committing ourselves in Korea, I suppose we'd make an equal mistake in committing ourselves in any of these six areas which you've mentioned? Not at all. Have you used stooge forces there? Not at all. Because it's merely the relative strategic value of the area. I contend, for instance, that Formosa is very strategic because it's part and parcel of our western defense line. I contend that French Indo-China is the hinge upon which the future of Southeast Asia depends. I contend that Burma does the same thing because once Burma and French Indo-China are taken, cyan goes. Once Burma goes... Korea was the one hot spot that you were willing to write off but you were willing to fight for these other sort of spots. I am certainly willing to fight for Formosa and French Indo-China, yes. Well, on that particular point I think it comes to a real matter of monetary strategy and on that particular point I will disagree very violently with you. And that is that I think that actually Korea is a more crucial spot here than French Indo-China. I will not say for most, I think Korea and for most are the two key spots for the control of the Far East. In other words, if we win in Korea, quite a part, first of all, we have secured our best in Japan. If Korea goes, Japan goes. I think you will think of Korea, that Japan is of some important strategic. Secondly, if we do win in Korea, we will then have a force and power on the continent of Asia in which we can at any moment cut across the lifeline between Russia and China through Manchuria that all the main communications, all the main heavy material going from Russia to China to China goes to Formosa which we can then cut off with our bombing or necessary ground troops. Therefore, from the strict American point of view leaving out politics entirely. That an American base in Korea is of vital existence. We can then cut the Russian or communist forces in the rear. On the other hand, if you're going down to India, China, you've got a much more difficult situation, both politically in which they come to involvement with supporting the French and not supporting the French with the supporting Heu-Chemin and not supporting Heu-Chemin. Whereas in Korea, we have a clear psychological case and also a clear military case. In the last war, in the last war, the Japanese proved one thing, though. And that was that their conquest of French Indochina sealed the fate of all of Southeast Asia. Now, I think that Southeast Asia as a strategic area in the world is infinitely more important, for instance, than Korea. Infinitely more important. And I say that if they get French Indochina, they will get all of Southeast Asia. Mike, I'd like to say that if we hadn't fought for Korea, if we hadn't made a stand in Korea, we would have had no chance of expecting the support of anyone anywhere in Asia or the islands off the literal fringe of Asia. And certainly, we would have killed the United Nations better than a dead duck. I think we had no option but to go in and we have no option now but to win. I agree that we have no option but to win because we already committed. I must say again, may I say that I think that whether we win or lose in French Indochina, in Siam, in Indonesia, is going to be decided here in Korea. If we win in Korea, then we are safe in Southeast Asia. If we lose in Korea, then Southeast Asia is gone. Bill, I hope you're right about that because right today in the papers, the North Chinese Communists already, apparently, have their agents working in Indochina training the beatmin army. And by golly, I don't think the winning in Korea is going to stop the Communists from trying to take over Indochina. What do we have to do to win in Korea anyway, Montgomery? What do you look forward to? I think it will take some time. We're beginning to realize now that our tanks were inadequate. We'll be able to do that. The new T-41 and the new Patton will be the answer, but we simply didn't prepare them in time. The same way that we've got to realize that our anti-tank guns were inadequate. We didn't, we had them, the new bazooka is a good one, the old one was no good. We've got to, in fact, I'm very glad that this Korean situation took place in spite of all the tragedy associated and it made America wake up. It made America wake up for the inadequacy of our material and more importantly it has persuaded a large number of Americans that now that the Korean incident is only part of worldwide Soviet aggression. Thank you. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Does Korea Mean to America? You can secure a copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. You can receive copies of these broadcasts regularly for only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Captain Michael Fielding, William M. McGovern, and Frederick Marquart. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand again discusses the Korean crisis, the way it directly affects you when we take a look at the Korean crisis and the home front. Our guests will include Kay Bauer, public relations director for the National Association of Retail Grocers, and Roland Robinson, professor of banking at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of prices, taxes, controls, all aspects of the Korean crisis and the home front. Our thanks to Captain Michael Fielding, William M. McGovern, and Frederick Marquart for appearing on our broadcast today. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Frank Sweeney. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual broadcasting system. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We'll be right back. Does it we end up in the entry of Market in your building?
