Once again, your city station presents the Reader's Almanac. This program is number 330, volume 10. A program devoted to the news of the world of books and its personalities. Here now is our Almanac editor, Mr. Warren Bauer. Last Thursday, the Almanac willingly made way for a program in the current American Music Festival here at WNYC. Tonight, we join the festival, at least by scheduling a program very much in accord with its spirit and purpose. We will not make music during this half hour, but we shall talk about music and about how it is judged. When I was planning this program, with special attention to its coming in the midst of the festival, I was particularly pleased to have a book come from a leading publisher that fitted in with the spirit and the concern of the festival. This book was The Art of Judging Music by Virgil Thompson, published on February 16th by Alfred A. Knopf. I do not need to say very much about Mr. Thompson to a WNYC audience, I feel certain. He is, of course, the music critic of the Herald Tribune, in whose pages his reputation as a wise and witty commentator on the musical scene has been made secure. If I, who am no musician at all, can say what I think about Mr. Thompson's criticisms, it is this. One knows definitely what he thinks and feels about the music he has heard and has written about. There are no uncertainties, no on-the-other-hands, no yes-buts or maybes in his reports. Furthermore, they are written with distinction, interlarded with phrases bright with imagination and verbal deafness. Whether you care very much about the subject matter or not, a literate reader will follow Mr. Thompson's reports on musical events with pleasure and reward. Now, this cannot be said about very many critics, I very well know. But Mr. Thompson is also widely known as a composer. In fact, he will appear in this American music festival on another occasion as composer of an opera, the mother of us all, on a text by Gertrude Stein. Now, I'm not competent to comment on his music, but I do know that there is a long list of his works, including symphonies, string quartets, masses, and chamber music of all kinds. I can, however, testify to my great personal pleasure and appreciation of another opera whose score he composed, Four Saints and Three Acts, also on a text by Gertrude Stein. But it is not as a composer that I have asked Mr. Thompson here tonight. He's here as critic, and our concern is going to be with his opinions and practice in judging American music. Or all music. I trust that's all right with you, Mr. Thompson. You won't mind if I divide you thus neatly down the middle. If you can make it neat. I'll try. Now, it's my impression, Mr. Thompson, that there are not many of your fellow critics who are also composers. Well, not very good composers, anyway. Oh, that's not true at all. Is that right? The Music Critics Circle of New York City has a membership of 23, 13 of whom are practicing composers. And successful composers. Yes. Well, that's... Including Arthur Berger, Marion Bauer. Yes. Perfectly well-known and reputable composers of the city. Well, now, what you say there leads me to speculate about the probable gifts that a critic ought to have, and that, in fact, is one of the things I want you to talk about. What would you say is the indispensable element in a critic in the field of music? The ability to write. Because one could write bad music criticism if one can write, but if one merely knows a great deal about music and can't write at all, one couldn't write any music criticism. You see, my point is that reviewing is primarily a writer's job. Now, it can only be well done if the writer also knows something about his subject. So that music criticism requires a double capacity, it requires knowledge of music and an ability to write. But the one that cannot be done without is the ability to write. Well, I agree very heartily, indeed, because it makes it palatable, it makes it, it wins readers, of course, if it is written well. What is the desirable training that a critic ought to have before he sets up shop writing about other people's music and music making? Well, beyond such training as a writer as he can manage to acquire, the musical preparation seems to me highly necessary, not only in the study of music, but in its practice. because I don't take very much stock in the opinions of people about things that they don't know how to do. It doesn't mean that every writer on music has to be a complete virtuoso on every instrument he reviews or a complete master of repertory, but he's not a very good critic unless he knows some branch of music quite well. Doesn't his knowledge of music have to be pretty nearly encyclopedic? He can't be a specialist, for example. Why shouldn't he be? Because your knowledge gets encyclopedic by going to concerts for two or three seasons. You mean he might grow up to be an encyclopedic person? You're much better prepared for the whole repertory by knowing some part of it in great detail. Ah. Now, of course, as a bit of training, I should think that some of the required reading that a would-be critic might digest is that essay of yours which leads off the art of judging music. I found it a clear and stimulating discussion and with a good deal of relevance to the other arts as well, those that I know something more about. But for music critics, surely it is a must. Now, how did you happen to sit down and reflect about the art of music criticism and then write it out in essay form? The subject was given me. Harvard University staged a three-day symposium on music criticism last year in May, and I was invited to speak on that particular subject. And so once I had accepted that was my subject, I simply wrote out a speech on that subject and read it. You don't naturally reflect on such a subject. Well, you can reflect on any subject, but you asked me how I happened to be in possession of an essay on that subject. The essay is the speech that I wrote to read at Harvard, the subject having been given me at the time. Yes. Well, a symposium on music criticism, a little surprising to me, are there then a sizable number of people interested in the problems of music criticism, the techniques of music criticism? Well, I don't know a great many people who read it. Yes, that is very true indeed. But who came to that Harvard symposium? Other critics? The... you mean who was? The public? Yes. The public was strictly invitational and because of the size of Sanders Theatre where the meetings were held, and it was very difficult to get in, impossible to get in without an invitation, and the invitations were much sought after by scholars and musicians all across the country. All right. It was not a public of students. It was a public of professional musicians, scholars, historians, critics, from everywhere. Well, of course, as you very well make the point in your book, almost every musician must necessarily be something of a critic as well. Well, he's got to make up his mind. Yes. Still, it's a profession, I mean as an actual job, surely, to which very, not very many are called. But then I suppose there are a great many amateur music critics the country over. Well, I don't know about amateur music critics. I know that all the newspapers in the country have a music critic, and some of them as many as five or six. Well, that's in New York, the latter, sir. Yes. Yes. But every newspaper of any size in the country has somebody who writes music criticism, and often those critics are quite accomplished musicians. I don't know what you'd mean by an amateur music critic. I'm not sure either, except that I would think perhaps one of the part-time men. Well, that happens on the smaller papers, or in the smaller cities. Let's say that there are not enough musical events taking place in the town to justify there being a man on the staff who does nothing but that. So the same man will cover theatre, music, or in many cases, art exhibits, or on even smaller papers, when a concert comes along, they'll take a boy off the sports page and have him review it. Yes. But that's a form of reporting on the event rather than of criticizing it. There's no point, indeed, in criticizing musical events in detail unless there are a great many in the town because there's nothing to compare them with. Yes. Now, let's change the topic slightly. Will you somehow assess the power of the music critic, Mr. Thompson? In what way is it exercised? Or go back to my first question. Tell me something. What you feel is the power of the music critic? Where is it exercised? Well, I don't think it's very regular to exercise it at all. There is influence. One's writing has a certain influence. A favourable review of an artist, or, well, take the case of an artist, favourable reviews will predispose management toward him. It will be easier for him to get engagements. Unfavourable reviews will predispose management against him. That is just one of the accidents of the profession, and we're very sad when we're, because of people losing engagements and very happy when we make them get engagements. But the deliberate operation of any such, or deliberate use of any such power, I think is slightly irregular. I should think it might be... We're engaged by the newspaper to inform the public of what took place. Now, anybody in that public, management, or simple ticket buyers, can bet, for their purposes, on our opinion or judgment. But if a critic gets his money coming from two many different sources, if he is at the same time an agent of management and an informer to the public of what goes on, well, then he gets pulled two ways, and then he is using his power, perhaps. It isn't such a good idea. No. Well, as a... This doesn't mean that a music writer can't practice his profession as a musician, and they all do. But the deliberate use of power by a music critic is not a very good idea. As a practicing newspaper writer, your first responsibility is to the publisher, of course. You're reporting a news event. Your first responsibility is to the public, to your readers. Yes. Well, I was going to get around to them second, probably. You need to tell them how good it was, as well as the fact that there was a recital play letter. Well, it's better to tell them what it was like. Ah, yes. They can infer what you think about its goodness or badness. But that kind of opinion is pretty personal anyway, whereas the description of what it was like is not so personal, and that's real information. Yes, and now we're really getting down to the technique of writing music criticism. I like your point very much, that you're to tell them what it is like and not how good it is. I was wrong in saying that, of course, although it may add up to that in the end. Well, as an evidence of good faith, you know, you can always add a sentence or so at the end, saying what you personally have thought about it, and that is also entertaining to read, provided there's not too much of it. But what I think about or feel about a piece of music is not nearly as interesting or full of communication as a description of that piece of music that I would make as a musical analyst and describer of events. Now, let's take up a comparison with the influence of the drama critics. I want to go back to that business of the power and the influence a bit. I'm not in the least accepting the New York folklore that drama critics have the power of life or death over plays, but their influence does seem to me more pointed, immediate, demonstrable than is that of the music critics. Now, would you agree to that? I think it's perhaps less strong than the... Let me exchange a word with you, if I may. I don't like you referring to what happens in this case as influence. Let's call it the effect of musical criticism. Well, I accept that word. Because influence supposes an intention on the critic's part, whereas the effect is perfectly neutral as far as he is concerned. He's only occupied with telling the public what actually happened and what he thought about it. the reason why drama criticism seems to have such a large effect is because plays run for a certain length of time. And what every manager wants to know about a place, how long is it going to run, how long can he keep open? Now, the criticism is a factor of some influence, some effect in the making of a quick or slow success. It's not the only factor, but it has some influence. Musical events take place only once. So that you never know, the public doesn't know, what the effect of the review has been. But believe me, that effect is very quick and very strong in the offices of the concert management. Yes, I want, the next question I wanted to ask you had something to do with that. I wanted to ask you if you or any majority of your confrères ever had a part in sending a young man who ought not to be playing a piano publicly back to a safer and more socially useful job maybe in a bank. Now, this might very well be a critical task and surely one that the book critics have done and the drama critics too once in a while. Well, it said, it's a music critic's job to inform the public, as I insist, of the nature of the occasion. And if the singer's debut recital was not favorably received, it is his choice as to whether he engages in some other line of work or whether he keeps on his musical studies with the hope of improvement. It's not up to the critics even to know what happens to the young man afterwards. We're sorry if his life is ruined. It's really to weep, you know, the situation of those young people that save their money for a town hall recital and then just overnight are cut down. Yes, I'm sure of that. Well, let's, I was a little negative there. I'd rather be a little more positive. What can the music critic do to build up public taste? build up public taste? I should think the best program would be to have some yourself. Yes, and to demonstrate. And to explain to your readers the way your tastes work, not the idiosyncrasies of them, your fancies, but the way your mind works about music. I just think that's the same way that criticism of any kind elevates any public taste. Yes, that's a very good answer. Now, so far, I seem to have neglected the rest of your book, The Art of Judging Music. I've talked about the brief essay that gives the book its title, but the remainder, I'd better say to our listeners, consists of a reprinting of a great many of Mr. Thompson's columns in the Herald Tribune, Daily and Sunday, both. Now, was it the idea that a survey of what happens musically in New York will suggest a record of what is important in music throughout the country? Well, I don't know whether anybody did or did not have such an idea. I didn't. This is not a book about the rest of the country. It's a book about New York, except that it contains, as a matter of fact, a large section of reports gathered from other cities and from abroad as I have, in the course of my travels, set articles back to the paper, you see. You mean that this was a book that was initiated by your publisher, not by you? Yes. Then these columns... Well, it was written by me. Yes, I know. And since I don't have a whole collection of articles about the entire United States, but I live and work in New York, naturally, this is chiefly a picture of New York musical life, plus certain travels of the New York critic. Yes, but that means almost surely, doesn't it, American music? I mean... No, no, there's a large section about Europe. Yes. It's about the largest and completest report on musical Europe that has, I think, yet appeared since the war. Well, what amazes me, I think, most in this book is the amount of energy that is demanded of the critic, and you produce so many of these criticisms. The listening hours, for example, that this book represents must be enormous in number, isn't it? Well, I imagine so. You can count for every concert two hours of listening. That doesn't include either such time as you may put in brushing up on old scores or even reading new ones in order to prepare yourself for the event if you think there's going to be something difficult. How long does it take you to write your piece once you get back after two hours of listening? About an hour. Yes. Now, just one other random inquiry. What do you do in your reviews or when you're in the seat on the aisle, I suppose, when a composition by Virgil Thompson has been programmed? I do nothing at all. You don't comment upon it? If it's a short piece, a short song or piano piece in the course of a general recital that I'm reviewing, I pay no attention to it at all except simply to state the fact that it was performed. I generally avoid reviewing a concert at which larger works of mine are played. I don't think it's becoming to review them and so the sad chore falls to the lot of one of my colleagues. Well, thank you, Virgil Thompson, for your added participation in the American Music Festival. I dare say some listeners are going to regret my not using this opportunity to have you talk about your opera, the mother of us all. But I said that I was inviting you here as the author of The Art of Judging Music and I've stuck to it. I want to add my warm recommendation of that book. Your Herald Tribune readers are loyally buying it right now, I dare say. But those interested in American music and musicians will be glad to know it's so lively and authoritative a volume. I must tell my listeners that next week the Almanac bows to an Academy of Medicine lecture. The next broadcast then will be March 4th, when my guest will be Mr. Robert Marks, the author of The Story of Hypnotism. Until March 4th then, good evening. You have just heard the 330th program of the Rita's Almanac conducted by Mr. Warren Bower, director of the Writing Center of New York University. Mr. Bower's guest this evening was the eminent critic and composer Virgil Thompson. Be with us again next week, same time, same station, for another edition of the Rita's Almanac. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.