Plan for survival. Do you know what an atom bomb sounds like? Listen. That's all the sound of an atomic explosion the human ear can hold. God willing, none of us will ever see its flash or feel the impact of its blast. But let's face it, it could happen here. If it should, what is your plan for survival? This is the second in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. To bring you essential information and instruction, to tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of atomic attack, and what you can do to help, each week at this time, we will present officials and specialists who can speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now here's Bill Leonard. Our topic for this program is the A-bomb and its effects. And our guest is Mr. Martin Caden, technical specialist of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. Four years ago, he was sent to Japan by the U.S. Air Force and went through Hiroshima and Nagasaki to observe the results of atomic bombing. And since then, he has drawn on his observations and experiences to help formulate our defense against the bomb. He's well qualified to tell us what an A-bomb might do, but equally important, he's prepared to correct several misconceptions about it. First of all, Mr. Caden, we've just heard the reproduction of the sound of an atomic explosion. Does it really sound any different from any other explosion? When the atomic explosion is heard, it sounds like a thousand blockbusters exploding all around you. It's a tremendous sustained roar, the like of which cannot be equaled by any other explosion. When you hear this, it means that the bomb has burst several seconds before, since the first impression of an atomic explosion is that of intense searing light. The shockwave of the bomb burst precedes the sound, and the physical damage has already begun. Well, could such an explosion occur without warning, or in other words, is a sneak attack possible? No defense can be perfect, since the enemy has a choice of several ways of delivering an atomic bomb. In the case of a sneak attack, the first indication of the explosion will be a tremendous flood of light that envelops everything for miles around. Six miles away, the bomb flash will appear brighter than 100 suns. So in this case, we must act quickly, in fact, instantaneously, if we are to save our lives. We've all heard that an entire large city like Hiroshima can be obliterated in the twinkling of an eye. Is that so? Definitely not, Mr. Leonard. One of the greatest misconceptions of the atomic bomb is that it can wipe out a city instantly. Actually, the casualties of Hiroshima did not take place within the first day. Of course, many casualties were caused within a few seconds because of the effects of flash heat and blast. But the major damage and cause of casualties in Japan was fire, pure and simple fire. And of course, many casualties occurred when people fled the city. It is estimated that at least 20,000 people died from panic alone, being pushed off bridges, trampled underfoot, running into fires, and drowning in rivers. Mr. Caden, a lot of people say that they're fatalists, and if an explosion should occur here, it'd be so disastrous that there's no use making any preparation for defense. From what you say, I assume that if we can avoid panic, a great many lives can be saved. Is this so? The answer there is that because of general apathy on the part of the population of Hiroshima, and because they had not experienced any air raids, the people had little or no civil defense training. We now know that approximately 50,000 people at Hiroshima died without reason. If the Japanese had been prepared through civil defense training, a great many casualties would have been averted. Do you think the American people can be trained to keep their heads in the event of a disaster? Mr. Leonard, you know as well as I that we can be trained to meet any situation. Well, as far as this specific problem is concerned, will the proposed radar screen give us advance warning? The radar screen in question is not only proposed, but has existed in great part for some time in the more vital areas of the United States. Radar is the most effective means of giving warning of high-flying aircraft. It has certain faults, though, the major one being that it cannot pick up very low-flying aircraft. For this reason, New York State needs several hundred thousand aircraft spotters throughout the state to pick up any planes that might attempt a low-altitude attack. Effective as the ground warning may be, we can never have a perfect warning or defense system. So some enemy raiders are bound to get through if the enemy really presses the attack. For that reason, civil defense is essential in this day and age. We'd like to know more about the effects of the bomb, Mr. Caden. We've received many letters asking whether shelter is effective and how long one must remain undercover. Another great fallacy about the atomic bomb is that anybody within a half-mile radius of ground zero or the point above which the bomb has exploded is doomed. That is not so. To cite an example, let me point out that at Nagasaki, some 400 people took shelter in a series of tunnels that had been constructed in a low hill only 100 yards from ground zero. Except for a few people who were slightly injured, those 400 people came through unhurt by taking cover, preferably in designated shelters, subways, basements, or the ground floors of heavily constructed buildings, the individual's chance of survival is extremely good. He should seek shelter immediately upon hearing the red alert. That is a rising and falling siren for three minutes. He should remain undercover until the all clear, which is a series of three one-minute blasts separated by two minutes of silence. Air raid warnings may last from just a few minutes to several hours. What do you think would be the effect of the atom bomb in a place like the city of New York? That depends where the bomb is dropped in the city. In lower Manhattan, for example, the buildings are solid, well-constructed, and of heavy masonry and concrete. In other parts of the city, we have sprawling tenement areas. The tenement type of building will collapse more readily than a steel-reinforced concrete one. Generally, this is what we may expect from an explosion of a nominal atomic bomb exploding 2,000 feet above the city, as it did in Japan. Within one-half mile of ground zero, there will be almost complete devastation, and note, I do not say destruction. Chances for survival in this area are not good unless a person is well-protected and usually in an underground shelter. Nuclear radiation is very severe, as is flash heat. From one-half mile to a mile, damage will be severe, and we may expect collapse and destruction of most old-type brick-and-frame houses. If a person is underground within this area or above ground and well-protected, chances of survival are good. Beyond one mile, nuclear radiation falls off to a point where it no longer constitutes a hazard. Up to two miles, we may expect moderate to severe damage depending upon the type of structure. I'd like to ask more about the effects of radiation, Mr. Caden. How long after a blast does it continue to affect people in various areas, and will it be safe for civil defense forces to go into the primary target area shortly after a blast because of radiation? I'm glad you brought up that point, for it's a subject of probably the greatest source of misconception and fallacy concerning the atomic bomb. We must first realize that there are three types of atomic explosions, the ground, water, and airburst. The airburst is what took place in Japan where the bomb was exploded approximately 2,000 feet above the city. 90 seconds after an airburst, there will be no danger from radiation within the city at all, and civil defense forces will be able to enter the area safely. What about the contamination of the area that we hear so much about? Of course, there is great danger of radioactivity contaminating an area for some length of time, but only as a result of a water burst or a surface or very low-altitude explosion. It is only in these cases that we expect great radiation danger. It is important to know that the intensity of radiation in an area 15 minutes after an atomic bomb explosion is only 1 15th as great as it was one minute after the explosion. One hour later, radiation intensity has fallen off until it is only 1 60th as great as it was one minute after the explosion. So radioactivity is not always dangerous or fatal. Well, we've also heard a lot about burns, about sterility, and eye cataracts as a result of radiation. Would you like to comment on any of these? After the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, there were some cases of sterility among both sexes who were within less than a mile of the explosion center. These effects, however, were only temporary and were completely gone within a few short months. There were also some cases of miscarriage among women who were within the city at the time of the explosion. There have been some 40 cases of eye cataracts caused by radiation from that explosion. Depending upon the amount of radiation that a person has received, he will become sick. And if he has received a fatal dose of radiation, he will die. This is known as radiation sickness. Will the effects of a superatomic bomb or hydrogen bomb, would they be so much worse that they'd render our civil defense protective measures completely ineffective? The destructive force of any large explosion does not increase with the strength of that explosion. For example, a bomb twice as powerful as a bomb dropped on Hiroshima will devastate an area only 25% greater than the nominal atomic bomb. A bomb 10 times as powerful will cause severe damage in a radius of 2 miles. This is only twice as great as the radius of severe damage in Hiroshima. As regards a hydrogen bomb, a bomb, for example, 1,000 times as powerful as the atomic bomb which was dropped on Japan, will have a radius of destruction of 10 miles, not 1,000 miles. I must state here that the problems of production and especially of delivery by an enemy, aircraft, or other means are so great that it will require many years to solve these problems if they can be solved at all. So, in other words, the protective measures that we take for the present atomic bombs will apply for the most part whether a bomb is 2 times or 50 times as powerful. Mr. Martin Caden, I think the important thing is that we must take protective measures now. In every community in this state, responsible citizens have been delegated to train and to drill volunteer civil defense workers to do specific jobs in an emergency. But they can't do their job unless every civilian does his. If you haven't already registered for civil defense work, do it right away. Sign up both where you live and where you work. This is Bill Leonard reminding you that plan for survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the second in a series of programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special emergency broadcasting network. The speaker was Mr. Martin Caden, technical specialist of the New York State Civil Defense Commission who was interviewed by Bill Leonard. Beginning next week, we shall devote the entire time to answering questions you listeners have sent to us, specifically those about your children, what they should be trained to do, both in school and at home. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. That's Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. I know many of you have been wondering about the whole civil defense picture. What you can do personally. What would happen if your community were attacked. What plans have been made to move you to a safe place, to move your family and loved ones to a safe place, and so on. Send us your questions, large or small, important or what you might think insignificant, any questions at all, and we'll do our best to answer them. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16, New York. We'll answer your questions on subsequent programs just as quickly and as completely as we can. Be sure to listen at this same time when we'll tell you how Plan for Survival applies to your home, to your children, to a community, to yourselves. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. This is NBC. was concerned about having been going well.