Thank you, Mr. Mayor, Senator Wagner, members of the House of the Authority, distinguished guests, and friends. On a Thanksgiving Day 31 years ago, a young man came to this country. That young man was my father. Today, 31 years later, on Thanksgiving Eve, we are gathered here to see the start of construction of the Vladek City Houses. To see in the Vladek Houses that that young man has become a part of America. To us, his family, Thanksgiving was always a holiday of great significance. And it is fitting that I, as a spokesman for his family, can tonight give our thanks to his country, to his city, and to the New York City Housing Authority. Give our thanks to them for giving him life again. For giving him his kind of life. For Vladek Houses is not a monument of stone and mortar. It is a unity of families to whom a city is giving their birthright. Under its roof, tens of hundreds of families will be able to live, to eat, to sleep, to experience joy and sorrow, to carry on their tasks and their pleasures in surroundings which are their just due. And this was my father's life. That their lives be fuller. That their rights be recognized. And that he and they together should attain their birthright. In Vladek Houses, his life will be realized. Those who live there and those who live in other housing projects, those families will continue his life, continue its meaning and its beauty. So our footsteps will often turn to the Vladek Houses. And we shall put our hands on its warm, friendly stone. And we shall look inside the open gates. And we shall say, Here he lives. Here he breathes. And we shall be confident. Two poems my father wrote years ago as a young man keep running through my head. One began, The voice that spoke to Socrates and Moses in the marketplace of Athens and on the Mount of Sinai. That voice speaks to me too. And the other started, I see a path through the desert. A dusty, rocky path. And the closing line was, I will take that path. I am thinking of that young man to whom that voice spoke, starting his difficult journey on that almost untraveled road and meeting on it others to whom that voice had spoken. I am thinking that once they were only a handful on that dusty road. But their numbers increased and they worked together. And they widened that road. And on its sides they planted and cultivated. And the desert began to give way to houses and gardens. And the road began to have trees. And I am thinking how happy that young man was that in this country he found colleagues who climbed with him together. And together translated their dreams into reality. And I am thinking how thankful we are that this road, which is just beginning to be traveled, goes onward. And how thankful we are that in this army of construction, in this host of builders, on this new and beautiful road, he goes marching on. We are thankful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I deserve them. I do. This particular project, though, has more than a local significance. It has a national significance. You know that the whole agitation and the movement and the pioneering efforts for low-cost housing and the elimination of the slums of our city and of our country was initiated right down here in the Lower East Side. And so it is the people and the pioneer workers of the Lower East Side that are responsible for housing projects today, my friends, which are being constructed in 40 out of the 48 states in the Union. Just think of that. It began way back, we heard a moment ago, about Lillian Wall. As a matter of fact, she was my political boss. I don't know whether you know that or not. I always had to do what Mrs. Wall wanted me to do as a state legislator and as a federal legislator. And I was always, I think I used good judgment in following her direction. Then there was Jacob Reese. Then there was Mary Simkowicz. Then there's Helen Hall. And I know there are a host of others that I should perhaps remember that I don't recall just now, but all of them together were in this great movement which finally resulted in the enactment of federal legislation. And just let me say this. We have a law now, as you know, which was passed in 1937, which provides for a coordinated system between the federal government and the municipality for the elimination of the slums and the construction of decent housing for our people wherever those, the slums and the slums exist. That fight began by the introduction of a bill in 1934. And then was organized the East Side Conference. We could get very little action in Congress. Until 1935, we had our first public hearing. And with the East Side Conference, Mary Sinkowicz and the mayor of New York that came to Washington and began the agitation for the passage of legislation which would ultimately house America and all of its people in a decent manner. They came down again in 1936, undaunted, courageous, and persistent. We were able only in 1936 to pass it through one house, the Senate. Then we tried again in 1937. And that same committee, supported by the people of the East Side with the same officials came down again. And in 1937, we secured its report out of the committee in both the Senate and the House. We passed it in both houses. And it's now the law of the land. And as a result of those efforts, my friend, is not only in the East Side here and in other sections of New York, but throughout the country, 40 states today are eliminating their blighted area and giving their people a decent place in which to live. And that all came, that all began by the people here of the East Side. Now, something is said about the mayor. I concur in what was said about the mayor. He at once, he is now the leader in of all the municipalities of the country in building better homes for the people of his city. And as he said the other day, he is going to keep right on until New York, as he said, is a heaven in which to live. And so... I said I wasn't going to make a speech, and I'm not. Only in closing, I want to say this. Don't let's be satisfied with the elimination of a slum in the building of homes here or there or some other place. Let us keep on this fight. As the president, your great president, has said, let us continue this fight until all of the slums and the blighted areas of America are removed and we rehouse decently and properly the people of America. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. To make it my home. I'm not in a particularly happy mood this evening. I can't be. rather than being here tonight to dedicate the name of Charlie they were entitled to them just as we were this is how we get and they made the one mistake they consulted the lawyers then the lawyers said oh oh you know what I did I'll tell you what I did I chased all the lawyers out of the office yeah and I called a couple of architects in I said I want to build a house and I violated two constitutions and fifty laws but I built Williamsburg house by the time they were through the Wagner Act was enacted money was available and then the president had to find a good federal housing administrator and he had a hard time and he looked all around and he went to California and he went to Nevada and he went to Illinois and Indiana he went to Maryland and Pennsylvania he went to Virginia and he went to Massachusetts and he couldn't find a good federal administrator finally he said if you want a good administrator come to the New York City housing authority and he took Nathan Strauss to find a housing administrator Nathan Strauss is a good federal housing administrator because he was trained in the New York Housing Authority and that's why we're building houses all over this country out of the first Wagner Act we've built now in the course of completion the Red Hook housing unit house 2,500 families we're moving them in at the rate of 100 families a week we have about 1,300 families there now they're completing about one unit a week in turning it over to the housing authority the Queen's Bridge unit in Queen's near the 59th Street Bridge will also accommodate about 2,500 families Jamaica houses now under construction in Jamaica is another one under your right Senator and East Harlem houses by the way this is good I received protest we demand houses be tolerant six weeks after it was approved protest that we're demolishing now on that Stuyvesant Bedford in Brooklyn we resubmitted that application with correct figures and I have assurance that that will be approved another in the Bronx submitted that have more to say about that one later on and here this great project the combination of federal and city the federal houses about four-fifths the size of the city and that's actually in construction see this is November if it was October I wouldn't I wouldn't blame you for not believing this but this this is November more houses have been built in October and then the first Tuesday comes along and everybody forgets but these are actually construction you can go out there and build the foundation right now and it's going to be one of the most beautiful public housing unit in the city now one of the speakers stated I think it was Mr. Phelps that this home loading side is undergoing a transformation as he pointed out we have public houses limited dividend houses houses entirely financed by private capital and that is as it should be I'm very much muse these days about everybody interested in public houses now there are a great many things I wouldn't have to say but you know me when I got something here I'm going to say I'm glad that some people are realizing now the necessity of tearing down some of the dilapidated unsanitary fire trap disease breeding buildings in which they have investments and putting in their place sanitary safe decent healthy buildings and in that respect in that respect I want to serve notice that the savings banks of this city in so far as the mayor of the city is concerned are on probation you may not get the full significance of that but the savings banks will we got no help on this great project from the savings banks banks and they came very near wrecking it at one time and I wouldn't be myself if I didn't make mention of that and let me repeat put this down boys because I want to forget that the savings banks of New York City in so far as the mayor is concerned are on probation well after this ceremony we just continue to build there be no more speeches what you want is houses and we're going on in the beginning housing was an idea and our first task was conducting a great campaign of education to drive home the necessity of public housing we're beyond that stage now this is no longer a promotional campaign this is no more propaganda the responsibility of the housing authority now is that of a great gigantic business undertaking this authority has spent over 50 million dollars now will have some 60 or 70 million dollars more to spend I don't want any speech makers on this authority and I'm the boy who appoints them I want houses and we've been going at a terrific speed during the last 30 days only yesterday the housing authority filed application for one of the largest and the most daring housing projects in the history of the country that's a state project and I'm not going to crow about it until the foundations are built just like back in house now Senator Wagner it must be a source of great gratification to you to see an idea come to full fruition see the great Williamsburg and Harlem and first houses to remember that woodpile conference we had at Williamsburg when we were discussing this property when it was a matter of three or four or five hundred thousand dollars and I said all right I'll put it in and the Mongol says hey Jirella where are you going to get it I don't know but we got it the houses are under construction my friends this is something more than houses to some it may mean houses to some it may mean a difference in design to some it may be a difference in location to me it means something else to Vladek it meant something else it isn't design it isn't architecture it's folks men women and children it isn't a change in the design of the house it's the transformation of the people themselves to live in a crowded dark and dingy apartment to be unable to have the little comforts of a home to be unable to give the little baby a bit of sunshine at the window to be unable to keep that apartment clean no matter how hard you work that's what we're interested in to making lives better and happier for the men and women of the city I heard I heard of a city called New York and I started to make it heaven to make fun water to roar and you losing from vegetables to Utah and upper embedded und rhinocer repe ThenPs II Wouldn't you like to wind up with a little bit of music?