The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What does the extension of rent control mean? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the rental problem. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the effects of the new rent controls on landlords, tenants, and builders. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are James C. Downs, Jr., President of the Real Estate Research Corporation and President of the Chicago Dwellings Association. And Meyer J. Meyer, Attorney for the Chicago Tenants Federation and Director of the Citizens Committee for Rent Control. And Cornelius Tenninga, President of the Taxpayers Action Committee of Chicago and Secretary of the Roseland Standard Savings and Loan Association. Now Congress passed the Rent Control Extension Bill on June 21st, as you men know. Our purpose today is to assess the reasons for this extension of rent control and the implications of it. Meyer, what are the important provisions of this new rent bill? Well, the main provisions of the bill are exactly the same as those in the old law. What they do is continue and extend the provisions of the old law throughout the country until December 31, 1950. That's for six months. That's for six months until the last day of this year. However, they provide that in any city, town, or village where the council or governing body or whereby referendum they declare that a shortage of rental housing exists which requires the continuance of rent control in such city. In those cases, there can be a further extension of federal control until June 30, 1951. In other words, an additional six-month period. Well, now, two questions. Does that mean that we're operating under federal rent control in all areas now, Downs? Yes, it does, except those areas which have, by local provision, removed themselves from rent control. Has that happened in many areas, do you know? It's happened in a substantial number of areas over the country. And secondly, I wanted to ask how this local option will operate after December 31, Meyer. Well, if the city council, by resolution, or if by referendum of the people here in the city of Chicago between now and December 31, a resolution is adopted requiring or declaring that the shortage still exists and that rent control is needed, we can have federal controls for a period of an additional six months. Now, a lot of people think that if we have such a resolution here, that would mean we would have local control. That's not correct. What we would have is an extension of federal controls by local invitation, so to speak. And without that local invitation, federal controls go off the first of the year. Is that correct? That's correct. What do you men think of this bill? Taniga? Taniga? I think it's a vicious bill. I think rent control should be abolished. I think perhaps it might be desirable to taper off instead of coming to an abrupt termination. But I do not think that this bill is wholesome for our economy, and I know it's an opening to communism. Why do you feel that way? That's a pretty strong statement. Because it impairs the right of property. It destroys property. It creates a situation where property is not made any more desirable. And instead of giving an owner the right and all the perquisites and privileges that he used to enjoy, it deprives him of those rights and privileges. And it makes the ownership of property undesirable, which, of course, is exactly what some people in our politics are after. But it destroys the right of ownership. Now, we'll want to explore those reasons of yours a bit. Meyer, do you go along with that? I know you don't. Well, I think the bill has some good features about it in that it does give the tenants some protection for the next period of time. But I think there are some serious weaknesses in the bill which I'd like to explain. In the first place, the bill continues federal controls only for a period of six months and with the possibility of an additional six months. And at the end of one year, there'd be no longer any federal controls. Now, I think we're just kidding ourselves if we think that the housing shortage is going to be licked in one year. I think that's a big weakness in the bill. It's not long enough. It should continue until such time as we do have adequate housing. One year from now won't be the time. Secondly, I think the bill has the defect, the same defect as the old bill. It doesn't have strong enough enforcement provisions. The bill should carry criminal enforcement provisions for all willful violators. If we're going to have a law, if people are going to willfully violate the law, they can only enforce it by criminal sanctions. That's the weakness of the old bill, and it stays in the new bill. Well, do you mean to suggest that the present legislation is being violated with impunity? In very, very many cases, far too many, it's being violated with impunity, I'm sad to say. Well, now, I take it what you regard as the strength of the bill is precisely what Mr. Tenning over here regards as the principal weaknesses. He thinks we ought to dispense with all rent controls now. You regard the principal weakness in the legislation, at least your first point, was that it removes control too quickly. That's right. But I think even perhaps Mr. Tenning might agree with me that if we're going to have a bill, we ought to have one that's enforced. And certainly he ought to agree that that's a weakness in the bill. You cannot legislate economic law by political legislation. It's never been done. It wasn't done with markets. We do it with commodities. We have a funder subsidy bill. It's a question yet whether that will succeed. Well, Downs, where do you stand on this new rent control bill? Well, my job is to analyze real estate from the point of view of its comparable desirability in the economy. The rent control bill, by continuing controls over the single segment of the economy represented by a real estate, is, in my opinion, abjectly unfair. We have in the city of Chicago, and that's typical of most areas of the country, our property owners, 43% of them, have the exact same income without any change that they had in the year 1942. There's a good deal of misunderstanding about the 15% increase which was allowable under a voluntary lease signed by tenants. Chicago probably had a higher rate of acceptance of those leases than any other city in the country, and our acceptance was only 36%. Now, it's true that some operators of property have been able to secure relief under provisions of the law, but that relief has come to those people who have been able to afford accountants and attorneys and specialists, whereas in most of the cases of the small property owners who have had no such savvy, who have no proper records, they are unable to get consideration as the result of their petitions. Strangely enough, the continuation of rent control will probably crystallize our present high-level activity in the real estate field. It will continue the building of single-family houses in tremendous numbers, and will prevent a normal market readjustment which might otherwise change the pattern of operation. I think that the crystallization of present prices is the permanizing of the shortage. Naturally, there is not going to be any volume of new building in the area of the market under $50 a month. Now, 63.4% of our million dwelling units in Chicago are in that bracket. In that bracket, there's only been 12,600 units of new housing constructed, largely public housing. However, we can't just permanize the inequalities of this thing without engaging in a step-by-step process of at least substantial relief, if not outright decontrol. My objection is that by this bill, we have simply postponed the day in which we may start to do something about it. Now, you make many references to the situation here in Chicago. Is Chicago typical of the country as a whole? Yes. Where is this problem, anyway? This problem is in those states where major cities dominate the political complexion of the state. In a certain number of states where rural controls are more nearly equal, they have already decontrolled their rental markets. In the large states, however, such as Pennsylvania, New York, Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, California, we have a different political complexion, and hence the politicians are sensitive to the city tenants who dominate the voting in those areas. Now, do I gather from that that this is essentially a city problem rather than a rural problem? I think it's essentially a city problem and essentially a political rather than an economic problem. Well, I'd like to point out to Mr. Downs that that isn't quite right. Governor Stevenson, in his testimony before the Senate, Governor Stevenson of Illinois, of Illinois, pointed out that although any community, locality, or small town or village had a right to petition him for decontrol under the existing law, only one tiny village in the state of Illinois had asked him to decontrol that area. Now, to me, that's an indication that even in the small areas, even where the political complexion is different, there has been a recognition of the fact that controls are still necessary. There's no question in my mind, but that's explained by the fact that rent controls were supposed to terminate June 30, 1950 by their own terms, by the terms of the law. Well, also, it could be that nobody petitioned Governor Stevenson from small communities because the problem didn't exist in small communities and there isn't any real pressure on either side to do anything about rent control, either pro or con. I think you'll admit that the present lineup in our state legislature is largely either outright political or it's big city versus rural area. Yes, but here are the rural areas which themselves haven't asked for decontrol. Well, they haven't really needed it as a matter of fact. Well, do you mean to suggest, Meyer, that the problem is acute in rural areas? It's acute all over? It's not as acute as it is in the cities. But it's a pretty universal problem. Is that your... It's a universal problem, more acute in the cities than in the small localities and pretty universal throughout the country? Well, I think we'll have to agree that there's a human instinct to avoid higher costs. And I think we'll have to agree that tenants everywhere are primarily concerned if they are renting with not having their rentals increased. If the tenants are extant in important enough numbers to be politically articulate, then there's a problem. If they're not extant in important enough numbers to be politically articulate, there isn't any problem. Well, now let's see how this bill affects the person's most directly concerned. What does it mean to the landlord, Tenninga? Downs has said something about that. What's your position on that? As to the landlord, distinctions must be made. There are landlords who have property which they owned in 1942 and which is subject to rent control and at which the rents were frozen as of 1942. But there are also landlords who under the same rent control act are getting 6.5% net on the new cost of new construction. Those landlords are satisfied or they would not have gone ahead on the deal that they had. But the landlord who owned property which was subject to control as of 1942 rent levels, he is the one who was really being injured. And he's being injured because he is not recognized as having the right right to have his investment appraised in terms of the present purchasing power of money. That's a hard thing for the average public to grasp perhaps but that nevertheless is the full explanation. His investment should be appraised in terms of devalued, inflated dollars just as much as all other prices on goods and commodities. What do you say to that, Meyer? Are you concerned about this 1942 landlord? Why, yes. My appraisal of the position of the landlord isn't the same as Mr. Tenning is by any means. I think although it restricts in some cases excessive gouging by landlords, nevertheless it still guarantees him a fair net operating income on his property. Now, hold on. On what evaluation? On the 1942 or pre-war evaluation? It's not based on any evaluation. It's based upon the current income as compared with his current expenses. The fair net operating income is based upon the experience of landlords gathered by the housing expediter throughout the country over quite a period of time. And the formula is consistent with what their experience has been over the years during and prior and after 1942. Now then, he's guaranteed that same return under the fair net operating income. Now, as far as the position of the tenant as a result of this bill, as I said before, it does prevent excessive gouging in some cases, not all. It does avoid an increase in rents which probably would be from 25% to 75% should there have been a decontrol had the law not been passed. I think it's conservative to say rents would have gone up 25% to 75% in the big city certainly that much. Now then, he still, however, is in the same position as he was in prior to the bill. He still will have to pay a bonus if he wants to get an apartment. He still will be subject to rent increases on application by the landlord. He still will not be getting his services such as decorating and repairs. Many tenants that I know of and have spoken to have even told me they have had to heat their cooking ovens to get adequate heat in their homes. They'll still have that and that's not a small matter. To many people that's money that they can ill afford. And so I say the bill leaves these people in the same position that it was. It moderates the excesses in some cases. Well, let me see if I understand you. You say that the rent control bill has not hurt the landlord. He's getting a fair return and it's not helped the tenant. because he has hidden costs which he wouldn't otherwise have. To many people that's money that they can ill afford. And so I say the bill leaves these people in the same position that it was. It moderates the excesses in some cases. Well, let me see if I understand you. You say that the rent control bill has not hurt the landlord. He's getting a fair return and it's not helped the tenant because he has hidden costs which he wouldn't otherwise have. I say it has helped him. It has protected him from excessive gouging. But it hasn't been the great panacea that some people or the great gift that many people would say it has been. Well, I'd like to say this about what Mr. Myers just said. First, I'd like to say that he mentions that the tenant will still have to pay a bonus. I think like all elements of society there are among landlords gougers, connivers and people who would take advantage of the public. However, I think we must admit that the bulk of the property in the city of Chicago is controlled and operated by responsible people. One of the things the law does is to penalize the honest man. Back in the days of OPA there were all kinds of chiselers who operated restaurants and who bought their meat at black market prices and when you went into a top grade restaurant you couldn't find any meat on the menu. I don't think we need to consider here that the bulk of our people are like that. But in this split of opinion between Tenninga and Meyer you find the thing which I feel is objectionable from the point of view of solving things in the democratic process. It seems to me that we always line up on lines of one kind or another. Whereas Mr. Tenninga has said that he believes that controls might be tapered off and therefore has indicated that he's a reasonable man generally speaking the landlord's interests of the country are for all out the control. Mr. Meyer's group on the other hand on very on successive renewals of rent control legislation has never offered to give anything to the landlord in the way of relief. They believe that rent control should be renewed now because it would be a great hardship if it were taken off summarily. I agree with that. But next year when the question comes up their position will be exactly the same. The great tragedy here is that this thing is looked at from an entirely political point of view and there's very little rationalization of what we should do. Well unfortunately the tenants don't control or have much influence in the building industry. There are laws of economics that do that. And while we have been for extensions of rent control each year that doesn't mean that we're for permanent rent control. All we say is that until the building industry or some other agency provides adequate housing we will have to have protection and a rent control law. The basic difficulty is that the right of property requires the landlord to have a return in terms of purchasing power of his money of his rent. Just the same as labor is entitled to wages based upon the purchasing power of the money that he gets in wages. And the landlord certainly when he is permitted 25% of his gross as profit that has no relationship whatsoever to the value of his property and that is a basic infringement on the law as we understood it under our constitution. That is a basic difficulty with all rent control attempts. Well now let me ask you this Teninga. What percentage of the workers' wage goes for rent now? I'm thinking of these 1942 controlled buildings. Now I understand it's about 12% in rented property. It used to be figured around 25%. In loans that are made by the FHA and the Veterans Administration to borrowers they figure that one-fourth of the income can properly go to defrayment of the expense and servicing of the loan. One-fourth of the monthly income. And that of course has been a rule of thumb for many, many years in the real estate business. Now you get Teninga's point. I get his point. He says that a lot of these people are getting a free ride on rent in the present market. Well there are several things about that that I think need some correction. In the first place while it generally had been the case that I think roughly 25% perhaps 22% of a working man's budget went for rent in the past and is probably less than that. I think the figure may be around 15. That's the monetary figure. However his real costs are more than that. There isn't a tenant, almost isn't a tenant, who isn't paying money now for housing accommodations that he wasn't in the past. He's paying for his repairs. He's paying for his decorating. He's paying for a number of other items that were included in his rent before and that increases his rent bill. Secondly, I'd like to say just this. There is nothing sacrosanct about the 25% figure. While that had been the case traditionally, it is my opinion and the opinion of many economists that 25% of a working man's budget for one item such as rent is not a fair or a proper item. It doesn't leave enough for food, for clothing, for education, medicine, amusement, and so forth. And so that we are not bound to say that because it used to be 22% or 25% it should continue that way. I think we'd have a sounder economy if a smaller proportion of a man's income went for rent. The only reason why 25% happens to be the figure is because at that percentage all these other expenditures find an equilibrium. Well, I think that this 25% argument is a little passe for the reason for the reason that 25% is not in today's economy a reasonable figure nor is 12%. The fact is that today landlords are subsidizing the purchases of television sets and automobiles and other high standard living items which we all agree should the American people should have in as great quantities as they can. But they shouldn't have them at the expense of a single segment of the economy. Now, how do you figure that out? Well, I mean that the family budget of every family today is much more complicated much more complex than it was 35 years ago. The budget of the typical family used to be food, shelter and clothing. Today it means cosmetics, it means electric appliances, it means automobiles, it means all of the things that all of the people want. We all want them to have them because it's good for our economy but they should have them as the result of a balanced economy and not an economy which is crystallized and paralyzed in one segment. Not as a result of rents lower than they ought to be? That's right. Well, when Mr. Down says that the landlord is subsidizing the television industry it's no more right to say that than it is to say that in the past these other industries not television but perhaps food, clothing, amusements were subsidizing the landlord. They're just starting with an assumption that there ought to be just so much money spent for rent or other items. this has got to be the process of a natural adjustment and the less money that's paid for rent the more will be available for things that we have come to know that the tenant ought to have. But because the tenant pays so much less than his fair share of his income for rent governments, local governments are being deprived of much needed contribution towards their cost of operation. They have to pay for the policeman or the fireman. They have to buy goods and commodities with the depreciated dollar and they're entitled to get income from tenants who used to always pay their fair share of local government costs through their rent through the landlord as a conduit. They're entitled to pay again their fair share. It's because of the fact that they do not do so that the mayor has gone to Springfield to get some relief. Well, the question here is not whether tenants should have televisions or go to the movies more or less than they used to. the question here is whether or not the ownership of property should be under a particular type of economic hex. At the present moment, the man who owns property does not have the fundamental basic rights that accrue to the man who owns a manufacturing plant, who owns a store, a man who owns an amusement park or any other kind of business. Well, I'd like to point out both to Mr. Downs and Taniga the statements of Mr. Herbert Nelson, Executive Vice President of the National Association of Real Estate Boards. On November 7th, writing in their paper headlines is the name that he said, real estate is a pretty good buy and right now it looks as sound and stable for the future as government bonds, maybe just a little better. And he also said, the equity position of real estate owners is the best in our history. Well, I certainly understand why Mr. Nelson said that. He's in the business of selling real estate. He represents an organization of brokers which have had an unusual prosperity partially due to rent control, strangely enough. However, I just returned last night from a seminar of investment officers up at Beloit University and almost the opposite point of view was expressed by economists from virtually all of the universities of the country and virtually all segments of the economy. I think that it's only just as natural for Mr. Nelson to believe in the purchase of real estate as it's natural for a life insurance man to believe in the purchase of life insurance. Certainly the pronouncement of Mr. Nelson is not binding on landlords. He does not represent landlords and by why he should be quoted in defense of something that injures landlords I do not understand. Well now we've discussed the implications of this bill for the landlord and the tenant at considerable length here. What does it mean to our building economy? You said a bit about that earlier, Downs. Would you explore that further? Well our building economy is in a unique position. We are today building at a rate faster than ever before which indicates that rent control in itself is not necessarily paralyzing to the building economy. On the other hand the pattern of that building is different from that which existed ever before. We have brought into being on the basis of this bill a natural comparison on the part of the tenant between what he is paying and what it costs him to provide himself with economic housing which is really deleterious to the industry. As a result very few apartment properties legitimate investment rental apartment properties have been created. Whereas it's true that we've had a spurt of building under section 608 of the FHA under which a certain type of grade A apartment building could be built over the country the apartment property is largely passing out becoming obsolete in the economy. The reason being that we cannot afford in this economy for the individual to provide the service which he must get if he lives in an apartment building. just as the average family who 25 years ago had a domestic servant can no longer afford a domestic servant so the man living in the city can no longer afford the services of an apartment building. Well I'm glad to hear Mr. Downs say that rent control is not the reason for the shortage of the shortage in new buildings of rental housing. I'm glad that myth is distorted once and for all. Well I think you want to correct that impression because the reason that rental housing is not being built even though it's off of rent control is because of this comparison that I was talking about between what it costs to live in a new building and what it costs to live in a present rent control building. Investment capital will not go into the apartment market because they feel that it's uneconomic. Just your recommendation just in a sentence or two I think they're fairly clear. My recommendation is that rent control be abandoned just as quickly as possible and if necessary permitted to taper. Well Mr. Tenning says it as soon as possible he apparently doesn't say now and I'm glad to hear that but I say that until there is adequate housing for the man with an income of up to $300 a month there must be rent control. I say to take it off gradually but get started at the adjustment. Thank you gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. What will the extension of rent control mean? A copy of this broadcast can be secured by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Why not start your subscription to the reviewing stand with this first in the series of two programs about the housing shortage. Send $1 for the next four months $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. That address again the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were James C. Downs Jr., Cornelius Tenninger and Meyer J. Meyer. Now our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program. Next week the reviewing stand presents the second in a two program series on the housing shortage. When we discuss the question do we need a government housing program? Every landlord, tenant, builder, homeowner and prospective homeowner will be interested in this analysis of the home building scene by James C. Downs whom you just heard on today's program, Robert E. Merriam, Chicago alderman and vice chairman of the city council housing committee and Norman Strunk, administrative vice president of the United States Saving and Loan League. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question do we need a government housing program? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Frank Sweeney. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.