WNBC presents the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York. Mayor Impelletary speaks to you on the subject of the proposed increased city sales tax. Mayor Impelletary. So many false and misleading statements have been made by opponents of the pending sales tax increase, and so many invented statistics have been thrown around by them that I feel that the public is entitled to a frank and simple statement of the actual facts in regard to the city's fiscal situation and in regard to the circumstances which made this 1% sales tax increase necessary. Two things should be made clear at the start. First, this is not the impeletary sales tax. It is the result of the unanimous judgment of the Board of Estimates, based on studies made by the Mayor's Salary Committee, consisting of the Mayor, Controller, and Budget Director. Second, responsibility for the tax must be placed where it properly belonged, at the door of the state administration. Your city government did not willingly choose the increase in the sales tax as a method of obtaining sorely needed additional revenues. This tax has been forced upon us by the state government's callous disregard of the city's fiscal needs. This tax is the result of the city being caught in a squeeze between spiraling costs of government and a frozen pattern of state aid which ignores the actualities. From the day when the legislative session commenced to its very end, your city government made appeal after appeal to Albany for a fair and equitable share of state revenues, almost 51 and one-quarter percent of which are contributed by the city. In documented studies which we sent to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, and every member of the legislature, and in a detailed and considered statement by the Corporation Council to the Joint Legislative Committee of the State Budget, your city administration demonstrated that it was rightfully and justly entitled to more than $64 million in additional state aid. The city's demands were ignored. Indeed, when the Corporation Council appeared in Albany and gave his detailed presentation of the city's demands, his voice had hardly died down before the Republican leaders were handing out to the press previously prepared releases in which the city's demands were mocked. That is the reception which the city administration got in Albany, and there was not a word of support for the city from those who have devoted so much energy in opposing the 1% sales tax increase. Here is what we asked for from Albany. One, the state collects taxes from every community. Some of these taxes go to pay for state services. The balance is supposed to be returned to the local communities to help pay their expenses. These return taxes are distributed on a per capita basis under the Moore formula. Experts have long recognized that government costs rise sharply as cities increase in size. This is especially true in New York City, where we have to provide rapid transit and other varied facilities and services with which small communities are not burdened. The Moore formula ignores this factor. We have urged that a per capita rate of $10 be fixed for New York City as compared to $6.75 in the smaller communities. When you consider that our city serves more than half the population of the state and provides many services which are paid for out of county and school district revenues in other parts of the state, it is obvious that the Moore formula discriminates against the city. A proper adjustment would have given the city $25 million more. Two, we ask the state to restore to us the state aid for the cost of care of children in foster homes and charitable institutions. State law requires the city to provide such care. Yet the state only contributes to the support of a child cared for in its own home. A child is not less needy because it is in an institution a foster home. The attitude of the state in this regard does not make sense and deprives the city of $13 million a year. Three, you should know the state attitude regarding tubercular patients. When the state first agreed to reimburse the city for half the cost of these patients, the daily cost was $5 and the state paid $2.50. Although it now costs $10 per day, the state still pays $2.50. Rising costs have changed the pattern so that the state now pays only 25% instead of 50%. This is the state's idea of share and share alike. It represents a loss to the city of $5 million a year. Four, the same injustice is evident in the handling of home relief cases. The state contributes 80% of the cost of a person on home relief. If that person becomes ill and has to go to a hospital, the state contribution stops. When he comes out of the hospital, the state contribution is resumed. One, is it unreasonable for us to ask the state to continue its payments when a person on relief needs hospital care? The city's burden continues, and there is no sound basis for the state to stop its payments. The city loses $2 million a year because of this default by the state. Five, for over 16 years, the state reimbursed the city for the maintenance of a municipal lodging house. On advice of the Attorney General, this aid was discontinued. We asked the state this year to restore it. If it had done so, the city would have received an additional million dollars. Six, we asked the state to bear its fair share of the cost of operating our child daycare centers. If it had done so, the city would have received another $2 million a year. We even pleaded with the state to recognize the federal census just completed as the proper basis upon which to grant the city state aid under the so-called Moore formula. If it had done so, it would have been acting in accord with the clear spirit and intent of the law and provided us with another $3 million. The state insists on using 1940 census figures to shortchange the city of New York. Total up the figures. There is $51 million in state aid to which we were justly and rightfully entitled. We got not a penny of it and now we are faced with the necessity of enacting the 1% sales tax increase. Before leaving the subject of how shabbily the state has treated us, let me tell you of a windfall of federal monies obtained by the state which it failed to pass on to the city although it should have done so. Your federal government makes grants for welfare purposes. Although welfare is administered by the cities, the federal grants are channeled through the state. This year, by amendment of the federal law, the state will receive additional funds of over $20 million of which over $13 million is attributable to New York City population. This is money paid to the state for our benefit. Despite this enrichment of the state due to us, the money has not been passed on. In fact, the decrease in expected welfare costs will benefit the state to the tune of another $19 million, making a total of over $32 million. The state owes us every penny of the $51 million requested of state aid, plus the $13 million received for our account. It is claimed that the city government has loaded its payroll with politicians. The fact is that out of a total of 173,000 city employees, only 532 are in the exempt class. All others are in civil service and are protected in their jobs. If we fired all the exempts, including the mayor and all his commissioners and elected officials, you would save approximately $4 million, which is less than one-half of 1% of the entire payroll. It has been stated that the way to force the city to economize is to refuse to provide it with any additional revenues. Such talk is irresponsible. And ignore the plain facts of simple arithmetic, which the mayor and the board of estimate must face in running the city, and which each of you must face in running your own homes. I deny that the city is wasteful or inefficient in its operations. I do not say that improvement is not possible. The fact is that we are proceeding in an orderly and business-like way with a program of municipal reform, which Dr. Gulick, the foremost city management expert in the country, calls the most extensive management improvement study ever undertaken by any government at any time. The opponents of the 1% sales tax increase have stated that this increase will cost the average family from $18 to $25 per year. That contention is utter nonsense. It proceeds from the false assumption that the average family in the city spends from $1,800 to $2,500 per year on taxable items other than food and shelter. The fact is that the average family spends about $600 a year on items subject to the sales tax and that the cost to the average family will be about $6 a year. It must be remembered that rent, food, and medicines are exempted from the sales tax. Some of the attacks made out against our request for sales tax have been reckless and untruthful. One particularly annoying instance was the baseless charge that I had entered into a political deal with a county leader in Manhattan to obtain the votes of certain members of the legislature allegedly under his control. The best proof of the falsity of this charge is the fact that all of the legislators from Manhattan supposedly involved voted against the Enabling Act in Albany. The need for additional revenues has been demonstrated so often and in such detail that it is hardly necessary for me to repeat it at length here again. Let me summarize it in the briefest possible way. Our city employees have been caught in a squeeze between rising cost of living and fixed wage rates. What started out as a living wage has quickly turned into a substandard wage. The salaries of city employees must be increased. We have provided in the budget for an increase of $250 per year or less than $5 a week for the great mass of city employees. This will cost us approximately $27.5 million. As a result of a change in the law, the contributions with the city must pay to the various pension funds of city employees have been increased by over $15.5 million. As a result of the expansion of our hospital facilities and other costs, our hospitals will cost us $8 million more this year. Additional teachers are needed and the other expenses in the educational setup will cost an additional $15 million. Add up these figures, they total over $66 million and they represent only two-thirds of the enormously increased burden which your city has to go into this year. Your city government will not evade its responsibility to the people. We know that our task is not an easy one. We will not allow its vital public services to become run down. We will not deprive our city of the essential services and facilities required for a decent, progressive community. This is NBC, the National Broadcasting Company.