From the State Chamber of Commerce, we are bringing you a special broadcast of today's meeting. As you may know, Mayor Impelitari addressed the January meeting of the Chamber of Commerce and stated at that time that the city requires $200 million to balance next year's budget. Some people disagree, and they are here today to present their views. In accordance with your city station's policy of presenting all sides of public issues, we are making our facilities available. Among the scheduled speakers are Walter Hulving, Chairman of the Anti-Sales Tax Committee, Paul Windels, Authority on City Transit, Leffert Hulz, Chairman of the Taxes and Assessments Committee of the Real Estate Board of New York, and Harold Regelman, Counsel for the Citizens Budget Committee. Now here is the chairman, Mr. Hamill, who will introduce the speakers. ...additional revenue to balance next year's budget. To get this, he wants increased state aid and new taxes. But he didn't seem to like any of the new taxes he himself suggested. I don't like them either, and would prefer to see the mayor and his staff devote their time and energies to reducing expenditures rather than inventing new taxes. Today, we are going to hear from four well-known civic leaders, who I believe feel the same way I do, and take issue with the mayor on how the city's budget problems should be solved. Incidentally, Mayor Impeletere was invited to this meeting, with the privilege of questioning the speakers, but unfortunately he could not be with us. He showed his interest, however, by requesting the city's radio station, WNYC, to broadcast these proceedings. The available time and length of the program made this impracticable, but WNYC is making a tape recording of the proceedings, which I understand will be broadcast between 2.30 and 3 this afternoon. The first speaker, Mr. Harold Riegelman, is an expert at uncovering non-essential items in the city budget. Believe it or not, he thinks that the cost of city government could be cut down and must be kept within the city's income. Mr. Riegelman. Mr. President and fellow members, the chips are down in the game the city plays each year with Albany. In this game, the city can't lose, the state can't lose, the taxpayer can't win. The most he can hope to do is to cut his losses. This year, the stakes are $200 million. That is net over and above a possible reduction by one-third in our sales tax collections. And two issues are raised. There isn't any doubt that some of the expenses of operating the city will show a material increase and there'll be some loss in revenues. Does the net added burden resulting from those circumstances equal $200 million? The mayor says yes. The answer is no. Secondly, is it possible to reduce this net added burden, whatever the amount, by some economies in the current budget of a billion and a third dollars? The mayor says no. The answer is yes. Now let us examine this $200 million. First of all, the amount is a rounding out of the figure which the mayor has claimed, namely $197 million. And where pennies count, $3 million is not to be ignored. The mayor has underestimated the cash carryover of our general fund this year by $5 million and has repeated the error for the cash carryover in the coming fiscal year. $3 million, $5 million, and $5 million make $13 million and reduce the $200 million to $187 million. The mayor bases his estimates of sales tax receipts on 11 months receipts. If he'd taken into consideration the 12th month, he would have gained another $6 million this year. the mayor ignores the possibility of capturing $10 million of sales tax collections which are lost through faulty collection methods. If he adopted the recommendations of the city's experts, Drs. Haug and Schaup, the city would recapture an additional $10 million merely through the correction of faulty collection methods. $6 million and $10 million or $16 million and reduce the net added burden to $171 million. The mayor has underestimated the short-term borrowing capacity of the city by $15 million. Certainly, we don't advocate the use of the full capacity of the city for short-term borrowing, but we may as well face up to the fact that the city's going to use up that capacity in any event. The normal procedure is to wait until after the budget is adopted and then resort to the full-term borrowing capacity, short-term borrowing capacity of the city to the full in order to finance modifications which increase the size of the budget after it is adopted. As long as the abuse is inevitable, let us use the full borrowing capacity of the city to reduce the need for additional revenues rather than to increase operating expenses. We deduct that $15 million from the $171 million and we have now $156 million to go. The mayor has correctly estimated the cost of the 40-hour week at $25 million if the 40-hour week is put into effect all at one time. That is neither realistic nor necessary. The 40-hour week should be introduced gradually over the next fiscal year and if it is, it will reduce the cost by $10 million. $10 million from $156 million leaves $146 million. Now we have said nothing whatever about the current budget of $1.3 billion. $40 billion could be lopped off by the immediate application of selective vacancy control. This means that unnecessary jobs becoming vacant through death, retirement, or resignation would remain unfilled and would be abolished. It also means that necessary jobs becoming vacant would be filled by transfers from unnecessary jobs which would then be abolished. The savings here, which are completely practicable, although far short from the Spartan economy which the Comptroller has recommended, would lop $40 million off the $146 million need for additional revenues, reducing the figure to $106 million. Now that's the figure we have to deal with. Obviously, it will be increased if any existing tax revenues are denied the city. If, for example, we reduce the sales tax from 3% to 2%, we've got to gain the resulting loss of $55 million through some compensatory tax. This applies, however, equally whether you accept the mayor's estimate of $200 million or this estimate of $106 million. So the problem is the $106 million and that will be solved on the basis of some very important policy decisions. One, for example, is whether transit shall be made self-sustaining in its operations. That would yield $70 million and reduce the net added burden to $36 million. Regardless of this, there's also the question of state aid. Is the state going to give us additional relief within existing principles applicable to the extension of state aid to the localities? If so, the net added burden is correspondingly decreased. But the primary decision is not with respect to transit, is not with respect to state aid. The primary policy decision is as to whether the city is going to continue to ignore the long procession of sound recommendations that have been placed before the city for efficiency and economy and the management of its operations during the last four years. an impressive stream of sound recommendations has come from the work of the Citizens Budget Commission, the Division of Analysis and the Bureau of the Budget, the Committee on Management of the Mayor, the Mayor's Committee on Management Survey. Some of these recommendations have been adopted and have been absorbed in unnecessarily expanded services. Others, and by far the more important ones, have been chloroformed by the device of successive and futile reviews. Gentlemen, the time for anesthetics is past. The time for action is here. The Mayor says we face a crisis. We agree. The crisis, however, is not essentially a money crisis. The crisis is essentially an administrative crisis. It seems to me that the emphasis should no longer be placed upon the willingness of citizens to subsidize inefficiency and mismanagement and waste and extravagance in government. The emphasis should be shifted. The emphasis should be put upon the will and the capacity of our elected officials to bring government operations up to a level of efficiency which the citizens have the right to expect and demand. And until our elected officials demonstrate that will and capacity, any additional tax burden, however small, is intolerable. Thank you, Mr. Riggleman. Thank you, Mr. Riggleman. Our next speaker, Mr. Paul Wendels, is president of the Regional Plan Association, former Corporation Council, former chairman of the City Traffic Commission, and an outstanding authority on city transit, Mr. Wendels. Mr. Chairman, members of the chamber, we've had ten years of municipal operation of transit, and those ten years show a very unsatisfactory financial record. The estimated operating deficit for next year is $30 million. Now, according to the recent surveys of transit operations by two very distinguished engineering firms in this city, from $12 million to $14 million could be saved annually by better administration. And this estimate does not include more than $5 million, which two years ago, the Board of Transportation said, it cost the city every year because employees helped themselves to 98% of the permitted two weeks sick leave would pay. Just think that one of them. The surveys find lack of disciplinary control and morale at a low end. The city has gone the limit to meet demands for higher pay, a five-day, 40-hour week, and other benefits. In return, it has the right to expect and should require active cooperation from the entire organization to restore discipline and to eliminate waste. Now, just as an illustration, why should there be in the last ten years a 12.5% increase in hours employed for maintenance of way and a 30% increase in its supervision while in the same period there was a substantial reduction in track mileage? Why should sickness in the organization increase 63% in the last five years? Why should accidents increase 21% in five years while traffic decline 17%? Why does not the Board of Transportation sell its $25 million of surplus and unneeded real estate and use the proceeds to mechanize many operations, thus producing still further savings as well as restoring this real estate to the tax roads? And how about the $20 million per year of so-called provisional workers employed in the last six years without regular civil service examinations? How much of this was unnecessary political patronage? The Comptroller is suddenly beginning to take an interest in it and investigate it, but he should have done that five years ago. Now, we're never going to put an end to waste and inefficiency in transit until we free it from political pressures and give it completely independent and strictly business management. This is said with no disrespect to the transit commissioners. They are forced to operate under conditions which make their jobs needlessly difficult. There is only one answer. Operation by a state-created independent transit authority. Let the city agree to make the authority's deficits good for two years and give it that much time to complete the changes recommended by the engineering surveys. Recover disciplinary control over the organization and stop the waste and inefficiency. Now, it may well be that after these changes have been made, a fair increase will not be needed. If, however, after two years of the best non-political management we can get, there is still an operating deficit, then it should be met by a fair increase and thereafter the system operated always on a self-sustaining fair for operating costs. But we should not propose and the public will not stand for another fair increase or other new taxes just to continue the present wasteful methods. the economies must come first. Transit cannot stand both inflation and waste at the same time. Neither can the city for that matter. But the Board of Estimate does not seem to grasp that elementary fact. Now, a transit authority has been urged since unification in 1941. Chicago and Boston have both learned their lessons. Economic pressure will compel it in New York City and the sooner it comes the better. the Board of Estimate ought to have learned long since that under the present method of operation, transit can never be anything but a political and financial headache. If there had not been stupid and short-sighted political interference in Albany, a self-sustaining fair would have been adopted shortly after transit unification in 1941, followed by a transit authority in due course, and I know what I'm talking about. because of the five-cent fair, maintenance has always been neglected. It was hoped that some of the ten-cent fair would be used to provide better service, but the public got nothing out of it. Wholesale rehabilitation continues to be a must. Therefore, even if the present fair is found under better management to be enough to pay operating costs, we may nevertheless, in a year or two, wish to consider a higher fair. The increase, however, is segregated by law to protect it against raids and committed by contract to financing a wholesale rehabilitation and modernization program for the older parts of the system, starting with the IRT. And this will cost not less than $300 million. And what about the second avenue subway? We are now told that it will cost $900 million as compared with the estimated cost of the $500 million for which a bond issue was authorized at the last election. If and when this system is built, we shall have to add another item of more than $50 million annually to our budget for debt service. And nobody knows what the fair will have to be charged in order to avoid an operating loss on this new system. Now, these are problems that can never be solved by politics. If we don't change our methods and correct these unsatisfactory conditions, transit may soon prove to be the most disastrous financial venture the city ever undertook. Why not face that threat now without further delay and put transit where it belongs on a sound and efficient business basis? Thank you. Mr. Wendell. Mr. Leffert Holtz, lawyer, is an aggressive spokesman for the interests of people who own real estate. He is chairman of the Taxes and Assessments Committee and a member of the Legislative Committee of the Real Estate Board of New York. Mr. Holtz. At the outset, I should like to make it very clear that I am in complete accord with Colonel Regalman and Mr. Wendell in the belief that the city should first be required to live within its income and should not be permitted to obtain any additional means of revenue without putting its own house in order. Mr. Wendell, I am very grateful for the opportunity to express the views of real estate here today. No one is more interested in the sound financial stability of the city than is real estate. And by real estate, I mean not only owners of real property, but tenants, merchants, and storekeepers who reside or do business in the city as well. Any increase in real estate taxes has a direct bearing on their wealth there. The city claims that due to the inflated condition of our economy, the cost of government has so greatly increased that it is presently unable to balance the budget unless it obtains additional revenue. As usual, real estate is again expected to supply the major portion of this revenue by means of increasing the basic tax rate from 2 to 3 percent. However, such an increase requires a constitutional amendment. It would have to be passed by two successive legislatures and thereafter approved by the general electorate at an election. The earliest time that this increase could possibly be effected would be January 1, 1954. Obviously, since this proposal could not bring any immediate relief, it necessarily follows that the suggested increase in the tax base could not remedy the city's present difficulties and could only relate to future budgets. But who would be so rash as to venture a prediction now as to what the condition of our economy will be in 1954? Is it to be assumed that regardless of future conditions, city expenditures will always exceed income and unless the basic tax rate is increased for the city, it would never be able to balance the budget? Such an assumption, I submit, is unthinkable. The Constitution very wisely limits the amount of taxes which may be levied against real mistake to 2 percent. And any upward modification of that limitation would open the floodgates and remove the most effective protection against waste and extravagance in municipal administration. The suggestion of levying a county tax of 1.5 percent is also without merit. The city claims that this tax is required until such time as the basic tax rate is increased by constitutional amendment. If this proposed county tax is held to be legally applicable to the city of New York, there is, of course, no way that I know of to prevent the city from seeking the right to impose such a tax each year, regardless of the basic rate. However, I do not believe that it was ever intended that a county tax should apply to the city of New York. In my opinion, the imposition of a county tax in New York City would be tantamount to circumventing the Constitution by increasing the tax levy against real estate in excess of the 2 percent limitation contained therein. Furthermore, in the city of New York, less than $20 million of the anticipated revenue from county tax would be for strictly county services, such as the county courts or the several district attorney's offices. Any other services which would be included in a county charge would be wholly unwarranted. The cost of hospital and welfare departments could not properly be allocated to the several counties, since both of those departments are wholly centralized services, entirely different from the localized and decentralized hospital and welfare services in upstate counties. to attempt to distribute the cost of these citywide departments makes no more sense than asking each county in New York City to pay the cost of its own police and fire departments. The argument which the city urges that many other cities in the upstate areas are permitted to levy a county tax in addition to the 2 percent base tax on real estate is unimpressive upon examination. It is a well-known fact that in those communities of the upstate where a county tax is permitted, the assessed valuations of real estate rarely exceed 50 to 60 percent of full value. Thus, the additional county tax when added to the basic rate on the lowered assessed valuations does not increase the tax burden from that which it would be if the properties in those areas were assessed at full value and the tax base still confined to 2 percent. As a matter of fact, in the three next largest cities in the state, Rochester, Syracuse, and Buffalo, the combined city-county 4 percent rate returns less per capita than in the city of New York with a single base of 2 percent. For example, in the city of Rochester, the return is $65 per capita, in the city of Syracuse, $68, and in the city of Buffalo, $70. This with a 4 percent combined city-county tax. However, in the city of New York, with only a 2 percent base rate, the return is $72.50 per capita payable by real estate. Any attempt, therefore, to justify the imposition of a county tax upon the ground that other cities in the state are permitted to levy such a tax is fallacious and wholly unwarranted. I do not think that the city officials have really thought these proposals through. Actually, the net result of increasing real estate taxes might be entirely different than that contemplated. Additional revenue for the city is not a certainty. While at first blush, it would seem that if the tax base is increased or a county tax is imposed, the city will receive additional revenue. It must be remembered, however, that with the imposition of additional taxes on real estate, without compensating factors of increasing revenues, the value of real estate is progressively decreased in proportion to the imposition of additional taxes. And those of you that read this morning's Tribune and read the editorial by the real estate editor begin to see the effect of the mere torque of imposition of taxes as having on current real estate transactions. It may very well be that because of greater tax base or the imposition of a county tax, the assessed valuation of real estate in the city will be so materially decreased that the net result of the imposition of higher taxes will be little or no additional revenue. Thus, the imposition of additional taxes on real estate could very well act to the serious debt of the city as well as to property owners and tenants. Real estate simply cannot stand any further tax impositions. Notwithstanding anything that has been said to the contrary, real estate today is paying a greater sum towards the operation of the city government than ever before in the history of the city. During the peak prosperity year of 1929, real estate contributed about $468 million to the cost of operating the city. In 1951, the total contribution of real estate was in excess of $631 million. Thus, real estate's contribution dollar-wise, and that's what counts, in 1951, was more than 33 and a third percent greater than it was in 1929. Every owner of real estate knows that in 1951, with rents frozen and the tremendous increase in the cost of labor, materials, and all other items of maintenance, he is paying a much higher proportion of his net income for real estate taxes than in 1929, the year of peak prosperity. The imposition of any additional taxes on real estate not only is entirely unwarranted and manifestly unjust, but will, in the end, greatly diminish the value of the very property upon which so much of the city's revenue is dependent. I strongly urge that the members of the legislature and the city officials once again read the fable of the goose that laid the golden egg. If the continuous attempt to settle real estate with more and more taxes is not curtailed, the city, like the former in the fable, will find that it has ultimately killed the goose that laid the golden egg. applause Thank you, Mr. Holtz. Mr. Walter Hobing is head of one of the city's leading department stores and, as chairman of the New York Anti-Sales Tax Committee, has led the fight against levies on retail sales. Mr. Hobing. applause Mr. President, fellow members, at a meeting held here a few weeks ago, his honor the mayor stated that those of us who have raised our voices on city expenditures and on increasing city taxes are trying to sell this city down the river. Well, of course, what he means by that is that anybody that disagrees with him is doing something harmful and something detrimental to this city. The only answer I can think of, gentlemen, is that if this city does float down the river, it's going to do so on the tiers of the taxpayers. Now, my job to report on this question of the sales tax. He also stated that the sales tax had not affected the business in this city. Now, those are not the facts. We have had the sales tax in this town for 17 years. The business of this town, the retail business of this town has been affected by that sales tax in all but one of those years. And that one year was 1938. At that particular year, the city apparently ran ahead of the United States in percentage of increase over the year before. But all of the other years, the United States average was better, ran ahead of the year before, a better percentage than the business in the city of New York. All but three years. And those were the three years that the sales tax was reduced to one percent. during those years, the business in the city of New York actually was more favorably affected than the business of the whole country. Now, that's a record, gentlemen, on the basis of 17 years, 16 of which run absolutely true, that this city's business is affected by this tax. Now, other figures that I will not quote to you in detail, when it was raised to three percent in June of this year, the city's business was again affected adversely, except for the June, July, and August months when there was a price war, as you recall, in this city. But the rest of the year, the city's business ran very substantially behind the increase in business in the rest of the United States. And as far as the suburbs are concerned, the city has run, for all of these years, very substantially behind the suburbs. Now, of course, other things have happened to throw business into the suburbs. The congestion in this city, the traffic conditions, the lack of parking, and all of those things have, of course, helped the suburbs. The fact that people want to live out in the country, get more air for themselves and their children, those are all factors. But why would we place a penalty on doing business then in the city of New York, when all these other factors are aiding and abetting the movement of business out into the suburbs? It just doesn't make sense. We place a tariff wall around the city so that people are encouraged to buy outside of the city. Now, a great deal of business used to be done in this town, gentlemen, by people who came from various parts of this country. They came here to visit, they came here with their wives to see the theater and to do various things that had to do with their business. Their wives bought a great deal of merchandise. They would have it sent to their hotels. They would use that merchandise while they were here. They would have the clothes fitted and then they would go back and buy what else they needed. Now, that business is disappearing because what they do by now they have sent to their homes, be it Chicago or Los Angeles or Boston or wherever they live, because they do not want to pay this 3% sales tax. Now, that sort of business is very valuable business for New York because it not only affects the retail business of this town, but it also affects the hotel business and all sorts of other things that have to do with the prosperity of a great city like this. Now, gentlemen, I was in Albany a couple of weeks ago and I saw the leaders of the legislature and the lieutenant governor and let me tell you that in contrast to the people that we have to talk with in the city government, it's just like a fresh breeze. They're intelligent, they're earnest men, they're well-educated men, they know what they're talking about, and they are men who have responsibilities in their home sections. One of them said to me, Mr. Hoving, do you know that you are the only responsible businessman from the city of New York that's been here to see me in a year and a half? He said, we see labor leaders, we see representatives of teachers' associations, we see secretaries and executive secretaries of trade associations, all those people are all right, that's fine, but we don't see any responsible heads of any businesses. Aren't they interested in these things? Well, after I got back, a friend of mine in this town who runs a very big establishment called me, and he said, what are we going to do about this terrible thing that they're talking about, the gross business tax? You know, it's going to cost my company $350,000. What can we do? Well, I said, I know just what you can do. I said, get off that swivel chair and go to Albany and see those men. You have no idea how impressed they will be with the fact that you're interested in going up there and talking with them about your problem. Don't leave those things in the hands of just the executive secretaries of your trade associations. And gentlemen, I say to all of you here, and if any of you want to do this, I'll be very glad to arrange appointments for you with the people that you should see in Albany. It's very important that you go up there and talk not only about the sales tax, which is my specific problem, but about this gross business tax, about the financial tax they're talking about, which I think will be of immeasurable harm to this city, but go up there, sit down man to man, they'll respect you and you will respect them, and really put your cards on the table and just talk in small groups, not big groups, one, two, not more than three people at a time. If you do that, you'll be surprised how effective it will be. You'll be surprised what it'll do to their attitude about whether the people of New York, the responsible people of New York, are really interested in this city's problems. Thank you. Your city station has brought you a portion of today's meeting of the New York State Chamber of Commerce. In accordance with your city station's policy of presenting all sides of public issues, we have made our facilities available to speakers who disagreed with Mayor Impeleteri's message to the State Chamber of Commerce. Among the speakers were Walter Hulving, chairman of the Anti-Sales Tax Committee, Paul Windell's authority on City Transit, Leffert Holt, chairman of the Taxes and Assessments Committee of the Real Estate Board of New York, and Harold Riegelman, Council for the Citizens Budget Committee. This has been a transcribed public service feature of your city station. Thank you. sales manager for the trear. Lewy horse chief chair THE