We are speaking to you from the Mayor's reception room in City Hall, where the ceremonies of the signing of the contracts for the four slum clearance projects is about to begin. Participating in this official signing are New York City's Mayor Vincent R. Impelle Terry and the Committee on Slum Clearance Plans, including Chairman Robert Moses, City Construction Coordinator, John J. Bennett, Philip J. Cruz, Lazarus Joseph, Dennis M. Murhurley, John C. Riddell, Robert F. Wagner Jr., Charles Horowitz, and Louis F. Lang. Representing the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency are the Honorable Raymond M. Foley, Administrator, Mr. Nathaniel S. Keith, Director of Slum Clearance and Urban Redevelopment, and Mr. Osborne T. Boyd, Area Supervisor. After the ceremonies here in City Hall, the officials and guests will then proceed to cars in City Hall Plaza. The cars will leave about 11 o'clock and proceed on the inspection outlined in the itinerary planned for guests and members of the official party. Arriving at Randall's Island at approximately one o'clock for a buffet luncheon in the Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority Administration Building. Now I see the Mayor, members of the Committee, and the many specially invited guests have arrived and taken their places. And here now is Commissioner Robert Moses, this morning's Chairman, to begin the proceedings. Members of our Committee regard this as an historic occasion. It's the most important event in the City of New York City of New York and Mr. Foley and Tanya Best, how important it is to the Federal Government. Now this represents over two years, two and a half years of more or less unremitting effort on the part of the Committee and many agencies of the City, cooperating agencies under the direction of the Mayor to persuade private capital to get in the slump clearance. I don't need to tell people here what the, how this system works. It's a new device. Many cities are working on it. The President, I believe, that this is the first of the large cities that can report substantial progress. Generally speaking, the objective is to select genuine slum areas, fire the land by eminent domain, because that's the only way it can be assembled and only the government has that power of condemnation. And then to write down the assessed value, the awards rather, in condemnation to the point where private capital can step in and begin to build on the basis of the plan approved by the local governing body, the local city planning commission, and of course the federal authorities. I'm not going to spend any time entertaining you with our difficulties. I assume that Mr. Foley isn't going to tell you about his troubles. Fact is that we have four projects ready to sign this morning, and there are four more which will be along shortly. I assume that before many weeks are over, we shall be in the city planning commission again, asking for additional city funds for its share, one-third share of the write down. I have only one other thing to say, and this is something that our committee is going to discuss before we talk to the mayor and the board of estimate about it. We have a feeling that some sort of legislation should be passed here in the state if it's needed, probably is, to facilitate doing this slum clearance with private capital wholesale. Instead of our having to negotiate individually with each group of sponsors, we'd like to see some sort of an authority or corporation set up, probably in the nature of a limited dividend stock corporation, which will have enough equity to do this thing on a very big scale, so that instead of talking about 10 acres and 15 acres, we can talk about 250 acres. And really get into this thing on a big scale, on the assumption that we are perhaps not at the end of public housing, but we're getting to the point where there's less and less money for public housing, either federal or state or local. And we therefore have to fall back upon private capital. Well, that's about all that I have to say on behalf of the committee. The first contract which we want to present to the mayor, the corporation council, I believe, has it ready, is the Collier's Hook contract. Mr. Kazan, will you present the check to the mayor, signed agreement? The certified check and signed agreement have just been handed to the mayor, who rises now to accept them officially before turning them over to the corporation council. And here now is Mayor Vincent Aron-Pelletere. Commissioner Moses, first of all, I want to thank the slum clearance committee, that's chaired by yourself, by Mr. John J. Fennett, who is the chairman of the city planning commission, by Mr. Philip J. Cruz, chairman of the New York City Housing Authority, Lazarus Joseph, controller, Dennis M. Hurley Corporation Council, and John C. Verdell, chief engineer of the Board of Estonia. These projects, all in Manhattan, consist of moderate rental fireproof apartments and park-like surroundings that will, of course, replace old tenements and slum areas. The project will house approximately 6,500 families and will be entirely financed by private capital and beyond the original grants given by the federal government and the city in the purchase of the land. They constitute the largest group of projects approved for any city today, and culminate negotiations that started in July of 1949, when the National Housing Act was passed, providing a new feature designed to encourage private capital to enter the field of slum clearance. For those of us that have been engaged here in the city of New York on large-scale public housing projects, this to us is a wonderful development. We've been working on this for a period of years. We've tried to get private capital interested in housing for a great number of years, certainly during the six and a half years that I've been here at City Hall. And this, to me, and to the administration, represents a forward-looking endeavor in which we have finally enlisted the help of private capital in ridding us of slum areas. We think it's a wonderful development. We think that the people of the city of New York will be the beneficiaries. We certainly think that this is the kind of cooperative effort between government on the one hand and private industry on the other that has the community welfare as the core of the joint effort. Thank you very much. I'm particularly happy and gratified to have the opportunity to sign this and the accompanying contracts between your municipal government and the federal government. And to come here to New York to do it. Because to me, in addition to all of the things that have been said by Mr. Moses and by the mayor, there are other phases of the situation which culminates here today that to me are of tremendous significance. I think it's particularly significant that we have been able here in this tremendous city with its tremendous problems to bring this large program, large in the sense that it's a large beginning on a very much larger problem, to this point of positive action. To many, it may seem that it has taken a lot of time. It has taken a lot of time. But it's a lot of time that has had to be spent in the preliminary setting up of procedures, of arrangements, and the bringing about of the understandings, which are, after all, the most essential phase of any program of community betterment. But it's significant to me beyond that. But it's significant to me beyond that. In that it gives now a practical demonstration in what may well be regarded as one of the most difficult situations in the nation of the possibility, the practicability, and the great promise in a combination of federal resource with community resource and private enterprise operating through the local responsibility. The community responsibility, the community responsibility, and the community initiative. Not federal initiative, but community initiative. I'm proud and happy that I happen to be in the position that I am, where I have had of necessity to have a considerable part in bringing about the background of legislative authority and of organization and of procedure to bring us to this point of progress here in the city of New York. I want to congratulate the city and its officialdom for the very hard and careful work that has been done. I want to point out, too, that this kind of undertaking gives, again, an opportunity for carrying out what I believe to have been the clear intent of Congress, namely a coordination and a working together of all the authorities that Congress has given to agencies of government, which have now been integrated in so far as this sort of undertaking is concerned. I want to promise to the city all of the further cooperation and help that we can give, which will be, of course, useless and valueless unless there continues this active interest in the city itself. And so I'm proud and happy to be able to sign these documents today. Mr. Mayor, this is not on the program, but the city takes particular pride in signing this agreement as it takes in the building which he was born in and the district that he has represented at City Hall for 33 years. Mr. Mayor, before presenting the next contract, the West Park contract, I'd like to refer to the aid and assistance we've had from our two senators, Senator Lehman and Senator Ives, Congressman Poudre, Roosevelt, Javits, Powell, and Mulker. And I would like also to mention all betters of the United States Conference of Mayors. Mr. Mayor, I'd like to say this may be a little bit, this may be a little bit premature, but we're under substantial obligations to the international ladies' garment workers as well as the amalgamated. Mr. Mayor, I have been in the company and they have already talked to us about finding an additional project. Apparently, on the theory that the response has been substantial to this project that's just been signed up and they're already looking for another one. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Mayor, nice to see you. Your city station has brought you the proceedings of the official signing of the contracts for the four slum clearance projects and the city's official acceptance by New York Mayor Vincent R. Impeliteri of the check from the Federal Housing and Home Finance Agency. The program was transcribed earlier today for broadcast at this more convenient time. This is the municipal broadcasting system.