The Office of War Information presents its director, Elmer Davis, in his weekly report to the American people at home and to America's fighting forces overseas. Each week, Mr. Davis will review the progress of the war on the fighting and home fronts and discuss issues of direct importance to the prosecution of the war. Mr. Davis. The chief news this week was the beginning of the Allied push to throw Rommel's army out of Tunisia. Some gains have been made, but after six days of hard fighting, there has still been no decisive success. This is not to be wondered at. Our troops are facing an army of veterans, probably about equal in numbers to the forces that can be brought against them, and commanded by a very able general. Also, Rommel has the great advantage of the Marath Line, which the French once built to defend their Tunisian frontier against the Italians, a fortified zone five or six miles deep. Last November, it took General Montgomery's army ten days to break through the German positions at El Alamein, which were much less heavily fortified. This time, Montgomery's forces pushed through for several miles early in the week, but they had to fill in a road through a deep gully to get supplies to the advanced troops, and a German attack on that bottleneck regained most of the lost ground. There's no doubt that the Eighth Army will soon get going again on this front, which is probably the most important and certainly the toughest of the various fronts in the Tunisian campaign. But three other Allied forces are attacking at the same time. While Montgomery was attacking the Marath Line from the front, he sent a mobile column, consisting chiefly of New Zealanders, to outflank that line from the south. They came up without meeting much opposition to a point behind the Marath Line, some 30 miles from the sea, but there one of Rommel's tank divisions was waiting for them, and there has been some hard fighting whose outcome is still uncertain. This column, too, is likely to find its chief trouble in supply. It had to come a long way around. Our big advantage in that quarter is the Allied superiority in the air. Our planes have already inflicted considerable losses on the enemy tanks. Then farther to the north, two American columns have been striking eastward toward the sea. If they make much more progress, they will cut Rommel's line of retreat. But they are thrust pretty far forward and run the risk of being pinched off themselves by a sudden concentration of enemy forces. Now, obviously, General Patton knows this as well as we do and is ready to handle it. Already, one fairly heavy counterattack has been repulsed, and Secretary Stimson remarked the other day that our forces, which had had comparatively little previous battle experience, had more than justified themselves against Rommel's veterans. Dispatches from the front say we have outfought them, man for man and gun for gun. But there's still a lot of hard fighting ahead, and as Mr. Stimson has warned us, heavy casualties before Rommel is licked. Those American columns, like the others, will find their chief difficulty in supplies. Tank divisions use a lot of gasoline. Artillery and infantry use a lot of ammunition. Soldiers have to eat food. One of these American columns advanced 100 miles in four days. That means a stretching out of a supply line which was already long enough from the front back to the Algerian ports that are our bases. Meanwhile, the mud still makes heavy action impossible in northern Tunisia, and it looks as if this first phase of the campaign will have to be fought out in the south. Rommel has the advantage of interior lines which enable him to shift his forces from one front to the other. And he also has short supply lines to his bases in Sicily and Italy. He's still getting plenty of reinforcements in men by transport planes at night. But Allied planes and submarines have been doing heavy damage to the shipping that brings over the heavy supplies which an army needs. Destroyers, submarines, and even transport planes are bringing supplies over now in the dark, but it seems doubtful how long he will be able to get as much as he needs by such means as that. Certainly the tanks he loses are going to be hard to replace. But he is a smart fellow who can be counted on to make good use of what he's got. And the longer he can postpone defeat, the longer will the Allied attacks on southern Europe be delayed. The action in Russia is slowing down somewhat on account of the thaw and the mud. In spite of the recent successes of the German counterattack in the south, the Russians managed to regain most of the ground that the Germans occupied last summer, besides inflicting very heavy casualties on the German army. Discouragement with the campaign in Russia may account for the recent increase in the German exaggeration of their submarine successes. They always exaggerated them, but for a long time the percentage of exaggeration was fairly constant. You could be sure that each month they would say they had sunk just about so much more than they really had sunk. Now they suddenly boost their claims a good deal higher. Nevertheless, though the submarine situation is nowhere near as bad as they say it is, it continues to be bad enough. There have been heavy losses this month, and there may be heavier ones as weather improves in the North Atlantic. The weather works both ways. In spring and summer, the submarines will have a better chance to sink our merchant shipping, but Allied navies will have a better chance to sink submarines. The increasingly close and active cooperation between the British, American, and Canadian navies will increase the rate of destruction of submarines, and as Mr. Churchill has just reminded us, thanks to vigorous shipbuilding, the United Nations have more ships afloat now than last year, and this improvement is continuing. But when a ship is lost, a valuable cargo is lost, and some or all of a trained crew may be lost. The submarines can be licked in the sense that the damage they do can be steadily reduced, but that can be done only by diverting to the anti-submarine campaign men and materials that could be used elsewhere. We had one instance of that already, when some of the material and construction capacity that could have been used to build synthetic rubber plants had to be used instead to build escort vessels to protect our shipping. Now we have another. One of the most useful weapons against the submarines is heavy bombers, long-range four-engine bombers that can patrol the sea lanes. The anti-submarine campaign needs more of them to see that our men and our materials get to the fighting fronts. But also, more of them are needed in Tunisia. More of them are needed by our air forces in England for the round-the-clock bombing offensive against Germany. Now this air war will never beat the Germans all by itself, but it makes a considerable contribution to ultimate victory. It has damaged German industrial production and the German transportation system and will damage them still more. And it compels the Germans to keep at home a very large amount of anti-aircraft artillery and a considerable force of fighter planes that the German armies badly need on other fronts. British bombers of shorter range but carrying heavier loads do the work at night. Our liberators and flying fortresses, long-ranged and heavily armed, attack in the daytime and occupy the attention of more enemy fighter planes than the night raiders and knock off a good many of them too. The more flying fortresses over Germany, the fewer German fighter planes to help their ground forces in Tunisia. So we need more big bombers on that front as well. And on still another front, the Pacific. General Kenney and other air officers from that area are now in Washington and they too need more bombers. They've done brilliantly with what they have. The great raid on the Japanese base at Rabaul the other day seems to have done very considerable damage. But they face an increasing concentration of enemy forces in the islands north of Australia. And even if that is a concentration for defense, as seems probable, our forces could use more big bombers to soften it up and prepare the way for the eventual reconquest of the lost islands. And we could use more bombers in China too. All these pleas for more come up to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Admirals Leahy and King, Generals Marshall and Arnold, and they have to allocate the supply where, in their opinion, it will do most good toward the end of beating all our enemies as soon as we can. And there is never enough to go around. Our aircraft production is prodigious and is steadily increasing. But the thousands we turn out each month include all kinds of planes. Big bombers, medium bombers, light bombers, fighters, even trainers, though the proportion of these is decreasing. Big bombers, four-engine bombers, the kind they need in the Pacific and for the protection of convoys and for the bombing of Germany, those big fellows never have been and probably never will be more than a small percentage of the total. Yet every commander in every theater can give you a perfectly sound argument why he ought to have more of them. And it's the business of the chiefs of staff to pass around what we have got as well as they can. There are plenty of tough jobs in Washington, but no civilian job is anywhere near as difficult and complex as that of the men who direct our armed forces. Many of you earlier this evening heard Anthony Eden addressing the Maryland General Assembly urging international cooperation after the war. It will not be enough, said Mr. Eden, for one country or even two to display the qualities necessary to protect the peace. It will take all that America and Britain, Russia and China and the United Nations can offer. This is the pattern of post-war cooperation that most people seem to think of. All the United Nations working together, but with the four great powers necessarily playing the principal part. As to how this might be done, there's still plenty of divergence of opinion. Seven different resolutions on that general subject have already been introduced in the Senate with maybe more to come. But the Senate this week adopted a procedure for giving about the most expert possible consideration to these proposals, present or future. The Foreign Relations Committee appointed a subcommittee of eight to study them. Senator Connolly is chairman, the members are all experienced men, and they represent about all shades of opinion on this topic. Also, Mr. Connolly indicated that they would consult with the State Department, which for some months past has had various groups of experts studying the conditions that will have to be taken into account when peace is made. all of which obviously aims at a cooperation between the executive branch and the Senate, which was absent at the end of the last war, with the consequence that that peace settlement failed. Domestically, the principal news, of course, is food, with point rationing of meats and fats beginning next Monday. Remember that these foods are being rationed as were other foods earlier, because the needs of our army and of our allies' armies have drawn heavily on the supply and because rationing is the fairest way to distribute what is available. There have been complaints of local shortages. These conditions will undoubtedly be improved as the distribution of the food products is readjusted to new conditions, but the food situation will probably never be altogether satisfactory while the war lasts. The President has just drafted a new food administrator, Chester Davis, who has had long experience with these problems, and who is to control the production and distribution of food with some authority on food prices. Substantially, he takes over the wartime functions of the Department of Agriculture, with its normal functions still conducted by Secretary Wickard. Meanwhile, the Senate sent back to committee a bill which would have increased farm prices and, according to Price Administrator Prentice Brown, would have added $2,300,000,000,000 a year to the nation's food costs. It's gone back now for restudy. I have received a few letters asking me to devote less of the time of these broadcasts to military news and international politics and more to the ways in which the war touches the daily lives of the civilian public, rationing, and other wartime hardships. Well, I may do that when the occasion requires it, but just now the newspapers with their charts have done an excellent job of explaining rationing to the public, and it seems to me that we might all profitably think less about the annoyances and inconveniences that the war has brought to us personally and more about the cause of those annoyances and inconveniences, the war itself. A war fought for the preservation of the right to run ourselves, for the preservation of our freedom in a world where experience has shown us that no nation can count on preserving its freedom unless it is willing to fight for it. That war is being fought, luckily, a long way off by American citizens who are suffering greater inconveniences, greater dislocation of their daily lives, than we citizens who stay at home are ever going to have to worry about. If we go short of this or that, it is to help those citizens who are doing the fighting to win the war. You have heard Elmer Davis, director of the Office of War Information, in a broadcast arranged to summarize the week's developments of the war's progress at home and at the fronts. The next broadcast will be heard at this same time next week. Elmer Davis spoke from Washington. Thank you.
