This is London Calling. The British Broadcasting Corporation presents Radio Newsreel. In this edition, George Darling reports events at the first day of the British Labour Party conference in Bournemouth. Kenneth Matthews describes the present day scene in Bulgaria, and group captain Philip Dorte explains how he and his engineering team accomplished the television broadcast of the Victory Parade. This is Jack Peach speaking for Radio Newsreel from London. The annual conference of the British Labour Party has begun in Bournemouth. Each year, the Labour Party elects one of its members, not necessarily a nationally known political figure, as chairman of the party. This year, Professor Harold Lasky holds this office, and today he gave the opening speech at the conference. Here now is Radio Newsreel's observer, George Darling, to describe the gathering, and to introduce excerpts from Mr. Lasky's presidential speech. George Darling. Hello London. This is George Darling reporting the annual conference of the British Labour Party from Bournemouth for Radio Newsreel. More than 1,200 Labour Party delegates and hundreds of visitors and supporters have crowded into the conservative stronghold of Bournemouth on England's south coast, to pass judgment on the first year's work of the Labour government. This Labour conference is in a joyful mood. The delegates are still flushed with the victory they won at the polls last year. And on only one subject, is there a shadow cast over the conference? And that's the shadow of international affairs. The presidential address of Professor Harold Lasky, that quiet, ascetic, scholarly figure, who certainly doesn't look the bogeyman he has often painted, his address expressed the mood of the delegates. Mr. Lasky said that the Labour government could be proud of its record in home affairs. And then he turned to the darker scene of international disagreement and had these pointed observations to make. First on Spain and Greece, he said this. As a socialist party, we must regard it as a tragedy in which our responsibility is grave, that Spain is still crushed beneath the ugly tyranny of Franco. And nothing would persuade us to regard the revival of the Malachist tradition, embodied in a Vatican-sponsored bourbon, as relevant to the liberation of the tortured people. Comrades, what is true of Spain is true also of Greece. For us as socialists, the return of the king would be a sorry end to the brave struggle of a nation which first taught the world the significance of freedom. Then Mr. Lasky spoke of the lack of agreement among the foreign ministers of the big four countries and among the members of the Security Council. He claimed that their failure to agree on the principles of peace was jeopardizing the economic recovery of the world. It was turning a defeated Germany into a festering sore in civilization. He declared that the British people want friendship with Russia. And he appealed to the leaders of Russia to accept the cooperation of Britain in these words. I asked them, having experimented with this trust, to experiment in friendship. Let capitalist governments mistrust one another. That distrust is inherent in capitalist society. But governments like the Russians and our own are the sureest hope of peace where they find the world to the same end and combine their strength to fight whatever dangers they may encounter on the world. And then, on the troubled question of Palestine, Mr. Lasky made this appeal to the government. I do not ask for a Jewish state in Palestine. I admit it then. The situation there is too complex for so simple a formula. But I do ask that both swiftly and straightforwardly, the government make it possible for that tragic remnant of 100,000 displaced Jews in Europe to be given direct access to the Palestine. Mr. Lasky's presidential speech was a curtain-raiser to the big debate on foreign affairs which will be held on Wednesday. George Darling has presented excerpts from the speech by Professor Harold Lasky at today's meeting of the British Labour Party's annual conference. Part of that speech was an appeal for greater cooperation between Britain and Russia. Closer friendship is earnestly desired, for there still exists on the European continent what Mr. Churchill and Mr. Attlee have called the Iron Curtain. We have just received a report from one of those Eastern European countries, Bulgaria. Kenneth Matthews, the BBC Balkan correspondent, has cabled a brief portrait of present-day conditions in the Bulgarian capital of Sofia. This is what Matthews reports. In Sofia, the capital city, I found my hotel room exactly as I had it in 1939, a month before the war began. I looked round me for evidence of Allied occupation, but the Red Army is not in the cities. The first Bulgarian money which came into my hands was a pre-war banknote printed by a British firm of printers. Bulgaria may not have escaped war, but she has certainly escaped the worst consequences of it. There are gashes torn in Sofia streets where Allied bombs fell. They are minor injuries compared with the destruction which the enemy wrought upon the cities of Yugoslavia or the villages of Greece. Bulgarians are short of food and clothes, but there are no queues at Baker's, and everybody seems able to live modestly and dress smartly in the towns. Prices have risen five or ten times, but inflation has been stopped, and the citizens' little yellow book of coupons secures him the necessities of life. A dominant Russian influence in Bulgaria is shown by the gigantic pictures of Marshal Stalin and Mr. Molotov, which hang in squares and public buildings. Of native heroes, the only one so honored is George Dimitrov, Bulgarian communist who defied Goering at the Reichstag fire trial long years ago. Dmitrov is now the uncrowned king of Bulgaria, living a secluded life and moving abroad only with an eight-man bodyguard. One of the most attractive signs of Russian influence are the girl traffic controllers. They replace the Red Army girls who perform the same job, and they wear rubber boots, white cotton blouses, and white tam-o-shanter caps. They signal with a yellow flag and a red flag, which they whisk about with a speed which dazzles the eye. I watch two of them going off duty, with their arms round each other's shoulders, and walking affectionately down the street, with their revolvers swinging at their hips. Politics monopolize every conversation. Bitter, as Balkan politics invariably are. But people speak very freely, and opposition newspapers are sold freely on the streets. But just now, they are commenting on the trial for treason of two prominent opposition leaders. Opposition never was an easy task in the Balkan countries, and it's certainly not easy in Bulgaria today. But if Bulgarians are uncharitable to one another, they overflow with friendliness towards the outside world. An Englishman finds a warmth of welcome here to which he's not accustomed. And this from a people with whom we were recently at war, and with whom we have still not made a peace. That was a cabled report from Kenneth Matthews, BBC's Balkan correspondent. Our next item concerns the big victory parade held in London last Saturday. From a point opposite the saluting base in the Mao, BBC television cameras broadcast the pageantry as it passed by His Majesty the King. Conducting the broadcast was group captain Philip Doherty, who is in charge of the outside broadcasting department of BBC television. Now he will explain how he and his engineers accomplished the job of televising the victory parade. Group captain Doherty. Although the official range of BBC's television station at Alexander Pairless in North London is only 40 miles, Saturday's television of the victory parade was clearly seen at Ipswich in Suffolk, some 70 miles away, and at Minehead in Somerset, about 170 miles away. I'm not suggesting that it could, by any freak reception, have been picked up in, say, Egypt, India or Burma, or that the day is fast approaching when such television ranges will be possible. One radio correspondent describes how he and a large party of friends saw it in a dark and private drawing room in Kelford. When they saw it, he swears, better than many people in the mall itself. He continues, On a steady and brightly lit screen, ten and a half by eight and a half inches wide, we twenty viewers, without training our necks, could rub a neck for whole minutes on end, the famous personages who crowded the saluting base. The pictures were so tanned that we could see the cufflinks on Mr. Churchill's sleeves and the bristles of Mr. Atley's moustache. We could look our fill at Queen Mary as she smoothed her gloves and bobbed and tapped her left hand with her program. And then he goes on to describe the parade that follows. Monty and the other operational commanders of the three services, the long armoured column, the marching column and the RAF fly past. How did we do it? Well, in front of the saluting base in the mall, the Office of Works had erected a huge stand to accommodate the soundboard casting commentators, the press, the newsreel cameras and our television cameras. We had three of these, one fitted with a wide-angle lens for long shots, a second with a narrower-angle lens for medium shots and a third with a telephoto lens for close-ups. And myself, surrounded by keen and capable engineers, stood inside a large van popped behind the stand. And here, in what can best be likened to the interior of a submarine, I looked at the pictures from the three cameras, selected the best for any given moment and gave the necessary order for it to be transmitted to Alexander Pellis for retransmission by the main television station. And just in case you think that sounds a pretty cushy sort of job, I'll just conclude by telling you that I was never able to relax or stop talking for the whole two-half hours of the parade. I've been to an intercom system, like you have in a tank or in a banner, and I've given the whole time non-stop instructions to the cameramen on where to point and pan their cameras, and to the vision and sound mixing engineers on which picture and sound to select. And at the same time, I was spurring on the commentators to ensure that they didn't continue talking too long about a vehicle or detachment that had already passed the cameras and which viewers had therefore lost sight of. Quite an exciting time. But then you see, television is exciting. Thank you, Group Captain Philip Dorsey. We bring to your attention now tonight's food fact. Rationing in Australia during the year ended in March saved 25,000 tons of butter, 200,000 tons of meat, 75,000 tons of sugar, and 4,000 tons of tea. This has been the BBC's Radio Newsreel, broadcast nightly for 2,165 nights. And so until our next edition, we say goodnight from London, England. Mr. Wait. Our engineer Tommy Frank says it's noisy. Why wouldn't it be? We're on the call. What is your name? It's all friends. And, uh, you live in Brooklyn, don't you? What? I have a lot of time. I haven't had much time. Thanks, Dave. I'm just bored. I'm bored. I'm bored. You like Brooklyn, don't you? Yes, I adore it. You live in the neighborhood? Yes. Whereabouts? What's the way? Oh, I'm going to flip the car and make it up. What? I'm going to flip the car. It's even more so when the old Atlantic Avenue ferry was running, wasn't it? That's our ferry landing. A little more traffic. You had to watch that baseball game a little closer, didn't you? Yes. Well, thanks a lot, Saul. I think you did very well sticking up for Atlantic Avenue and Clinton Street neighborhood. Can you come over, Steve? Here's a young lady, and she happens at one day. Are you all related to her? Well, this young lady is related to Saul. What is your name? Ness Strasser. Ness Strasser? Well, that sounds like a breeze. Ness Strasser, you're saying, Ness Strasser, you're saying, Ness Strasser. That's just that. There goes the silver plane over Gowanus. What do you think of this section in Oklahoma? I think it'll stick up to your neighborhood, Ness Strasser. I certainly do. I think quite a bit about it. You lived around here, too, have you? Oh, yes. Were you born in this neighborhood? Mm-hmm. That's right. Well, that's very interesting. And, uh, saying that, there's a pharmacy for the staff. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. In celebrating its 300 anniversary, Brooklyn can point with pride for its contribution to the growth of the United States. The last three centuries have seen what was then a tiny frontier hamlet grow until now. Brooklyn has almost three million inhabitants. It is no secret that all Brooklynites are proud of their borough and those who live and labor in this community are justified in their pride. Much has been done upon the soil they tread to build strongly the foundations of this republic. It was a battleground during Revolutionary War days. It was in Brooklyn that the ironclad Monitor, the North's answer to the Merrimack, was built. It was in Brooklyn that the largest single contribution to the cause of the North was raised in the struggle between the states and during this last war more than 327,000 men and women from our borough served in the armed forces. The industries of this borough and the people who labor in them work tonight and day to provide the materials necessary to the successful completion of that war. Now on our birthday, we have cause to celebrate because most of our sons and daughters have returned victoriously and we can live in peace, harmony and contentment side by side regardless of national background and in spite of the fact that we enjoy different religious beliefs. In a world where there is much of hunger, we are thankful for food. In a world plagued by disease and malnutrition, we are grateful for health and strength. And in a world filled with loneliness and bereavement, we thank God for friends and good fellowship which exists in our borough. Tomorrow, the flag of our country will be displayed all over Brooklyn as a symbol that out of the recent world chaos, a new dawn will arise and bring with it an enduring peace. In remembering our achievements of the past, we look forward to an even more prosperous and brilliant future for the greater city's greatest borough, the borough of Brooklyn.