The wealth of Illinois is in her soil and her future lies in its intelligent development. This inscription is carved in stone across the front of the old agriculture building at the University of Illinois. A statement recognized by the farm planners of the university who set out to increase Illinois wealth through the soil. This accomplishment and its value to the people of the state can be measured in millions of dollars or in increased yields or in food or in the lives of the men devoted to this work. In the public interest we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. The University of Illinois is known around the world for its research accomplishments in agriculture, agriculture, the results of which are being applied by the farmers in this and other states. Work with such farm crops as soybeans and corn, with cattle and hogs, with garden crops and fruits, even with the soil itself. This work has not only brought the farmers of Illinois many millions of dollars each years. But it has meant also a more abundant food supply in peace and in war. Today's story tells about one of these important contributions, the Illinois system of permanent soil fertility. And it had its beginning many years ago. The University of Illinois When the University of Illinois opened in 1868, there were 50 students, three teachers. The curricula offered six subjects. But its founders believed that there was a need for such a school. Perhaps they, or the first faculty, or the Board of Trustees, might have looked into the future then and seen the campus growing, seen more buildings and a greater enrollment, and the days when the Peach Orchard and the South Farm would give way to an elm arched broadwalk and green lawns. Well, these things did happen. The campus grew, enrollment grew, and most things changed. But there's one thing that has remained the same since 1876. And today, as students hurry about the campus, they're more than apt to be surprised when they find... Hey, look at that! What? Over there! A cornfield! Sure! Didn't you ever see that before? No, I guess it's about the first time I've been over here on South Campus. Well, aren't you glad you came with me today? You learned something new. Yeah, but how come? I mean, what's a cornfield doing on campus? That's the Morro Plot. So? They've been here 70-some years. 74, I guess it is. But why? It's an experimental plot. And all these years, they've been planting crops and checking results. Corn, oats, and clover, some with fertilizers and some without. Yeah, but what for? To see what's the best thing for the soil. But who cares? Why don't they stop worrying about this piece of land and put another building on it? It's not that land they're thinking about. It's the farms in Illinois. Land that means millions of dollars to our people. And for that matter, land in Canada and Greece and plenty of other countries. You don't say. Now, come on and don't ask so many questions. You want everybody to know you're a freshman? The Morro Plots. Less than an acre on a corner of the campus. Planted as part of a program under the direction of a professor of agriculture, George Morro. The university early recognized the need for a program of soil improvement under strict control. And these plots mark the beginning of one of the most extensive soil improvement programs in all of history. But farmers throughout the state were skeptical. What do those book farmers know about farming? Soil doesn't wear out like your overalls. But the experiments went on just the same. And in 1894, a man by the name of Cyril G Hopkins joined the university staff to conduct research in soil and crop improvement. He knew that there are 10 elementary substances that bear the same relation to the growing of crops as brick and mortar bear to a wall of masonry. If any one of these 10 elements is entirely lacking, it's impossible to produce a grain of corn or wheat, a spear of grass, or a leaf of clover. Dr. Hopkins as a chemist also knew that some of these elements which were removed by the growing crops had to be replaced. The Morro Plots could prove this, but he had other ideas. And so, Dr. Hopkins set out to prove his theories. The work he intended to do couldn't be done in the laboratory, or on the university's farms, or on the campus. Instead, he traveled to the southern part of the state and began making inquiries about farmland there. I'm interested in buying a farm, a poor farm. That is, one where the soil's very poor. Poor soil? Yeah, surely there's some property around here that hasn't been doing well. Some place where the crops hardly grow. Why, I reckon so. Why'd you ask? Well, as I said, I wish to buy it. Buy it? No good land. That's it, exactly. What for? To farm it, and see what might happen if some scientific methods were applied. Man, you feeling all right? Well, I'll pay a reasonable price. Well, you ought to know what you're doing. I guess you might try buying poor land farm. Poor land farm? That's what we call it around here. About 300 acres of gray soil, a few acres of timber, about the lowest crop acreage I know of. Fine. Now, if you just tell me... Dr. Hopkins purchased poor land farm at a cost of less than $20 an acre. As he'd been told, he found the land was poor, the crops small, the soil neglected. That was 1903. For 10 years, he worked with that soil and the crops in that land. Until in 1913, poor land farm had quite a reputation. Ain't poor land farm anymore. Why, that fella has the best crops in the county. Just heard today that a 40-acre field of his produced over 1,300 bushels of wheat. Did you ever hear of such a thing? Almost 35 bushels to the acre. Must be some kind of secret ways, Goddard. Or maybe just had good luck. But it wasn't just a case of luck. And Dr. Hopkins' system was no secret. If anyone was interested, he could inspect the farm. He could see an actual line down the center of the fields where special treatment of the soil crops had been used. And the other part of the field, cultivated like the rest of the farms in that part of the state. If anyone asked, he'd explain his system. Poor land farm is operated solely from the economic standpoint. The fields formerly noted for their poor crops now have good ones. It's all been done through a six-year rotation of crops. One year each of corn, oats, and wheat, and three years of meadow and pasture with clover and timothy. Important too has been our use of limestone and phosphate. Now, on this particular field of 40 acres, the estimated cost of limestone and phosphate was about nine dollars per acre for six years, or an average annual cost of a dollar seventy-five cents per acre. This annual investment resulted in the increase of 24 bushels of wheat per acre in 1913, a total of 864 bushels, or an amount efficient to furnish a mere supply of bread for more than 100 people. This wasn't the only project which Dr. Hopkins was supervising. In 1906, he began an experiment reclaiming eroded land and controlling soil washing. The university established other experimental fields throughout the state to study crop rotation and the value of various fertilizers. All these things were incorporated into what became known as the Illinois System of Permanent Soil Fertility. But we can't tell the farmer what his land needs when we don't know the composition of his farm and his soil. So, in 1902, a statewide soil survey was started. Samples of the soil have been taken every few rods in 79 counties in the state. These samples were sent to the university for analysis and then reports were published for each county containing colored maps and indicating the type of soil on every farm. And through this work and our other experiments, we've learned many things about Illinois farmland. For example, we've learned that crops mature faster and produce increased yields when their soil is properly managed. Above all, we've learned that soil treatment is profitable. Well, aren't there some other things you're overlooking? How about seed and temperature? And now, we've got to see the about seed and temperature and moisture and light. Don't they have something to do with the success of a crop? Yes, of course they do. They're important too. But the thing over which you farmers have the most control is the food your crops get. You can completely change the amount of food in the soil, you know. Take nitrogen, for example. Now, most crops remove nitrogen from the soil, yet it's one of the most important plant foods and must be replaced. Yeah, and it's also the most expensive. If you buy nitrogen for the soil, yes. But on the other hand, if you depend on legumes such as clover, alfalfa, and soybeans to supply the nitrogen, you'll save money and save your soil. Those legume crops put nitrogen into the soil, or other crops take it out. But supposing I do plant clover, or alfalfa on my land, how do I know they'll turn out good? If your soil has the right foods, they will. Proper rotation of crops, plus limestone and other necessary minerals. But that costs money, and it takes labor. Yes, but you'll be money and land ahead. Other crops will be better, your soil richer. That's why the University of Illinois is urging all farmers to use legumes and limestone in their crop rotation system. Gradually farmers of the state began adopting Dr. Hopkins' suggestion. In 1906, only 122 tons of limestone were used by Illinois farmers. But by 1947, that had grown to some five and a half million tons. The farmers were literally turning stone into bread. And what does this mean? The facts are hard to comprehend, but listen. For every ton of limestone applied to almost all types of Illinois soil, there is a net gain of about $14 in increased production. This figure is based on conservative estimates. Therefore, this five and a half million tons, now being applied annually, means an economic gain of at least $77 million to the state. Illinois set an example for other parts of the country and for the world. In 1918, Dr. Hopkins was asked to go to Greece to assist that country in producing more food. With one assistant, an Illinois graduate who had come to America from Greece, Dr. Hopkins undertook this new project and showed these people how production of their staple food grains could easily be doubled. He recommended the application of sound, proven methods of soil treatment, a system of crop rotation and fertilization. And he recommended a college of agriculture and experimental fields and the teaching of agricultural methods in the schools. When he left Greece years later, the people looked on him as a god. They followed him through the streets and gathered to hear him speak. Dr. Hopkins died at Gibraltar en route home in 1919, but his work was carried on in Greece and at the University of Illinois. Today, the moral plots still stand on the Illinois campus. The oldest soil experimental plot in the United States and the oldest corn experimental plot in the world. Here, and on other experimental fields located in 34 counties throughout the state, the University proves before it recommends. We know now that the soil will wear out just as a pair of overalls might. One piece of the moral plots proves that. For 73 years, it's been working without help, with no rotation of crops, no fertilizers, just growing corn year in, year up. At one time, it could produce 50 bushels of corn per year. Now, it barely produces 25. Another strip right next to it has had a three-year crop rotation of corn, oats, and clover, and plenty of fertilizer. This piece of land is producing 50% more crops now than it could 70 years ago. According to Professor F.C. Bauer, who is now supervising the experimental work done in these plots, they might be compared in terms of a hundred-acre farm. On that basis, the least efficiently operated, which originally represented 100 acres, has now declined to 29 acres. The one with soil treatment and beneficial rotation has literally grown to 132 acres. The wealth of Illinois is in her soil. Men such as George Morrow and Cyril Hopkins have recognized this important fact and have devoted their work to improving agricultural methods, increasing Illinois wealth through her soil and through research. Through the Illinois system of permanent soil fertility, the University of Illinois has erected another milestone of progress in their unending line of research, research which goes beyond teaching. interested in teaching. Upodziсте , , , , , , ,
