Democracy on the job. In New York State, your chance to get the job, to keep the job, to grow on the job, is protected by law. To eliminate and to prevent discrimination in employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin, that is the mandate given by the legislature of the State of New York to the Commission Against Discrimination, to protect the qualified worker, to protect the fair employer. These are the daily tasks confronting the five-man commission. What can they do? How do they operate? The answers to such questions are found in the weekly meetings of these five commissioners. At these meetings, Chairman Edwards presides. The meeting will come to order, please. Commissioner Thayer is next on the agenda with a report he wishes to make. Thank you, Chairman Edwards. When the law against discrimination was passed, some honest, thoughtful critics felt that while the intent of the law was certainly praiseworthy, discrimination was so much a part of the emotional fiber of certain human beings that it was futile to hope to rule it out by law. Now, after five years of operation, we have the answer. The case I want to report to you now is part of the evidence. I'd like to begin with an account of a conversation I had with a certain Mr. Meadows. Now, see here, Commissioner, I have as much respect for law and order as the next fellow has, but I don't take that to mean that I've got to let you or any other government agency tell me how to run my business. We are not telling you how to run your business, Mr. Meadows. You, no one but you, set the standards which you expect your workers to meet. You employ people who you believe can meet these standards, right? Of course it's right. But, Mr. Meadows, the reason you're here is that you didn't live up to your own claim that you'd employ anyone who met your standards. That girl didn't meet my standards. Indeed? How do you know? You didn't even see her. I didn't have to see her, Commissioner Thayer. I've employed colored workers before. They're never satisfactory. Why not? How do I know? They just aren't. Surely you've hired many white workers who weren't satisfactory? Well, sure, sure I have. And yet you don't hold the failure of some against all the rest. Commissioner, women come to my salon to keep thin, to get massaged. They don't want such personal attention from a, from a Negro. They resent it. You mean you think they'd resent it? I mean I can't take chances. I could assure you that you wouldn't be taking a chance at all if you hired a really qualified operator for your salon. But suppose we try an experiment, Mr. Meadows. I want you to see this young woman, Miss Eleanor Trent. See if her training and experience meets your requirements. If they do, hire her. Oh, you just want me to ask for trouble. Nothing of the sort. Let's try it. I don't ask this lightly, Mr. Meadows. Remember, you and I are enforcing a law which expresses the desire of the people of New York State. We have their will to back us up. What do you say? Well, let's try it. Have her come around tomorrow morning. About ten will be all right. Well, I suppose your training and experience is quite satisfactory, Miss Trent. I, I only have a part-time opening available, if you'd be interested in that. Oh, yes, I'd be very interested. Very well, very well. You can start on Monday morning, if you like. Thank you, Mr. Meadows. Thank you so much. I, I want you to know how much I appreciate this. Oh, never mind thanking me. You might as well know, Miss Trent, I wouldn't be doing this if I hadn't been talked into it. And I still think it's a crazy thing to do. Oh, Mr. Meadows. It isn't your fault. Although I must say, Miss Trent, to be perfectly frank and honest, I don't see why you people want to force yourselves where you... Where we're not wanted? That's the way I felt too, Mr. Meadows. But Commissioner Thayer told me that the one thing the commission ever allows is for the law to be used to get a job for someone who doesn't deserve it, who isn't qualified. That would be using the law to force a worker on an employer. Mr. Meadows, I, I spent a lot of time, money, and effort to train for this kind of work. I just want a chance to show you that I can do it. Well, it sounds great. Just great. We'll see how it really works. We'll see. Now, Miss Trent, you go on downstairs to the office, and they'll fill out all the necessary papers, and give you a locker and all that. Report for work at nine o'clock Monday. Hello? Meadows speaking. Good afternoon. This is Commissioner Thayer. Now what's wrong? I hired the girl this morning. Yes, I know. I just wanted to ask you why you hired her at a lower hourly wage than you pay the others. Oh. She's reported that to you already, huh? She reported at my request. We have to keep track of these matters, Mr. Meadows. Yes, I see that. I wish you'd believe it's for your benefit more than for ours. I suppose you think I should pay her the same as I pay the others. Yes. It's not only the legal thing to do, it's the wise thing to do. Now, you told me during one of our talks that you always had trouble with Negro workers. Don't you think that trouble might be caused by the fact that you pay them less? Yes. I should think anybody, whatever his color, might resent being paid less than others for doing the same work. Don't you think so? Oh, what do you expect me to say? You people are going to drive me out of business. It may be that we'll improve your business for you, Mr. Meadows. That I'd like to see. All right, Commissioner, we'll do it your way. She'll get the regular pay. Oh, excuse me. I'm looking for Locker 29. Oh, right over here next to mine. Thank you. You're new here, aren't you? Just starting today. I'm glad to hear it. We need a new maid around here. That other dame gives me a pain. Oh, I'm not the maid. No? Wait a minute. You mean you're going to massage them dames out there? That's what I'm here for. Kind of asking for trouble, aren't you, kid? Am I? Why do you say that? Never mind. I was just talking. Say it's 9.30. We better get out there and get to work. There's fat to be pounded off out there. Oh, boy, what a day. What women will go through to be beautiful. Oh, I'm bushed. How'd you do, kid? I didn't do anything except sit around. Mr. Meadows says I'll have to wait until a new customer comes in. Someone who doesn't have a regular girl who massages her. Well, you won't have long to wait. This joint does a land office business. You'll get on all right. I don't know. I wonder whether the other operators like to have me here. They don't say anything, but they look at me so strangely. You sure it isn't your imagination? Maybe it is. I don't know. Sure it is. Forget it. It's easy to say. Forget it. Then what are you going to do? Quit? Oh, no. No, I'm not going to quit. Eleanor. Eleanor, do me a favor. Are you busy? No, not right now. I have an appointment in half an hour. Then will you go into booth three and give Mrs. Brooks a treatment? Brooks, but she's your best customer. I can't help it. She barged in here without an appointment. I can't take her. I'm too busy. All right. I'll go in and see if I can help her. Mrs. Brooks? Yes. Yes. Well, where is she? What's keeping Clara? I'm in a hurry. Well, Clara won't be able to help you. She already has an appointment. She asked me to come in and massage you. What's that? Clara asked me to massage you for her just this once. You? You? Why, I... But I never have anyone but Clara. Where's Mr. Meadows? I want to see him at once. Mrs. Brooks, please, just one moment. Is it the color of my skin you're objecting to? I said that I wanted Clara, or at least one of the girls I know. You're new and inexperienced. Mrs. Brooks, couldn't you look at it this way? Just pretend that I'm not me at all. I'm just a pair of hands, that's all. Well... You can do that, can't you? Just this once. You see, there's no other operator free to serve you at the moment. Well, I really don't see what else I can do. I must have a massage at once. Very well, but get it over with quickly. Mrs. Brooks. Mrs. Brooks. Yes, Mr. Meadows. I've just heard that Clara couldn't be with you. I hope you were satisfied with the treatment you received? Quite satisfied, thank you, Mr. Meadows. Good afternoon. Oh, she doesn't come back again. If I've lost my best customer, I'll have something to say. I'll have plenty to say to that Commissioner Thayer. Ah, Mr. Meadows, come in. I understand you want to see me. Yes, I do, Commissioner. Sit down, won't you? Thank you. Well, I was told that you'd be wanting to talk things over with me sooner or later, so I just dropped in to get it over. Glad you did, Mr. Meadows. Well, how did our little experiment work out? Commissioner, if it weren't happening in my own place, right under my own eyes, I wouldn't believe it. Never. What wouldn't you believe? What's happening with that Trent girl. I gather from your tone of voice that everything is satisfactory. Oh, it hasn't all been simple and easy, Commissioner. Don't get that idea. Oh, I know the problems, Mr. Meadows. Yes, I guess you do. I admit it sure beats me. Now, you take that Mrs. Brooks. From the way she acted the first time that Trent massaged her, I'd have taken a note that she'd never come back again. But she did. And if she didn't ask for an appointment with Trent. You don't say. Yeah. Told me that Trent was the best operator I had in the place. Now, she won't have anyone else. He insists on Trent. But she's got to make her appointment plenty in advance because Trent is about the busiest operator I have. Even if she's been with me only two months now. Oh, this is good news, Mr. Meadows. Now, you don't sound exactly surprised. If not surprised, I'm certainly pleased. Ah. You figured it would work out like this, didn't you? I hoped it would. We found that it always does in cases similar to this. It just seems that prejudices evaporate whenever they're really exposed. And trouble that you expect never somehow shows up. Well, Commissioner, I guess we sure settled this one. We certainly did, Mr. Meadows. I'm grateful for the cooperation you've given us. Oh, it was nothing, nothing. That is, I mean, I'm grateful to you folks, Commissioner. You kind of taught me something, if you know what I mean. Well, so long, Commissioner. Good luck and all that. And that is my report. In our recent review of the case, we found that Miss Trent is still working at the salon. She's on a full-time basis now. It's been a very satisfactory case all around. Thank you, Commissioner Thayer. And so, once again, we can say people of all creeds, races, colors, and national origins can work together if given the chance. It can be done. It has been done. The facts are real. The name's fictitious in the case of Eleanor Trent. And now I'm happy to introduce Elmer A. Carter, one of the five commissioners, to be interviewed by William H. Reynolds, chairman of the commission's Queens County Council. Mr. Reynolds. Thank you. Will you please tell us, Mr. Commissioner, what you feel was the most significant aspect of the case of Eleanor Trent? The fact that the employer's fears proved groundless when the test came. That, Mr. Reynolds, is what stood out in my mind about this case. Yes, it is often economic pressures that cause employers to discriminate. Is it not, Commissioner? Let me amend that slightly. It is the supposed economic pressures, the fear of losing money that holds back progress. When employers see that this fear is completely without foundation, their resistance melts away. Then we cannot judge the effectiveness of this law by the number of cases, can we? No. One case successfully adjusted may affect hundreds, even thousands of workers. It affects not only the particular firm, which figured in the episode, but it often affects the employment policy in a whole industry. You're right. Each of those cases speak louder than words. Yes. Each one shows that a fair policy is a profitable policy. Thank you both, gentlemen. Friends, write to this station or to the New York City Office of the State Commission Against Discrimination at 270 Broadway for a special pamphlet, An Equal Chance. The commission also has offices in Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and White Plains. Remember, this is your law. It protects you. Use it. Listen in next week at this same hour for the next program of Democracy on the Job. In New York State, your chance to get the job, to keep the job, to grow on the job, is protected by law. To eliminate and to prevent discrimination in employment because of race, creed, color, or national origin. That is the mandate given by the legislature of the state of New York to the Commission Against Discrimination. To protect the qualified worker. To protect the fair employer. These are the daily tasks confronting the five-man commission. What can they do? How do they operate? The answers to such questions are found in the weekly meetings of these five commissioners. At these meetings, Chairman Edwards presides. The meeting will come to order. Next on our agenda, a report from Commissioner Carter. Thank you, Chairman Edwards. My report concerns the work of one of the local councils which we appoint under the law against discrimination. As you know, these councils are of great value. Because for one thing, they're made up of civic-minded men and women who give their time freely and gladly to building better human relations in their own communities. And for another thing, they're often in a position to tackle a problem which is outside the enforcement jurisdiction of this commission. My report illustrates the value of these councils and how they operate. The problem which confronted this council first came to light in a local high school. It was after school had let out. The door of a classroom opened slowly and a boy timidly entered the room. You... you want to see me, Miss Wilson? You asked me to come back here after school. So I did. Come in, Vincent. Come in. Sit down. And don't look so worried, Vincent. I guess I know what you want to talk to me about, Miss Wilson. It's the grades I've been getting, huh? Not the grades exactly, Vincent. Grades are only a measure of what you're learning. What I'm interested in is how much you're learning. Yeah, I know. Tell me, Vincent. Aren't you interested in history? It's okay. Perhaps you think history is just old, dead and gone stuff. But it isn't, you know. Sure, I know that. Well, then why don't you work a little harder at it, Vincent? You know, if you put just a little effort into your studying, you'd be one of the brightest students I have. Oh, what gives you that idea? Don't kid yourself. Vincent, I don't understand you. Look, Miss Wilson, you got some idea I could get good grades if I just worked harder? I know you could, Vincent. I can tell these things. Well, you're wrong about me. I couldn't do any better no matter how much I worked. I get low grades. That's the best I can do. Now, Vincent, you're just giving up. Or you're making excuses for being lazy, which is even worse. Now, you just try for a while. I'm not going to try anything, Miss Wilson. It's nice of you to bother about me, but I won't do no good. The best thing is for you to stop wasting your time on a deadbeat like me. Vincent, what kind of language is that? Vincent, come back here. I got nothing else to say. Oh, where? Excuse me, Mr. Garson. Where are you going in such a rush, young man? I got to get home. Good night, Mr. Garson. Now, hold on a minute, Vincent. What's up here, Miss Wilson? I wish I knew, Mr. Garson. There's something really bothering him, but I can't get at it. Whatever it is, it's stuffing up his brain. Did I hear you call yourself a deadbeat, Vincent? That's pretty bad. Look, Mr. Garson, Miss Wilson, I... I don't want you to think I don't appreciate your wanting to help me. But don't you see, it wouldn't do any good. What wouldn't do any good? If I did study and get good grades. No, I don't see that at all. Look, Mr. Garson, take the class you teach, electrical shop. I like electrical shop. Yes, I know you do. You're very good at it. I'd even like to really learn something about it. Maybe go on and work my way through college. Right, you could be an electrical engineer. Yeah, that's what you think. Well, of course you could. What would stop you? Plenty. But what? What is it? I don't know what you'd call it. Maybe it's just because I'm me. Because my name is Vincent Esposito. I don't understand what you're talking about, Vincent. Look, Mr. Garson, where I live, there are a bunch of fellas like me. Robert DeSantis, Tony Pinsari, Pietro Mangiani, they're all the same. You mean they're all Italians, of Italian parenting? That's right. Well, Robert worked his way through school to be an architect. And you know what he's doing? He's working in a factory. Oh, he gets good pay and all that. But all that special work he took, oh, gosh. A fellow a couple of blocks from us, named Joe Dubinoff. He wanted to be a construction engineer. He got his degree. He's a clerk in his father's little candy store. I understand what you mean, Vincent. I can't deny that it's often difficult for people of foreign parentage, and for lots of other groups, too, to do what they want to do, what they're best fitted to do. But it certainly isn't always the case, Vincent. Don't you think it depends a great deal on the individual? Why, there are many, many men and women of foreign extraction who are leading figures in this country. I don't say there aren't. Only they have to be about ten times better than anyone else. I'm not too sure I'd be so much better than everyone else that I'd get anywhere. I can't knock myself out, ask my parents to sacrifice themselves to help me through school, and then come out and be nothing. I might as well make up my mind that I'll make a living as an electrical repairman or something like that and be satisfied with it. There's no sense in talking about it, Mr. Garson. That's just the way it is. And that, commissioners, was the way it stayed as far as Mr. Garson and Vincent were concerned until one day some months later, Mr. Garson attended an annual convention of the Vocational Guidance Counselors Association. There he heard a speech given by a certain Mr. Gilbert, a member of our local council. Mr. Gilbert finished his talk with these words. It is of particular importance that you counselors who are in everyday contact with young people who know their capacities impress upon them the importance of this law against discrimination. Under this law, they are assured of equality of opportunity and employment without regard to race, creed, color, or national origin. They need not hesitate to train according to their aptitudes. And if they are trained, the law will see to it that they have a fair chance for obtaining employment in the field of their choice. Now, if you have any questions, I'll try to answer them. Mr. Gilbert, what you say about this law is very encouraging, but there's a serious difficulty as I see it. Now, many of us deal with youngsters who see discrimination against their families and friends. They see it every day. They've reached the point where limited opportunities are accepted facts of life. It's become a tradition with certain nationality groups. It is, you might say, an emotional conviction. Now, simply to tell such youngsters that this law protects them is not enough to convince them. No amount of explanation and reason can overcome the facts of their everyday experience. What can we do about that? You have a point there. There's no doubt that that is a problem. Well, I can't give you the answer right now. We've never looked at it quite that way. I'd like to put it to our council at its next meeting. And if you give us your name, I'll keep you informed. That is how Mr. Garson put the problem to me. I think it's something that we have to consider seriously. Indeed we do, Gilbert. Do any of you wish to comment? I do, Mr. Chairman. Let me give you the other side of the picture. Please do, Mr. Norwood. In my firm, we're in desperate need of qualified, highly skilled personnel. But we can't hire them locally as we'd like to do. Why? Because in this community, as in all communities, we have many people of foreign origin, as well as those of certain racial and religious backgrounds, the so-called minority groups. These people, apparently feeling they'll be discriminated against, don't usually train for the highly skilled jobs. Then they aren't qualified, and we can't hire them. Or if they do train for the better jobs, they're apt to leave the county when they look for employment. It's a vicious circle, and everyone loses. You're right, Norwood. Well, what do we do about it? And believe me, something has to be done if this community hopes to prosper. I suggest it be taken up by this council's special employment committee. Now, you're chairman of that committee, Mr. Norwood. Will you call a meeting at your earliest convenience? There's the problem, gentlemen. Now, I've asked Commissioner Carter to come here today and give us his advice. As you all know, he's the commissioner who works with this council. What do you think, Commissioner? Well, obviously, I think this is an issue which must be faced very squarely by this committee and by the council. The question is, how are you men in this room, representatives of top management of all the leading industries of the county, how are you going to convince the young people here that you mean what you say when you tell them you'll hire them for top jobs if they train themselves to perform them? Well, it occurs to me that the simplest way to convince them is to tell them ourselves, to let them know directly that we have an employment policy, a policy which states clearly that the only basis on which we hire personnel in any capacity is merit. This statement should come not only from those of us in this room, but it should come from all employers, big and little. It should be the voice of this county speaking to the youngsters. Every young man and woman in the region must hear of it. We'll take every measure at our command to show that these are not mere pious intentions, that this is a standing, meaningful policy. Oh, Vincent. Yes, Mr. Garson? Come here, I have something to show you. It just came in the mail. This is a poster which I'm going to put up in the main hallway. I want you to read it first. Go ahead, read it. Yes, sir. We, the undersigned employers of this county, believe that the opportunities in industry should be available to everyone without regard to race, creed, color, or national origin. Go on reading, Vincent. We are pleased to cooperate with other industries in the state in developing an employment program to the highest standards possible to attain. We signify our willingness to cooperate with this policy in the selection and the advancement of the employees in our business. That's all it says. Not quite. Look at the list of employers who've signed that statement, Vincent. Yeah. Yeah. I guess it's all of the big ones. The big ones and the little ones, Vincent. They've signed their names. They mean what they say, Vincent. I guess they do. So, uh, you know what you must do now, don't you? Sure. Sure, Mr. Garson, I know what I've got to do. I'll do my best, sir, my best. And your best will be plenty good enough. Good luck, Vincent. Good luck, Vincent. Good luck, Vincent. Good luck, Vincent. Good luck, Vincent. Well, I'm sorry. Good luck, Vincent. Good luck, Vincent. That's exactly what that's done. I am happy to report, commissioners, that young Vincent is coming along very nicely now with his studies. And he's working toward a scholarship, which will see him through a course in electrical engineering. But this is more important than an individual case. His problem was solved by the local leaders of industry themselves. They did it working through their local council as set up in our law. This is an aspect of the law of which we can be very proud. That's splendid, Commissioner Carter. I suggest we inform our other councils of this action. It may help them in dealing with their own problems. So, we see again how the law against discrimination operates in all its aspects to demonstrate that men and women of all races, colors, creeds, and national origins can work together harmoniously, if they're given a chance to do so. The facts are real. The name's fictitious in the case of Vincent Esposito. And now I'm happy to introduce to you John B. Sullivan, the commission's director of education. Mr. Sullivan, will you explain to us the role of the commission's councils? Gladly. To put it briefly, the council is the educational arm of the commission in the local community. It is concerned with preventive as well as corrective measures. The councils get to the very roots of the matter, the causes of prejudice and discrimination. I see. And are the council members appointed by the commission? Yes. This gives them official status. They represent, as far as possible, a cross-section of the community. Do they serve without pay? They do. Was it hard to secure the interest of the employment committee which acted upon the case of Vincent Esposito? Definitely not. There was 100% attendance at that meeting. These busy men, important men, cared that much about building better human relations in their community. That's the spirit that underlies this whole law, is it not? Securing voluntary cooperation wherever possible. Yes, and that's the spirit of America. Thank you, Mr. Sullivan. Friends, write to this station or to the New York City office of the State Commission Against Discrimination at 270 Broadway for a special pamphlet called An Equal Chance. The commission also has offices in Albany, Binghamton, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and White Plains. Remember, this is your law. It protects you. Use it. Listen in next week at this same hour for the next program of Democracy on the Job. You're welcome. Thank you. Beautiful. Thank you.