The People's Platform. Ghost towns everywhere are turning into boom towns. Thousands of workers are looking for homes in factory towns humming with defense activities. Who should provide the houses, government or private capital? Will emergency housing become the slums of the future? Is a housing shortage delaying the defense program? These are some of the pertinent questions which Lyman Bryson has asked the mayor of a large city a government official, a newspaper publisher and editor, and a real estate executive to talk over with him on this weekly People's Platform dinner party. Mr. Bryson's guests are Cornelius D. Scully, mayor of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania Jacob Crane, assistant United States coordinator of defense housing George Backer, publisher and editor of the New York Post and Arthur W. Binns of Philadelphia, housing chairman National Association of Real Estate Boards. And now we turn on the concealed microphones in the dining room to bring you Lyman Bryson and the People's Platform. Mr. Crane, that brings up something, and I think it would be good, at least for me, to know this. There's a big, vague discussion about housing and about defense and how much of it is needed. Has the agencies of government made any recent survey which would show us the actual needs for defense housing now? Yes. The estimates, of course, are tentative, Mr. Backer, necessarily because the defense program itself is still in the process of formulation. It changes constantly and it expands very rapidly these days. However, for the housing of defense workers as such, that is, workers engaged in activities in military establishments and in defense industries, ignoring for the moment the housing of the rest of the population, which is a very important corollary, the need for houses, we believe, will run somewhere in the order of 200,000 to 300,000 houses. And how much money has so far been appropriated through the various agencies to meet this contingency? Is it something around $290 million? About $290 million. That's for, of course, government housing as such. But doesn't that include the allocations in the Army and Navy bills? Yes. That's, of course, including the appropriations for the housing of families of enlisted personnel. The land and bill? The land and bill? Does that mean, Mr. Crane, that it's taken for granted that the families of enlisted men will be moved to some neighborhood close to their military camp? The families of enlisted personnel, of course, have to live within striking distance of the military establishment. And the housing projects being built for them are located sometimes just alongside and sometimes within the commuting distance. In a few cases, as far as 20 miles away. Of course, in that problem, in that particular situation, Mr. Crane, I don't think there's any argument. The government, where it cannot see that housing can be secured or that it's already been built for personnel, would have to build it. Otherwise, there would be no realism in the whole picture. But let's think for a moment about the wider aspect. And I was wondering what Mr. Binns thought. You said that some 300,000 houses, I think, were necessary under the defense program purely for workers engaged in defense. Now, the top amount that you've got authorized by government so far is some $290 million. And I don't want to say how much those houses will be, but the dwelling unit itself would mean that you're taking care of no more than 65,000 or 70,000 houses. By that appropriate, perhaps 80,000. Well, I have Mr. Barker, pardon me, but is that what Mr. Crane said? Did you say, Mr. Crane, that we needed 200,000 or 300,000 houses just for the people who were going to go to new places to work on account of munitions development? Is that what you said? Or didn't you include in that the military movement? For workers and their families, including these categories, but only these. I might say executing troop housing. I see. It doesn't include soldiers. That's right. Just people working in the military. It does, however, include married enlisted personnel of the Army and Navy in their establishments. Well, how large it is. Civilian workers in Army and Navy establishments and civilian workers and their families in defense industries. In those categories, the present estimate of need is something on the order of 200,000 to 300,000 houses. Of course, we have always believed that private enterprise could handle some large portion of that total, whatever the total turned out to be. Well, Mr. Crane, that means, doesn't it, that a great many houses are going to be built for people associated with the troops, like civilian employees of the Army and families of enlisted personnel and so on, who will go back to other communities when this thing we call an emergency is over, unless you presume that we're going to keep this many men under arms indefinitely. Yes, and of course, the defense housing program intends that no defense work shall be impeded by a lack of housing on the one hand. It also intends that no house built for defense work now shall be wasted after the emergency. So we have a double-edged problem there. And on the use of houses afterward, if we find, on good authority, that the houses can be absorbed in the community afterward, they are built as permanent houses. If we find that that's unlikely, then we are turning to the demountable house, so-called a house which can be, if need be, removed to a different location afterward. I'd like to ask Mr. Binns if real estate men ever were that sure that they could guess whether or not a piece of property was going to be useful five or six years from now. Isn't that rather prophesied? I know it's a business, but don't they lose occasionally, Mr. Binns? Oh, yes, you mean the demandable house now? No, no, I'm talking about Mr. Crane's remark that the government was going to decide whether the house would be permanently useful. We talk about that, of course, on the basis of the advice of real estate men and my mother. I see. Well, you pin it on them if you can. Well, you pin it on the one side, anyway. But I think, yes, very decidedly that one can predict the usefulness of a house for quite a while in the future. For instance, most any of the well-established cities have been going on for a great many years and will go on for a great many years. And my... No slums in these well-established cities? Oh, I didn't say that. My idea, my hope was, Mr. Bryson, that these houses could be so built, nice open spaces around, that sort of thing, that when the emergency passed, that some of the wretched houses could be abandoned and in turn rebuilt, taking in... Mr. Binsett's a very, very nice bit of wishful thinking, and I hope it will work out. You sound very doubtful about it, Mr. Mayor. Well, Mr. Bryson, it seems to me that in the discussion of this thing, we ought to first decide whether or not we are in an emergency. Then, if this is an emergency, we ought to take care of the emergency, and the rest of this program ought to be incidental. Now, I'm very glad to try to have it fit in to city planning and all that kind of thing. Well, I think this, of the four of us here, the mayor is the one who comes most in contact with the housing shortage or the demand for housing as it actually exists in a large industrial city. We are, the rest of us, more or less theoretical about it. Of course, Mr. Binsett has a passion for a solution of the housing problem, and I think that's his life work, and I think that that is a possibility. But the mayor is confronted with this thing, not theoretically, but as it actually exists. Now, in Pittsburgh, is there really today a shortage of housing that is liable to impede the efficiency of the steel mills and the rest of it? A very serious shortage. Of course, we've had a slum clearance program, and we've been tearing down 500, 600 more houses a year, which are unfit for habitation. We've substituted a substantial number of dwelling units in our housing project, of which I think Mr. Crane is even a little more familiar than I am. At least from a scientific standpoint. But that doesn't answer our question. We share with the rest of the country in the loss of about 200,000 normal increase a year. That is, we have failed, the country throughout has failed to put up that many houses. What do you mean by that, Mr. Mayor? You mean we don't build that many houses that we ought to have? Up to the last war, there were 400,000 houses a year built to take care of the increase in population and the... And obsolescence. And obsolescence and so forth. Now then, since the war, the whole country hasn't averaged 250,000 houses. About 230. Yes. May I answer your point, Mr. Mayor, on the question of the relative importance of the several sides of the consideration? Of course, first and before everything else is the emergency. And if we find that the emergency interferes with any normal economic process, then the normal economic process should be thrown overboard. Let's have your opinion on that, Mr. Binns. Is this great enough to interfere with the normal economic? Well, it's my opinion that the two are very closely related. You aren't willing to throw everything overboard in order to meet the emergency. If Germans were storming Philadelphia from Bunker Hill, I certainly would throw everything overboard. But I believe there's a tremendous lot that can be done. And there's no use to get hysterical and completely lose our heads. It's no matter of theory with us in Washington, Mr. Binns. If you could see the telegrams we get and telephone calls from admirals and commanders of military establishments and manufacturers, to the effect that they cannot get and keep their people carrying on the defense activities for which they're responsible now in preparation. Well, of course, Mr. Crane, I don't doubt that in the least. But all that I'm pleading for is that as much of that work that you do that has to be done and will take as long to do it, perhaps as you'll have to do it in an unsound way, as it would to do it soundly and with planning, because you were very efficient down there and you can move very fast, that that be planned so that it fits in to the ultimate need of the community. Well, I think nobody could disagree with that, Mr. Binns. As a matter of fact, I think we're much more fortunate in this particular emergency than we were in 1917 for the simple reason that at that time we had no intelligence, really, on this whole problem. There were no municipal housing authorities. There were no community plans for long-term development. There wasn't even in the federal government any agency equipped to do anything about housing. It was created in the war, the United States Housing Corporation, and it never got going until the end of the war, really. We have now a background. We've had city planning. Mayor Scully said that they are pulling down 500 houses a year in response to a program. All I would like to see happen in that is to use the brains and experience that we've now got to make that program go much faster, and I think that's what you want. Not only to make it go faster, but not to worry, and this is the thing that I am fearful of, that because of the fact that we cannot see to the end, that we cannot know what particular use will be made of all the housing, we are liable to hesitate in fulfilling the present emergency. And it's the same as with our defense program. It's either all out or, yes, but we've got to be worried about what will happen after the emergency is over. I think that in this instance we ought to go ahead without that second thought in mind. If it's an alternative either of doing that or interfering with the defense program, then, sir, I absolutely agree with you. But after all, we've got an economic structure which is just as important in a way as our military structure. We've got to eat. And this business of just throwing over all normal economic procedure, tax exemption particularly, is a matter which has very long-range implications. But tax exemption, Mr. Binns, doesn't worry me. That's amazing. You'll be interested to know in our... It's good to know there's one mayor in the world that isn't worried about where his pay is coming from, Mr. Scully. Our credit in Pittsburgh is good. The last money that we borrowed in Pittsburgh, we borrowed at decimal 2215. Oh, oh. I want to point out... Less than one quarter of a percent. You ought to have paid people for taking that. I want to point out also here that in the defense housing program, the Lanham Act, which is the largest single governmental source of funds for defense housing, provides for payment for municipal services and thereby does not impose on those communities a tax exemption problem. Is that the reason you're not worried about tax exemption, Mr. Mayor? No. I... When I say I'm not worried about tax exemption, in the city of Pittsburgh, under a Supreme Court of Pennsylvania decision, we can't tax the real estate of utilities and we lose practically a mill in taxation on our annual income. In the housing proposition, it was costing us about $126,000 a year, $140,000 a year to serve and police this area that we put in our housing project. We were assessing $125,000 of taxes and actually collecting about $25,000 now. You mean you were collecting about a fifth of what you assessed? Yes, and the property going... No, the bad... ...and we are getting a return from the housing authority on account of services. And the people are living in better houses. Yes, that's the main point. There's an interesting angle of that matter also, that incomes are rising quite rapidly now. Wages are rising, incomes are rising, and the revenues of public housing projects are rising. And they will be able to begin paying some taxes where they weren't even two years ago. That's the tendency, of course, of the American economy, and it's a very hopeful sign in my mind. The thing that gives me more concern about this defense housing now than anything else is this. We all want to do it. We all know the need of it. But we have a number of agencies tremendously interested in having any very authoritative cooperation among those agencies. And we have a... We have a... Maybe I'm wrong now, but I think that's true. You ought to be looking at Mr. Crane when you say that. And we have the power to go ahead. Yes. I must answer that the President, about ten days ago, appointed a coordinator of defense housing, and gave him certain specific responsibilities in that problem. Is he the authority to say to him, go, and he goes? He has the authority to recommend to the President. Only to recommend. And the President then has the authority, of course, to designate the agency and to coordinate that work. Where will the money come from? There. The money comes from two main sources, of course. Government funds, on the one hand, under the $100 million Army-Navy bill, the allocation to the RFC and defense homes, and the Lanham Act, and some from the USHA... Didn't the President set aside $10 million to... Yes, the President allocated $10 million to the RFC, which is used to the defense homes corporation. And the second main category, of course, is private funds through private operators. Yes, I think tremendous progress has been made in the straightening out of the various agencies at Washington, and our National Association is very happy indeed with the work of Mr. Charles Palmer. We believe even to be a most able administrator and best qualified man we know of for that job. But let me come back again, Mr. Crane, to the point that you made. You say that, or perhaps it's made by Mr. Bryson, that all funds in sight only represent $60,000 out of $200,000. Or something like that, Mr. Backer. Now, regardless of theories, after all, it is very necessary that all possible effort by private initiative be stimulated to supplement and build up your program. Now, for the very object of defense itself, so that the emergency really is supported and aided by stimulating private capital and private initiative in the field. Now, there are certain things that don't help private initiative. For instance, the spectacle of large-scale, permanent government ownership of housing is a thing which is very depressing to any private initiative. The spectacle of a policy of tax exemption is very depressing. And the spectacle of government competition is depressing. Now, if, as under the Lanham Act, I'll quit in a minute. Under the Lanham Act, there was a tremendous encouragement to private capital. The first time we saw there an effort on the part of the government to support and stimulate private housing meeting this need. And I think every developer, every real estate man, every builder in the country is just desperately anxious to do his part on the program. Well, I don't think there's a... Any of us would impugn the patriotism or desire of real estate on it. But there's nothing in the emergency which will overcome the original reason or the original necessity for government-subsidized housing. And that is that there are, unfortunately, too many people in the country who cannot pay an economic rent. And one of the only solution, we were forced to it by years of experience, was that we had to do it through some form of subsidy. Now, there's nothing that I can see in the present picture that is changing that. But there is another aspect of what you said, Mr. Ben, that interested me very much. I don't think that the spectacle of great housing developments financed by government funds or by municipalities ought to in any way inhibit private owners because it doesn't impinge on their field. And as a matter of fact, I would say that in the long run, it's a great help to private ownership. And I mean it in this way. In the city of New York, for example, because of the condition of our general housing, we maintain a fire department sufficient to treat the city as though it were built of wood. And the reason is that we have large areas of slum. I don't know how much the cost of running New York City would be brought down if we were to completely eradicate slums. There was a study made, as you remember, Mr. Mayor, in Cleveland on that whole thing, which was very, very illuminating. And you yourself have just said that you collected less taxes in a given point than you had to spend in services by your city. Of course, Mr. Backer, you and Mr. Binns and the Mayor, of course, also know that we are applying a very simple formula which you touched upon in giving form to the defense housing program, namely that we assign to government housing the portions of the need which cannot pay economic rent and leave, at least temporarily, to private enterprise those portions which can pay economic rent. If that can be done in time, the last qualification, of course, is an extremely important one. And we're not permitted in this situation to wait until it is too late. Mr. Crane, may I ask a question? How can private industry do it in those places where the need for the housing is immediate as to time and immediate as to location and the private owner refuses to deal on a basis that will allow the private builder to properly do the job? Now, how do you answer that question? If this is an emergency and a crisis, how do we handle it? Well, they're jumping on the private owner here, Mr. Binns. Well, I wish that I'm on the spot here because there's two distinct issues. Now, if you talk about defense housing as an emergency, all bets are off. I say full speed ahead regardless of economies, regardless of everything. if any other than that plan interferes with the emergency. Now, if you're going over into sound economics, long-term planning on low-cost housing as such, then I sharply disagree on some of these points. For instance, Mr. Backer very ably pointed out that the USHA and the low-cost housing program was motivated because of the inability without subsidy to reach the utterly penniless and the utterly poverty-stricken groups. But, to me, the great flaw in his approach is that the program which has been proposed is utterly inadequate, is impossible of realization, and can't ever do the job because there simply isn't enough money in the world to do it that way. it would cost $100 billion to meet the need by 100% government subsidy as to principle of the cost of housing. And you cannot... You mean spread over 60 years. Yes. And you cannot... Just a second, I'll be there. And you cannot permanently house a third of the population or something like that in what amounts to tax-exempt housing. Somebody somewhere has got to pay this bill. And my criticism of the policy of low-cost housing as now laid out is that it is ineffective, that it can't be realized, and that it's going to defeat the ends that it allegedly seeks to serve. It's clear to the end that it isn't possible for us to admit here or anywhere that this, the richest country in the world, cannot afford to house its people decently. We have got to find devices for doing that, not only as a matter of normal American economy and the normal American equity, but also as a part of the defense program. Our position, it seems to me, must be that decent housing for defense workers does such is one thing, but that decent housing for all American families is an inevitable part of total defense requiring total health and total morale of our people. To which we heartily agree. Correct. But do you have a substitute, Mr. Benzler? Yes. The present program won't do what will. Certainly we have a substitute. In the first place, we feel there's a fundamental mistake in the philosophy. The subsidy, we feel, should be given to the family, a rent subsidy to the family. I can't, I can't, I can't, I can't, we don't have time to discuss the whole thing, but in the main, the subsidy of permanent bureaus or bureaucracies that are in business over long periods of years and are subsidizing brick and stone set up an arrangement which is pernicious in my opinion. Now, if you subsidize the family, the family may get off relief. But Mr. Then, then, Mr. Backer, then you can make up the difference between the rent that the family can economically pay and the rent that you have to have in order to balance it by your subsidy. Now, yes, you're going to say, I'm just going to say this, that the old experience of the state since the time of Rome is that when you directly subsidize the family, you make a series of dependents who will never, if they can help it, get off it. That's why the greatest thing that we did since 1932 was not to directly subsidize families but to put them on work relief so that they did something for it. And though that cost us more money as a nation, it has improved the morale and it has made possible a viable community, a community which is now ready to face a defense test. Housing is a, as Mr. Crane has said, no government can contemplate for a long time the fact that one-third of its people must live below standards. That government has failed if it must accept that as a condition of life in its country. The hundred billion dollars that you spoke about is a very curious figure. It's like saying that if we have our national debt of 45 billion and we keep it for 40 years we will spend 120 billion dollars. That's quite true. But, actually, economically, I think it can be figured out that in health, in services, in the morale and efficiency of the community, if we had not a single slum in this country, rural or urban, we would be able to meet this defense program with half the expense that it's going to cost us. There isn't any question that the efficiency of a person and his morale enter in to the ultimate cost of any object. Which is granted. Well, once you grant it, then you say that we must meet this problem. I do. Then once we say we're going to meet it, how shall we do it? Here we are, a democracy. We have organized in this country 500 commissions in municipalities and in counties made up of the very best people conscious of their civic duty. They have made surveys and studies of their communities. They know each of them the peculiarity and the condition which they must meet. This is, after all, a great decentralization of authority. This is not a bureaucracy. This is the people themselves in their communities through their elected representatives and their appointed commission solving their problem. Well, it isn't a fiction because 150 of them have already taken place. And in those 150, I think the record is very, very great and very good. It's something that we all of us, I think, look on with pride. I see what is worrying you. You are, and I am sympathetic to what you say. You feel that because a certain amount of it is done, it casts a pall over the rest, the area where free enterprise can exist. But I think, and I think this is really true, that we will have a healthier state, one in which free enterprise will be more vigorous if we have no dispossessed third, even if as a nation we must subsidize the houses that they live in. Well, no, there's no question about that. We're in a complete agreement with that, but I say you and I seek the same end. But I say the road down which we're going won't take us to that end. I say it's the wrong road. We've got to get there. We've got to house this third, and we've got to do as well. As Lyman Bryson and his guests continue their informal discussion on housing and the National Defense Program, we leave the People's Platform. Tonight's guests were Cornelius D. Scully, mayor of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Jacob Crane, assistant United States coordinator of Defense Housing, George Backer, publisher and editor of the New York Post, and Arthur W. Binns of Philadelphia, housing chairman, National Association of Real Estate Boards. Next week, the People's Platform will bring you a discussion on the president's foreign policy. This is the Columbia Broadcasting System.