Applications for the New York State Veterans bonus are now being distributed throughout the state. In the wake of as large an undertaking as the payment of this bonus to nearly 1,700,000 men and women who served with our armed forces during World War II, and to the next of kin of deceased veterans, there are bound to be questions arising from some of this great number of ex-servicemen and women. Now from Albany in a special recording made at the New York State Veterans Bonus Bureau, three gentlemen who have an answer for every quiz on the veterans bonus are about to answer typical questions concerning application for the New York State Veterans bonus. These gentlemen are Mr. Leo V. Lanning, Director of the State Bonus Bureau, Mr. Gerald E. Rowley, the Assistant Director, and Mr. Raymond B. Madden, the Assistant Counsel for the New York State Veterans Bonus Bureau. And now to our questions, gentlemen. And number one is directed to the Director of the Bonus Bureau, Mr. Lanning. How can a veteran tell whether or not he is eligible for the New York State Veterans Bonus, Mr. Lanning? You are eligible if you meet each of the following qualifications. One. Active duty as a member of the United States Armed Forces at any time during the period beginning December the 7th, 1941, and ended September the 2nd, 1945, both dates inclusive. Two. Discharge under honorable conditions if the veteran is no longer in the service. Three. New York State residents for at least six months immediately preceding enlistment, induction, or call to active duty. Also, New York State residents at the time of making application, whether discharged or still in the service. Mr. Rowley, here's a letter from a veteran who asks, How do I apply for my New York State World War II Veterans Bonus? By filing with the Veterans Bonus Bureau at Albany an official application form completely executed and accompanied by required actual size photostatic copies of discharge or separation certificate with record of service. Most applicants will have to submit merely one form. Mr. Madden, I believe it's your turn now. Will you list the places where a veteran may obtain these application forms? Forms are available at all offices as of the veteran servants agencies and counseling centers of the State Division of Veterans Affairs. Also at local posts of recognized veterans organizations. Also at district offices of the State Department of Taxation and Finance in New York City, in Brooklyn, Jamaica, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and Utica. And at the Department Central office in Albany and at offices of county, city, town, and village cliques. In the five boroughs of New York City, the forms are also available at approximately 300 firehouses. Rather complete list, Mr. Madden. Well, now here's our next question. When the Bonus Law, which is effective January 1 of 1948, refers to members of the armed forces, what does that cover? I wonder if you would answer that question for us, Mr. Rowley. The law defines members of the armed forces as members of the United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or any of their respective components, and members of the Public Health Service or Coast and Geodetic Survey, while engaged in active service with the Army, Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard. Membership in any other organization or agency does not qualify you for the Bonus. Well, here's a veteran who evidently has been in the pay line quite a few times, and he's interested in the amount of his Bonus. Mr. Madden, I wonder if you'll answer that question for us. The Bonus will be the highest of the following, which applies in your case. One, $250 for services of any duration outside the continental limits of the United States during the period from December 7, 1941 to September 2, 1945 inclusive. Two, $150 for services of more than 60 days during that period within the continental limits. Three, $50 for service of 60 days or less during the same period within the continental limits. Mr. Madden, since you're the Assistant Counsel of the New York State Veterans Bonus Bureau, I think I'm going to ask you to answer this next question. How does the law define continental limits? The law designates them as the states of the United States and the District of Columbia. Territories as Alaska and Hawaii are outside the continental limits. Mr. Rowley, back to you again. Is it necessary to have served outside the continental limits for any specific length of time in order to qualify for the maximum bonus of $250? The Attorney General has ruled that any ordered service of any duration outside the continental limits between December 7, 1941 and September 2, 1945 qualifies the veteran for the $250 bonus. Now back to Mr. Madden. Here's our next question from another veteran. What are the residence requirements under the bonus law? The residence requirements are twofold. First, it will be necessary to show that you were a resident of the State of New York when you entered the service, and for at least six months immediately before enlistment, induction, or call to active duty. Secondly, you have to be a legal resident of the State at the time of making your application for the bonus, whether discharged or still in service. Well, here's another interesting letter that poses this question. I quote, I quote, Because of the nature of my business, I spend much of my time out of the State, but I consider Buffalo, New York as my residence. I entered the service from this State and had lived there more than six months before induction. Do I meet the residence requirements of the bonus law? Mr. Rowley, I wonder if you'll answer his question. The bonus regulations define residence in the State as follows. A resident of the State is an inhabitant of the State, a person having an abode, a home, a domicile in this State, and who regards the State as the place where he lives. Absence from the State on business, pleasure, in Federal office, employee or service, or for reasons of education or health, is not of itself inconsistent with residence if the absence is temporary. When you apply, give all of the facts concerning your residence. A determination will be made on the basis of the facts. Well, along the same vein, Mr. Madden, I wonder if you'll answer this question. Here's a veteran who writes, I understand there's a residence certificate on the bonus application form. I wonder if you'll explain its use and purpose. Mr. Madden? Included on the application form is a residence certificate, which must be signed by an adult friend or acquaintance, not a relative, who is a resident of New York and knows where you resided before entering service, also where you reside at the time of making application for the bonus. And now, Mr. Rowley, back to you, and will you supply the answer to this veteran's question? If there is doubt about my qualification as a resident, will my bonus application be turned down? If your application does not clearly establish your residence, you may then be asked to make out a detailed special domicile questionnaire. But to speed up handling of your application, you should furnish all the pertinent facts with your original application. If an application is tentatively disapproved or finally rejected, reasons for the decision will be given. The veteran then may request a review and hearing by the Commissioner of Taxation and Finance. Back to you, Mr. Madden, for the answer to this next one. Here's a veteran who writes, Am I entitled to the bonus if my discharge is not specifically of the honorable type? A dishonorable discharge definitely disqualifies a veteran. But unless your discharge is dishonorable, the veteran or his next to kin should make application for the bonus. And you will be advised of approval or disapproval after a determination in your case has been made by the Bonus Bureau. And now another answer is required from you, Mr. Rowley. As a veteran writes, Will I be required to submit proof of my service with my bonus application? Yes. If you are eligible veteran no longer in the service, your bonus application has to be accompanied by a full-sized, not reduced, photostatic copy of your original discharge or separation certificate with record of service. That means, photostatic copies of both sides of a discharge certificate when a man's service record, showing dates of service and areas in which he served, are on the reverse side of the discharge. It means a photostatic copy of the discharge certificate and a photostatic copy of a man's service record, when the latter is a separate paper. Well, now that definitely indicates that when a veteran is making out his application form, it will be absolutely necessary for him to use full-sized photostatic copies of his discharge. That is correct. And unless he does that, there is quite a good possibility that his application form is going to be returned as incomplete. That is also true. In other words, veterans, may we advise you to be sure that the discharge papers are photostatic in full size. And now on to another question, and Mr. Madden, I wonder if you'll answer this next one for us. I understand that bonus applications must be attested to before a notary public. Is that true? Or suppose we'll revert that question over to Mr. Raleigh. Mr. Raleigh, would you care to answer that one for us? Applications must be sworn to before a notary public, commissioner of deeds, or other officer authorized to administer oaths. Well, now we're getting around to the final question on our session of questions and answers about the New York State Veterans Bonus Law. I think that most of the veterans who have been listening to our program so far are interested in how soon they are going to obtain their bonus checks. And in that category, here's a letter from a veteran who asks, when will I get my bonus check? Mr. Madden, I wonder if you could supply the answers. The bonus applications will be processed as quickly as possible in the order of their receipt as complete applications. Every effort will be made to complete the job as rapidly as is consistent with sound administration. It is certain that the applications will, at the outset, be received at a much faster rate than the applications possibly could be examined, checked, and approved or rejected. Care and accuracy in preparation of your reapplication is one way you can ensure speedy handling. I'm sure that we've passed along a good deal of information, but here's another question which another veteran poses. Mr. Raleigh, I'm going to call on you for the answer to this one. Where can New York State residents get further information locally about the bonus? At service agencies and counseling centers of the State Division of Veterans Affairs in all parts of the state. At district offices of the State Department of Taxation and Finance in New York, Brooklyn, Buffalo, Rochester, Syracuse, and Utica, are other central offices in Albany. From local posts of veterans organizations and in New York City at the Veterans Service Center, 500 Park Avenue. Thank you very much, Mr. Raleigh, Mr. Lanning, and Mr. Madden. Our time is just about up. From Albany, in a special program recorded at the New York State Veterans Bonus Bureau, these have been typical questions from veterans throughout the state concerning the New York State Veterans Bonus. The answers have been supplied by Mr. Leo V. Lanning, Director of the Bonus Bureau, Mr. Gerald E. Rowley, the Assistant Director of the Bureau, and Mr. Raymond B. Madden, who is Assistant Counsel for the Bonus Bureau. They join me now in this very good advice to all New York State veterans and to the next of kin of deceased veterans who will be making application. Prevent needless delay by being sure your application is accurately made out and meets all requirements. This program has been produced by the State Radio Bureau. And now here's your local New York State veterans counselor with news of special interest to your community. Thank you.
