Shouts in the courtyard, children fighting. You are five years old. You're in a fight and taking a licking. You've reached out from your family into a world of strange objects and strange people. And the outside world is beginning to clip you from your mother's apron strings. You are five years old, an explorer in search of new experiences. In the next six years, your natural abilities will be shaped by your family, your church, your school, and neighborhood where you play with other children and sometimes get into fights. And a good deal of what you'll be in later life, how you'll think and act, will be determined by these years. That's why we're inviting you on We Human Beings tonight to relive these years, so that you'll be better able to understand yourself and the lives your life touches. Tonight, the Lowell Institute, in cooperation with Boston College, Boston University, Harvard, MIT, Northeastern, and Tufts, continues the cycle of your life from birth to old age by presenting a documentary transcribed about you, ages 5 to 11. This is your story. But in order to tell it, we're going to need your cooperation. We want you to focus your life on how you thought and acted as a child of five. That's awfully important. You see, we adults are likely to think of early childhood experiences as simple, childish, and commonplace. But to the child, these experiences are real, important, powerful. In fact, he often has all he can do to meet the challenge they offer. Children are not childish. They act their age. So we invite you to rewrite our story into your own terms, your own family, neighborhood, playmates, your own childhood experiences. Names and places are not important. It's your feeling that matters. Now our story begins. And so now, you are five, a nice age. You've come a long way. Your family has been the platform or stage in which you have developed your natural abilities. This stage has been lighted by the spirit or atmosphere of family life. And mother, dad, grandpa, grandma, and the relatives have helped you by being your audience, satisfying your need to belong, to be loved, and to experience approval. Here on the family stage, you learn the first lessons in living with other persons. Family members deeply influence the way you think and act. But you, in your own way, help to shape their lives as well. Right now at five, you've definitely moved outside the family circle, so to speak. You've been out in search of new experience. You've begun to learn how to play and get along with boys who have somewhat different family backgrounds, different ways of doing things. Of course, it's a trial and error method. And that pushing around you got a moment ago hasn't made you feel too good about this outside world and bullies. Yep. Yep. You've come home bawling your eyes out. And as you hear the door close behind you, you're thankful that home is the one place where you'll be understood, comforted. Your mother has fought many a battle for you. And so you eagerly pour out your story of how the older boy took your wagon, pulled your hair, laughed at you, and knocked you down. Your mother listens carefully if you put some iodine and a band-aid on your scraped knee. And then she says something that practically knocks you off your seat. Did you hit him back, son? What does she mean, Mom? Of course, you didn't hit him back. He's much bigger than you are. If you had hit him, son, I wouldn't be putting his bandage on your knees. Now you're really confused. Mother's never told you anything like this before. The fear grips you. You can't hit him. He's too big. It's the third time this same week that someone has pushed you, taking his things. I can't be fighting your battle for you, son. You're going to be a big boy now. You've got to learn how to take care of yourself. You're hurt, afraid. How can she do this to you? You protest, but still... No, son. You've got to do it yourself. You see, if you'll only stand up to a bully, show him you're not afraid. Then he'll leave you alone. That's the only way to lick a bully. So you go back outside. Very hurt. Very unhappy. Very afraid. The boy who must you up a while ago sees you coming out, he's surprised, expected to see you come out with your mother. Yeah. Gordon-Head, where's your mother? Isn't she going to scold me or take me away? You just stand your ground with the look of a boy without a friend in the world. And now the bully walks over to you, pushes you. Your mother watches you unseen from the window when she hears him taunt you. She trembles. The bully slaps your face hard. Your mother wants to run out to protect you, but she holds herself back. You're crying now. But you just stand there and take it. You take it two, three, four times during the next few days. But then, one afternoon, you summon all your courage, pull back your arm and take a swing. The bully, he just stands there, mouth open, thoroughly amazed. He begins to argue and call your names. But he doesn't touch you ever again. And so you've won a battle. But growing up has its light aside. As light and jingling as a bunch of pennies in a little boy's pocket. You're a big boy now. Isn't your mother trusting you to go to the store all by yourself? You remember her words. Here, Sonny, here's 50 cents. Now go to the corner store and get Mother a quart of milk and a loaf of white bread. Sliced. Could there be some mistake, you ask yourself? Usually Mother puts a note to the grocer and some money into a sealed envelope. But now she's actually trusting you to handle the money and remember what she wants. Yep, it's a big responsibility. But you're pleased as punch and do a jig down the street to the tune of the jingling pennies in your pocket. Ah, you're really feeling important. If there were only someone around who you could boast to. Hello, where are you going? Here's a real break. Susie McDermott, also age five, is right on hand to share your triumph. You return her greeting and let your mission be known. Susie is quite impressed. Gee, do they let you have money and everything? You explain. The matter's quite routine. Gee, it's not. My mommy don't let me do that because we've got to write it down in the grocery book. Mommy pays after. Can you buy anything? Yes, you want? Now this is a $64 question. But after all, five years old or no five years old, the fella's got to bolster his ego. You reply that you can practically buy anything you want. Could you find me an ice cream cone? Could you? Could you? Could you? You finally get home with the milk and bread your mother ordered. But somewhere along the way, you're missing a nickel. Mother takes the change you give her and then thoughtfully places the coins on the kitchen table. Son, the change. Did you have any trouble getting the things mother wanted? You reply, no. Well, is this all the change? I mean, you haven't forgotten anything. Uh, no. Is it all there? Hmm, just about. What do you mean, just about? It's either there or it's not there. Well, it's not there, is it? You bought Susie an ice cream cone. What right of you to spend mother's and dad's money without permission? You ought to know better than that, son. Hey, what's all the talk going on out here in the kitchen? Oh, it's just a little misunderstanding here. Misunderstanding? Well, Sonny spent some money for an ice cream cone for Susie without asking. Oh. Oh, I see. Son, how about you and I having a little talk? We'll both go upstairs to the bedroom. So you see, son, it's not the nickel that your mother and I care about. It's the fact that mother trusted you to do something for her and you let her down by spending money that doesn't belong to you. You broke faith with her. That's the important thing. Do you see? Honey, I never thought of it that way. It's time. You don't like to have promises to you broken. Now you're really sorry. Is there only some way you could pay her back? Well, just see that it doesn't happen again. And give mother an extra hand around the house. It's about this time that you conclude in your own way that women are the root of all evil. All not so much because of Susie and her ice cream cone, but rather because you've been noticing the cold shoulder that the older boys give little girls who try to meddle in their affairs. You're in no position or mood to break the trend, though you brush Susie off and swear off women for good. You'll live up to this pledge pretty well. There'll always be some strange, girlish figure who will be an exception as you go through your early schooling. Girls are pests, but they're occasionally interesting at times. Let's see. It'll be Margie in the fourth grade, Helen in the sixth, Dottie in the seventh. By the time you're coming into the stretch of the eighth grade, you'll be finding that girls are really not such pests after all. But we're way ahead of you. You're half past five now, and one Sunday your father says, Get dressed, Sonny. Your mother and I are going to take you to church with us. But remember, no cutting up like last time. The first time you went to church was almost a year ago. You didn't act very nice that time. Your father and mother looked so quiet and serious. But you became frightened and proceeded to howl, not too unlike a police siren. Your father had to take you outside before you'd quit crying. Now, on your second visit to church, you enjoy every moment. You're impressed by the faces of people. Rich, warm church music. You're all very moving. You feel very grown up. You hope that now you'll be permitted to come every Sunday. You don't realize it yet. You're too young. But this, in a sense, is the opening of a very beautiful part of you to a spiritual life. Once again, shouts from the courtyard. Some older boys are pushing a friend of yours, Herbie. They're laughing at him, hitting him more with sharp, stinging words and with their hands. They're calling Herbie names, and you want to rush in and try to help him. But there are so many, many boys making fun of Herbie. You're only one. You know you can't really help him, and yet you feel guilty for not trying. You come home that afternoon very, very upset. You haven't noticed anything wrong with Herbie. Why should those older boys call him and push him around? Yes, you're upset. This is an experience you somehow didn't bargain for. You keep asking yourself, why? Why do they pick on Herbie? You see your mother working in the kitchen and all at once. Everything's all right. Mother will know the answer. She'll explain it all to you. And so you tell her all about it. She listens carefully, but is slow to answer. So you repeat your questions. Why is Herbie different from the rest of it? Why would they hurt him? The mother's answer must come now. But she's not sure what she must say. She really doesn't know what to say. The things that happen to Herbie happen in many parts of our country. The prejudice shown Herbie is a sign of a wheel of geography. In one section, Herbie may be a Catholic. In another, a Jew, a Methodist, a Lutheran, or an Episcopalian. He may be a member of any minority group you can think of. And now your mother answers. Well, it's nothing serious, Sonny. Herbie's a little different, that's all. I mean, he's not like the rest of us. You see, he goes to another church. Oh, it's not his fault. I mean, we mustn't hold anything against him because he does go to another church. And anyway, those boys weren't very nice. She bungled it. She could have set you straight. She could have erased those doubts in your mind. Perhaps her words made some sense. But the tone of her voice, the way she said those words veiled in hesitation and confusion, now serves to upset you even more. Later, there will be other chances to set things straight. But this wonderful opportunity has been booted away. Still, you move on, reaching out, touching the world. Try to make sense of what you find. Soon you will be entering school and a whole host of new experiences will open up to you. This is another We Human Beings documentary on your life, ages 5 to 11. presented by the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broadcasting Council and WCOP to help you to a better understanding of yourself and others. As our documentary continues, you are now six years old. One September morning, your mother wakened you with... Good luck, sonny. Today's a big day. For weeks, mom and dad have been giving you a sales talk about the wonderful times that await you at school. Almost had you believing you wanted to go to school. Until today. Now you're doing everything you can think of to keep from going. You're slow and dressing. Can't find your shoes. Forget to wash your hands and face. Even pretend sickness. Claiming you have the mumps. Your mother with commendable restraint informed you that you've already had the mumps, the measles, and the hooking horse. So, you better get a move on. You resign yourself to the inevitable. An hour later, you're standing by your desk, waiting for the first grade teacher to arrive. You're a little nervous. And wowed by it all. You give your mother a few pleading looks which say, let's get out of here. The only says... Now, now, sonny. There's nothing to worry about. Why, you're going to like it here in school. Look how everyone else is enjoying themselves. They like it here. You're really a big boy now. You look around the room. Look at the faces of the 20 or 25 children assembled in the room for the first time. Happy faces. Most of the kids are holding on to their parents for dear life. Well, it's time for me to leave you now, son. Your teacher will soon be here. And remember, we won't be apart for long. Just a few hours. And then you can tell me all about it. Goodbye now, and see if good for you. Well, she's gone. You're on your own now. What a dirty trick to play an affair at all. You get an itch to pop in your seat and zoom out of the classroom after her. But you don't. After all, didn't mother say something about your being a big boy? After all, this is sort of an exciting experience, no matter how you look at it. Well, the parents are starting to leave the room. It's now just 25 deserted souls. Four walls, some desks, and a gray slate blackboard, which has a name written on it. You look at the name, and pretty soon it comes to life. My name is Miss Stockton. It's written here on the blackboard in the letters of the alphabet. Now, it won't be too long before you'll be able to understand what these letters mean, and how you can use these and other letters to spell out your own name. Reading, writing, arithmetic, style, music, art, gym, and composition thrown in for good measure. That's what you'll be plugging away after the next eight years. You'll do a lot of griping, but for the most part, it'll probably be eight of the happiest years of your life. There will be a few teachers who won't understand you. There will be many, many others who will give free of themselves to help you. Little by little, the books you read, the new things you learn and experience, will help develop your inborn traits of mind and body. Hold on. I haven't yet gotten you completely through that third day of school. You see, today was the first time that you had to take orders from someone outside your family, a stranger. And you're not sure that you're going to like the idea. And so, at supper time, you complain a bit about an order your teacher gave you. Well, if the teacher wants you to stand every time the principal enters the classroom, then you'll just have to do it. He probably has a very good reason. And you'll just have to do as the teacher says. Well, Miss, you surmise that Mother is definitely backing up the teacher, so you decide that resistance is futile. And so, the months roll by. You're learning new things all the time, and coming into contact with other teachers and students. You are influencing their lives, and they are helping to shape yours. And now begins the children's version of the tall story of the month. My father drives a subway train. My father's a perma-air. My father owns the subway. My father owns all the sewage. I think my father owns the whole city, too. Could it be? Yeah, could, sure. Could it? Sure. Could, could, could. Your father is a salesman in a clothing store, but with all the claims being flung around, you feel obligated to come across with something really big. You think, and think, and... This morning at breakfast, that word, that word your father used... You've got it. You proudly announce that your father is a seersucker. At the end of the third grade, they give you a report card for the first time. And what a day that is. For the first time, you know what it's really like to compete with other people. John Aitken, Angelo Bettina, D.C. Conley, You hear the names being called by the teacher. It's straining to hear your own names, but your mind is also racing about trying to compare yourself to those that are being called for promotion. Oh, they didn't call Lenny Drake. You were sure he passed. Maybe you got left back. Listen. Listen. There's a bundle of mirrors fidgeting in your seat, looking everywhere, making faces. You wonder what your mother and father would say if you should fail. They've been expecting you to get high grade. Maybe you let them down. This is a terrible threat. Oh, all the names are all called. Your name wasn't one of those promoted into the fourth grade. You've ever been able to fail. Your heart sinks down into the pit of your stomach. You try to put on a... I don't care. You grin on your face, but it comes out awfully sad. And now the class is over. You go to the front of the room, stand idly by and tell us some of the students tell the teacher how wonderful she is. Waiting and awful. Put the pastor gone and the teacher turns to you. Well, what can I do for you? Well, the great deal of swallowing and stuttering and spread out that you didn't hear your name called. Could it be a mistake? No. No mistake. You were so busy watching everyone else that you didn't hear it. Run along home. You did very well. What a relief. Oh, you made it. And now you're running home laughing to yourself proud and happy. A young boy of nine on top of the world with a good report card in your back pocket. You've got a wonderful feeling of power ticking away inside of you. And someday, 10 or so years from now, you'll be working. The force will call you into the office and tell you your promotion has come through. Perhaps you'll find that the feeling isn't very different. And so the years roll on. You're 11 years old now and it's summer. Parents are driving you to the station and to camp two whole weeks. They've been thrilled for you. Yes, you realize this is the third time in the back pocket that's over. Parents realize too. They've followed you step by step through these years supplying the springboard of the family from which you jump into life. Making new experience learning the satisfaction, the security of finding yourself a true achiever. There were times in the search for your own lift and power that you lost footing, lost confidence in yourself. Times like these you high-taired the back of the family circle. Here, when you really needed it, you found the love and security of your parents who restored your confidence in yourself so you could again jump off of such a new experience. Yes, your family, your church, school, and playmates have all helped to shape your life. Your parents are going to miss you during your vacation. You drive along, suddenly you see a police sign marked No Parking 4pm to 6pm. You laugh. You remember a time when you thought your father was the greatest man in the world. He could do anything. He could even park where it said No Parking 4pm to 6pm when that big cop began shouting and waving his arms. You weren't worried. Your father would take care of him so let that cop come on. Father will tell him off so you listen. Yes, officer, I know, but... yes, but... You laugh now. It was a bit disillusioning at the time, though. And now you're at the station standing outside the platform. A lot of other neighborhood boys are also standing there talking with their parents under a gray cardboard sign marked Camp of Blue Hills. It's about time to go. You feel funny about leaving home. It's a new, thrilling experience. You also sense that it's got to be paid for somehow. Your mother has a lump in her throat. Well, it's saying you'll be leaving soon. You said that three times already, dear. Oh, you will be careful, won't you, sonny? I mean, this is the first time you've been away. Now, be sure to swim only when you can stand up and do watch out for poison ivy. You reply, sure. Sure I will. For sure. I'd like to hear how the fishing is up there, son. So, if you'd like to tell me about it in some letters, that's right ahead. You say yes, you perhaps notice if your mother's eyes are a bit watery. She's not crying, no, not yet. But, you'll miss us, won't you, sonny? She's got a lump in your throat now, too. You tell her that of course you're going to miss her. But luckily, Fred and Angela and Fritz are going to be there, so you won't be alone. Oh, Lord! Uh-uh. You've got to go. Yes, yes, hurry, son, and have a good time. Be sure to write. Goodbye, son. You head down the platform, you're on your way. You take one more look over your shoulder, there waiting, you wave back. Perhaps an outsider would laugh and ask, where are you going, at a moon? But we wouldn't understand that it's not the time or the place that matters. The feeling is coming. So you keep on moving more and more toward independence, and now you'll be ready for the difficult years of youth. You reach out. Another We Human Beings documentary on your life, ages 5 to 11, was written and directed by R. Jarrett Tangney in consultation with Albert D. Ullman of the Sociology Department, Tuff, and George H. Grocer of the Department of Social Relations, Harvard. Mr. Grocer. The preceding program has brought you a number of important experiences in the child life. From the point of view of adults, we would call them religious experiences, competition, submission, to authority, and the like. The child, of course, doesn't look at them that way, and yet, they all form milestones in the formation and development of a child's character. From another point of view, these years, from 5 to 11, are very important. It is now that the child becomes acquainted with social ways and social institutions. Without the cushioning effect of a family behind it, without the warm and accepting relationship to which the child may come for guidance and help, it may not be able to make the transition from the family to the outside world. But, with the family behind it, it can always rely on explanation, guidance, and advice, and thus, is able to venture out to his other lessons. We Human Beings is brought to you by the Lowell Institute in cooperation with Boston College, Boston University, Harvard, MIT, Northeastern, and Tuff. Donald Bourne, professor at Boston University General College, was your narrator. Mother was played by Eileen Lightman. Father by Carl Elliott. Susie by Sylvia Sears-Levine. Actively assisting were Milton Cohen, Rudy Merrick, and Judy Chalpin. Your announcer has been Edward Hatch. Next week, a documentary on adolescence, the years of youth. E. Human Beings is a transcribed educational production of the Lowell Institute Cooperative Broadcasting Council and comes to you as a public service by stations WCOP and WCOP-FM in Boston. Thank you. Thank you.