Radio's microphones are now in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria. The chairman opening the meeting today was the Honorable Dorothy McCullough Lee, Mayor of Portland, Oregon, who introduced Gladys Swathout, who has just completed the singing of the anthem here at the Congress of International Mayors in the Waldorf Astoria. Mr. W. Cooper Green, Mayor of Birmingham, Alabama, who is president of the International Conference of Mayors, is going to speak to you and will introduce the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Mr. Green is speaking now. I also want to say to you that this is not a closed club operated by the old guard. We have no charmed inner circle within our organization. The mortality rate in municipal elective office has probably got something to do with that. Your suggestions are most welcome at all times, and we solicit your counsel and your advice. On the occasion of our 1950 annual conference, we are host to a large number of distinguished municipal officials from outside the borders of the United States. In a few minutes, each and every one of them will be introduced. From time to time throughout the conference, we will have the opportunity to hear from many of them. To all our honored guests, may I extend official greetings upon behalf of the United States Conference of Mayors. May your stay with us be pleasant and informative, and we shall do our best to make your visit worthwhile. It is through international cooperation that the true spirit of democratic local self-government will ultimately be achieved for people throughout the entire world. Now and at the outset, I want to express the sincere thanks of the members and guests of this organization to Mayor William O'Dwyer for the extensive preparations and plans he has made to make this 1950 annual conference of the United States Conference of Mayors the outstanding success it is destined to be. We are appreciative of your invitation, Mr. Mayor, to convene this 1950 conference in your great city, and for the personal concern you have expressed for the comfort and enjoyment we will each find here. We have never left New York in the past with anything but the happiest recollections. And with my knowledge of what we have in store for us, I can assure you that this year will be no exception to that rule. Again, our heartfelt thanks to you. Without your aid, help, and cooperation, this great meeting would not have been possible. At this time, I would like to call on our colleague and our friend, Mayor William O'Dwyer of New York City for the greetings on the part of the City of New York. Mayor O'Dwyer. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. President Green, Mayor Lee, distinguished visitors. Your selection of New York City for the 1950 annual convention of the New York City, the National Convention of the United States Conference of Mass, as a source of more than ordinary pride to us. We're most happy that you made this selection. We're grateful to you for it. And to those gentlemen who have come from distant places, to join this conference, we hope that you'll have an opportunity, all of you, to meet them as closely as we've had in the last day, too. It's something that you will find, as we have found, that no matter where there are people, there are problems. And the closer you huddle them together, the bigger the problem. Look around you in New York City for that one, and you'll see a few problems. As the Mayor of the City, and as your colleague in City Management, I welcome you and hope that your visit here will be happy and fruitful. In the course of this conference, you will hear distinguished speakers on important subjects affecting municipal government. You will exchange information and experience concerning these mutual problems. At this point, it is my function to welcome you and not to discuss any particular problem. I would like, however, to say a few words about the growth of our cities and the significant job that is being performed by the United States Conference of Mayors. In the early development of our country, there were many who expressed fear that the increase and growth of cities would bring about oppression of the honest people of the countryside. In the Constitutional Convention of Massachusetts in 1820, for example, it was feared that if cities were chartered, they would pass bylaws which would, quote, ensnare and entrap, end of quote, rural folk who might have to go to do business in cities. In the New York Constitutional Convention of 1821, it was feared that the masses of the city of New York would soon be sufficiently numerous to rule the entire state. Well, I have a secret for you on that one. They did get to be that numerous, all right, but they never succeeded in breaking down the state's control of the legislature. We're still where we were in 1821. That doesn't mean, of course, ladies and gentlemen, that we're not trying to break it down. We surely are, without too much success. Now, such expressions of fear are to be found in other places. For instance, de Tocqueville, a shrewd and perceptive Frenchman who visited this country in 1831 and 1832, he wrote two excellent volumes on Democracy in America. And he expressed this thought, that New York and Philadelphia, each with a population of one 202,000 and the other 161,000, that they were already too large. He went on to say, quote, I look upon the size of certain American cities, and especially on the nature of their population, as a real danger which threatens the future security of the democratic republics of the new world. And I venture to predict that they will perish from this circumstance unless the government succeeds in creating an armed force, which, while it remains under the control of the majority of the nation, will be independent of town population and able to repress its excesses. End of quote. Now, such was the comment and the conclusion of an unusually intelligent observer, himself a man with considerable faith in democracy. Force, armed force, was to be the only hope of city government. And, incidentally, and parenthetically, I hope your visitors won't combine the thought of de Tocqueville, in 1831, with a couple of high school boys that got out of hand here in New York last week. Fortunately, American history has proved that these fears were unwarranted. Cities as we know them today are the very centers of the life of the nation. The services rendered by cities to their people are almost innumerable. Their activities touch almost every phase of life. Practically all the great schools of music, of art, and applied science, and the great institutions of higher learning are to be found in cities. In an infinite degree, there are productive agencies producing material, intellectual, and spiritual goods for all the world. At the same time, they are immense consumers of goods and values of all kinds, particularly the products of the farm. Each day in this city alone, we import from the countryside 22,500 tons of foodstuffs. And each one of you, in similar proportions, you actually provide the market for the farmer, so that the city has not been as hard on the farmer as they expected a hundred years ago. It is true that these hives of life and industry were confronted with some of the most perplexing moral and economic problems. Nonetheless, American cities have met the challenge by democratic means. Of that fact, the United States Conference of Mayors is a living proof. Even in the dark days of the Depression in 1932, it has become, over the years, a meaningful organization, which has made a unique and distinct contribution to an effective municipal government. It has supplied the medium by which American municipalities are able to discuss their common problems and promote municipal cooperation as a method of securing better city management throughout the United States. I think it is no exaggeration to say that the United States Conference of Mayors has unified the spirit of cooperation among America's municipalities and has challenged their efforts for the benefit of the entire nation. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is the second time that this city has been honored by this convention. In 1948, you were kind enough to take notice that that year our city was celebrating the charter that made it greater New York. And you wanted us then, by holding your convention here in this city, as a part of the celebration that we had of that event. Again this year, I have the increased honor, the added honor, of welcoming you for your selection of the city. Believe me, the compliment that you pay has not been lost in any part or branch of our city government or its people. And with this selection comes a responsibility which I, as the mayor and my official group, feel very keenly. And that is that we'll be able to measure up. We'll be able to supply or furnish you with the type of entertainment that we would like to do to you and to your family. It would be our hope that as you leave New York, when this conference is over, that you will find we are a large city made up of a lot of people, made up of a lot of poor people, hard-working people. People that are not loaded with guile, just have the problem of a day's work, paying the rent, getting clothes for the children to go to school, doctors, bills, and the movies once in a while. Not too much entertainment. Not too happy a life at all. That is a part of the, that is the curse, if there is one, of a big city. That the things of nature, the beautiful things that were here before man came, that smaller communities can enjoy, are almost strangers. Things to which the city people are mostly strangers. Look on us as trying to solve the problems of eight million people set down closely together in a small space of 365 square miles. Think of the health problem we've got, transit problem, policing, sanitation, hospitals. But the things that you have to do to substitute in a big city physically, by man-made rules, by money that must be collected to do it. That in smaller communities can be handled much more easily and with greater pleasure and in a more helpful way for the people of the smaller communities. Just forgive us the weaknesses that you'll see, and you'll see many, and we'll be most happy to study this conference and to find out from the united thinking that will go on here, will be expressed in the discussions, with a view that somewhere along the line we can get from you. From you. Some idea that would make the lives of our people in New York City better than before you came. With that note, I leave you one thought that's uppermost in my mind. One person in the whole room for whom I have such a high admiration and with whom it was so easy to work during the year. Now that he comes here as the president of this conference, I think I join with every man and woman in this room in paying the highest compliment we can describe in words to the president of the National Conference of Mayors, Mayor Cooper Green of Halibut. You just heard the address of the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer at the Waldorf Astoria to the morning session of the United States Conference of Mayors. Mr. Green. Mr. Green. I welcome your remarks and also for the compliment. I appreciate it very much. And on election year, I want you to come down and make that speech at home. But thank you from the bottom of my heart. And I'm proud to say on behalf of all the delegates here and the visitors that we're glad we're in New York, the greatest city in the world. And we're glad that we're with the greatest mayor in the world. He's the mayor's mayor, this man Bill O'Dwyer. At this time, we have a message from the president who could not be with us. And I've asked Colonel Paul V. Betters, the executive director of our conference, to read the presidential message from President Truman. Mr. Betters. Mr. President, before I read a little note here, I want to apologize to many of the delegates for the fact that there aren't enough seats for them. We anticipated that with the railroad strike in effect in 27 states that it might have some influence on our attendance, but apparently it has not. And I assure you, those who do not have their own individual seats at this morning session, they will be here waiting for you this afternoon. Also, to any delegate who does not have his place card, on the way out at the end of the morning session, he will pick it up at the desk outside in the foyer. He will find one there for him if he advised us of his coming. I am in receipt of a letter dated May 6 from President Truman to the White House. Mr. Betters, it is always a privilege to have the opportunity of greeting the annual conference of the United States Conference of Mayors. In accordance with your request, I am attaching a message to the 1950 annual conference on problems of mutual concern to the cities and the federal government. Let me express to your members my appreciation of the significance of their local problems, as they are revealed to me in personal visits to their cities and communities, and in their visits to me in Washington. Please convey to your members my understanding of their efforts to keep this nation not only strong, but also confident in its strength. Very truly yours, Harry Truman. And the statement that the President has sent to the delegates to this conference, I shall ask that Mayor Thomas Burke of Cleveland read to you. A statement to the annual conference of the United States Conference of Mayors by the President of the United States. Last year, when the United States Conference of Mayors met in Washington, I had the opportunity of addressing your meeting in person. I regret that I cannot be with you this year again. I understand that, as was true last year, you have with you distinguished municipal leaders from cities in other countries. To these, I extend the cordial welcome of the United States government. Strong cities are essential to a strong nation and a well-ordered world. Our cities are vital centers of a peaceful society where our democratic rights and opportunities are expressed and practiced. They are the heart of our commercial and industrial life. They are strategic cores of our national defense and our internal security. We have passed the time when we can think of the various elements of our political economy as unrelated or conflicting. Each is an organic part of our national life, fed by a common bloodstream. Urban insecurity makes all of us insecure. Our cities, on the other hand, are dependent for survival, on the preservation and use of our land and natural resources, and on a sound national economy. The national concern for the well-being of our cities was illustrated last July when I signed the Housing Act of 1949. That act enables cities to begin clearing their slums and to provide decent housing for more low-income families. That legislation is now being carried into action as you and your hometowns determine and develop your own plans for your communities. Last year, you looked to Washington to get you the help you needed. Now you have the opportunity for action on your own part. I am pleased to learn that you are meeting this responsibility. In the city, nearly 600 communities have already officially applied for federal aid to provide public housing for low-income families. Although the slum clearance and urban redevelopment program is new and complex, some 375 localities have expressed interest in undertaking local projects. And about 80, exclusive of Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, have already acted officially to obtain federal funds for their initial projects. This year, through the Housing Act of 1950, we have added to and expanded other types of housing assistance, particularly for lower-cost and lower rental housing. That act has also set up practical machinery for further use and disposal of war and veterans housing in your community. One proposal that I recommended this year did not pass the Congress, a proposal for government help to housing for families in the lower middle-income range, particularly to cooperative housing. I am afraid the lack of such assistance may prove a real handicap, not only to many families who need housing, but also to many of your cities in the relocation of families from slum areas you seek to clear. I am going to continue to seek more help for these families. But it is also partly your task to let the Congress know of the seriousness of this middle-income housing problem in your cities. We must not delay, however, in putting into effect the important housing measures we now have. One of the major goals of our housing program is to increase the supply of rental housing and permit the orderly decontrol of rents without excessive hardship to tenants. As you know, I have recommended to the Congress the extension of rent control until June 30, 1951, as a protection to the tenant in a short housing market and as a stabilization measure for the national economy. Along with the extension of controls, we must continue our present policy of granting justifiable increases in rent to the landlord. Any rent control policy must be fair to the landlord and to the tenant alike. Although it is and will continue to be our policy to decontrol rents as the supply of housing in any community comes into reasonable balance with demand, it is estimated that as of June 30, 1950, 8 million rental units in 40 states, 63 cities, and thousands of smaller communities will still require protection against the hazards of an acute housing shortage with all that portends for inflated results. Under your vigorous leadership, I am confident that we are on our way to decent housing and better cities for our people. Last year, I discussed some of our joint financial problems. I am happy to report that progress is being made in developing proposals to alleviate tax losses that occur when the federal government acquires real estate and reduces the property tax base from which local governments derive their revenues. It is hoped that a legislative proposal may be ready for submission to the Congress at its present session. Many of you are seriously concerned with prospective water deficiencies and are making great efforts to overcome them. The federal government is aware of the problems you face and has a very real interest in the availability of water for the peacetime needs of its citizens and for national security. Accordingly, you may be sure that the Public Health Service, the Water Resources Division of the Geological Survey, and other federal agencies concerned with water will be glad to assist you any way they can in solving your water supply problems. In addition, I have appointed a temporary Water Resources Policy Commission to advise me on national policies in this field. I am sure that that commission and all other federal agencies will welcome suggestions from your group for ways to solve our water supply problems better and faster. I would like to call the attention of this conference to the national interest in peacetime planning for civil defense. Civil defense is a mutual task in which the federal, state, and local governments must share responsibility to the people. Since last October, the federal government has transmitted a substantial amount of guidance material on the subject to the governors of the states for subsequent transmittal to their local governments. Moreover, the federal government plans to release later this year a suggested plan for civil defense organization which will serve as a guide to the states and municipalities. In the meantime, I urge that you as municipal leaders who will have primary responsibility for implementing civil defense plans in the event of need, proceed with your local civil defense planning in cooperation with state authorities and the federal government. I suggest, too, that in your city planning and building activities, you pay particular attention to the municipal problems of strategic dispersion. Unless absolutely necessary, it is unwise to continue the building of vital municipal functions in the center of cities already congested. The present trend towards municipal dispersion should be continued for civil defense reasons. The national interest is an inescapable part of your local responsibilities, just as the welfare of the community as a part of the responsibility of the chief executive. Your assistance to me individually and through the United States Conference of Mayors has been invaluable. And I am sure you know that my primary concern has always been the interest of the people to whom you and I alike are accountable. Thank you, Mayor Burke, for reading the message from President Truman. It will be filed and recorded and every member sent a copy. This time I would like to call to your attention the fact that we have many distinguished guests at this, our 1950 annual conference, from all parts of the world, our neighboring nations, as well as our neighbors from across the water. And I'm going to call on Colonel Betters, who knows each one of them intimately, has met them as they have arrived, to introduce to you our distinguished guests. Thank you very much.