Here in New York, I've given a special pledge of our faith in its future. We have assured to it all the facilities and hospitality necessary for the accomplishment of its important work and its great purposes. One of the most important and urgent problems to face the Assembly of the United Nations was that of Palestine and the displaced Jews of Europe. The nations met and formulated a plan which was a compromise, but it was also a step forward. During the General Assembly's deliberations, Arab leaders issued one threat after another and proclaimed their determination to resist without any United Nations decision of petition. The nations of the world and the United States government heard these oft-repeated threats, took into account the attitude of the British government, and after deliberate and thorough discussion, voted to adopt the resolution to partition Palestine. It was not a mere sentiment that dictated this American policy on Palestine. It was the realization that freedom and democracy in the world, justice in international relations, world peace, and the legitimate interests of America would best be served by dissolution of the problem of Jewish homelessness, a problem that has been a festering soar in international relations for such a long time. When the decision was solemnly adopted in plenary session of the United Nations, it marked the first genuine victory of that tribunal. It marked the first instance of accord among nations in which their rivalries were subordinated towards achieving some measure of justice. It was the first proof of the strength of the United Nations as a whole. It seemed fantastic to suppose then that the seven Arab delegations which left the Assembly Hall defiantly vowing that they would set that decision to naught could make good their threat. It did not then seem possible that the most important expression of our modern New World Organization would be turned into a mockery and into such a tragedy as it has become. We are now witnessing the murder of hundreds of people in Palestine. We are now witnessing the frustration of the hope of a homeland, of a people who built the homeland with sweat and blood from desert earth. We are now witnessing the murder of the honor of the United Nations which pledged them this homeland. And the honor of the United States which played a leading role in supporting that place. What has happened and is happening in the Holy Land since the decision of the United Nations is a matter of daily newspaper headlines. Ironically, the decision that was intended to help the stateless and homeless Jews has been so perverted that it may result in a carnage of Hitlerian proportions unless it is checked. I believe that the heroic Jews in Palestine will not give their lives cheaply. They have already taught the world what to expect from them in courage and in military powers. They will fight with their bare hands if needy. These people are no revolutionaries seeking to overthrow a government. They are the legitimate recipients of a legal award waiting peaceably for the day when the mandate is lifted and they may rightly take over. They are the people whose lives and homes are now being subjected to a ruthless, sudden and swift attack by foes who have sworn to exterminate them before the promised hour of liberation arrives. The whole future of the United Nations is today pinpointed on the manner in which its decision on Palestine will be carried out. You cannot have international peace so long as you permit international murder. You cannot have peace here if you permit anarchy to flourish anywhere. The manner in which we deal with the Palestine decision may well decide whether the United Nations organization is to fulfill its purpose or whether it is doomed to nullity and failure. And that answer hinges in a great measure on the good faith and action of our own country. We spoke for the conscience of the world when we threw our great prestige and moral force into that United Nations solution of the Palestine question. It meant, as I see it, that we voted in good faith and that we would back with deed our pledged word to the United Nations and to the people of Palestine. That is the kind of vote the world expected from us. And that is what the world had a right to expect from us. Our support was not intended to mean that we would merely register a vote on the record and then turn away from the inevitable consequences of implementing our vote. We are the greatest, richest, most powerful nation in the world. The one nation which has come through the war with moral, spiritual, and material values undestroyed. The leader that holds up for the world as a beacon light the shining values of democracy. The leader that holds up for the world as a beacon of peace. We dare not admit defeat and helplessness. But we must act and act courageously and quickly. Clearly, this problem cannot be solved overnight. We must separate the long-range problem of the Jewish state in Palestine from the immediate emergency now confronting us. The United States is in a position to take swift action in the immediate emergency and demonstrate to all the world that we stand in back of our commitments. And the promise means performance. With our backing, it is still possible for the Security Council, under the Charter, to form a United Nations International Police Force, a Constabulary. A Constabulary which can be sent to Palestine to prevent the breach of the peace that threatens. This force should be ready to move in when the British troops leave, or earlier than that, if requested. With our backing, it is still possible to have the Security Council examine the question of using and invoking measures short of military force for the maintenance of peace and security. The resolution of the United Nations Assembly recommended such action. With our backing, the doors of Palestine may be immediately opened to the displays too. And we should, of course, lift or modify our own recent embargo on the shipment of arms. The result of this embargo is incredibly unjust. It is tantamount to arming Arabs to attack the Jews and frustrate the United Nations decision while preventing the Jews from receiving arms to defend themselves and thus sustain the decision of the United Nations. We Americans understand the real implications of a one-sided embargo, and we resent being told that the matter is so complicated and the considerations so involved that only a small group of professional diplomats can be entrusted in handling them. The embargo must be modified. It is a cruel travesty to maintain it in the face of an organized massacre, an international lawlessness. By all means, let us deny arms to aggressors. By all means, let us deny arms to those who attack the Jews of Palestine and flout the judgment of the United Nations. But we are on a bound to make the decision of the United Nations effective by supplying arms to those who resist aggression and those who support the United Nations. give arms to the Jews who are compelled to defend their lives and to preserve their freedom. There are times in the unfolding of history when a great moral force must make itself felt, for what has been achieved by generations of men at infinite cost can be swept away overnight. Bitterness and disillusionment cannot be underestimated as weapons of anarchy and destruction. Now is such a time. The United States moral leader of the world must assume her role. She cannot remain remote. She cannot remain enacted. Thank you. Thank you, Mayor O'Brien. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard from a great personality who holds a high position in the Democratic Party. You will hear now from a great personality who is one of the most distinguished men in the Republican Party of the United States. He holds the important honor and responsibility as chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency. He is a man whose currency in life has been faith and honor, and therefore he understands the justice of our cause. I have the great privilege to present the distinguished senator from New Hampshire, the Honorable Charles William Tobey. Your Honor, Mayor O'Dwyer, Dr. Newman, Dr. Goldstein, and fellow Americans. I am here tonight to speak to you very seriously on a subject close to your hearts and close to mine, namely justice for the Jewish people in the matter of Palestine and citizenship, and to demand that the decision of the United States be carried out in good faith. The government of the United States, our country, has a stake in this matter, and a major stake for both of our political parties have endorsed the great objective of a homeland in Palestine. Tonight, sitting on the platform with your distinguished guests, I was told that there's a movement on foot in politics to play a dirty political game, to get together both parties in this campaign year, and have... At a mass meeting being held at Manhattan Center in New York City, you have heard the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, and United States Senator Charles W. Tobey, who were introduced by Dr. Israel Goldstein, acting chairman of the American Zionist Emergency Council, sponsors of this program. The views expressed were those of the speakers. This is ABC, the American Broadcasting Company. The American Broadcasting Company.