Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, Do corporations and labor unions serve the public interest? The last of four transcribed rebroadcasts of our most popular discussions of the past year. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will consider the functions and practices of corporations and unions in terms of the social and economic life of the nation. Our guests are Abraham W. Brussell, General Counsel for the Illinois Congress of Industrial Organizations, Colonel John Slezak, President of Turner Brass Works Sycamore, Illinois, and Chairman of the Board of the Illinois Manufacturers Association, and W. Willard Wertz, Professor of Law in the School of Law at Northwestern University. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech at Northwestern University, will begin today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Mr. McBurney. Mr. McBurney. Do corporations and labor unions serve the public interest? What do you say to that, Brussell? Mr. Speaking for labor unions, I definitely say that they do serve the public interest. They do it in several fashions. In the first place, they serve their members and workers generally in the economic sphere. They improve the economic welfare of 15 to 16 million members of organized labor and 25 million members who are not members of the unions. They bring industrial democracy into being. They bring cultural benefits. They improve the status of civil rights. They improve the psychological attitude of men to their jobs. They eliminate fear by providing security. They give dignity of job to their members. They also help all other segments of society. The union's participation in the determination and development of domestic and foreign policy and general political life, their cooperation with all other groups and promoting the welfare of our country means that, in my opinion, they do serve the public interest. Mr. Now, here are some of the ways in which an officer of the CIO or attorney for the CIO thinks that labor unions serve the public interest. Colonel, you're president of the Illinois Manufacturers Association. Do corporations and labor unions serve the public interest? Well, I can say to that unqualified yes because, to beginning, the public decides whether they do or not. Those who do not cease to be. As you well know that approximately 90% of the corporations that get started go out of business because they are not successful, meaning they did not serve public interest. However, in my estimation, the question is too broad to be handled categorically and yes, in no basis. It seems to me it should be split into smaller parts. In other words, if we are going to eat an elephant, we have to cut him into smaller pieces that we can bite on. In the first place, as far as unions are concerned, they are dealing with only a certain number of corporations, which is quite understandable that, so that from the corporation standpoint, you have two faces of the problem involved. Now, the unions represent approximately 25% of the employees of the nation. And probably the question can probably be looked upon, do corporations serve public interest? Do labor unions serve public interest? And how well is public interest served when they deal together? Now, you have broken our question down a little bit. What do you say to the Colonel's analysis? Well, mine is a kind of yes but answer, McBurney. I defer to no one in my respect for the contributions that labor unions and corporations have made to this society. I think they have contributed greatly to our standard of living, to the dignity of the individual in some respects. I think they were probably responsible for bringing the World War II to a successful conclusion. But I keep worried about the possibility that I am part of this elephant, which the Colonel's corporations are breaking up bit by bit so they can eat it. It seems to me that there are some forces operating today in the American society. And they are represented by the labor unions and the corporations, which are a real threat to this society and which may be driving democracy as we know it very fast to the grave. What do you mean by that public interest, Colonel? Well, McBurney, to me, public interest means this. Under our constitutional form of government and free enterprise, social and economic system, individual is the most important unit of our setup. In other words, our whole social and economic setup is organized that individual has changed to develop himself fully and effectively and in the free, having a free opportunity to develop himself, he can naturally serve the interests of society and his own to the furthest extent. Now, under that conditions, under that social setup, he naturally cannot do everything for himself. And so that we have agriculture providing food items to him that he cannot produce for himself. We have corporations that have been organized to provide to him goods and services as and when he needs them. In a way, you might say corporations are merely in between agents who buy raw materials, who buy labor, transform it into goods and services for the individual's use. Now, as long as they are serving, doing the job well and effectively, they are serving public interest. However, one thing to be remembered is that corporations, labor unions, agriculture or government itself, they are only means to unend, only service organizations to the individual to serve his needs. And of course, as far as government is concerned, the primary function of the government in that respect is to serve as an umpire, to see to it that individual has changed to develop and exercise his abilities. Well, is it enough, Colonel, that the government serve as an umpire? It just occurs to me as you make the statement that if that's the limit of the government's function, I won't be able to drive home this morning because the only route open to me is a public highway. It occurs to me, too, that there won't be any point in our finishing wrapping those Christmas packages this afternoon because they can't be mailed. That's the government's service going beyond umpire. And I suppose there's no point in our boy going to school tomorrow because he's going to public school. Doesn't the government have to step in further? It seems to me that your emphasis on the individual interest or the individual dignity in the public interest is important. Isn't it essential that there be some force that sees to it that there are no bullies in this society, no governmental bullies, no corporate bullies, no labor union bullies? Well, to the extent that government starts to do, start to be something more than an umpire, in my estimation, to that extent, we are degenerating. Because in our form of society, anything that individual or group of individuals as such can do for themselves, they can do it more effectively that way than government. And, of course, I agree with you what you said, the question of bully. To me, it means that umpire prevents a bully to be a bully. Umpire keeps everybody, enforces the rules, like in a basketball game or a football game. But umpire does not create the rules. Umpire doesn't play the game. It only sees that a game is played according to the rules. I disagree somewhat with the colonel and a little bit with uh, words. It seems to me that looking at our history, in the first place, the government has not been an empire in those situations where action was needed. The enactment of the antitrust laws meant that government was putting into actual effect certain accepted ideas of what was best for the American community. The enactment of the various laws in the days of 1933. Government was not acting as an umpire. It was doing something definitely assisting one group or the other. Uh, I think that the general concept of individual uh, welfare, individual uh, good is correct and we should keep it in mind. But it seems to me that organized labor has taken a more realistic attitude toward that in the sense that it wants to solve the problems of an individual. And the best way to solve it in our complex society is to have certain groups, such as organized labor, attempt to help the individual attain that freedom. Well, gentlemen, I don't think we'll stay very far apart or get very far apart as long as we stay at the general level. I'd like to ask the questions that are in my mind in specific terms. Now, let's take just for example this stabilization program. Now, I think most of the public, of which I think I'm part, wants a stabilization program in this country. I can't help feeling that American labor and American management is today making it almost impossible for us to have a real stabilization program. You've attacked, the labor unions have attacked wage stabilization, and the corporations have attacked price stabilization. And all I know is that my individual situation is, I think, as a consequence, getting worse and worse and worse. Well, words under, I think the history, uh, history is the best proof of what I mean. Under free, open, competitive system without control, we have attained highest standard of life ever had anywhere, anytime, any country, by any group of people. Now, it doesn't make good sense that in time of emergency, we abandon those methods and resort to the methods used by the other nations who, over a long pool, have been forced to live lower standard of life, because enforcement of controls and so forth and so on, not only kills the individual initiative to do things, but also involves use of hundreds and thousands of employees. Well, take in United States as an example. 1939, we had about 900,000 employees. In 1950, we have over two million federal employees. Now, frankly, to support those employees, they are not productive. They are not producing goods and services. They are not producing food. They eat food. They use goods and services. To the extent they have to be kept up and perform their functions of control or what have you, to that extent they are taking it out of you and I, to that extent, of course, they are helping the inflationary trend that you were mentioning. Are you saying that the umpire is getting too big? Yes. He is doing more than empowering. And may I just add to it on this? It wasn't government who made those laws you mentioned. It was the people through Senate and through their elected representatives made those. And again, I go to individuals. It was the individual who ruled that monopoly is not in the best interest of the nation. Of course, Colonel, you keep referring to the individual as though all individuals were identified in one way or another with the unions or with the corporations. Now, this may be an exceedingly naive point of view, but I'm not a member of a union, nor do I own any stock in any corporation. Where do I come out? My situation keeps deteriorating day by day and month by month. Now, that's the public interest with which I'm concerned and with which a good many thousands of people, millions of people, I suspect, in America are concerned. They seem to be coming out of the little end of the horn in this fight. I hesitate to call it a fight between the corporations and the unions. May I... All right, go ahead, Colonel. Well, thank Bernie. I see... To me, when I speak about individuals, to me, he is the basis of our whole setup. He is about corporation. He is about government. He is about union. He is about anything. He is the boss who decides what institutions we shall have to serve him. In other words, I don't relate him in connection with being a stockholder or being anything. He is the man who forms the government. Now, whenever corporations get the idea they are sufficient unto themselves, they are the end in itself, they are not serving public interest. Whenever unions get an idea that they are unto themselves sufficient and, all important, that the rest of the society should serve to them, they are not serving public interest. This, as in many other situations, finds us, and we talk in general principles, there is very little room for disagreement. I would like to try to answer the Colonel's analysis at the same time trying to answer Wurz's specific problem. And Wurz's specific problem, remember, had to do with the pressures, the inflationary pressures that come about through unions and corporations. Go ahead. That bears out what I said. The true function of government is not simply to be an umpire insofar as resolving problems that are presented outside the governmental circles because the government is right in the area of problems. If there had been, prior or at the time of the outbreak of the Korean War, an adequate fiscal monetary program, if there had been the proper kind of legislation, if government would have acted, whoever made up government, and if they could have had some statutes enacted which would have stabilized prices and wages, we wouldn't have had the difficulties we have today. But we must accept the realities. Congress failed to enact legislation which would prevent us from having inflation. Now, what the question is, what are the unions going to do about it? What are the corporations going to do about it? The unions point out that the way the legislation is loaded, they are bearing the heavier burden of inflation. They are trying to equalize the process. It's an extremely difficult one to achieve under the president's legislation. But from the point of view of the necessity of calling attention to the public, to the fact that this legislation has been loaded, the unions are carrying out their true patriotic duty of saying that it's wrong and it should be changed. Well, let me answer that with some facts, and I think that's the best way to handle it. The total national income in 1951, projecting it from third quarter, you know, through fourth quarter, will be $274.3 billion. Out of that, wages will amount to $177.4 billion, or 67.7%. It's a good chunk of the total. Now, let's jump through other materials, go to the corporation profits. The corporation profits will amount to $45.4 billion, or 16.6%. Well, out of that, government will take for taxes. In other words, corporation profit after taxes will amount to 6.7%. Now, it has been said by some of the CIO unions that you can raise that 64% of the wages without affecting the prices. Well, let us imagine you do it by 10%. You eliminate that 6.7% total. But remember, on the top of it, that 6.7% does not go to the stockholder, to the owner of the corporations. He gets, in 1951, estimated only about 3.1%. In other words, about 40% of the total. The rest of it remains building additional facilities, research, development, and so on. I'm just stating these facts so that you will see to what extent the burden can be turned the other way. Well, I respect your figures, Colonel, but there's another set that I understand still better, and that's the set that I get the end of every month when I figure out my own position and realize it is getting worse and worse and worse. And I know that the record is that American industry opposed the Capehart Amendment, insisting that their profits be not reduced and that labor walked off the wage stabilization board, saying 10% increase wasn't enough. You both bucked Regulation W. You've both fought tax programs of one kind or another when you didn't like them. And I don't find it enough of an answer that my people, the public representatives in government, fail to act because I've got the feeling they're no longer my representatives. It costs so much today to elect a congressman or a senator that you people are electing them. They don't represent any longer, most of them, a geographical area. They represent the people who paid the thousands or the hundred thousands of dollars for their campaign expenditures, and those seem to be primarily people from American industry and to some extent from American labor. I don't think I'm represented today as a result of the pressures you bring about in a campaign. I'm sorry, Wirtz, to have to say that labor doesn't merit what you suggested about electing people to Congress, whether it's the House or the Senate. Unfortunately, the experience of the last elections doesn't seem to bear that out. But there are a couple other things to consider. Labor does, of course, emphasize the basic nature of your complaint, namely that the average working man has trouble in buying sufficient milk, meat, and the like for his children and his family, regardless of the figures of national income. But there are other things to consider. The question, for example, insofar as an increase in wages based upon productivity would go along no matter what the thinking of Colonel Slezak would be on that score. But I do believe it's only fair to say that from the point of view of our present situation, government has not acted properly, and we think that it's our duty to call the attention of the public to the facts so that government should act properly. Let's take a more specific case then, Russell. The housing program. Why is it that with a housing emergency the way it is now, the trade unions, the labor trades, the building trades in Chicago have apparently joined up with the building contractors to buck a new building code? American labor and American industry are doing something to the housing program. I don't know what it is, but it does not seem to me to reflect or represent the public interest. It seems to me that we have to consider this problem the same as we consider other problems in the national welfare. When we have the problem, for example, of the enactment of a protective tariff, when we have the problem of enacting a subsidy for farmers or a farm parity program, we look at the problem nationwide. Now, with regard to the unions in the building trades and the contractors in the building trades, it is an answer to say that the problem cannot be solved solely between the union and the contractor, that the nation does have an interest. There should be a subsidy. Furthermore, I believe the developments recently, even here in Chicago, have indicated a growing recognition by all that greater productivity per man, in other words, a reduction of unit cost in the housing, is another step forward. I believe those are happy developments in the industry. Well, subsidy is just merely one way of facing the inefficiency one group on the backs of the rest of the citizens to bear. Well, that's the alternative, Colonel. I don't like subsidies either. I take it that subsidies and government are justified only if the private forces are not producing what we need and taking this housing picture. The answer is individual citizens' interest on local level and upward in these matters, because naturally the situation described is the result of monopoly, in which two pressure forces probably agree to really relax the pressure, and maybe they are cooperating, and maybe just simply, or maybe they are just tired. Don't you see? There is not enough competition. Whenever you get a situation, when you do not have enough competition, you get that sort of a thing. Is there too little competition, Colonel, or is there competition between so small and so powerful units that they're in a position to dictate the result in terms of their own interest, whereas competition between smaller interests might help me? Well, that sort of a situation is against public interest regardless of what you have. Monopoly of business is not for the best public interest, and certainly monopoly of labor is just as much against public interest. I would say that viewing the development in our industrial society, that one of the definite reasons why organized labor has protected the public interest is the fact that given the natural development of corporations into monopolistic groups, unless we had a competitor in the form of labor, we would have had the situation of one group controlling the field. I do not think that organized labor has reached the monopoly control that I believe the corporate setup of our structure has in the last 25 years. But whatever it is, one of the benefits has been that labor is offering some competition to monopoly. May I suggest one other aspect of this thing that bothers me? Both Brussels and Slezak have at various points suggested that this is my fault or that the public's fault because the public has not acted on this, that, or the other thing. Another piece of this picture that bothers me is that so many of my sources of information are controlled by one of the large groups, namely the corporate groups and their control of the newspapers. Now, I don't mind a situation in which there are several corporations servicing the public in a particular area. I'm worried very much about the fact that most of the people in this country today receive almost all of their information from monopoly newspapers operating in their area. I cannot agree with that, Bert. Of course, you will admit that that sort of a situation does not exist in Chicago. Right. You will agree it does not exist in Washington, D.C. You will admit it does not exist in New York. Now, I don't know how many other cities would be included. My point would be that in most metropolitan areas in the country today, there is one newspaper serving that community. I would also like to make the comment that any time a union becomes news in the public press, it's interesting to note the attitude which is displayed toward it in the means of communication. Unions are highly dramatic, and the press leaves nothing unturned to make them more dramatic to the reader. You know, frankly, you persuade me pretty much on these various points. I'm not too much worried about the situation as it is today. It's not so much that I feel as a member of the public I've been hurt as it is that I'm scared. I'm scared about the future. Two things particularly bother me. One, I just have the feeling that if we have another depression of any kind, the large corporations and the large unions are going to refuse to make the concessions that will be necessary to get us on through. I can't imagine the labor unions, most of them, accepting the wage decreases that may be necessary, and I have a feeling that the corporations are going to insist again on keeping prices up and let production down. That aspect of the future worries me. The other is I see here a power struggle, a political struggle. I can't believe we'll stay in equilibrium. I have the fear that one large group or another is going to win out in this thing, and I don't like what that means. Well, to me, I do not see that at all. As long as public, as individual gets interested and keeps his service organizations to do what they're supposed to do for him, and if they do not throw them out, and which includes everybody, including government, we don't have to fear about it. But if people will, through their apathy and disinterestedness, will pay no attention to their local government, to their state government, well, frankly, we cannot have our way of life, because the very bloodstream, everything that we have depends on individuals' participation in it. If we will not participate, we might as well forget it. We cannot have it and not participate in it. I think, Worth, your thoughtful question deserves serious consideration, and yet at the same time, I am not of the same opinion with regard to the probability of disaster. I think every democratic society, every democratic people, must realize that they have the responsibility of making decisions to ensure their own existence. If we don't make those decisions, we not only will not survive, but we shouldn't survive. I think, however, that looking at experience, when we see what has happened in this country in the last 30 years and the various crises, if we accept these crises as a normal procedure, as a normal event, and if we keep our heads, and if individuals know that unless they work together, disaster will surely face us, I would expect that we will solve the problems of the future the way we have in the past, not perfectly, but enough to keep us going and to make continued progress. Well, I like that answer. I respect completely the fact that a democracy ought to work on the basis of individuals participating in the administration of government. But may I ask, just almost plaintively, it seems to me that today corporations and labor unions do exercise what are virtually governmental powers. Is there any prospect or possibility of the development of a concept of kind of stewardship which would involve the corporations and the labor unions, reflecting my interest as well as the special interest of their members? Well, as a part of their job, they are doing it, but I still feel that they should primarily serve their primary purpose, to produce goods and services within our free enterprise system, and of course, be good citizens. And of course, the very fact that we have developed the highest standard of living, known anytime, anywhere, means that they have been serving that purpose very well. Well, I hardly concur with your thought. I simply say that unions have been doing that since their existence. Their first struggle was for existence and directly economic benefits. Today, they realize their duty to take part in everything that affects the general welfare. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. Do corporations and labor unions serve the public interest? Today's program was the last in a series of transcribed rebroadcasts of our most popular discussions from the past year. Participating were Abraham W. Brussell, General Counsel for the Illinois Congress of Industrial Organizations, Colonel John Slezak, President of Turner Brass Works, Sycamore, Illinois, and Chairman of the Board of the Illinois Manufacturers Association, and W. Willard Wirtz, Professor of Law in the School of Law at Northwestern University. Our moderator is James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University. We invite you to send four printed copies of today's broadcast. Copies are available for ten cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss how to eat and stay slim. Our guests will be Ms. Zoe Anderson, Director of Research and Nutrition Service for the National Dairy Council, Dr. Arthur R. Colwell, Chairman of the Department of Medicine, Northwestern University Medical School, and Frank G. Dickinson, Director of the Bureau of Medical Economic Research of the American Medical Association. We hope you'll join us next week to hear how to eat and stay slim. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thanks, Doug. I just want to see you. Let me see you next week. Good question. Now, this is going to be great. Let me see you next week. You should meet new ones. James Mackenzie, and ask the舞踪 mághi state as the coming wheel, if you take them to the discord, you would notice any incident, let me see you. We can see you. We've seen the Mena Whale, since I take your鯛, and forgive you. We can see you, but we've seen a Paul gonna do what's for theückczasie스런 Tuv.