From Washington, by transcription, the NBC News and Special Events Department presents the dedication ceremonies of the Voice of America's new floating transmitter, the Coast Guard Vessel Courier. President Truman, Secretary of State Acheson and other dignitaries, stood in the cold drizzle today to voice the hope of all Americans that our message of truth will reach all the peoples of the world, both free and enslaved. This vessel, the Courier, marks the Voice of America's latest and most dramatic effort to penetrate the Iron Curtain. She carries transmitters three times more powerful than any now in operation in this country. From these transmitters will go messages of hope and freedom, messages designed to offset with truth the vicious propaganda of communism. Today, one might say, the Voice of America really gets loud. And now we take you to Municipal Pier No. 4 in Washington to hear for yourself the dedicatory program which is being beamed around the world. This is the Voice of the United States of America, broadcasting from Washington, D.C. For the next 30 minutes, you will hear a special program direct from the flight deck of the United States Coast Guard Cutter Courier. In official ceremonies, the nation's capital will extend a national welcome to this new floating radio transmitter of the Voice of America. This is John Hogan, Washington correspondent for the Voice of America, speaking to you from the top deck of the United States Coast Guard Cutter Courier in the nation's capital. You have just heard the well-known musical signature of the Voice of America, Yankee Doodle, played by the United States Navy Band. In just a few minutes, the President of the United States, the Honorable Harry S. Truman, will come aboard here at Dockside at the Potomac River to extend a national welcome to this vessel, the first seagoing radio broadcasting station ever commissioned. This Coast Guard Cutter is being put into operation as a floating radio transmitter, a moving relay base for Voice of America broadcasts beamed all over the world. It's the newest and most unique electronic arm of the Campaign of Truth, which will enable the Voice of America to broadcast programs in areas of the world which are now beyond the reach of present land-based radio transmitters. In just a few minutes, from the top deck of the Coast Guard Cutter Courier, you will hear the welcoming ceremony for this vessel. A large speaker's platform, draped in red, white, and blue bunting, has been set up here on the spacious top deck of the courier. And from this platform, which offers a view of the Potomac River and much of the city of Washington, President Truman, Secretary of State Dean Acheson, and other high-ranking officials of the United States government will speak to the more than 200 or 250 guests who have come aboard the courier for this welcoming ceremony. Among these guests are several members of the President's cabinet, members of the Senate and House of Representatives, officials of the Department of State, the United States Coast Guard, representatives of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the commissioners of the District of Columbia. And while we're waiting for the ceremony, I would like to give you a picture of this floating radio transmitter, which will soon be heading for a trial run and testing operations in the Caribbean Sea. It's a 5,800-ton vessel, 338 feet long, a diesel-powered former Navy cargo ship. It was commissioned about two weeks ago at Hoboken, New Jersey. The courier will be manned by the United States Coast Guard, and Voice of America engineers will supervise the operation of the radio-transmitting equipment on board the ship. This radio equipment, by the way, is the most powerful of its type ever installed on a ship. There is one 150,000-watt medium-wave transmitter and two 35,000-watt shortwave transmitters and other communications equipment capable of picking up Voice of America programs and beaming them from the vessel's location at sea to various parts of the world. The diesel engines on board are capable of generating 1,500,000 watts of electrical power for these radio transmitters. The antenna of this floating radio station is also unique. It will be lifted into the sky by a huge barrage balloon filled with helium gas. The top deck of the courier, where this broadcast is originating now, looks very much like a huge flake deck, which actually it is, for all the superstructure has been removed, so the antenna balloon can be raised and lowered quickly and with a minimum use of manpower. The vessel will be operated at sea, as I mentioned a few moments ago, by the United States Coast Guard. And standing here beside me on the top deck is the commander of the courier, Captain Oscar C.B. Webb, who will take the vessel on its initial run. Captain Webb, will you step over to the microphone, please? oraz His tailwind We have in the crew of the courier 10 officers and 80 men and at the present time have three civilian technicians from the Voice of America who will supervise the broadcast. Bktite Now with the coast guards primary duty. Now, the Coast Guard's primary duty is to rescue ships in distress at sea, and I understand, too, it's called upon to perform many other duties. Is the operation of this vessel, this seagoing transmitter, unusual for a Coast Guard function? Well, this is the first time that the Coast Guard has participated in a project of this particular type. And although we have had occasions where we have had transmitters aboard ships, this is the first time that anything on this scale has been attempted before. Now, does the courier carry enough supplies and equipment to stay afloat for quite some time without assistance or other supplies from vessels at sea? In converting the courier, we planned a two-year cruise. Each member of the crew and the officers are volunteers and have volunteered for two years' duty. Since the vessel is a converted cargo ship, we are able to carry approximately 18-month supplies aboard. Thank you very much, Captain Webb. And now here at my side is Mr. George Herrick, the chief engineer of the Voice of America. Mr. Herrick, are these radio transmitters that we have on board capable of being heard over very great distances? Why, yes, they are. The medium-wave transmitter on board has a range in the evening of about 1,000 to 1,500 miles. The short-wave transmitters on board have ranges of many, many thousands of miles. Now, the barrage balloon antenna system that you have here seems to me very unique. Is it a very effective way of making the signal have a great punch over a great distance? Why, yes, it is. The barrage balloon will go up to about 1,000 feet, which will enable us to reach full height on our antenna system and use the full-size antenna necessary for efficient transmission. Thank you very much, Mr. Herrick. That was an interview briefly conducted on the top deck of the Coast Guard Cutter Courier with Mr. George Herrick, chief engineer of the Voice of America. Well, Mr. Cor zost, our Archがsystools that lead from City of Georgia, The End Ladies and gentlemen, you are listening to Hail to the Chief, in salute to the Honorable Harry S. Truman, President of the United States, who has just been piped aboard the Coast Guard Katakuria to participate in these ceremonies today. President Truman was greeted by the commander of the ship, Captain Webb, below deck. Now he has come to the speaker's platform, and in just a moment he will probably address the assembled gathering here. He will be introduced, I understand, by the administrator of the International Information Administration, Dr. Compton. In just a moment, Dr. Compton will come to the stand for this introduction. The President is posing now for photographs by the members of the press. The President, distinguished guests. The President, distinguished guests. Invocation by Rear Admiral Stanton W. Salisbury, Chief of the Navy Chaplains. O God, who art the way, the truth, and the light, grant that all men may seek thee and find thee, and know the truth that makes men free. Receive, O Lord, this ship and the work of our hands, that it may be a strong voice of truth, crying in the wilderness of man's ignorance. May it be the voice of love, of patience, of tolerance, of sympathy, of hope, and of promise, so that ignorance, misunderstanding, intolerance, tyranny, fear, and want may be put to flight forever. Amen. This marks the 10th anniversary of the Voice of America. The people of the United States are today giving it a new mouthpiece. This unique ship, a powerful floating transmitter, is an expression of the will of the American people that the voice of freedom be carried throughout the world. That will has been expressed by the Congress of the United States, and it has been put to work by the Department of State, its advisory commissions, and the Coast Guard, with the help of American science and the electronics industries. The main transmitter of the four on this ship carries a radio signal three times as powerful as any transmitter now operating in the United States, and its balloon-mounted antennae will float at twice the height of the Washington Monument. The voice of America, the voice of America, at the end of 10 years, has become a powerful voice, a voice of hope, friendship, and goodwill throughout the world. And now may I introduce our host, the District of Columbia, the Honorable F. Joseph Donahue, Commissioner of the District. Mr. President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, the government and people of the city of Washington, the capital city of this great and free republic, bid you, Captain Webb, and the officers and men of your command, welcome. We welcome to your gallant ship, the United States Coast Guard Cutter Courier, the instrumentality whereby you will bring to all who love freedom truth which alone can make men free. Say for us to all the world that peace, liberty, and justice is our prayer for all men. May God be with you on your mission. The Honorable Dean Acheson, the Secretary of State. Mr. President, Dr. Compton, honored guests, and friends of America throughout the whole world, and the President, and the President, and the President, and the President, and the President. We are dedicating the courier to a task which is in the best tradition of our country. The men who founded this nation in promulgating the Declaration of Independence acknowledge the necessity and propriety of showing a decent respect for the opinions of mankind. This principle remains an important part of our foreign policy. We are engaged in a great effort to strengthen and unite the free peoples of the world in order that peace may be secure against aggression, and that freedom may continue to flourish. Our greatest ally in this effort is the truth. We have faith that wherever the people of the world can know the truth, they will support and sustain this great effort. That is why what President Truman has called the Campaign of Truth is a central part of our foreign policy today. And that is the great mission of this ship, the courier, to bear to the people of the world, to our friends who are free and those who are not free, the truth about what is happening in the world, and about our efforts in behalf of peace and freedom. The courier, a ship of the sea that has been dedicated to the cause of peace, symbolizes our aspiration for the day when all our effort and all our strength may be devoted to peaceful and constructive ends. This is the ultimate purpose of all that we do. On this occasion, the work of two men whose vision and energy helped to make the courier a reality is deserving of tribute. Edward W. Barrett, who was until recently Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs, and Howland H. Sargent, Mr. Barrett's successor. I know that the Campaign of Truth, as it is carried forward by the courier, and all the other media of communication, through the continued efforts of Mr. Sargent and Dr. Compton, will continue to advance the best traditions and purposes of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. Thank you very much. Dr. Compton, members of the Cabinet of the United States, distinguished guests, and the President of the United States, distinguished guests, and the Friends of Peace all around the world. I'm speaking to you today from a ship. It is a special kind of ship, and it will perform a very special mission. This vessel will not be armed with guns or with any instruments of destruction, but it will be a valiant fighter in the cause of freedom. It will carry a precious cargo, and that cargo is truth. This ship is named the Courier. It is well named, for it will be carrying a message. It will carry a message of hope and friendship to all those who are oppressed by tyranny. It will be carrying a message of truth and light to those who are confused by the storm of falsehood that the Communists have loosed upon the world. This vessel is a floating radio transmitter, which is to broadcast the programs for the Voice of America. It will be able to move from place to place, beaming our campaign of truth to people behind the Iron Curtain, whom we have thus far been unable to reach. The Courier is a small ship. It is not as big as a destroyer, but it is of tremendous significance. Its significance lies in the fact that it will carry on the fight for freedom in the field where the ultimate victory has to be won, that is, in the minds of men. As the world stands today, free peoples must have strong military forces to protect themselves against aggression. But the final solution for the ills that plague the world can never lie in armies and navies and air forces. The final solution cannot be reached until all nations are willing to live together in peace. The final victory cannot be won until the truth has made all peoples free. There is a terrific struggle going on today to win the minds of people throughout the world. The rulers of the Kremlin are trying to make the whole world knuckle under to the godless totalitarian creed of communism. They are busy everywhere spreading propaganda to stir up fear and hate and to set nation against nation. The free nations of the world have not yielded to the onslaught of Soviet propaganda. We have undertaken to answer propaganda with truth, for we know that truth is the best answer. To bring the truth to peoples everywhere, we are using magazines, newspapers, motion pictures, libraries and information centers in all parts of the world. We must use every means to combat the propaganda of slavery. This ship is an important part of that campaign. Our arguments, no matter how good, are not going to influence people who never hear them. I'll repeat that. Our arguments, no matter how good, are not going to influence people who never hear them. The purpose of this ship is to help get our message through. There's one thing I want this ship to say over and over again to our friends throughout the world, and especially to the people of the Soviet Union and those behind the Iron Curtain. The United States of America is working night and day to bring peace to the world. As President of the United States, I say with all my heart that we yearn for peace, and we want to work with all nations to secure peace. We have no quarrel with the people of the Soviet Union or the people of any other country. For almost two centuries, the people of the United States have lived at peace with the peoples of Russia and China and other countries, whose rulers are now assailing us. Only a decade ago, when the peoples of Russia and China were suffering under two of the most savage invasions in history, we came to their aid. We helped them to save their countries. And we helped them to save their lives. I want to say to these people today, as we said then, we are your friends. There are no differences between us that cannot be settled if your rulers will turn from their senseless policy of hate and terror and follow the principles of peace. Today, the aggressive policies of your rulers are forcing us to arm to defend ourselves. But we cannot find it in our hearts to hate anyone. We cannot find it in our hearts to bear any hate against you. We know that we are suffering under oppression and persecution. We know that if you were free to say what you really believe, you would join with us to banish the fear of war and bring peace on earth and goodwill toward all men. Your government, with its newspapers and radios, may try to make you believe that the United States is a hostile country, bent on war. But that is not true. I want you to know that our highest aim is peace and friendship and an end to the horrors of war. Wherever you may be listening to this broadcast, remember this. The people of the United States extend the hand of friendship to you across the seas. The future may look dark, but let us have faith together that all peoples will one day walk in the sunlight of peace and justice. The national anthem. And here we will go along with the Father. That is the hard thing and priority. Amen. I have an enemy from en sanoi. Extraordinaryola. The National Anthem. The National Anthem. The National Anthem. The National Anthem. For 반 would you be пят Bay? This time required Christmasuggles. So no fun. What a wine. Teach us pray to you. It's great awal catering tail While Amen. See you suit our най. We after a wine. We probably have time for knit for your life. Thank you. It needs to be the prototype of military devices. To be acquaintance. To berak, To beummy. We start with silой, The next one is welcoming the United States Coast Guard Cutter Courier to Washington, D.C. prior to its first voyage to augment the campaign of truth. During these ceremonies, you heard an address by the President of the United States, Harry S. Truman, and remarks by Secretary of State Dean Acheson, Dr. Wilson Compton, Administrator of the International Information Administration, and the Honorable Joseph Donohue, member of the Board of Commissioners of the District of Columbia. By transcription, you have heard ceremonies which today mark America's latest effort to penetrate the Iron Curtain. In a word, this effort is a ship, a vessel equipped with radio transmitters powerful enough to bring the truth to both the free and enslaved peoples of the world. Today in Washington is rainy, chilly, raw, but these unfavorable conditions have not prevented the leaders of our nation from turning out to help bring the warmth of American philosophy to those who have yet to learn the truth. American leaders and their countrymen hope this vessel will help to deliver that message. The story of this ship is fascinating. It comes as a climax to ten years of effort on the part of the Voice of America, effort to tell the rest of the world our story, how we live, what we do, the story of our industry, the story of our leisure moments, the story of life in New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, the story of life in Bangor, Toledo, Peoria, or Tucson. This vessel, the Coast Guard Cutter Courier, was taken out of mothballs for its mission. That conversion was completed only after a year of hard work. We could look back to last March. It was then that the courier's captain, C.B. Webb, was introduced to Gene W. Seymour, project engineer for the Voice of America. That meeting marked the beginning of extensive preparations. Plans were laid out three times. Mr. Seymour worked on the electronic angle of the project, while Captain Webb took over the seamanship aspects of the problem. The result is this 338-foot floating broadcasting station, one that operates on both medium and short wave. It has one decided advantage over land-based relay stations. It can shift its position and thus cope with both difficult atmospheric conditions and with attempts to jam its transmission. Its power is 150,000 watts. Its main antenna will be airborne, held aloft by helium-filled captive barrage balloons, measuring anywhere from 35 to 69 feet. These balloons can rise to an altitude approximately twice the height of the Washington Monument. Its programs will be short-wave to the courier from Voice of America headquarters in New York. And they will be transmitted from shipboard. The courier's crew, as you have heard, is a volunteer outfit. Volunteer because theirs is a two-year mission. Aboard will be ten officers and eighty men. Hand-picked men. This is a 5,800-ton vessel. Because of the tasks she will perform, she is, of necessity, capable of carrying extensive supplies. In fact, she can take aboard enough supplies ranging from coffee to steaks to last 18 months. This week, her crew faces a shakedown cruise. Come Friday, she'll pull away from her berth at Municipal Pier No. 4 here in Washington and sail for the Caribbean. This cruise will be merely an engineering shakedown, a test of engines and transmitters. All this, a preliminary to the mission perhaps best described today by President Truman when he said, the courier is a small ship. It is not as big as a destroyer, but it is of tremendous significance. Its significance lies in the fact that it will carry on the fight for freedom in the field where the ultimate victory has to be won. That is, in the minds of men. Perhaps no broadcast ever received greater coverage than the one you have just heard. As the ceremonies took place, the Voice of America beamed them simultaneously to Europe, Latin America, and the Far East. In addition, translators went to work. Throughout the remainder of the day, details of this program will be carried throughout the world in 45 languages. This program has been presented by the NBC News and Special Events Department in Washington. Stuart Finley speaking. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.