I feel a strange kind of semi-paternal pride in introducing the speakers who will participate in this panel because in addition to being except for the moderator, Professor Lurge, all members of the staff of the New York Times, they are all, including Professor Lurge, alumni of the college. Mr. Bracker's wife, who was with us in the audience, has rather frustrated a desire that I had to say that although she is not, strictly speaking, an alumna of the college, we felt that under the circumstances we could at least welcome her as a daughter-in-law of the college. And we hope that later on in the general discussion that will follow, we may persuade her to participate. Professor Lurge is our moderator, is a member of the City College class of 1926, Professor of Education at Columbia, and has served as moderator of this series from its inception four years ago. He is a specialist in the fields of communication, public opinion sampling, and other areas of educational and statistical research. Mr. Morton Yarmann of the class of 1934 is a copy editor on the foreign news desk of the New York Times. Before that, he did similar work for the Paris Herald Tribune, and has had extensive experience in editing locality and civil service newspapers in New York for a number of years. Mr. A. M. Rosenthal of the class of 1943, who participated in this symposium last year, was good enough to return again this evening. He is United Nations correspondent and second in command at the Times United Nations Bureau. He has been close to every development in the United Nations from the very beginning, has covered sessions both in this country and abroad, and has had an opportunity to see correspondence from other newspapers abroad reporting affairs going on in this country. Mr. Harold Faber of the class of 1940 was City College correspondent for the Times when he was a student here, and did so good a job in that capacity that he was invited to join the general news staff shortly after that. At the beginning of the Korean War, he was sent to Tokyo as a war correspondent, covered action on the front lines, and after that period of service in Korea, is now back on the general news staff of the Times. Mr. Milton Bracker of the class of 1929 was formerly the chief South American correspondent of the Times for several years. After graduation from City College, he attended the Columbia School of Journalism, joined the staff of the Times as a general reporter, served abroad as foreign correspondent in Italy and Mexico. During the Second World War, he covered the Allied Army that liberated Italy and wrote one of the masterpieces of recent news reporting when he covered the execution of Benito Mussolini. On one of his assignments some years ago, the arrival of the Duke and Duchess of Windsor after abdication, Mr. Bracker had to compete with a girl reporter from a Washington newspaper, and deciding, I am told, that offense was the best defense, he married her, and took her with him to Buenos Aires as his second-in-command in South America. She is Virginia Warren, who was present this evening, and I hope we'll have something to say later. I am now going to turn the proceedings of the evening over to Professor Lourge, who will introduce the speakers to you in more detail and get the ball rolling. Professor Lourge. Thank you. Thank you. You've heard all about these Sons of City College. At my left is Mr. Bracker, and my right is Mr. Faber, and just beyond him is Mr. Rosenthal, who was here last year with us, and then beyond him at the extreme corner is Mr. Yarman, who is the copy editor of the New York Times. Going back once more, just so that you know them, Mr. Yarman, copy editor, Mr. Rosenthal, currently United Nations reporter, Mr. Faber, who was a war correspondent in Korea, and Mr. Bracker, who reported the Mussolini execution, as well as being South American correspondent, who got into some trouble with a man called Perron. Is that right? Yes. One of the nice things about being a foreign correspondent is sometimes nothing happens, but more often something does. Now, I wonder whether it wouldn't help for us to get a quick picture of, we have here two former foreign correspondents, one United Nations correspondent, and then the copy editor. So I'll give you a picture of what the relationship is from one to the other. Suppose I start with the, you tell us what a foreign correspondent does, whether in Italy or in South America. Well, the basic responsibility of the foreign correspondent in any country is to cover the news of that country. And if that's an oversimplification, nevertheless, it's the best possible way to put it. If the country happens to be as small as Luxembourg, it's a little easier than if it happens to be the Soviet Union. Nevertheless, and I'm sure my colleagues would agree, your responsibility is that to the full, to cover, to transmit to your home office, the news, every phase of the news, of the progress or the lack of it, the life, the problem, the set, the government and the people of the country to which you're assigned. Thanks, Mr. Bracker. Now, I wonder whether Mr. Fable would tell us what a war correspondent does. He just came back fairly recently from Korea. Well, in essence, the same thing as Mr. Bracker said, to give a fair and accurate picture as best as possible about what's going on. In other words, to sort of act as eyes and ears of the people who are reading the newspaper so that if you ever got to the same place, you would say, this man has been telling me what I see here now. Now, the correspondent of the United Nations or to the United Nations is somewhat different. And I wonder whether you could tell us, Mr. Rosenthal, what... The Times operates a rather large bureau out at the UN. As a matter of fact, it's the largest bureau of any newspaper or wire service. That is, a newspaper agency at the UN. We have four full-time reporters plus a couple of news assistants and so on in slack periods. And when things get exciting, we expand anywhere from 7 to 17. Our job is to cover not only the official proceedings of the United Nations, what you see, but what you don't see. We cover... We're responsible for everything that happens at the UN. The meetings, the corridor stories, the political developments, what's going to happen and why it happened, feature stories, obituaries, anything that happens at all out on the East River. And we pass it along to Mr. Yarman and his colleagues. The copy editor takes hold of the foreign correspondence which has been turned in by men like Mr. Bracker, Mr. Faber, Mr. Rosenthal. Where there's a... where some bad grammar appears, and of course it never appears in the copy of these three gentlemen, the copy editor's responsibility is to knock out the bad grammar. Where fact discrepancies appear it's the responsibility of the copy editor to so change them. The copy editor's responsibility, in other words, is the final one between the coverage by the correspondent and the person who reads the paper the following morning. He also puts the headlines on the story, making an attempt, of course, to give the same feeling that the correspondent has done. Thanks very much. Would somebody back there tell us if we're not getting back there? Just raise your hand. We'll try to reach there. We're not being heard? I wonder what... Do we have to stand? Well, this is... We'll lose a little bit on informality, but we probably will gain a little bit in a sense of communication. You now have a sort of a picture. Now, I do think that one of the important parts of this is how does a foreign correspondent cover a country? You've now found out that he's responsible for a number of things in a foreign country. How does a foreign correspondent cover a country? I'd like to know, how would you cover, let's say, the Argentine, which you did cover? What were the steps that were involved in a foreign country? How would you cover the hours? Thank you. How would you cover the hours? I'm going to stay. You can stay there. It's really a much more prosaic business on a day-to-day routine than is usually suspected, particularly if you spend your time listening to the professional return correspondent, who I might say is equally anathema to all of us. We've agreed on that. So I'll try not to glamorize it as perhaps you've seen it glamorized or read of it being glamorized and tell you that for long stretches, particularly in a secondary news country like Argentina, the routine is about like this. You must read all the newspapers and very carefully. That, of course, is basic to all journalism. But in a foreign capital, it's particularly important. Now, the Argentine situation would be distinguished and you'd learn this simply by virtue of the fact that you'd gotten there and knew a little about what your predecessors had sent, by the fact that you had a government which was very unpopular with certain usually conservative circles, circles which were identified with the independent newspaper La Prensa. Therefore, you, of course, would always read La Prensa and La Nation to get a slant on public events that you could not possibly get by reading the government papers. In other words, a correspondent who read one side but not the other of the daily press would get an absolutely myopic or perhaps, say better, a vision of the country that sacrificed the vision of one eye. He would read then everything. And after a period of a few days, you learn immediately to sense where a new sensitivity exists. He would also maintain, and this applies in every foreign country, he would maintain the best possible relationships with the United States Embassy, preferably on the level of the ambassador himself, but of course including the various attaches, and also with as many ambassadors and military attaches, commercial attaches, of the other countries with whom he could establish friendship. In a country like Argentina, where the native official population is very standoffish and characterized by the Spanish word dignidad, which is a form of face, a form of all pride and no sense of humor, it's extremely difficult for the correspondent to make himself accepted on ordinary day-to-day terms by the official Argentine population. This reluctance to deal with the correspondent often communicates itself to other embassies, and so that we would find almost that the best way to maintain that close dimension of informality with news sources was on a strictly personal basis. But without extending the answer any further, you would know the trend of news by reading all the papers, by maintaining contacts with the various official sources and simply by keeping your eyes open because in a country like Argentina where large meetings are held, where speeches by the president can cause vast anti-American demonstrations to take place, the simple business of keeping your eyes and ears open, and that includes an ear to the telephone, of course, is the basic technique of covering any country. Now, I think I'd like to put into the record what does a war correspondent do that is different from what has been said before. I think you deal with different people. Would you try that, Mr. Faber? Well, it's difficult to put into so many words just what a war correspondent does that is different from anybody else. In essence, what he does is keep his eyes and ears open and his ears open in listening to official reports from various sections of the army. Those are the, normally the communiques that you can read in the morning newspaper, which he sees perhaps five to six hours before they appear in the newspaper, and listening to official explanations by people who are not identified in the newspaper other than to call them spokesmen for the army, who in reality are public relations officers of the army. The other half, which is much more important, is going to see things for himself. And depending on the geography of any situation, he can only go to see one thing at a time, which means one thing per day. And, of course, the news in a war is usually, to the reporter, not what is going on, but what happens where he is, because he can't very well tell you what's going on elsewhere, except in other people's words. But he can tell you what he sees, and it's a normal reaction, I guess, to make what he sees the most important news of the day. And if you bring to this the same imagination and curiosity that you bring to any story that you are reporting, whether it's here in New York City or any place, that is what we call good reporting of any situation, including the war. Thank you. Now, since we are the capital of the world in a sense, and since the United Nations is making news right here, I wonder whether Mr. Rosenthal could take a few seconds to tell us just what you do, what are the sources, how do you check on a story, for instance? Well, covering the UN involves coverage on two basic levels. One is the formal level, that is, you cover the meetings that go on, you write stories about the official reports, there are thousands of them that come out all the time, the official documentation. That is all, that involves writing about stories that are all above the surface. It involves getting, primarily, getting to know your subject very well, whether you're dealing with an economic report or a meeting or a political report or a meeting or an atomic energy control question. You have to know just what in the thousands and thousands of speeches and documents is news, what is old and what is new. That's your job. You have to be able to sift out material that's old and has been repeated. The other level is the informal level, is getting to know as many contacts as possible among the various, among the 60 delegations and the 3,000 people of the secretariat. Obviously, if you lump them all together, you get about 5,000 or 4,500 people and you can't get to know all of them. So your job boils down to finding the key people in the right places, getting to know them, getting them, getting to trust them and having them trust you so you will know where to go in any given situation. And so nothing much happens without your being informed of it in time to make the paper. Now, as you must see, you have these various people out in various foreign countries and you're very fortunate in having representatives of the New York Times, which I think has more correspondence in foreign areas than any other newspaper in the world. I may be exaggerating a little bit, but I don't think that I am at all. So that what you have here is going to be somewhat more unusual in the sense that coverage is adequate. Now, certainly, a man goes to South America and sent from New York. Is there any possibility that because of his background of knowledge or experience that what he sees will be distorted or, more particularly, that forces will be operating on him that will distort the news? That is, he doesn't even know that people have been, oh, entertaining him a little more than usual or something of that kind. In what way is there any possible distortion that comes into the news and can that distortion be caught at the copy editor's desk? Can I answer that? Please. The copy editor makes an attempt 3,000 miles away from the correspondent to check him. Of course, that's an extremely difficult proposition because he's on the spot. The man here in New York is not on the spot. The man here, however, has the advantage first because he sees the same series of news events reported by the Associated Press, by the United Press, by several further press agencies. Because of that, the copy editor can see whether the correspondent's on the beam or if he's off the beam. Where we find that there seems to be some discrepancy between the story that's being sent in by the foreign correspondent sent out by the Times and the story from the AP and from the UP, where we have sufficient time, we send the Times correspondent a pointed message saying United Press says such and such, how come? or something along the same lines. Where the correspondent fails to send back an answer because of lack of time or for any other reason, we generally stick to the correspondent because we feel he's been selected by our own office. He's being paid a salary, of course, by the Times and therefore there seems no point in going beyond his story. We will, however, make an attempt to synthesize the two stories. For example, should the Times correspondence say that five persons have been killed in a riot and the Associated Press and United Press correspondence say nine persons have been killed in a riot, what we will normally do is publish the story by the correspondent where he says five persons have been killed, then, bracketed in, beyond that, we will say, press agencies, however, say that nine persons have been killed. That's one way in which we make an attempt to check up 3,000 miles away. The second source that the New York Times office has, of course, is our own files. If the foreign correspondent says that John Jones has been elected premier from such and such a country and the back copies of the New York Times and the World Almanac and who's who, say his name is James Jones, we will change. These minor discrepancies of fact will be changed in our own office because we frequently feel the correspondents working in rather difficult circumstances, particularly in situations of riot or war, and therefore the sources that the Times have are much more stable. Have I given you some picture of what... That's excellent. ...how we knock out what seemed to be your... Now, of course, you'll see what happens is that errors of fact are certainly caught at the copy editor's depths. Occasionally, however, a correspondent will be somewhat disturbed because distortion creeps in because the copy editor may actually change a story. Does that ever happen? May I say that? May I say that? May I say that? May I say that? May I say that? Mr. Brackett. It was inevitable that that touching presentation by Mort Armand would set to some sparks flying. Just a few points because this, of course, goes right to the heart of the correspondence problem, as it does to the heart of the man on the desk's problem and looking at it beyond that to the problem of the reader who wants to get the most accurate possible story. A project, by the way, as we all agree. Now, this business of bracketing the so-called agency copy into the correspondence copy, that is absolutely poison to the correspondent. He hates it. He can't stand it. Although, occasionally, he has to acknowledge that the AP or the UP may have beaten him on a fact. And let's say that if this correspondence story says the casualties were six and the AP says they were 14, then you confuse your reader completely by running the six on the lead in a bracket saying 14. Nevertheless, I submit there may be some justification for that and the desk doesn't want to get across the major cat or the largest figure. But with all due of love and affection for the desk, and I'm sure we're speaking affectionately tonight, here's the kind of thing that may happen. This is simply an example, similar examples of reporters of foolishness and reporters' errors could easily be cited. At this point, it strikes a box immediately and you'll forgive me if I cite it. One of the big stories in Argentina, of course, was the suppression of the newspaper La Prensa. And the New York Times Bureau from 47 to 51 lived through that story very closely toward the very conclusion of it when it was apparent that the Prensa was done and that the publisher of the Prensa was in very great personal difficulties. The AP came up with a pipe. A pipe is a newspaper word for a phony story. It's a story that's gotten perhaps sincerely but in this case was completely wrong. It said in effect that Gainsapas, the publisher of the Prensa, had been arrested and was being held in custody in the building of the Argentine Congress. Now the Times correspondent at that time had no such information but being aware of the fact that this rumor was floating about, so to speak, checked and found it absolutely was completely out of whole cloths and the story that night was filed. No reference to that arrest. You don't automatically knock down a false story because if you did the page would be full of nothing but denials of false stories. Nevertheless, nevertheless, the desk that night seeing the possible arrest of Gainsapas got a little worried about it and so of course on the front page at the bottom the next day we did have a story saying that Alberto Gainsapas was arrested and locked up in the Argentine Congress. A story which of course turned out to be made absolutely out of whole cloths. Now mind you, I'm speaking obviously from the very, very biased point of view of the correspondent on the spot. I submit however in a situation like that the solution was suggested by Mr. Yarmann. Queries should always be sent. The good correspondent is delighted, absolutely delighted to get a query indicating what the competition is doing particularly if he gets it in time to save himself. Now in Europe for instance where you have a five or six hour time advantage a query can reach you and you have easy, you have enough time to go out and catch up on one of the best exclusive stories in the world. So I would simply say that the point of departure between our respective sides of the desk is let's always have the query yes but let's, for the morale of correspondence all over and for the better presentation of the news let's stick to the correspondent story and not bracket almost any story that the agencies happen to dream up in the course of an evening. I'm sorry I'm so combative. Do you want to talk about that, Mr. Faber? I'd just like to cite two experiences. They happened to me. They're the only ones I know. I'm sure they've happened to all others. When we were covering the first Marine advance in Korea the first day the Marines advanced about three or four miles according to the spokesman. The Times followed the story the Marines advanced about three miles. The AP followed the story the Marines advanced about four miles. The story appeared in the Times as I found out about twelve months later. The Times story appeared first the Marines advanced about three miles and then there was this bracketed in of the AP. A later dispatch from the AP however said they advanced four miles. Now in Korea I never once received a query from the office because of mechanical difficulties of getting one and in a case like that obviously you can't query your reporter but because of the time differential copy editors and other people on the paper know that when you file a story at midnight or so that nothing more is likely to happen that night until the next story is filed and I think that as Mr. Bracker says is one of the instances where you confuse the reader by trying to give him too much by not knowing enough about the situation. A second thing happened to me not in Korea but back in 48 when I was on a ship coming from Europe a ship which detoured out of its course to pick up a very sick pregnant woman and it was one of these normal dramatic stories at sea which I promptly filed. However the ship arrived in New York the next day to be met by a batch of photographers who wanted to take pictures of the baby. There's one instance of a report of copy readers serving as opt-in-trish as far as I'm concerned. Now I don't know whether such distortion is likely to take place on the United Nations reporter working out of New York although Mr. Rosenthal has worked in Paris and wherever United Nations affairs are likely to break why he's been sent out the story but is there anything like that that happens to you? Well I'm in a happy position of being able to be a good boy about all this. In theory I agree with the people in my own class reporters but as far as the UN Bureau is concerned we're very fortunate in that although we operate as a foreign bureau and under the foreign desk we work out of New York and as far as our copy is concerned we have found that when there has been a question there's usually enough time for the foreign desk to get in touch with whoever wrote that UN story and except in a couple of cases when we were in Paris I don't recall any instances in which that problem arose in which our copy was changed because of something the agency had to say there is something though that small beef I could put in right now is that the foreign desk on the Times pays what seems to me an inordinate amount of attention to every word that the wire services send in so on the one hand you get the instructions to hold down on a story not to put in everything but the kitchen sink to write as tight a story as possible and you try to do that and about 4 o'clock or 5 o'clock in the evening you get a call from the desk saying the UP has this and the AP has that and Reuter filed a paragraph about this well presumably the man on the spot knew it and left it out because he wanted to leave it out now I think that you can see here that there are at least two elements in the situation one is the story has filed and then secondly the story is checked and cross-checked and you'll note that there's a concerted effort to get great accuracy now yet from one other point of view we might raise another kind of question and that is what kinds of stories do get filed that is is there any limitation on the kinds of stories that can be filed from either the war area or a foreign area or from the United Nations that is is there a demand please file a story on such and such or is there a general bracket give us everything that's news is there any limitation on you people from that point of view you want to try it well okay he has a good more answer may I answer it in part please it's natural of course that no foreign country can possibly be worth the full amount of coverage that the papers within the foreign country itself would be covering there has to be some selectivity the selectivity of course must be based first on a matter of space limitations the times publishes a paper of about 60 pages a day boiled down to columns the foreign news takes up generally around 19 or 20 columns a day we have we have approximately 55 foreign correspondents 19 columns into 55 means that each foreign correspondent should be entitled on a mathematical basis to about two-fifths of a column now within his two-fifths of a column he has to cover politics he has to cover the life of the city the life of a whole country feature stories of Americans who are doing things in these countries and so forth there has to be much selectivity on the part of the correspondent and much selectivity on the part of the foreign desk the foreign desk gets probably three times the amount of stories that eventually appear in the paper the kind of stories that seem to be filed by the correspondents would normally be the stories that would have a personal bearing upon the Americans who read this paper stories for example about the North Atlantic treaty organization where the United States is a member and the foreign countries members would naturally have more bearing for the American reading public than foreign stories about a minor affair in Buenos Aires or Rio de Janeiro or wherever it happens to be the foreign desk makes an attempt to find out what's happening in these foreign countries foreign countries through the wire services and sort of sits and waits for the correspondent to file his story where the foreign correspondent apparently has missed what seems to the foreign desk to be a story worth publishing there will be a message sent by and large though the foreign desk follows the judgment by the foreign correspondents and then the foreign and the foreign well what I think that we can see now is that in terms of the number of columns available there is selectivity there is a selectivity undoubtedly on the part of the correspondent in the given spot there is a selectivity on the part of the copy editor there probably may be a few further selectivity up and down the line so the question now is how does the correspondent apparently sensitize himself to know what kinds of stories to be or what kinds of stories to get out of the United Nations or which stories to file let's say in a war area what is the basis for your own know-how well that of course goes to the very root of what makes a newspaper man and I suppose the answer is knowing news you don't approach any new country in a vacuum you have the benefit of whatever's been published about it for the previous years and therefore you're unable to screen in advance the type of material you are likely to be responsible for obviously the problem is greater in a large capital like London or Paris from the standpoint of the volume of the news you file and its overall importance on the other hand in the lesser country your selectivity must be much greater and much more severe because otherwise you'll over file and you have your stuff thrown away so you must learn as Professor Lloyd suggests those basic elements of news production in your country that must be looked out for now if I should ask anyone in this audience for instance what is day-to-day news in a country like Argentina I'm sure that you'd all say you don't know immediately because the story there is fundamentally a political story involving a difficult and perhaps a repressive regime which happens to be made a little bit more brilliant from the standpoint of the news interest in it by the president of a fascinating and perhaps very dangerous woman consequently it's not very hard to be a correspondent and arrive in Buenos Aires and say now where are my stories going to come from they're going to come from what the Peron regime does and very specifically what the senora Peron does to help or hamper her husband in doing it now that automatically keys you to your basic approach this is a controversial regime which many people in the United States think is a dangerous one so you watch it very closely particularly in terms of civil rights and its abuses of them economics in a country like Argentina will be important because of its vast potential as a breadbasket and so of course you school yourself in the agronomy of the country and you perhaps take tours through the agricultural area but on the other hand the military and naval news are not likely to be terribly important in Argentina sports are not likely to be vastly important theater art cinema are likely to be trivial or of no interest at all at this distance except on special circumstances and so there you see sir you begin with an automatic limitation and therefore you could assume probably that three-fifths or even four-fifths of your work in country like Argentina would stem directly from the political regime of the country and to complete the thought briefly in Brazil on the other hand the picture is almost entirely the opposite because except at election time the Brazilians produce very little hard political news there the story is almost one of economic potentialities of the country that perhaps holds the future of the western hemisphere and so the whole approach of the correspondent just as his relationship with the government would be entirely different and that I think the principle could be applied anywhere in the world obviously the correspondent in Ottawa has very little concern with political relations with the United States by and large because they've no border really existed you want to try it on war correspondent if I would ask you the same question that Mr. Bracker asked you about the situation in Korea the answer would be equally obvious the only important story there today is the status of the truce negotiations however when I was there the answer would have been different the only important story there was how are we doing today and how are we doing in the long run are we winning or losing on the day-to-day basis that means are you winning or losing a skirmish or a battle and in the long run that means are you losing a strategic area or winning a strategic area and is that going to help win the war or end the war in those days it was comparatively easy you went to where the fighting was or you rode to the sound of the guns if you will and found out what was going on there you found it out as I said before by listening to the people tell you I mean the generals tell you what was going on and then trying to confirm it with your eyes we found as a general rule that the further away from a headquarters you've got the more nearly you got towards the truth of what was going on not because anybody was trying to falsify things but that he was one step removed that is if battalion headquarters sent a report back to the regimental headquarters for example that report was skeletonized even further as in report back to the divisional headquarters and then skeletonized even further back to the army headquarters so that each step you were taken once further step away from reality and therefore you try to combat that by taking the these accountless communiques we advanced two miles or lost two miles and went forward to find out what happened when you advanced or lost those two miles and it depended on the amount of time you had the technical difficulties of finding transportation and getting back in time to file a story on the uh whatever means of communication were available to you and the amount of initiative that each reporter showed in trying to find these things but I remember when we went there I won't ask specifically are there any instructions for the this is from the editors no one had any instructions at all one man had a suggestion he said try to tell us how the troops are living and I remember about three weeks after I was got arrived there I received a letter saying we now know how all our army navy and air force are eating let's have something else well now I mentioned several times that we were very lucky to have the new york times uh correspondence and copy editor with us they represent 55 uh foreign correspondents now suppose that we weren't so fortunate we were dealing with some other newspaper uh some newspaper let's say for st louis or for milwaukee or for uh town that I happen to know that I visited once called weeping water nebraska what would how would they cover the news what what are the problems of cost of covering the news is how can we make sure that even 55 the correspondents from the new york times can adequately cover the foreign news of the world in a in a world of today yeah one try that sure well uh 55 correspondence of course is a spit in the ocean as far as the whole world is concerned at the same time we have an associated press a united press a reuters an international news service and agents press what are all those things those are wire services uh cooperative foreign news agencies foreign news agencies that is the associated press is a cooperative organization owned by the newspapers of this country sending correspondence both abroad and here in this country the associated press probably has three or four hundred correspondents who are filing the same well it's not the same type of coverage that the 55 correspondents from the new york times file because and forgive me if i say this we feel that the readers of the new york times are on a level possibly above the general reading public throughout the country therefore the times coverage may be of a little higher type let us say but the associated press is sending news stories back to this country which are being sent by wyatt to the 15 or 20 000 daily newspapers in this country or it may be 40 000 daily newspapers in this country which will be getting foreign correspondence from men like milton bracker and harold favor and abe rosenthal who are serving the same way that that the the times correspondents are serving uh what what it means in other words the uh papers outside new york papers inside new york who don't have the financial facilities of the new york times do get very full foreign coverage uh my feeling is that the uh that the uh where the main difference lies rather is in this the uh papers uh uh that are in the middle part of this country apparently have not got the same feeling for foreign news that the papers along the west coast and the east coast have and because of that uh instead of uh uh 35 percent of the uh coverage uh devoted to foreign news the way it is in the new york times it may be a a much smaller fraction but if a paper that has not got the financial facilities of the times wanted to fill up its columns with foreign news it would be able to through very fine coverage by the associated press united press and so on i guess one point i think that distinguishes the problem of coverage by an agency man that is somebody on the united press or associated press or the others and the special correspondent who represents an individual paper this point i think is crucial in some countries and it is very very rarely understood that is that the united press and associated press bureau chiefs have a dual function which is not filled by the correspondent paper like ours their primary function may or may not be gathering news and sending it home it may very well be taking incoming news from their base in new york and selling it to the national and local papers in the country where they work now that poses a very important economic problem because business uh is bound to exert however subtly some influence on the people engaged in it now this was very apparent and questionably in a country like argentina where all press relations with the government were most delicate therefore the record would show very clearly that on the most controversial stories the ones in which the correspondent was risking a reprisal by the government the ap and up traditionally were extremely conservative were very much on the center of the line and that almost no strong straightforward and interpretive stories were filed now the reason for that is very frankly that they had a large business equity which in all honor they are they must maintain i would not suggest for a moment not for a moment that there was the slightest bit of distortion in the agency copies which is courageous and honorable but i say that an additional dimension of forthrightness an investigative prerogative can be shown by the correspondent for the special newspaper who has no commercial iron in the fire at all as opposed to the bureau chief engage in competitively selling service which frankly is a very tough job and a difficult one for a reporter to be engaged in uh i'd like to add a point to this uh as we've discussed often in the u.n when reporters get together uh that a point that detracts from the usefulness seems to me uh of the wire services it is that uh news is a commodity it's something that's being sold as mr bracker pointed out not only uh abroad but it's being sold in the united states the ap is selling it to its uh clients and the up is selling it to its clients and the up and the ap are competitors and every ap man knows it's his business to beat the up and every up man knows it's his business to beat the ap so you get into a story where the major you get into a situation where the major element in any story uh becomes how how fast you can get it into the office of the uh newspapers that you serve now most newspapers or a great many of them i don't know exactly what the percentages are take the associated press and the united press so it's the story that gets in first that is that gets printed or it's the story that is the punchiest that gets printed now the story that gets first uh into a newspaper office or there's the most exciting may not be the most accurate or even the best story but it's the one that gets printed and that is uh that there there is something that's uh uh one of the most basic uh problems in the whole uh business of american newspaper coverage so the problem really does arise as to whether a newspaper relying solely on uh agency coverage gets a complete and accurate picture of uh of the uh news of the world or whether it simply gets a fast and exciting uh picture of the news while we were out there in a war zone the we correspondents for special newspapers practically never saw our copy or what was happening to it but we knew every day what was happening to the wire service copy as mr rosenthal suggests the uh ap and up and ins are competing for each other in the major newspapers of this country and every day one correspondent or another got a wire which was technically called a rocket from his office the up says the brains captured seven hills the ap says only five how come and a man had to answer that question so that uh he was very careful in his next copy to make sure that every piece of ground that was more than two feet above the ground was called a hill and so he had 12 hills captured the next day well there's no doubt that you're now getting a special picture of the difference between the so-called foreign correspondent and the wire services man now one of the things that's almost implicit in what has been said is that there is a censorship that the bureau chief exercises on himself but is there any other kind of censorship under which let's say any kind of a correspondent operates with uh for instance do you have any difficulty with mr perron's press chief well did you ever have i should say it'll be hard not to uh speak too long on that until i'll restrict myself rigidly to saying that that there is no censorship in argentina semi-colon but in the course of four years in argentina uh we underwent one arrest a countless series of scurrilous and threatening phone calls uh published attacks in the newspapers that were close to inciting violence against us and eventually the formal withdrawal by uh the head of the press office of uh government protection of us as foreign citizens in the country it was put in this charming way to a colleague of ours herbert l matthews of the editorial staff who was visiting at the time that of course the argentine people are not concerned with what the correspondent so-and-so is filing the argentine government is not concerned with what the correspondent so-and-so is filing but who can say what the argentine people might not want to do about it now that's everything and uh i think it answers in better words than a detailed statistic on the amount of words that are cut out of copying country a b or c how literal censorship does not have to be applied at all in other to subject the correspondence to all sorts of personal professional questions did you ever have any of that no uh at the united nations uh there is no uh censorship of any kind uh right now we're in a bit of a squabble with secretary general lee about our rights at the united nations our rights of access to floors of the uh assembly committees and councils that's another problem he uh i'm afraid operates from a european point of view and we operate from american press point of view and we want more than he wants to give us but that's not a question of censorship of course there is no such thing as censorship the un we write what we can get as far as uh people of many people have asked me uh this question of last year and the year before at this forum or what about censorship in the office doesn't the uh fact that you're working for the new york times have a certain influence on you and so on and so on uh all i can do is give a straight answer and the answer is uh no uh i've never i've covered uh political stories at the un for uh six years now and i have never in any instance uh been given any political direction or guidance or criticism it just hasn't happened a lot of people simply don't believe that but that's the fact i know at the united nations uh where there uh people come from countries in which there is a controlled press or an inspired press inspired in the sense that uh a certain newspaper or wire service has an affiliation with the government uh people get used to thinking that uh the leading paper in the country is inspired by the government and since the times is generally considered leading paper in the united states a lot of the diplomats of the united nations feel that something sneaky is going on all the time and that we're getting our orders from washington which of course isn't true in any respect at all i think that my next question is uh almost a complete shift i wanted to know how the correspondents are sitting up here with me feel about the reader's reaction that is do they feel that the reader gets enough interpretation with the news so that he can fully understand what the story is or is there a possibility that because the correspondent knows all about the story that there isn't enough interpretation fed into the story can i uh take up the word part of the function of the copy editor is to see to it that this doesn't happen what i mean is this so uh should the foreign correspondent refers say to to the schumann plan and the copy editor feels that uh a certain percentage of the persons who read the new york times will not know what the schumann plan is we will put it uh put a parenthetical remark saying what just what the schumann plan is now uh that of course brings up another problem shall we constantly uh define the schumann plan each time it appears in a story uh well uh the answer there is this after a certain period of time and there's no fixed rule of thumb on it we feel that uh the particular phrase or expression has been defined sufficiently so that the person who has been reading the times uh day in and day out with normal care will know with without without any further explanation what the schumann plan or the marshall plan are i'm glad to get that because there has been an allegation at least that the american public doesn't care enough about foreign news and uh one of the questions that one might ask is is there anything that we can do to prepare readers to understand foreign news any better than they do you want to try that well mr rosenthal i uh i have i have find a great deal of difficulty in approaching the problem that way is what we can do for the american reader because i just feel the american reader has to do things damn well for himself uh by this time uh we've been in two world wars and we're in a war in korea we're in the united nations where we have a leading role and if by this time the american people aren't interested in foreign news well it's just their own fault they certainly get enough of it thrown at them i don't think that it's the function of the american press uh to uh educate the the uh uh the attitudes of the american people i think that it's up to them and their own experiences uh i think that given certain attitudes and interests the press can fulfill them perhaps broaden them but i don't think it's our job to uh open the mouths of the american people and shove food in well one further thing of course that the new york times makes an attempt to do is a sunday a summary which uh tries to put the uh week's news and that is the happenings of the seven days proceeding into some sort of focus which will help the uh person who reads day day by day to uh synthesize the things he has read over period of a week but of course uh uh as mr rosenthal has said we we hardly see it as our function to give a dictionary of foreign news with with the morning paper uh uh we do make an attempt though as i said before uh where some new phrases come in to explain it uh until such time as we feel that it's boring to uh see it once again certainly uh there is a problem here i don't know whether it's the correspondence problem or whether it's a teacher's problem or professor's problem to make uh young people aware of the implications of foreign news the background of foreign news and the life but is it also possible that there might be something that we can do in training the potential foreign correspondent is there anything that we can do to make him at least sensitive to the needs of the audience as well as the problems of collecting the news and getting them covered mr claber well i have one uh reversal of that question i guess what is the college here for example city college doing to educate its students about uh one particular aspect of uh public affairs that it is not doing at the present time that is the military history of this country and of other countries in the world before i came up here tonight i looked through the catalog of the history department and found that there is a course on both world wars given by professor mead apparently a political history of the world wars now in order for you people to understand or any people to understand what's going on in a war say this college offers nothing except in the military science courses for people taking rotc to give you any information on understanding what's going on say in korea or in any other area of the world where there is fighting going on between between armies i just offer that as one practical suggestion for you college people uh you have a suggestion mr blacker yeah if i may i was going to let the college alone possibly because they're having the great privilege of teaching a class up here this year i feel that we of course are doing very well to keep up but i do feel strongly about one point of the training of potential foreign correspondents the question comes up all the time and perhaps i may anticipate it and that is ought the correspondent know the foreign language of the country in which he's assigned i feel very strongly that the answer is yes i was appalled during my war correspondent days in north africa and italy at the cavalier attitude of the great bulk of our gi's who uh mind you in world war ii had all had it most all had a high school education in many cases part of college education their attitude was always uh why should i learn frank despite the fact that i'm in a french milieu let them learn english that was a theme unfortunately unfortunately that's a theme which applies on high levels of intellectual activity and it's debated roundly uh among correspondents as to what extent the correspondent ought to be uh conversant i don't say fluent because that's difficult conversant able to communicate in the language of a country he's assigned to now obviously a man working in china or siam or malaya is not likely to be responsible or to expect to be fluent in the various dialects he encounters but we restrict our discussion i think to the romance language the languages to which the correspondents only have access and of course german but the languages of the united nations i feel very strongly that the potential correspondent just as the potential worker overseas who wants to do the best possible job should make every effort to be able to get along in at least the basic language of the country to which he's assigned now it's just not true ladies and gentlemen what you see in the travel literature that says uh come to glamorous bolivia everybody speaks english because the fact is everybody doesn't speak english and as a matter of fact in many parts of bolivia people don't even speak spanish they speak emara which is an indian dialect in brazil of course the language is portuguese in haiti it's french i feel therefore that apart entirely from news consideration since all colleges do teach languages and all potential journalists have access to them it's extremely wise and i think it's also very helpful in later a slanting yourself toward a career in foreign service not only in journalism if you do manage you get a pretty good grip a hard grip on the language that you're most likely to use i think also it's very fair to the country you're covering because it's absolutely impossible not to lose something if you're dealing always through an interpreter now that is proven magnificently magnificently by the law of the consecutive streak of big businessmen ambassadors who we send to various foreign posts now a big businessman is all right as an ambassador often in some cases some of our political employees have done very well but my point is that they've done well not surely because of the fact that they don't know the language you can't even say bonjour or buenos dias as the case may be but in spite of that fact and so i urge that to all people concerned with the training of people for foreign terms and often or any other at least learn one language pretty well thank you very much uh professor johnson would like to have something to say about this i am not a member of the history department of the college and consequently mr faber's remark did not tread upon the toes of my department but i should like to say in defense of the history department that his information is about four years out of date when he was looking through the catalog of the college down in my office a few minutes before we came up here i did not know what he was looking for but the courses that he attributes to professor mead are not given by professor mead in as much as professor mead has been about four years retired the the history department i can say however is a matter of information as a member of the faculty council of the college has only recently inaugurated a course dealing with current world problems which i should take it would probably include some of the areas that mr faber thought that we ought to be dealing with i'd like to ask a question on that if i may and uh i really am operating out of the base of the big room because i haven't seen any catalog but and i hope the answer is yes uh does the uh college give a course on the united nations now i don't believe so does that course and uh this is uh i'd just like to ask a couple of questions does that course ever include going down to the united nations yes it does good it's not about all the government courses many of them are there field trips beg your pardon i say even though they're unrelated to the united nations generally government instructors suggest going down well i'm very pleased that the college is better than some of us up here thought uh i've always been proud of the fact that the college intellectually was way ahead of many of our sister colleges in the united states and apparently it is now i think that since we've started this notion of having intercommunication between us who are behind tables which i regret indeed and you perhaps you would like to direct some questions or raise comments on what has happened so far i think we've had a very interesting coverage of how a foreign news is covered by various newspapers so if there are any comments or questions from the floor i'd like to entertain we have some comments on the oldest page on how it's affected correspondence in any way and the coverage of the news i may have mistranslated this a little bit and some of the background not is there any suggestion in your mind that he was doing anything he shouldn't have done other than it i don't know i wasn't there well no no no no wait general i've been looking about this but i i assume you gentlemen have a better background do you want to try it mr yalman please uh well uh it seems to me the question should be answered by someone who has been working in a uh behind the iron curtain country uh i don't think anyone here has had that particular experience we we of course uh have handled a copy from correspondence behind the iron curtain uh mr salisbury who is the times correspondent in moscow now and we always feel that mr salisbury's copy is uh filtered by the circumstances in which he is writing and we fortunately have someone here harry schwartz whose work you may see in the times from time to time who makes an attempt on the basis of information he gets here to interpret and analyze the uh uh of uh of facts which uh mr salisbury is sending us and of course also the correspondence from the agencies in those points behind the iron curtain where the times no longer has correspondence i wouldn't know well i best uh i can do about this is a secondhand report but i think it's rather interesting when the assembly was in power when the u.n was in paris this fall uh this fall and winter the otis case came up uh before the assembly and i had a chance to talk then with a couple of correspondents who had been in prague as a matter of fact with the ap men who uh preceded uh otis in prague and also with a couple of other wire service people who got out of prague as a result of the otis case because they uh they got out of prague because they became very clear that they were next on the list now these people people whom i know and trust told me that uh they were doing exactly what otis had been trying to do is trying to find out what the news was uh the the truth uh situation is that otis was uh was a scapegoat in a political situation and they picked on them uh there is a law in czechoslovakia that if you uh some law of treason that if you try to find out information detrimental to the security of the state uh you are committing treason uh if you are a member if you are a citizen of czechoslovakia or you are uh committing espionage if you're not a citizen of uh czechoslovakia well that's a law that everybody every correspondent to check who goes to czechoslovakia and incidentally they used to have that law in yugoslavia learns very quickly because uh if he goes around and uh asks somebody uh in the ministry of health how the health of the country is and later on the government decides that uh that's detrimental to the uh to the affairs of the state where he can be thrown in jail and as far as i've been able to gather and even from the testimony except for some uh ludicrous attempt to tie otis up with a uh a murderer or some such silly thing uh as far as i can gather otis was simply trying to find out what was going on in czechoslovakia within his limited means in that country it's a crime well it's affected uh go ahead you want mr brackard well may i say a word please i didn't mean to uh snap off the gentleman's question by inverting the question a moment ago i think if the otis case with which i am as familiar only through secondhand information as we all are has tended to make all correspondence and for that matter all readers of newspapers realize that freedom is indivisible and this is a very important case uh i don't know speaking within the profession of anyone who had this faintest the slightest doubt in the world but that young bill otter was simply doing his job i would like to add two points if i may which i think relate though in the first place the whole concept of the reporter's job is often seen differently in this country and abroad and when the russians and the argentines if you please denounce us as spies and saboteurs by their lives they they often mean that because they think that anyone who goes around and asks questions simply straightforward out of a genuine curiosity stemming from his job ask questions involving military or political affairs is automatically a spy and a saboteur uh the other point i want to make you suggest that the possibility that otis being a human being might have aired or might have sinned in some way into perhaps is being punished for that well here's the way it works in the case in argentina which you'll forgive me for bringing up again in april of 1948 when the member of our bureau was arrested in buenos aires the charge had nothing to do with her newspaper work at all but she was alleged to have been fomenting a bank strike now uh it's ridiculous it's stunning when you first hear it but it makes the point that when these governments want to strike back at a critical correspondent uh the facts of the the the untouchability of the of the car funders personal life have nothing to do with it at all and they dream up a plot with the snap of the finger now i might say this during the war we were all aware it's a blot but it's something that should be said that there were correspondents as there were people in uniform elsewhere who engaged in some peripheral practices that were not beautiful the war did things to everyone but we all know how black marketing in one way or another spread through a great many numbers of people who now should be fairly ashamed of that fact but my point is this if the correspondent permanently assigned in a country where government relations are difficult should be absolutely purer than the pure he must be absolutely above reproach because although it's fantastic that a correspondent should be vulnerable to an entirely false charge of fomenting a bank strike supposing the peron government or any government the czech government or the hungarian government could prove conclusively that a critical correspondent were profiting let's say on the black market or engaging in illicit economic activity that correspondent would be i think uh repudiated by the american press he would have to be and a terrible an absolutely terrible uh blow would have been struck against the theory and practice of the free press therefore i say this the government eager to strike at a correspondent will foment charges against him on the other hand the honorable correspondent must be absolutely meticulous in his respect for even the minor laws of the country to which he's assigned well obviously you didn't get all of the answers to all of your questions but i think the main points have been made are there any other yes sir a member of all the working milton bracket but i wish he would tell us how his long experience in foreign correspondence his opinion of the caliber of our diplomatic and consular you want to dare that in one second in one second there may be some semicolon there no that that question is asked by a distinguished former colleague of ours and a first-rate newspaper man himself and it wouldn't be fair not to answer obviously the answer is that that ambassadors and ministers and first secretaries and commercial attaches like all human beings vary from one extreme to the other and we have good ones and we have bad ones and some of the very best friends and the most admirable people i certainly know are in our diplomatic service now and it was the greatest of pleasure that i mentioned a man like fletcher warren who was our ambassador in caracas a person who from the standpoint of his qualification for the job his personal charm and probity is a delight and a joy to everyone who comes in contact with him both uh the venezuelans or the nicaragans the paraguayans as the case may have been in his previous service or his own countrymen there are others uh of whom i wouldn't say the same thing uh and of course the forest current correspondent has to work with all of them yes sir perhaps we can put a little perspective in the situation of being a correspondent uh it's like a marathon someone covered buenos aires before mr breckert someone is covering it now now first the new incoming correspondent reads the clips maybe he learns the language and learns about the country but when he gets there he reads the papers but isn't there somebody who helps him a man who stays in the office for example reads these foreign papers a man friday who is a kind of permanent under secretary and further what happens after this correspondent leaves how is the liaison carried on in other words this is a continuing job the uh the uh buenos aires day line appears every day in the new york times or about that now uh not enough but these correspondents are shifted around mr breckert went from anzio to uh mexico to the point of buenos aires and now he's covering uh stories here in new york now how is that continuity maintained why these uh reporters they shifted from one assignment to another and wouldn't it be better if they stay in one place or is that too bad well i like the part of that of course the second part of that question is absolutely unanswerable by anybody but the first part of the question the continuity is very definitely maintained particularly in the larger bureaus uh when we succeeded to the rome bureau it was simply because our predecessor with whom we've worked uh had been transferred to london when we left rome and before we actually left sam brewer who by the way is now in rio came to succeed us there is a complete overlap there is no time the bureau left absolutely flat the files are maintained the duplicates of all stories filed by one correspondent are left for his successor and usually uh there comes a period of intense of of direct physical cooperation with one successor uh we left mexico and i remember distinctly taking william p corney our successor around for an audience with the president and the foreign minister and various others uh occasionally due to the circumstances going out of a war perhaps there might be a hiatus temporarily but that problem which i'm sure is a very valid one from the standpoint of the reader he doesn't care who individually is covering the bureau you want to know that somebody is there who's intelligent and capable the time certainly and within my limited experience has always maintained exactly such a an overlap whereas ambassadors are always supposed to leave before their successes arrive the correspondent is supposed to stay may i say just one more thing please you raise a point that happens to touch me very deeply it's rather a personal thing although most of my colleagues know about it you raise the question of the man friday the assistant in the bureau i should like at this time if i may please to pay tribute to the young man who was our assistant in buenos aires for the last year and who's now dead he was killed at the age of 22 or three he was not killed for political reasons although because of his his intense efforts to make our bureau the best bureau in latin america it's conceivable that at one time or another he might have been he was a close eye witness to the shooting outside the prince on february 27th which was the most spectacular incident of the whole prince's story and in every way he made the job of my wife and myself much happier much easier and much better and since his father is a distinguished editor of the old prince himself i think it quite appropriate you commit me to say that the times in having as an assistant luiz sergio gluckban had a very fine newspaper man indeed thank you very much well there's there's no question now that we're getting a good deal more color on the background of the foreign news yes sir going back to the news from korea since the beginning of the truth talks you have not only the reporting of events of the war and so on but the reporting of statements of policy great many of them now from from the time that a story breaks we'll say at the truth talk tables or or in the army headquarters uh about how much time elapses before that story hits the wires to the states and who has a say over what passes and what's left back who controls the uh policy statements and facts and so on mr fraser well i guess you're talking about technicalities now i mean the actual physical process the times has a man at the truth thoughts every day his job mainly is to telephone back to our man in tokyo who writes the story of the truce negotiations uh there is one telephone from the truce train at monsan to tokyo all the correspondents have to use that telephone they wait in line for the predecessor to get finished which means that the first one at the phone gets the story first and that is one of the reasons why the ap may be 10 minutes behind the up or vice versa on any particular day if who sees the story now the man at the scene gets the story from the briefing officer who in general is a brigadier general by the name of knuckles or his assistant at colonel levy he tells them exactly what he wants to tell them i have never yet heard of any correspondent complaining that he did not tell them uh well they all complain that he didn't tell them enough but i have heard no one say that he did this for any malicious reason at all he has his instructions from the head of the truth team and he tells them exactly what he is told to tell them the interpretation thereof is made by the correspondent on the scene as well as the correspondent in tokyo who has access to a much wider range of contacts like the supreme commander in tokyo and his officers there is a censorship on war news sent out from korea at the present time that censorship is at eighth army headquarters in korea there is no censorship in tokyo itself so therefore the story written by the man in tokyo is not censored by anyone but it is copyrighted in new york by the copy editor here of course that does that answer the time schedules against this as far as korea news is concerned the uh we are now 14 hours behind korea which means when it's 9 pm there it's uh 7 in the morning here in new york the uh meetings generally are held uh oh noontime which means 10 o'clock at night here in new york uh the course of the uh first edition deadline for the times now is uh 9 35 the uh a times correspondent uh from tokyo sends us in a preliminary story for the first edition which uh which arrives generally around uh half past eight at night uh he makes an attempt to uh uh predict in some part what will be happening at the truce uh uh a talk starting with within another few hours uh following that he keeps on sending us the stories uh throughout the uh whole night that is the uh whole night here in new york although it's uh uh the uh it's from four until six o'clock in the afternoon there and uh uh we of course take his news and make changes for the later editions of the paper meanwhile of course uh the man from the ap possibly has gotten the phone before the times man has gotten it which uh uh means then that certain that certain nights the story from the ap and from the up uh describing the the actual circumstances at the truce talks themselves as summarized uh by the spokesman for the united nations has come in before the time story under those circumstances we will frequently be using the story from the ap or the up uh uh uh for fear that we will uh be unable to have our own story in sufficient time i think that gives the whole sequence thank you