Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. In 19 weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation in the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand raises the question, who should go to college? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the kinds of students who should go to college and the means of selecting them. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Paul C. Green, Associate Professor of Psychology and Director of the Student Counseling Bureau at the Chicago Undergraduate Division of the University of Illinois. William K. Selden, Director of Admissions at Northwestern University. Lyle Spencer, President of Science Research Associates. And Paul A. Whitty, Professor of Education at Northwestern University. Thousands of young men and women are going to college this week. They will attend private and public institutions, supported by public funds, and by the generosity of individuals who have contributed to the support of higher education down through the years. And in most cases, I might add, gentlemen, that the family budget will be tapped, if not screened, to keep Johnny and Mary in college. I think it's a fair question to ask who should go to college. How do you answer this question, Green? Taking an overview of that question, McBurney, I'd say that many more should go than do, but that in a few cases, different ones should go than do. But then thinking of individual young people, I think that all, or as many as can of that all, who have the brain power, who have the prior knowledges and skills, who have a thirst for knowledge, and a wish to do creative, responsible thinking, people who are going in self-mastery and in objectives that are appropriate to college work, all of these young people, I think, should go. To me, it means pretty much that for many people, it's not a question of who should go, period, but rather, where should one go, and for what? How do you answer the question, Spencer? Well, I would say that anybody should go who's bright enough and who wants to go. That means that some people should go who are not going now. I'm not sure that that means that too many more than are now in college, and I understand there are about two and a half million young people in college right at present. What do you say to it, Selden? Well, I have said in talking to students throughout the country, in many different schools, that those who have the academic ability, who have the intellectual interest, who have the proper motivation and purpose, as well as promise of sufficient financial support from one source or another, would be the ones who would gain most from a college education. Do you find anything to disagree with in the opening statement? Well, I would put my emphasis, Mr. McBurney, on ability and personality and desire or motive to go to college, and then I'd like to define each of those things at a later time. Now, let me ask this question, Spencer. I think you made the point or raised the question. Are there people who ought to go to college who are not going now for one reason or another? If so, who are they and why aren't they? Well, very definitely. At present, nearly all of the students in our colleges come from families who are in the upper 40% of income here in the United States. Few come from the lower economic classes, and we need very badly to have many more young people from these classes go to college. I think we should point out that many of our most able people do not go to college. In some of our states, in fact, in a great many, at least half of our most gifted youngsters do not go to college. Part of it is because of the economic situation mentioned by Mr. Spencer. Part of it is a cultural background. For example, it is very important in consideration of this kind to recognize that 40% of our high schools are smaller than 100 in student enrollment. Well, now, are the people in these smaller high schools going to college in fewer numbers, are we? All of the studies seem to show that they are. One of the great difficulties we have, as far as the college is concerned, in college admissions is reaching the students in the smaller schools which we are unable to visit and thus encourage students to attend college and also to encourage the school principals who have a multiplicity of duties in these small schools from recognizing the need of having students go to college and be prepared to give them proper advice. The President's Commission on Higher Education in 1947 said that two out of three young people who have the ability to do two or more years of college work are not going. And it said further that one out of two people who have the ability to complete college or a specialized professional curriculum are not going. And then, of the very bright, there is a great deal of evidence showing that many of them do not go to college because of financial difficulties. For example, when the superior youngsters in a high school were studied, it was found that 100% of these superior high school graduates who had fathers making $8,000 or more went on to college, while those making $3,000 to $5,000, fathers making $3,000 to $5,000, sent only 73%. Those $2,000 to $3,000, around 44%. Other data show the close relationship of these factors. In one of our large eastern states, it's easier to go to college if you're in the lower half of your graduating class and if your father makes more than $9,000, than it is if you're in the upper tenth of your class, the upper quarter of your class, and your dad makes less than $5,000. Well, some people might connote from that fact that it's wrong for those with larger incomes to encourage their children to go to college. And that, if that is assumed, is very definitely counter to what the belief in this country has been, that the people who can do things should be given the opportunity. What we are really trying to say is, we want additional people to have the assistance to gain from college and thus use the resources mentally that we have in the country at present untapped. I think that's the heart of the problem. I believe that a case can be made that brains are the greatest resource we have in this country and so far a largely unused one. We don't seem to have in our culture the tradition as so many other countries do that the bright people are the ones to whom everyone should give more credit than they do. And because of that, we are not at the present selecting the young people from the disadvantaged groups in our society and seeing that they get a chance to get a college education which they deserve. Given that giving them, you mean, enough encouragement. Not only is it a question of getting into college, but it is staying there and continuing to receive the motivation and the opportunities which will make gifted people and able people make the most of themselves for the good of society generally. That's right. About four and a half in ten people who enter college never do finish it. And another two have to stop out sometime and then later may return to the same or different institution. Well, I'd like to inject a point there also so that there is not an incorrect assumption. There are many people who do start college who gain in two years sufficient comparison with their ability and interest. And to say that everyone who does not finish college should have done so is an incorrect assumption from your statement. We seem to be agreed that there are able young men and women who ought to be in college who are not there. I take it largely for economic reasons or because they just don't have the proper motivation. Let's look at the other side of this for a minute, Spencer. Do you think we've got some in the colleges who have no business being there? Well, I would hesitate to say that, although I do think that a great many young people go to college for reasons that are hard to defend. Many of our studies show that the main reasons why they go are because either they think they can get a better job when they get out or for reasons of social prestige. I wouldn't care to defend the social prestige reasons, but the other problem is a more serious one, and I think there is considerable danger that unless some of these views are changed, a great many more young people are going to college than we're going to be able to find jobs for in the professions or managerial occupations after they get through. Doesn't that mean, then, that we ought to help people to have different reasons for going to college than just to lift themselves by their economic bootstraps? Very definitely. You can look at the question this way. Something like 15% of our young people now go to college. There are only a little more than 10% of the jobs in our country that are either professional or managerial jobs, which means that a considerable proportion of these young people are not going to get the kinds of jobs they think they are preparing for now, which means that we're going to have to explain the other reasons why a college education is important. And it raises, too, the question of the place of the junior college in the American scene. Many people are recognizing that a general education, including the junior college, should be a part of our whole educational ideology, and that we should, in this process, help people during the high school and the junior college level to understand themselves and their potentialities so that the more able, interested individuals will go into the proper kinds of colleges. If we did that somewhat more through counseling, then I would say that some of these people who now are in college and who don't belong there today should stay in college. They would, and this vast number of people who drop out would go. Moreover, the people who would stay would, by continuous counseling, get a chance to understand themselves better so that they would go on beyond the baccalaureate. There are a number of scientists in America who are greatly disturbed over the fact that studies, such as one reported by Gilbert Rand, shows that 1938 Minnesota high school graduates, as identified as superior on the ACE test scores, that only 45% of this group had received baccalaureate degrees nine years after the study was started, and only 8% had taken advanced degrees beyond the baccalaureate. There is a great concern that we are not providing the self-study throughout the high school and the college, which will enable people to understand themselves, make the most of their abilities, and realize the responsibility that great ability brings with it. Well, what you're really talking about, Witte, and the basis of our discussion from one point of view, is the values that we place in this particular society of this country. Some of these boys and girls and men and women would continue in college if they had proper motivation, which in turn would be increased as far as their education is concerned, if they felt the values in society called for it for them. That's a very important point. So we see counseling as a continuous process that begins in the elementary school. That is, as you have indicated, very closely associated with family attitudes and family values, and, moreover, which continues throughout the college. Well, now, we seem to be agreed that the superior student should be given an opportunity to go to college. How are you going to give them that kind of an opportunity? The economic factor seems to be important in many cases. What do you say to that, Spencer? Well, it seems to me that what we ought to do is start finding out who are the bright young people in our schools at a much earlier age than we do now. We know, for example, that it's now possible to select the young people who will later be successful college students as early as the seventh or eighth grade. I think that in every one of our schools, we ought to do that on a systematic basis and do it regularly. I think, too, that ought to be thorough, and it ought to be associated with better education. As we get youngsters, as we get to know boys and girls better, we provide better educational opportunities for them. We also provide better understanding of themselves on their part so that they're able to choose more wisely as they go along. If this process starts early and continues, we will salvage greater numbers of our bright and do a great good for society. One of the great difficulties we encounter with respect to this discussion is having the proper education of the people who will do the guiding and the advising. And I'd better inject one point there that, to me, good advice and good guidance is not telling a boy or girl what to do, but over the years, pointing out to him the various pros and cons and encouraging him to select for himself what his particular choice and values may be. Well, now, let's say you get these superior students selected. You have them identified. You yourselves point out that many of them do not have the resources to go on to college. What are you going to do about that? Well, we need to start much earlier than we do in this selection process, as we've already pointed out. The first thing that we need to do is to make sure that these young people stay in high school. More than half of the young people who start the high school drop out. We need to see that they graduate from high school and have a chance to go into college. I think that's the first point. Well, what's the second point? Where do they get the money if they don't have it? Well, there are two factors, aside from the money. The first factor is to encourage the cultural desire on the part of the family to give support to the boy or girl. Secondly, many people will assume that it's impossible to go to college when they look at the expense in a catalog. In one institution where I was before I came to Northwestern, I discovered that the students who were commuting to the institution where I was employed, who had scholarship aid, came from families where there were three and four children generally and the income averaged $2,100 a year. Now, there are many people who say that if their family income is as small as that, they could not afford to have John or Mary go to college. But if John and Mary are willing to do some work and extend themselves, they probably can gain a college education more easily than they originally assumed. Those two things are important. A concern for motive, as it originates in the home, cultural background. But also, there is the very plain fact in all of the studies that many, many gifted children do not have the financial means to go and to stay in college. There is a great need for help, and these gifted children do not know where to turn. I wonder if it would be desirable if we thought of where people have various kinds of gifts, and we ought to consider various kinds of abilities, not simply the abstract kind of ability, but where they might turn or aid and help. Well, there are a lot of things that can be done about that, and there are many more that should be done. For example, here in Chicago, we have been making studies of the newsboys for several years. The newspapers here give scholarships for them. We test several hundred of these newsboys, and the newspapers provide 25 scholarships. We find that less than a quarter of these bright young people selected would have gone to college had they not been given this aid. It seems to me that, first of all, we ought to have ways in our communities of raising money to provide scholarships for these bright young people. Many of the civic clubs are glad to do that sort of thing, but that doesn't answer the immediate question of where do young people go to get the help they need and the advice about getting to go to college. Yes, and there are very few places to which youngsters of the type that you've referred to can go. I would like to say, first of all, that there are many other studies showing that minority groups of various kinds, certain youngsters in these small high schools, simply do not have the opportunity financially to go on. They need that help. Where can they turn? They need also counseling that would be, is involved in this whole question of providing better guidance throughout the whole educational system for boys and girls. There are possibilities, though. If we get fairly good guidance, youngsters will understand themselves better. They'll be able to see certain areas they would like to explore and possibilities they would like to go into. Therefore, they could get information from the colleges representing their lines of interest. They could also turn to associations like the American Association for Gifted Children. But the great need is for a recognition of this help on the part of vast numbers of youngsters of the type you have indicated and an active effort on the part of many of us today to see that through civic organizations and all other kinds of philanthropically minded people, we will provide for this great group of youngsters in many classes of our society the opportunity, their abilities, and interests so richly merit. Well, now, let me ask this question. We've been talking rather glibly here about the superior student. Well, who is this superior student, Green? What kind of a fellow is he anyway? How would you describe him? He's a person who has above average intellectual ability but who above all has a curiosity, a thirst for knowledge, a person who has enough self-mastery so that he will be able to address himself to the things that college offer. Does that add up to saying that he ought to have an IQ over 110? I think that depends a lot on the college he goes to. Well, now, can you select students on the bases that you just indicated? That is, how do you separate the sheep from the goats? We can do that job 100%, but we can improve it a great deal over what parents and children by themselves will find out. I would like to go back to the point that for almost all boys and girls, it is believed that we should have a junior college education as a part of our whole ideal of the education of the average person in America. We are gradually moving toward that from the time before World War I when we had one-half million people enrolled in college to the present time when we have after World War II some two-and-a-half million. We are gradually working toward that ideal when almost all will go to the junior college where we will have again better counseling, better opportunities to understand oneself, and then a degree of selection for further study and then throughout the college an opportunity for self-study and guidance so that baccalaureate, post-baccalaureate work will be taken by the people most able and interested in the world. Now why do you want, as you say, most all in the junior colleges? For many reasons. I think that we could expand our concept of education in terms of the functional skills and the skills that make one a better citizen in a democracy, extending those types of training and opportunity from the high school through the junior college and give the type of training that would make our society generally better and people generally more happy and able. In addition to that, our technological civilization points clearly to the need. Why can't these things be done in the high schools, would it? Because our high schools simply are not doing them. They must do them if we are going to have the kind of program we are speaking of here today. The high school program must not be sharply differentiated from the junior college program if we decide we want almost all people to go to a junior college. Well, there are three points I'd like to mention. The first one is that our junior colleges, when you're speaking of those, Woody, you are including technical training as well as the assumed cultural liberal arts training so that college would include all that. The second point, McBurney, when you speak why isn't it done in the high school is because we have a greater scope of knowledge which we are trying to impart to students and it takes a longer period than that to the high school. The third point which I'd like to mention which deviates from this discussion a slight bit but when you raise the question of those having an IQ of over 110, there are many students who may have an IQ below average, below 100, who have sufficiently strong motivation or for whom the tests do not clearly indicate what their abilities are, who are able to carry on in college and do well. There are a great many young people like that. As a matter of fact, I don't think that the old type of IQ tests make too much sense anyhow. It's perfectly possible for a person to be very bright in one line and a moron in another and that's one of the things that our schools do not do a very good job on right now. That is picking out the young people who have superior talents that may be in lines that we are not now getting to in our schools. It might be in art, it might be in music, it might be in science, it might be in many things. And we must always look for the persons who are bright in specialized lines as well as those who have high general intelligence. I cannot help but inject one point there. As an officer of an institution where there is some selection in admissions because of restriction on the numbers we are able to handle, I frankly do take into account to a certain extent what the social service, the motivation of the individual may be towards a college education and not look just at the academic ability as far as his grades or aptitude tests are concerned. How about the girls if I may expect this? You think the girls ought to go to college in as large number as the boys, Green? Well, some 84% of parents who were asked about who should go to college wanted their sons to go. Only 69% wanted their daughters to go and I think they were wrong. Seems to me that a housewife as the educator of the family, as a person who may need an insurance policy so that she could earn her own or her family's livelihood and as an insurance policy too against operating under social pressure when the husband has a college education and she lives with his friends, I think that most housewives should go. That brings us back to concern for the objectives of the junior college and terminal objectives as well. Certainly, girls should be encouraged to go to the junior college. Certainly, they should be encouraged to go to college. They have not been in adequate numbers sometimes but there is also this question of high intelligence that I don't want to dismiss. Two points I'd like to make. First, I think our counseling must be thorough. It must take into account many kinds of abilities. It must not be based upon intelligence tests alone with the limitations we know so obviously in connection with them. But the fact remains that the studies like Terman's and our own of gifted children and youth show very clearly that we are not in our high schools or in our colleges giving them the guidance and motivation which would lead to an understanding of themselves and the best use of their abilities for our democratic society. And no matter how good a high school was, those things can't be accomplished fully in high school because people aren't mature enough, aren't old enough to be able to think more creatively. They certainly the type of thorough and it means also the selection of people to continue. Graduate work for them for sciences and other lines of issues. We must continue to impose but the practical problem we have in high school out of six has any kind of counseling or guidance to the question what is the individual young person who wants going to do? There are means that any young person can write to any college that either he can get admission if he has the money frequently the company can help him. The second question asking for help and particularly asking where he can get more information. The students very definitely should write to various institutions and to various like the United States Office of Education and more students in the colleges. I'm thinking particularly of the four-year colleges. I think it probably does. I'm not sure that I agree with all the rest of you here about the desirability of doubling the number of students in colleges as our President's Commission report involved. I would say that it probably means an increase in college students of at least 10 to 15 percent however. Now let me ask two questions then. Does this mean a lowering of standards in the colleges if we're going to admit more? Not if we encourage those who have potential ability in various ways. In fact it means raising the standards if we get better counseling and if we have junior colleges committed to a general education ideal we ought to raise standards generally in terms of needs of people and functional skills. And secondly I want to come back to the question Spencer raised earlier. What are we going to do with all of these students after we've graduated them from the colleges? Well one of the things that we know about the situation is that although we talk about college material there are actually colleges of every possible type in the United States. There are colleges where the average IQ of entering freshman is under 90. So the question of should you go to college if you have enough money isn't a realistic question. The problem comes down to what kind of college should you go to. And in concluding gentlemen one final question. How does military mobilization affect this question we're discussing who should go to college? We get a great many letters from young people about that. During the last war we found that a great many young people dropped out of school either because they could get jobs that were high paying or because they thought they were going to be taken into military service soon anyhow. The advice that we always give is go right on with your educational plans until you're called. The one point that I very strongly believe in and that is in time of mobilization and in the time of military conflict we most definitely will have to sacrifice on the material side. But the one side on which we very definitely should not sacrifice is on the cultural moral side and that is what we stand for in this country. Thank you gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion who should go to college. You can obtain a copy of today's discussion and an extensive list of books and articles about the subject for just 10 cents in coin. In the next few weeks we're going to discuss such subjects as what should I do in an A-bomb attack and peacetime uses and problems of atomic energy. A four month subscription to the reviewing stand bringing you 16 important discussions costs only $1, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Paul C. Green, William K. Selden, Lyle M. Spencer, and Paul A. Whitty. Now our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program. Next week the reviewing stand begins a series of two exciting broadcasts on atomic energy with a discussion of the question what should I do in an A-bomb attack. Our guests will be Dr. Earl H. Blair, chairman of the Illinois Medical Society's Committee on Military Affairs and Emergency Medical Service. Victor C. Dreiske, co-director of the Chicago Civil Defense Committee. Dr. Andrew C. Ivey, vice president of the University of Illinois, in charge of the schools of medicine, pharmacy, dentistry, and nursing. And Colonel Charles T. Tench, engineer with the Fifth Army. We invite you to listen next week for answers to the question many of you are asking. What should I do in an A-bomb attack? Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Le humor bookabad is a weapon. Things are learning about an mask in thecharger the whistle. We just know we think. You know we need more tomorrow. You begin. Listen back to the poetry Credit variance
