I give you the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Mr. Hirschbill, Mr. Christenbury, Mr. Marx, Mr. Spector, Mr. Kelly, ladies who have been so kind and so beautiful on this platform, to those who are interested in this industry and those who are interested in New York, those who are here in City Hall Square and those who are listening in, ladies and gentlemen, what you see here today is our expression not only of our interest, but our appreciation of what the millinery industry means to New York. Do you know that it means a business in this city of $280 million a year? Do you know that it is actually the basis upon which better than 200,000 men, women, and children make a living? Do you realize what that means to the purchasing power of the citizens of the city? what it means to the payment of rent? What it means to the grocery store? What it means to the theater, to the restaurant, and to all the long list of businesses that make up the city of New York? Do you realize what it does to provide the tax money that bills your schools and your hospitals, that pays for all of the departments who are represented here by those pretty girls, the services without which you could not have New York? It makes that basic fundamental contribution to all of these things that we meet here today, under the auspices of the city's Department of Commerce, which is looking all the time in some way to promote and to encourage the development of the business and elements within our city. They have brought together here today these girls, and they have provided the judges, I should say, Harry, with one of the toughest decisions that any set of judges could be called upon to make. I know I have to make a lot of decisions, but girls, I don't care who wins or who doesn't, I'm glad I don't have to make this one. Not so much. You're all pretty, and if I had my way, I'd just get a hat for each one of you and say no matter where you go, you miss New York. Ladies and gentlemen, I won't hold up the decision. I just wanted an opportunity to explain this to you and to tell you one further final fact about this industry. Here we have the most perfect example that you could find of management and labor relationships. Do you know that despite the value of this business to our city, despite the fact that it has taken the lead away from Paris and other European cities as the keynote of its styles, do you know that in 18 years you didn't have a single strike in this industry in this city? The management and labor were able to get together on every occasion, and it's only a few short months ago when I had the joy of presiding over another extended contract between labor and management in this industry. To all of you, to Mr. Mandelowitz, who is represented here, to Mr. Mark, to Mr. Speckley, to all the groups that are here for management and labor that go to make this great industry what it is to our city, we of the administration, beginning with the Department of Commerce itself, and I, speaking on behalf of the whole city, are heartiest compliments to this industry. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mayor Dwyer, for the wonderful story you've told of the position that the millinery industry occupies in the life of our great city. And in passing, I want to say to you, Mr. Mayor, that I appreciate the splendid spirit of cooperation, the intelligent understanding that I have always received when I've come down to City Hall here on behalf of the Broadway Association. May your stars end. Thank you.