Your group when he said, and I quote, the service of the association in the allied cause at a time when the allies were fighting with their backs to the wall was both acceptable and useful. End of quote. As your 1953 directory points out, the years immediately preceding Pearl Harbor were difficult ones for your association since its membership included nationals of all belligerents. Carefully and patiently, Axis sympathizers were eliminated. In congratulating you on your 25th anniversary, which you observed at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel here in the city of New York, on February 2, 1943, President Franklin Roosevelt commended you for your continued support of amity among nations. I know from my own acquaintance among the overseas correspondents, Roosevelt said, A few men more desirous of bringing about that true understanding, which can be the only solid basis for a lasting peace. The year 1946 was an historic one for your association with the transfer of the United Nations to the new world, transforming New York City into the diplomatic capital of the entire world. Since then, your association has grown in membership and in influence, and you enter your 36th year with 230 members, representing 38 countries, certainly a formidable array of journalists dedicated to the all-important work of fostering international goodwill. It is my privilege as mayor of our city and on behalf of all 8 million people who live in our city, to bestow upon your organization the certificate for distinguished and exceptional public service of the city of New York. May I ask you, Mr. President Bastas, to please rise while I present you with the official scroll of the city of New York. And I would like to read this scroll so that you will all know how the people of the city of New York feel towards your association. The scroll reads as follows. For distinguished and exceptional public service, Office of the Mayor, City of New York, know all the men by these presents that I, Vincent R. Impelitari, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, the Foreign Press Association on the occasion of its 35th anniversary, which, in conformity with its charter, has kept its membership in contact with American life and opinion and has contributed through the press in all countries to the work of fostering international goodwill and has thereby enlisted the deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York and witnessed whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the city of New York to be affixed this 10th day of February 1953. My great pleasure. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Bastias is quite a distinguished-looking individual. He's about 5'6", weighs about 150 pounds. He's bald but has a white bushy beard and he has dark eyebrows and he gives a picture somewhat like some of the paintings that you perhaps have seen of St. Francis of Assisi. The next item on the agenda on the official program here, the official reception in honor of the Foreign Press Association on the occasion of its 35th anniversary, will be the response by the Association's president, Mr. Arnold Bastias. Meanwhile now, we listen to popular tunes of the day by the Police Department Orchestra, Acting Sergeant Harold Byrne conducting. The response for the Foreign Press Association will be made by Mr. Arthur von Diaz, the president of the Foreign Press Association and representative of the Rotterdam Koran. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Whelan, representatives of the Armed Forces and distinguished guests, Mr. Mayor, I thank you very much on behalf of all our members for your kind words and for this singular, thank you very much. Thank you very much. Before I would like to express my thanks in behalf of the Association, I would like to read to you a telegram we received this morning from Mr. Percy Bullen, one of our founder members who is now in London. The London Press Club joins me in heartiest congratulations on the 35th anniversary of the Foreign Press Association, Percy Bullen. And for this singular honor you have bestowed upon us. We value this very highly. My colleagues and I have witnessed many motorcades, but it is a novel experience to be yourself motorcaded. That was certainly a most remarkable beginning for this reception. We also have, in our journalistic careers, reported many functions. But it is something else, again, to be reported upon. And what's more, by such a distinguished personality as yourself, and in such glowing terms. It is indeed a happy coincidence that our celebration falls in the same period as that of this great city, which grew out of the small beginnings of New Amsterdam. And may I here interpolate a personal word and thank you, Mr. Mayor, for your sympathy with the distress expressed towards the people of my country. It has been, as you said, a terrible catastrophe. It has been, as you said, a terrible catastrophe. It has, at the same time, demonstrated in you, and in a very touching way, your friendship, and the friendship of the American people, and readiness to help. And for that, we are deeply grateful. As for your celebration, allow me, Mr. Mayor, to tender our heartiest congratulations with this tercentenary, and expressed our best wishes for New York's continued prosperity. Compared with your 300 years, the 35 years of the existence of the Foreign Press Association are only a limited span. But this span of 35 years has witnessed the ever-growing importance of this country in world affairs. And this importance is reflected in the growth of our association. Throughout those years, foreign correspondents have been assigned to the United States in ever-increasing numbers. Since the end of the war, our membership has practically doubled. And indeed, no foreign newspaper of any importance, no wire service or broadcasting organization, can afford not having a correspondent in these United States whose every move in the field of foreign or home policy is reflected on the international scene. These moves originate for the greater part with the administration, its executive as well as its legislative branches in Washington. Yet, it is New York which is the new center of the world. It is true, a number of our colleagues are stationed in the nation's capital, but our number is limited. And we all go to Washington from time to time in order to keep in touch with national events. However, most foreign correspondents have made and will continue to make their headquarters in New York. And this is not a mere coincidence or the result of inertia. They are stationed in New York because, as their papers, they cannot afford not to be stationed there. We usually think of New York as the city of skyscrapers, of the great part and business community. But do people ever realize how practically all channels of world communication come together in this amazing metropolis? How through the media of the big wire services of many countries and the great national newspapers and broadcasting organizations, how the news in hundreds of thousands, probably millions of words daily, converges here from all directions and how it is diverted again to all parts of the globe. How this city is one vast intricate network of communications. How this city is one vast majority of the world. In the handling of this news, foreign correspondents play their indispensable part. For them, the city of New York is a hospitable workshop, which has still gained in importance since the establishment, as the mayor recalled here in Manhattan, of the United Nations headquarters, where the heartbeat of the world is manifest. Thus, the city of New York has become the world's capital, hostess to an international organization in search of world peace and security. So it is not surprising that between this city of New York and the Foreign Press Association, close and cordial relations have developed and have been maintained. And it is because of this close cooperation and intimate relationship that we value them all, this official reception of today and the tribute which you, Mr. Mayor, have been kind enough to pay to our association and its work. It is generally supposed that the main task of the foreign correspondent is to explain the significance of news developments in the country where he or she, for the women correspondents, have taken a permanent place among us, and you will find many of them here too, where they are accredited. And that their task is to interpret that country, the actions of its government, the way of life and thinking of its people, and to interpret all this to the newspaper reading and broadcasting listening public abroad. In a way, we are supposed to perform the function of the cow's stomach. We eat the news raw as it comes in. Then we sit down, chew and ruminate a bit, maybe in our beards, swallow it down and digest it still further. And, or so it is assumed, out comes a peptonized piece of reporting which gives the whole matter in a nutshell and makes everything crystal clear. It would be nice if it were always so, but I am afraid our digestory tract does not work so perfectly as that of our bovine example. Moreover, there is the pressure of time and space, I mean column space, not Einsteinian space. And the pressure of deadlines, the crowding in of many events at the same moment. In order to even approach doing justice to our job, we must at least work in congenial surroundings, in an atmosphere of efficiency and helpful organization, and in an atmosphere where the press is free. And that is what New York offers to us. New York is indispensable to us and part of us. At the same time, I think one might say that we, foreign correspondents, are also part of New York. We represent one of the many facets of the varied activities which are concentrated in this city. No wonder that we feel at home in this great city. Nowhere members of any foreign press corps feel themselves less as foreigners than in New York, itself such a unique association of so numerous a population of foreign descent. To us, newsmen of foreign lands, New York is truly the great center of human endeavor, at whose shores so many of so many countries which we ourselves represent have found a new and manifold happiness. For this reason, we are proud to be here today. That is why we are deeply touched by the honor you have bestowed upon us, Mr. Mayor, by presenting this beautiful scroll which recognizes the part we, too, are playing in the life of this city. Your tribute to our association stresses its contribution through the press of all countries to the work of fostering international goodwill. That, in fact, will remain our aim. I think I may say that, notwithstanding differences in outlook, our members are working cordially and harmoniously together. They have found a common ground in the pursuit of their profession and the promotion of their professional interests. In fostering the brotherhood of the press, we may hope to contribute to the brotherhood of nations. It is most gratifying to find this endeavor being so highly appreciated. We shall continue to take an appropriate part in New York's activities. And, I may add, anything you can do, Mr. Mayor, to facilitate our task will have our full support. I should, therefore, like to finish with expressing the hope that our close cooperation with this great city will grow still closer in the future. And how could it be otherwise, when we are happy to count Mr. Grover Whelan among our honorary members, who for so many years has proved a faithful friend, and who, again, on this present occasion, has taken the lead in arranging for this unique function, which marks a highlight in our history. And, as a matter of fact, I want to tell you a secret now. We are not the only ones who celebrate our 35th anniversary. It's this year, 35 years ago, that Mr. Grover Whelan's connection with this city started. And, I think he ought to celebrate, too. Well, Mr. Mayor, on behalf of the members of the Foreign Press Association, I thank you again, most warmly, for this wonderful reception. Thank you very much. Thank you, President Vandes, particularly for that part that you concluded with, advising the folks that I had been around for 35 years. I came here as an infant. Mr. Mayor, I want to tell you that, with the cooperation of the Port Authority, the Foreign Press Association will now be taken for a boat ride around the Hudson and East River, and have lunch on board as the guests of the Port of New York Authority. And, I think it's opportune for me to advise you of the fact of the splendid cooperation which has been extended by the Port Authority on this very unique occasion. Mr. Mayor, you will please, when the processional will be played, you will please move to your buses and enter the same buses that you left, and the offices will remain here until most of the folks leave the room. Your processional, please. From the Board of Estimate Chambers in City Hall, your city station has brought you the proceedings of the official reception for members of the Foreign Press Association. The Honorable Vincent Arm Pelletieri, as a feature of the proceedings, presented a scroll for distinguished service to the organization, on this the occasion of its 35th anniversary. This has been a special public service broadcast of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.