Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses problems of a changing Africa. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the issues presented by the changing political, social, and economic scene in modern Africa. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Leonard Allen, who is Senior Assistant in the Government Model School at Sierra Leone, and is now studying education in the United States. So now tell us a little about Sierra Leone. Where is it, Allen? Sierra Leone is in the west coast of Africa. It's one of the British territories in that part of the world. And the third in area, the largest of these four British West African colonies is Nigeria. The next in area is the Gold Coast, and the smallest is Gambia. Now you regard that as your home country, I take it? That's my home country. We also have London Harry's lecture in the School of Oriental and African Studies, the University of London. What took you to Africa, Harry's? Well, I went as a missionary. I was in Africa for ten years. With the university's mission to Central Africa, I was an Episcopal missionary. That's the mission that was founded by Dr. Livingstone, the great explorer and missionary. I lived in Tanganyika, in southern Tanganyika, in Kenya, in Yassaland, until I came back to London to teach at the university there. And we have Claude Tarditz, member of the French Association for the Increase of Productivity. What is this French Association for the Increase of Productivity, Tarditz? I've been working with this group until I came here, and this is a group in which private and governmental interests are represented, which is in charge of sending to the United States the technical team coming here under the sponsorship of the technical assistance program. Why are you interested in Africa? Well, it happens that there's many Frenchmen. Our relations with Africa are very close. Many of my friends have been working in Africa, and I've been always thinking in Africa as a very important role and contribution to make to our own world. Well, France is one of the great colonial powers in Africa. That's right. Probably the second one as far as the population is concerned, perhaps the first as far as acreage is concerned. And we should like also to present Melville J. Herskovitz, Professor of Anthropology and Director of the Institute on Contemporary Africa at Northwestern University. Now, since this institute is the source of our speakers here today, Herskovitz, tell us just a bit about it, would you? Well, the institute has arisen out of the long-term interest of Northwestern in Africa, an interest that I believe as far as university area programs is concerned, is unique. We've had people studying in Africa for a good many years, and recently have, with the support of the Carnegie Corporation of New York, instituted a program of African studies, which this summer headed up into an intensive six-week institute on Africa, where we've had a visiting faculty of six and over 45 students from government, from business, from universities all over the country who have learned about and have organized their information about the problems of contemporary Africa in all fields. Well, now, why is Africa important today, Herskovitz? Well, with the development of communications, Africa has the importance of any major world area. I should say that in our interest in the institute and in this discussion, we will be talking about Africa south of the Sahara. North Africa is quite different. It's from the point of view of language, from the point of view of history, from the point of view of culture, its traditions. It's to be regarded as a part of Europe and the Near East, whereas... Are you eliminating the area in which Rummel marched back and forth during World War II? Egypt, Tangiers, Morocco, Algeria, those areas are so different from Africa south of the Sahara that it's better to keep our interest focused there. Now, there are enormous economic resources, both from the point of view of mineral wealth, hydroelectric potentialities, manpower that Africa has that are often not recognized. But in addition, there are extremely important cultural contributions that Africa has to make, and in these days of the Cold War, the strategic element is by no means unimportant. How do you see the importance of Africa, Harry? Well, I'm very glad that Mr. Herskovitz mentioned the cultural values that we have, that there are to be found in Africa. My own feeling about all this is that the growing interest in America about Africa and the importance of Africa in the world today emphasizes very much the resources and the political significance, the position of Africa as a strategic basis. Well, I speak as one, as perhaps a representative of the missions, who felt that Africa was important even before these factors came so much into the foreground. Africa, to me, and certainly to the missionary bodies, is of great importance because it has so many people living in it. Well, of course, the scientists would agree with you there. We've been interested in Africa long before these more recent economic and political and strategic considerations came up. Alan, what is your reaction to this discussion? You're a native African. Yes. So far as these economic resources are concerned, what bothers me is that according to economic theory, we hear, of course, that there is so much foreign capital. If foreign capital is poured into our territory, the natives or the people in that area will be benefited. And so far as we've been reading, we hear of the resources, mineral resources of Africa in world proportion as 90% of diamonds, uranium 60%. And paradoxically enough, you find that the people who live in these areas are just very poor people. They are poor, diseased, and, well, it's sometimes very pitiable to go into some areas and see people living in these areas. Now, what the idea is, how is it that with all this foreign capital pouring into these countries, well, these people will be benefited? Will it only be a matter of social welfare given by some of these companies? Or will it be a matter of people trying to evolve a sort of distribution which would serve the greater population of the people? Because all these development programs which we read and hear about don't perhaps emphasize any form of distribution, which, of course, is a problem even in the Western world. You're interested in Africa as a place for Africans to live, aren't you? Of course, definitely. And doesn't that lead into the whole political problem of self-determination of one kind or another? Yes, it does. It does indeed. I wanted to ask, before we turn to that, Herskovitz, what Africa is like today, anyway? I think the popular conception in America is that of vast jungle and bush areas with wandering tribes, elephants, and other symbols of that sort. I suspect that's a fairly accurate characterization of Africa as we see it. How correct is that, Alan? Have you ever shot any elephants? Well, I'd just like to say I lived a good many years in Africa and I very seldom saw any animals at all. There are plenty there if you go looking for them. But the common conception of life whereby you see an elephant every morning in your back garden, it doesn't really correspond to the facts. Yes, I agree with this. And we should also say that the vast part of Africa is a very dry and arid country. No jungles. No jungles. Forests are restricted along the rivers or in some central and very rainy parts of Africa, such as Congo and the coast along the Guinea and Ivory Coast and Nigeria. Yes, if one considers again the form of cultivation which was carried on, the shifting cultivation where perhaps this year part of the forest is cleared away and then cultivated and then for a number of years left and shifted on to another place, then one can of course realize that there cannot be so many jungles as people believe. Well, of course, you know, it's been said that by one of my colleagues in the Institute that Africa is not dark. It's the United States that's dark and it's knowledge of Africa. We never think of Africa as a place where there are roads, railroads, airplane landing fields, where business has developed. where you have cities. We never think of Africa as a place where urban life before European contact was well developed. But in West Africa, there's such a city as Abaddon in Nigeria that had 350,000 people before the Europeans ever came in. We don't think of Africa that way. You don't mean to say, though, that railroads and landing fields and large cities are typical, do you? Of modern Africa? Yes. Well, it depends on what you mean typical. I should say they're... You're destroying all of my illusions here. Well, you can drive for great stretches over Africa. This business of going by safari is something that is, I suppose, necessary in some parts of Africa. But it's more often cooked up for a movie scenario, I suppose. I think it's a very important thing to emphasize the tremendous size of the continent. How many people do you have? How many people in there? How large is it, anyway? Can anyone give us some figures here? Well, it's very difficult to give figures because it's so... The practical difficulties of making a census in Africa in any connection have not yet been overcome. Well, now let's come back to the... What did you say, 200 million? 200 million. That is what some people give us the overall figure of the population. Come back to Alan's point that Alan made here in opening the discussion. Let's talk a bit about the political policies of these colonial powers. Now, the great colonial powers are Britain, France... Belgium. Belgium. Portugal. Belgium. Are they... What are the policies of these powers there in Africa? Well, I think one can say that there are some differences between the parts of those different nations. So I wouldn't like to go into detail, but I should perhaps underline that the British, compared to the French, have always emphasized the self-government principle, while the French have been believing in the idea of larger federations, probably with the idea that in the future, the nations to keep their prosperity and to keep their power, would have to base their policy on a large surface of lands in which Africa could be included with European powers. That's probably the idea of the French. So the British have something different. So they probably wouldn't like to see their territories completely cut from England. Wouldn't you agree with this? Well, the British policy has always been that of self-government, and we have just at present, of course, keeping up to the policy, the Gold Coast, which of course will surely, in a few years, attain to self-government. And here in Nigeria, of course, you have a new constitution which will be coming up soon, and Sierra Leone will come up a little later with a constitution, of course, giving wider powers to the Africans themselves. Well, now, when self-government is attained in certain of these areas, in whose hands does this self-government reside? Primarily in the hands of the whites, Harry? Well, no. I should say that so far as the British government is concerned, the idea primarily is that self-government should be in the hands of the Africans. Are they capable of self-government? Forgive me, Mr. Allen. I think the general... I would like to say that. I would like to say that. Yes, do say. I think even, as Mr. Haskovits mentioned here, before the advent of the Europeans, there were large empires, Ibadan, and in the Sudan, there were large empires, and these people were governed themselves, and when they, or may I say, the imperial powers came in, they saw that there were very good customs and traditions in their way of government, and if one reads sometimes the native administration system, which attempts, of course, to incorporate some of the native traditions of government into the system, so that shows clearly that the natives, the Africans, can govern themselves. But I understand that you have large numbers of white settlers in East Africa, for example. I'd like to just come back on Mr. Allen's last remarks. I think that what he's been saying is quite true of West Africa, but in East Africa, where the British have interests, the position isn't quite the same. There you have no highly developed tribal system of kingship, chieftainship, not on quite the same lines as you have in West Africa, and one of the reasons why self-government will not come so quickly in East Africa is linked up with the relative speed of progress in the educational world. For example, the number of students who qualified between the years 1946 and 1949 to enter the new university college at Makere, in Uganda, is only 23, a very small number indeed, and this has to be borne in mind when you contemplate the idea of self-government for the Africans. It's absolutely essential that they should be equipped for that very responsible work. Of course, I have a feeling that the whole term equipping for self-government is something that's centered on our own idea of equipping somebody to do something in the way that we do it. The Africans, as Alan's pointed out, have been governing themselves for centuries and quite satisfactorily as far as they're concerned. It's the business of equipping people to get the resources of the rest of the world so that they can cope with the problems that are presented to them as the Western world is moving into Africa. Now then, the Western... we also have to be careful, I think, not to talk about colonial policy in Africa as though it were British colonial policy. In this country, there's a great tendency to think of Africa as British Africa. Probably it's because we don't read French or Portuguese. But I'd like to hear from Tardit about French policy. I think we ought to discuss Belgian and Portuguese policy, too. I think that in this way, the last event, the recent past, proved that if the European power want to really build something in Africa, they have to take more and more care of the natives, institutions, political system, family system, which have been almost roughly disregarded in many cases and which have proven to be a very living sort of substance. Now, I think Mr. Herskovits would agree with this and Mr. Harris to all of you. Now, what is this traditional social and cultural system in Africa? Well, briefly speaking, you could perhaps compare it to what the medieval Europe was with a large extended family who have the common ownership of the lands and in which you have traditional chiefs who are not, in so many cases, are not perhaps elected, but with a consensus, reigns, a consensus of the people. Is it a tribal organization? This would be a tribal organization in many cases. Talking about land, this matter of land problem in Africa is something which is serious. Land to an African is much more than property ownership. It's something deeper, something emotional, something less articulate. And I think when one thinks of land in Africa, it should not be taken in the concept of Western ownership of land and treaty makings. and I sometimes wonder so far as these treaties were concerned, how much value they are so far as the Africans were concerned. You mean the treaties that were entered into by chiefs with the European government? That's right. Well now, is this older tribal family system in Africa breaking down, do you think, Harry? Well, I would hesitate to use the term breaking down, perhaps, but I would say it's being very, very considerably modified, partly because of the migration of labour in places like northern Rhodesia, in the Belgian Congo, to the big cities like Johannesburg in South Africa. In northern Rhodesia, for example, about 85% of the men between the ages of 25 to 35 are away from their villages. and this is the kind of thing that is likely to upset the workings of the traditional system of so-called family life in Africa. And this breakdown has come under the impact, I take it, of Western civilization. Yes, and besides that, you have, of course, the introduction into Africa of ideas, moral ideas, which perhaps do not altogether coincide with their traditional ways of thinking. The moral ideas that were present before Europe came in, because the Africans have their moral ideas, too. One is, yes, I'm quite ready to grant you that, but what seems to me to be so important is the introduction into Africa of ideas which are foreign to their own society. For example, the conception of the right of the individual to exercise his own judgment. That seems to me to be an idea which is foreign to African society, a society which is ruled very largely upon the principle of obedience to the elders and the powerful force of custom. If you ask an African why he does a thing, very often he isn't able to give you an answer. I don't suppose that very many of us would be able to give an answer. That's more likely. But very often he's not able to answer and the only answer he gives is, well, I do it because it's the custom. But from the point of view of West Africa, you're talking about East Africa, I think primarily because from the point of view of West Africa, I'm impressed at the way in which these old organizations are continuing. You take Africans who have had Western education, who have taken higher degrees, doctors of philosophy in institutions like the leading universities of England and France and the United States and they don't tend to desert these earlier relationships and even in the earlier days, I have been impressed by the way in which, though it looks from the outside as though you have very strong controls by the elders and chiefs, the elders and chiefs must be responsive to the will of the individuals under them. There's a basic underlying fundamental democracy there and any young man who disagreed with the elders was always at liberty to talk it out. Now, of course, if the elders didn't agree with him, then their word held, but they would have to be pretty sure that a large number of the others whom they were over also didn't agree before they gave that decision and that's a different thing than the kind of blind obedience that we think of. I think I would agree that, of course, the dichotomy, the difference is not as between whether the Africans will completely throw over their traditional ways of thinking, their traditional ways of life and accept the Western. I think that probably the Africans will work out a way of life which is some way between the two. Well, now, do you men regard these areas in which the white culture has not penetrated and I take it there are such areas, you regard them as backward areas from your point of view? Well, this word backward, of course, it needs some elucidation, I think. Of course, in terms of Western spectacle, these areas might be termed backward, but in terms of the Africans themselves, I think they are satisfied. They have some satisfaction, I should say. According to the way in which they live, they have values for their customs, and traditions, and in light of their own traditions, I wouldn't say it's backward, but in light of the Western spectacle paradigm. Yes, I think I agree with this. I should even go a little farther and say that the term like underdeveloped, which is largely used today, completely ignores also the fact that those cultures have something of their own, and even if you read things as the United Nations report sometimes, you find them that they analyse all the economic situation of the world, strictly from, they cannot perhaps do otherwise, from this Euro-American point of view, without taking into consideration such thing as the environment, such as the social organisation. They speak to you of the low income of the Africans compared to the European or the American ones, but for an African, in many cases, it has no sense. Well then, there's this too, where we talk about our know-how and our technological achievement, but the fact of the matter is that agricultural experts who have gone out to Africa have found that you just can't take our agricultural methods to Africa, and that very often the whole culture, the hoeing of small plots of ground, intensively cultivated, in the midst of the bush, has preserved the qualities of the soil to a degree that isn't possible when you get a tractor and rotary plow and cut down large elements of the bush because then those rains come, there's nothing to protect the soil, and you get erosion. The classical example, I suppose, is in the ill-fated groundnut scheme in Tanganyika, where they were going to grow peanuts to give oils to Europe on a very large scale, which has dismally failed. One of the reasons was that European engineers looked at this ground and looked at this shrub and said, well, we knock over whole trees with bulldozers, this will be easy, and they ran the bulldozer over, and then the man running the bulldozer looked back and found that the brush was standing up behind him, even when he did it two or three times, and the answer is that there's a lack of water there and the roots go down as much as 100 yards. Well, you just can't take our agricultural know-how and transfer it to Africa. How do you assess the contribution of the whites to Africa? What have they brought there of benefit? Well, I think if perhaps the most admitted things would be that the health service would be one of the most important contributions of the white, they have brought lots of things. I mean, by the system of taxes, by the system of labor, of course, they have changed this society and bring in the monetary economy, which is something which has completely changed the relations of the people in many cases. I should say that quite apart from the religious point, purely religious side, the missions have made a very great contribution to Africa in the educational field. In many areas of Africa, 90% of the schools are still entirely run by the missions. and a great deal of the hospital work, especially in the more tropical areas where the climate is not so good, is conducted by the missions. Well, then, Alan, are you really in an argument with these people? I asked you a while ago about these areas in which the white culture has not penetrated. That would mean, I take it, that Western education has not penetrated, that Western health standards have not penetrated those areas. Well, of course, Western health standards have not penetrated those areas, and we look forward, of course, to some sort of system by which the Western standards couldn't fit in, couldn't penetrate to fit in the customs and traditions of these people. but so far as Africans are developing now and the education which we've received, perhaps we're very grateful to the missionaries, we may be able, of course, to evolve some sort of system which would fit in with the traditions and customs of these areas which you turn backward. I must confess I get a little impatient with this matter of the contributions the outside world has made to Africa because we just don't think about the contributions Africa has made or is potentially capable of making to the outside world. What contributions can modern Africa make? Well, let's say what Africa has made. Such a thing, for example, as the invention of iron working which probably grew up in Africa, in East Africa. The contribution in art, the wood carving of Africa, the music which dominates our jazz which is the most important musical development of our culture in recent times. But more than that, it seems to me that what the African can do with the intellectual capacity that he has demonstrated both in his own cultures and when he's come into Western universities is to play on the technological achievement of the West in the light of the basic patterns of Africa and produce something which will be a contribution to the world at large. The difficulty is, of course, to have to sit and wait for the African to do that. At the present stage of development, the African is so keen on taking all that he can from the West that he's rather liable, he's rather likely to forget his own tradition. So many educated Africans tend rather to look down upon their own traditional culture and way of life as something rather inferior. I think that would need a little qualification, Dr. Harris. We might... I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. We might look down on it, but... You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Problems of a Changing Africa. Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs just $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Melville J. Herskovitz, the Reverend Lyndon Harris, Claude Tarditz, and Leonard Allen. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, What are other nations saying about us? Our guests will be Irving Flom, foreign editor of the Chicago Sun-Times and professor of journalism at Northwestern University. K. Heinrich Knappstein, German Consul General, and Dennis A.H. Wright, Acting British Consul General. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, What are other nations saying about us? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network serving more than 500 radio stations from coast-to-coast, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, What can talk settle? Our unrehearsed give-and-take transcribed discussion will center around the role of communication in our kind of society and ways and means of making talk effective. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Maynard Krieger, Associate Professor of Economics at the University of Chicago, and I might add a social scientist who sees no contradiction between being a social scientist and participating in politics. Herbert Thielen, Associate Professor of Educational Psychology and Director of the Human Dynamics Laboratory at the University of Chicago. And Irving J. Lee, Professor of Public Speaking at Northwestern University, past president of the International Society for General Semantics, and author of the recent book How to Talk with People. Now, gentlemen, I think it is most appropriate we raise the question, what can talk settle here on this reviewing stand? In the first place, we've been conducting weekly discussions for some 18 years, and we frequently meet the criticism. What do you ever settle? One letter puts it this way, you talk, talk, talk, and talk some more, blah, blah, blah, but you never settle anything and nothing ever happens. How would you answer that kind of criticism, Krieger? I would say, McBurney, that if the talk were all blah, it isn't going to settle anything. But talk doesn't have to be blah, an awful lot of talk is not blah, and that by and large, the world is suffering more from lack of talk than it is from too much talk. Bill, what would you say to that criticism? Well, I would say that the man shows the criticism is unjust because he has already reached one conclusion from the talk, namely, the talk is all blah, blah, blah. The question I'd have is whether there are other conclusions in addition to that one can reach. Well, sometimes the general feeling the talk doesn't get anywhere comes because the man who listens starts out by expecting simple answers and easy solutions to great big problems and when after 20 or 30 minutes of talk, you don't have one of these nice packaged solutions, he has the feeling that the talk didn't settle anything. Of course, there are a number of things that we do know about the outcomes of discussion, how applicable they are to the kind of program we conduct here every week is an open question, but we do know that the attitudes of people who participate in discussion change significantly, and we do know, secondly, that the dispersion of attitudes is significantly reduced as a result of discussion. In other words, that people get closer together, and we know, thirdly, that they reach a consensus or approach a consensus at least on attitudes significantly superior to those held at the outset of the discussion, if you can judge by the opinions of experts. In other words, I object very strongly to the notion that talk in the form of discussion is futile. things do happen. I would say, Bernie, as a dean of a school of speech, you probably have to say something like that. On the other hand, I think it's also true. The whole educational process, not quite the whole of it, but most of the educational process, is based on the assumption that communication, verbal and written communication between people, can result in their arriving at some joint conclusions as to what it's proper to think and what it's proper to do. I think a special problem for programs of this sort is that the people who write the letters are eavesdropping on a conversation rather than taking part in it. And I think this factor of participation and the quality of it makes the difference. As a matter of fact, the conclusions I reported apply to a situation in which there is, I take it, a little more participation than listeners to a program of this sort would engage in. Well, I shouldn't want to take our correspondent's point of view as a means by which we generalize about all kinds of talking because it seems to me that away from the radio studio and the microphone there are all sorts of occasions when the opportunity to talk with other people provides the protection against making a fool of yourself. That is a supervisor, a boss, an administrator who has a plan or a program or who thinks he has a way of functioning, the most useful way he can protect himself against acting foolishly is to find a group of people who will listen to him or who will check on the very conclusions or points that he makes. You mean then that in the talk process, the talker at any given time is actually getting a service performed for him by the people who consent to talk with him. Krieger, you phrase what I think is one of the ultimate justifications or one of the ultimate reasons why a man ought to look for opportunities. Namely, here's a way to see whether or not the wisdom I've arrived at joins with or goes along with the collective wisdom. Of course, when you ask the question, what can talk settle, you really have a somewhat ambiguous term there in that word settle. What do you mean by settle? How do you have to settle things by talk in order to make talk useful? Lee? You're, I take it, raising a kind of distinction between talking and acting. That is, as if talk merely leads to more talk and then you stop and engage in some sort of function. That is, you'll make such a distinction. I'm not sure that putting the problem in those terms clarifies it. Thielen, you ought to give us your view about that distinction. Do you see it that way? Let me open it by saying that, for me, I don't see it that way. I know of no social action which doesn't require talk in the very process of working something out. Well, I think you're trying to, you're putting talk in the context of a total experience in which talking is only one kind of action that goes on and that basically our problems are always ones of communicating experience and talk plays a part in doing this. I think the important thing that talk does more explicitly than any other form of action is to allow people to know they are at the same place or have the same feelings or starting from the same points of view so that they can then coordinate their activities. When you say, Thielen, that talk is one of the means of people communicating with each other, wouldn't you be willing to go a little further than that and say that talk is one of the most important ways of communicating? Surely, because of its greater specificity but any classroom teacher knows there are a lot of other means too such as showing a person how to do it himself sometimes without saying a word about it. A very effective science teaching method for example involves carrying through a demonstration completely silently and then discussing with the class what were the points I was trying to demonstrate. But the talk does help as a guide to reflection and drawing conclusions. Now let me ask if I may a number of somewhat more specific questions in this area. I'm trying to find out how you have to settle things in order to make talk significant. You have to reach an agreement in order to have a significant outcome? Sometimes I should suppose that if you didn't have an agreement as a result of 30 minutes of talk that would be useful. It's so easy to approach a problem with the feeling that the little answer I come with is enough. And it may be that the most educational, the most therapeutic thing that could happen to a participant is to realize that maybe we have to disagree at present in terms of the way we have experienced or defined the problems we have to face. But it's quite possible for people to disagree about what ought to be done and yet to get to agree on a process by which they decide what ought to be done and continuing to disagree about what ought to be done nevertheless agree that having gone through this process of deciding what ought to be done we will go ahead and do this until we change our minds about it so that if the action to be taken is regarded as a temporary character if it's not a death sentence that's being passed then it becomes quite possible for people as a result of talk to clarify their differences and yet to have sufficiently substantial unity of action for all the practical purposes that men face. I agree with you on that and I think that one of the problems of talk is that there are certain kinds of talk we don't have that we should have for example a group can agree that it has no confidence in any idea so far suggested instead of simply fighting over the alternatives that have been suggested until somebody gives way but once the group knows that it has no particular confidence in the alternatives suggested then it can begin to raise the question of why don't we have confidence what could we do to get more confidence in either one of these actions or some other action and I should like to suggest in answer to my own question that there are many areas in which talk can be conducted without reaching any agreement and conducted most profitably if you reach an agreement to disagree you have a significant agreement if that agreement is reached in mutual understanding I think understanding is one of the more important outcomes of talk and I would hope that such understanding or contribution to such understanding would be one of the more important outcomes of discussions of the kinds that we're having here today that is think of a business situation in which you have a series of supervisors or foremen or office managers his mere adherence to the usefulness of discussion will move him to bring people together and tell them all sorts of things that without the discussion he and they may never hear about or learn about in other words the mere recognition that all talk isn't designed to settle something is designed to let you know what I'm doing let you know what I'm thinking but I would wager Lee that if it were permitted that when anybody raises the question what can talk settle he's thinking primarily about problem solving that is he's thinking primarily of situations in which there is a problem to which a solution is sought and it's expected that out of the talk process will come some sort of solution to the problem now the solution to the problem may be to decide the problem isn't what they thought it was the solution may be to decide that there really isn't any problem by the time they get through talking the therapeutic value of the talk itself may have caused the problem to disappear but there are very many tough problems that don't disappear simply because people talk about them and where it's reasonable to expect that out of the talk process there will come an action solution to a problem I'm particularly impressed by that point Krieger the notion that while a group doesn't seem to agree on the things that it thought it was trying to agree on it is actually reaching agreement on other things that are much more important to it and I'd like to throw in a little example here that I happen to bring along with me for this occasion of a couple of club women for example on a nominating committee and somebody suggests well how about Mrs. Smith she'd make a fine president so the Dowager in the group says such a lovely person so completely devoted to her family and somebody else says yes and so sweet why she's on good terms with all the right people now it looks as though they've reached agreement this is a fine person but actually I would submit what they've reached agreement on is that she's not going to be the next president well now gentlemen however futile or efficacious talk is in resolving human problems what are the alternatives to it let me take the first crack at that McBurney because I'm not an expert in this field at all I'm strictly a lay practitioner and it seems to me what the experts here leave of me when they get through I don't know but it seems to me that in the broad civilizing process that's going on amongst men over a long period of time the heart of the business is that men learn to settle their problems by discussion rather than by what seems to me to be the major alternative to settling problems by discussion that is trying to settle them by clouding each other over the head that the civilizing process consists to a very considerable extent in developing our ability to settle problems by talk rather than by sticking bayonets in people's backs problems by people's backs I personally agree with that I think that's the ultimate alternative I don't find any point or anything in what you said Krieger that would lead any expert to take issue with you whether at this table or any other quite apart from its civilizing influence I again go back to that notion that there is in many minds perhaps more wisdom than in any one mind and if you don't have talk then you have solutions imposed by individuals you have one man in the family you have one man in the state and you have one man on the team and if you don't have talk one of the alternatives to me is action by individuals without concern for the people at the receiving end of the action in this sense then Lee political democracy consists essentially of government by talk whereas a totalitarian setup minimizes the role of discussion in the government process well I'd make a small have a small difference on that that it isn't so much government by talk but government in terms of the data that are necessary to reach good decisions and some of these data have to be gotten by talk but I think there are other ways to get data too and the surveys of various kinds even examination of objective facts like how many people go to what kinds of movies are also involved in a dictatorship or in any fascist or other monolithic society there's talk but it's only one way and I suppose the peculiar characteristic of talk in the democratic community is that it's two-way that even if an individual makes a decision someone unless we feel the talk is useless has the opportunity to raise a question and when you raise a question then you introduce talk and you make settlements broader you make them responsible in terms of many people now all of this leads me to ask what are the conditions and requisites for significant talk in other words Lee how should we talk with people in order to get something accomplished well I suppose the quickest beginning point of that question is to say that we have to learn to talk together it isn't we all learn to verbalize we all learn to wave our lower jaws but there's a very special it seems to me kind of skill which requires certain kinds of attitudes to learn to talk with people productively learning to discuss then you say is something more than simply learning to talk that's right that's right the child the child can do it one way now it is only as we grow up and learn a different set of skills that we get this thing that's talking between and with people you agree with that yes I think we're seeing the beginning of the development of a technology of social problem solving in which talk will be the basic instrument of communication this technology is going to have included in it such skills as the skills of knowing what kind of data a group needs to reach a decision at any given time the skills of knowing when the group is talking about what it says it's talking about instead of something else the skills of knowing how to break down a problem so that the first action step you take can test what the next step ought to be and those kinds of things and I think that we've made healthy progress is being made but we've got a long way to go and I should also add that there are all sorts of other skills that we need think for example of the of learning how to listen any kind of survey you make of any controversy between small groups of people reveals or at least those we've made reveal that people make a stab at listening that is we hear with one ear but we aren't giving the man full undivided receptive attention and it takes it takes some skill and it takes learning to understand not merely and not merely to hear the words a man says but to listen with a view to understanding what he's trying to say now you've given one requisite of significant talk which might be summed up as a more or less conscious methodology which you've had some experience are there any other requisites of good talk I think there are McBurney at least there is one that I think I can mention apart from these skills that Lee and Thelen have mentioned and knowing the methodology of productive discussion it seems to me there's something a bit less tangible than that and I don't know that there are any formal ways of teaching it to people but I don't see any reason for expecting that talk would develop into discussion of the problem solving sort unless you're able to assume a simple elementary kind of honesty on the part of people who are engaging in the discussion that is if somebody talks with somebody else and there's no relationship between what what he says and what he really thinks then I see no reason for that kind of talk to arrive at any kind of productive decision therefore it seems to me that simple ordinary bourgeois honesty of the sort which I think the totalitarian systematically repudiate both the fascists and the communists is a prerequisite for expecting talk of the two-way variety to result in any kind of satisfactory settlement of any problem well I think the problem of honesty however has to be hit at two levels in the level of deliberately saying something other than what you mean this is that elementary kind of thing but there are many times one is in a situation where he says something which at that moment he believes and means but shortly after he realizes he didn't mean that at all and there are all kinds of conditions in groups that lead to this kind of thing happening and another one of these conditions for good talk which is not a denial of this one but perhaps a different one is that we need to learn a kind of patience a kind of willingness to sit with a tough problem with the world burning up around you you want patience yes I do with the world burning up we need the best kind of reflection and the best kind of looking at the problem because the thing that worries me most when people talk together is the kind of impatient leader that says let's get done with the talk and do something but this impatient leader may face deadlines of all of all sorts that is the work of the world has to get done you can't sit around and talk indefinitely we get hungry we meet all sorts of practical emergencies well McBurney I've got at least one answer to that it would be very useful if sometimes administrators foresaw the kinds of problems they have and I sometimes wonder whether one of the most useful tactics of the administrator is to indicate that a deadline exists as a way of preventing the kind of patient cross talk that I want more of right the amount of energy that gets spent in trying to get us out of a mess that could have been prevented with much less energy earlier is phenomenal isn't it that's my point I can give you an illustration however that doesn't quite check with your description last year when the administration in Washington sent over to Capitol Hill way in advance of the end of the fiscal year a string of budgetary messages Congress gets to work on the appropriation bills and on some of the major ones it was more than four months after the expiration of the fiscal year that is four months of the next fiscal year had already passed before Congress had got through with its discussion so called of the appropriation bills government that wasn't the problem of the administrator there was a problem of the policy making branch of a government getting itself organized in such a way that it could get its talking done in time and it becomes a technique or a problem of planning the talk rather than of putting the onus on the difficulty of getting a decision in other words if we're dealing with a tremendous problem and budgetary ones are tremendous I take it then it may be that we have to take a brand new attitude towards talk and say if it takes three times as long let us set up the machinery so that we have three times as much time well I suspect that much of that discussion that went on so long was not really discussion over dollars and cents but discussion over the policy that should have been made long before anybody talked about expending the dollars and cents well that's undoubtedly true that's why I called it so called discussion that is I should like to offer as a kind of generalization maybe that the talk which ends in a hurry that is quick packaged conclusions may in the long run create as many problems as they are supposed to solve I'd like to ask another question in this area how expert does a man have to be to engage in significant talk Lee how much do you have to know I've met some people recently who were a little afraid to talk about the steel crisis and the Korean problem and so on because they say the only people who really can talk about these are the people who are responsible for making decisions and I suppose I would like to tell those people that you ought to engage in talk and you ought to engage in talk at the level at which you're able to engage in the discussion but you mustn't pretend or presume to come to conclusions that go beyond your experience or knowledge and ability with respect to the problem if the talk may be at a low level in terms of solutions but it seems to me there are still values in getting people to do the talk of course if you're dealing with a with a problem which requires a solution at a fairly high intellectual level and the people engaging in the in the in the talk are essentially uninformed how patient does one have to be may I make a suggestion on that McBurney my opinion is that most of the questions of policy that come up on which people feel that an answer has to be given right away we're in a hurry to get an answer there's nothing substantially wrong with administrators going ahead and giving an answer to the question president of steel corporation president of the United States provided the answer given by the experts to the question is then subject to review now if an election comes up again in four years if there's an opportunity for people to make what they call a post audit and decide whether they want more of the same kind of action or less of it then I see no objection to not having quite so much of a pre-audit of their actions so that if the action that's taken is regarded as a continuing part of the discussion process and is subject to criticism I think the overwhelming bulk of the population is possessed of the capacities for making the simple kind of judgment as to whether they want more or less of the sort of thing that's been going on now we've been in the process here of spelling out some of the requisites of and conditions of good talk I'm sure none of you men would wish to take this as a as a definitive list but perhaps it'll be helpful I'd like to to introduce some applications if I may how about political talk we are in for a lot of it in the next few months Krieger you think it'll do any good will it change any votes will it bring any enlightenment well since I think that the basic questions that are shaking the world apart or you've done a lot of that talking yourself remember I've done my share since I think that those basic questions that are shaking the world apart like economic stability and the war and peace question are questions that that have to be solved through the political process my only hope for getting them solved is through political talk however I think there's a big distinction between the kind of political talk that goes on in the heat of an electoral battle which is an infighting sort of a job that sort you're going to see during the next several months and the kind of political talk that goes on during say the three and a half years that are not years of campaigning and I see far more that is productive in the political discussions between campaigns than I do in the political discussions during campaigns but those political campaigns serve a very useful purpose don't they and getting people brought up and involved and becoming sensitive to issues that during the three and a half years when there's no particular pressure one is not sensitive to or not even aware of so I would see the the hot political campaign as a shot in the arm to being a citizen at the national level and identifying with large questions that we probably all need some people suggested you know that President Truman talked himself through the last election and that Mr. Dewey withdraw withdrew from talk at his own peril is there anything in that analysis Krueger I think there may be in the sense that showing that he was a vigorous fighter by by his talk and the number of whistle stops and the vigor of the adjectives used showed a lot of people that Mr. Truman was was really a candidate which some of them might not have otherwise thought and it meant that probably some people who were inclined to vote for him but might have stayed home instead actually turned out and got their vote cast there was a brief indication a minute or two ago that maybe talk doesn't change votes well it may be that a Republican campaigning may not bring many Democrats across the line but campaigning does tend to keep the boys who are already sold in line that is if you eliminated talk by any standard bearer there'd be great danger that you would lose the people already committed to any political party let me ask another question do you think the the steel crisis is an evidence of a breakdown in in talk I would say McBurney that it's an evidence that there hasn't been enough talk going on on the question this country's got a basic question of what its policy ought to be with regard to the continuity of operations in industries that it cannot afford to have stopped I haven't heard much sensible talk about that now for my money I'd look forward to a period of eight or ten years of serious discussion of that question with the president acting on it with Congress acting on it with the Supreme Court acting on it all their decisions being taken as temporary and if after ten years of public discussion of that question we could arrive at something like a policy for this country I would consider that success you really are placing a premium on patients I would say of course I could ask to about the the Korean situation is that an evidence of a breakdown of talk what do you think of that no McBurney it seems to me the it's taken a long time and the issues are complicated and involved and it may be that what we have in Korea is a slightly different version of the discussion process it seems to me you have to make a distinction between a situation in which people meet with a view to getting an answer and the kind of power political situation that we have in Korea in which each of the participants has already decided what is the answer but even in that kind of stalemate situation I still wouldn't give up on talk because it the very process tells the participants how far I'm sorry gentlemen but our time is up you've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion what can talk settle we want to thank our guests today Maynard Krieger associate professor of economics in the college University of Chicago Irving J Lee professor of public speaking in the school of speech at Northwestern University and Herbert Thielen director of the Human Dynamics Laboratory University of Chicago we invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed copies are available for 10 cents in coin or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next 12 weeks three dollars for an entire year write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston Illinois next week the reviewing stand will present a program in cooperation with the American Medical Association what are we doing for the superior child our guests will be Dr. Woodruff L Crawford of Rockford Illinois pediatrician Dr. Henry L beats Boston psychiatrist formerly president of the American Psychiatric Association and Paul a professor of education in the school of education at Northwestern University we hope you'll be with us next week as we ask what are we doing for the superior child the Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast transcribed coast to coast every week as a public service feature of mutual your announcer Jerry Coffer this is the mutual broadcasting system system you you you you you you you you you