Plan for survival. Do you know what an atom bomb sounds like? Listen. That's all the sound of an atomic explosion the human ear can hold. God willing, none of us will ever see its flash or feel the impact of its blast. But let's face it, it could happen here. If it should, what is your plan for survival? This is the third in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station between here and Albany and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. To bring you information and instruction, to tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of atomic attack and what you can do to help, each week at this time we'll present officials and specialists who can speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now, here's Bill Leonard. In this program, we're going to devote our full time to answering your questions about civil defense. If you have any question concerning the operation of civil defense in your community, address a letter to us. Civil Defense Network will then bring the person or group directly concerned with your question to our microphones. Your questions, of course, will be grouped in categories so that as many queries as possible relating to one specific phase of civil defense can be answered on the same program. Now, the subject this week is our children. And in the studio with us is Dr. Edwin R. Van Cleek, Assistant Commissioner of Education of the State of New York and coordinator of all civil defense in schools and colleges throughout the state. Standing by in local areas are local officials who will answer questions relating directly to your community. Dr. Van Cleek, our first question comes from a listener in NIAC, and this listener asks, We're told to train our children in atomic defense. Can you please tell us how on earth I can make my six-year-old son understand what an atomic bomb is without half-frightening him to death? God knows I'm scared myself. Well, in nine cases out of ten, a child's fear is a reflection of a parent's attitude. The answer is in your own complete knowledge of what the bomb is and what to do. You have to train a child to keep from running in the path of an automobile. You have to train a child about the danger of firecrackers and so on. Is it not then logical to explain to him what to do if an atom bomb strikes? If you substitute calmly imparted knowledge and planning for hysteria and confusion, you'll not only lessen fear, but you'll prevent the tragedies that result from ignorance. Agencies exist where you can get accurate information. Your local civil defense office is the best place to get it. Dr. Van Cleek, this next question comes from Haverstraw, New York. Is there a uniform plan for the safety of children in the schools of this state? Every school in the state, Mr. Leonard, every school, public, private, and parochial, has been directed by the state's civil defense commission to locate in each school building the areas that would furnish the most shelter in event of bombing. Every school in the state has been directed to coach teachers and pupils as to what they should do if there should be an air raid. On the matter of conducting drills in the schools, only schools in areas designated by the Civil Defense Commission as target areas must conduct such drills. Another question along these lines, Dr. Van Cleek, and this one's from Troy, New York, and asks, What provision is being made to give teachers the information they should have in case of atomic attack? Well, Mr. Leonard, teachers have been carefully coached, not only as to what to tell the pupils, but as to how to tell them. The object is to alert, not alarm. If there's a warning of an air raid, of course the pupils go to the shelters. Now here's what the teachers tell the children to do in case of a sneak air raid. If they're indoors, they should take any shelter that is within two or three steps. The only warning that there would be of that type of an air raid, assuming that it was an atom bomb that was dropped, would be the tremendous flash of light accompanying the explosion. That is why there'd be only two or three seconds, not four or five seconds. If children or adults are indoors, at home or at school, they should duck under the desk or a bed or table, preferably away from the windows and close to the wall if the wall's only a few steps away. If they're outdoors, they should take any shelter that is within a few steps. If there's no shelter that close, they should fall to the ground face downward. Indoors or out, they should turn their backs to the light, cover their face, hands, other exposed parts of their bodies, and close their eyes tightly. All schools in the state have been asked to tell the pupils this. Some target city schools have also given the pupils actual practice in this type of drill. New York City began this today. This question's from an upstate listener, and it's, with all the drills going on in the schools, I'm afraid my child may become upset emotionally. Can't we do something about this? Yes, and we've given major attention to avoiding alarming or scaring the children. Our psychologist worked out detailed suggestions on how to prepare the pupils' minds for the drills without upsetting the children emotionally. The pupils have reacted superbly, as shown by our reports from target cities in every part of the state. The schools have prepared the pupils for the drills, handling them matter-of-factly, unemotionally, calmly. Of course, as far as the drilling and marching to the shelters is concerned, the children have had experience with fire drills. But even with the duck-to-the-floor type of drill for the sneak attack, the program, always with occasional exceptions, of course, has been a great success. In preventing panic and hysteria, Mr. Leonard, the parents can aid tremendously. Children sense and feel and tend to reflect the emotional attitudes of both teachers and parents. Children can't escape hearing about the atom bomb. That being the case, children can and do get considerable reassurance from the fact that if atomic bombing comes, they know what to do. One more question. A parent writes, my child attends school in an old building. Is this building safe in the event of an attack? I can understand the anxiety of this parent. We do have some school buildings that are old. But in every instance, the local school heads have studied each school on an individual basis. And we've been advised that with the A-bomb, any shelter is better than no shelter. I'd like to take a moment or so to summarize your remarks, Dr. Van Cleek. We've learned that unreasoned fear of the bomb is due largely to ignorance. And such fears are communicated by us to our children, show up in their attitudes as reflections of our own hysteria and confusion. We can overcome this in two ways. First, by getting all the facts ourselves, so that we can eliminate the many unreasoning fears about the bomb and its effects. And second, by volunteering our own services in civil defense. And finally, we've learned that an apathetic attitude is neither wise, prudent, nor realistic. As been often emphasized in previous programs, the bomb may never come. But if it does, we can only hope to survive it if we have, in the words of the title of this series, a plan for survival, which must include our faith and the active cooperation of all of us. Does that about summarize it, Doctor? Yes, it does. I should like only to repeat that the purpose of our program is to alert and not to alarm our people. I want to thank you, Dr. Van Cleek, for being our guest on this program. And I want to remind our listeners that if they have any questions concerning any aspect of civil defense, send them to Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. In our studios, in connection with New York City's civil defense, is John C. Cox, administrator of the civil defense program of the Board of Education of the City of New York. Mr. Cox has been invited by us to answer questions from listeners concerning the welfare of our children in this city. And Mr. Cox, our first question comes from the principal of a primary school. And she says, Our school is close to Long Island Sound with a shelter in the basement. And I've heard that if an A-bomb were to be dropped into the sound, it would set up a tidal wave more than 100 feet high. A wave of this height could easily reach us and trap all the children in the basement. What should I do? I strongly doubt whether an underwater burst would initiate a tidal wave. At Bikini, after the experimental underwater burst, waves were only 8 to 10 feet in height. They would penetrate inland only about 50 yards over level ground. If the burst were at ground level or above, there would be no cause for concern, and the basement would be the best shelter area if there were no other hazards present such as high-pressure steam pipes or gas mains. The Board of Education has used qualified personnel of its Bureau of Plant Operations to resolve just such problems as this. Well, we have another letter from a Bronx listener, and she writes, If an attack should come, we're told to stay away from the school. This doesn't make sense to me. I'm sure my child would be much better able to cope with whatever situations might arise if I, her parent, were with her. Our schools, as I have already mentioned, have been carefully surveyed to determine the safest available shelters. If hundreds or even dozens of parents come to school in an emergency, then our shelter areas will be overcrowded to the point where the children will not be safe. I think, too, such action might introduce a note of nervousness and apprehension that might very easily lead to panic among the children. Last, parents would not know that enemy action threatened until the air raid siren sounded. It might be that enemy bombs would trap thousands of parents unprotected in the streets if they ran toward the school at such a time. It is imperative when the air raid siren sounds that everyone take shelter immediately. Principals and teachers have been well trained to take care of children in case of emergency. Rely upon them and trust them. This letter contains a question from a listener in Queens, and it says, Is each school able to shelter the number of children attending that school, or do they need other safe areas to which the children will be taken in event of an attack? Yes. It must be borne in mind, however, that some schools offer better protection than others. In the latter instance, alternate shelters in nearby subway stations or modern buildings are presently being inspected by engineers of the Board of Education. In this connection, it must always be remembered, as you've heard before, that any shelter is better than none. This letter's from a Manhattan listener, and it's, I'd heard that children will be required to wear some form of identification. Isn't this carrying things a little too far? I don't believe so. In addition to serving the usual purposes, identification tags will assist authorities in returning lost children to their homes after an emergency. An attack might come when children are not in school. They might be in a strange part of the city, and they might not be sufficiently mature to be able to recall or pronounce intelligibly their names, street addresses, telephone numbers, and so forth. The Board of Education is presently negotiating the purchase of some 60 to 2,000 pounds of nickel silver to be used for making identification tags which will be supplied to all children of the city. Mr. Cox, our time is about up. It all comes down, I think, to taking proper protective measures now. In every community of this state, responsible citizens are ready to train and drill volunteer workers to do specific jobs in an emergency. But they can't do their jobs unless every civilian does his. If you haven't already registered for civil defense work, do it right away. Sign up both where you work and where you live. You've been listening to the third in a series of programs called Plan for Survival brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer more questions you listeners have sent us, specifically those about your personal survival. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. We know many of you have been wondering about the whole civil defense picture, what you can do, what would happen if your community were attacked, what plans have been made to move you to a safe place, and so on. Send us your questions and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. The only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at this same time next week when we'll discuss personal survival, at which time our guest will be Joseph E. Cates, Assistant Director of New York State Civil Defense Commission. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. You are...