Ladies and gentlemen, this is Lauren Bacall. I have an important message for you about the American Red Cross. Many of us just take the Red Cross for granted. We fail to realize how much it can mean to us. Take disasters, for instance. Fire, flood, storm, and epidemic. No individual, no family, no community is immune. But the Red Cross is organized and ready whenever and wherever disaster descends. Ready with food, clothing, shelter, and nursing care. With supplementary medical aid and funds for rebuilding of homes and replacement of furnishings. These are but a few examples of Red Cross disaster services. But it takes money, lots of it, to do a thorough and efficient job for humanity. This year, greater sums are required to do an equal job. So give generously to the Red Cross 1948 fund campaign. This is Jimmy Stewart. I'm not an accountant, but I know that 18 million is a pretty large number, especially when that number refers to veterans. The Red Cross points out that the nation now has 18 million war veterans, who with their families comprise 32% of our population. That means the Red Cross has a big job to do in providing services to veterans. For instance, there are the many services provided in Veterans Administration hospitals, supplementing the fine work of the doctors and nurses. Also claims services, expert help in securing government benefits, home service, counseling assistance with personal problems, and financial aid. The Red Cross must have ample funds to continue these services for veterans and their families. Your support is necessary. So give generously to the Red Cross 1948 fund campaign. Friends, this is Edward G. Robinson. Do you believe in miracles? Well, here's one I know you'll recognize. A miracle of blood. You heard about it during the war. Men saved from certain death by battlefield transfusions. A life-saving surgery this permitted. The otherwise impossible cures affected by blood in its many forms. Now, in peace, we all know what a blessing blood can be to humanity. And accidents and operations to prevent total shock. And treatment of severe burns and fighting disease as a surgical aid in delicate nerve and brain operations. Blood may be needed to save your life or that of a relative or friend. The new Red Cross national program is on its way. Ultimately, it will bring blood and its priceless derivatives to the entire population without cost for the product. Yes, the program is on its way. It will grow. But your help is needed. Give now to the Red Cross 1948 fund campaign. Friends, this is Humphrey Bogart. May I say a word or two about being a good neighbor? Being a good neighbor means being helpful and considerate of the other fellow. It means lending a hand to those in distress or a word of cheer to the sick or injured. It's because of such deeds done every day by your Red Cross that makes it the good neighbor to all. In times of disaster, the Red Cross is there acting as the good neighbor, providing relief and rehabilitation. Last year, your Red Cross was on the scene of 312 domestic disaster operations. Its neighborly rehabilitation work included rebuilding and repairing homes, providing furniture, household goods, and long-term nursing and medical care. So be a good neighbor. Help keep the Red Cross at full strength by giving now to its 1948 fund campaign. Be a good neighbor. Support your Red Cross. That's a good slogan, isn't it? But it's more than just a slogan, friends. This is Dorothy L'Amour. And here are the facts to show that you are doing the friendly, neighborly thing when you support your Red Cross. You know the Red Cross is founded on assistance to others, and among its most necessary activities are these services to veterans and their families. Guidance and counsel in personal and family matters, assistance in securing government benefits, financial help on the basis of need, cheer and entertainment for men in veterans' hospitals. These are the acts of a good neighbor, deeds of comfort and assistance. You help provide when you give to your Red Cross. That's why I say again, be a good neighbor. Support your Red Cross. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Amos. And this is Andy. You have probably heard about the new national blood program of the American Red Cross, but do you know how much this great humanitarian project can mean to you, a relative or a friend? The Red Cross plans to make available to the entire population the blessings of blood and its derivatives without charge for the product. The life-saving benefits of whole blood and some of its products can prevent fatal shock in accidents and operations. The national blood program will grow with your help and eventually, over a period of years, reach every community. So give to the Red Cross to help build this wonderful service to humanity. Remember, in doing so, your dollars mean mercy, health, life itself. This is Eddie Cantor. I want to tell you about a good investment, the best investment you can make, human kindness. You share in this investment when you contribute to the 1948 fund campaign of the American Red Cross. Consider the Red Cross role in disaster relief. No matter where or when disaster strikes, your Red Cross is there. You remember the explosions at Texas City, the fires in Maine, or the Florida and Gulf hurricanes, to name a few, of last year's calamities. Relief provided victims of these disasters included nursing care, supplementary medical aid, shelters, food, clothing, rebuilding and repairs based on actual needs. Yes, the Red Cross invests your contributions in service to others. Help continue these investments in human kindness. Give now. It's your Red Cross. Keep it going. Hello, everyone. This is Herbert Marshall speaking. I'd like you to consider the needs of many of our veterans and how you can help them. These men, thousands of whom still lie in hospitals, are looking to you for assistance. Through your Red Cross, you can ease their way by providing recreation and relief from family problems and anxieties. To other veterans and their families, you can lend assistance in securing government benefits, job guidance and home service. During the past year, over 2 million veteran cases were handled by the Red Cross, with financial aid based on need amounted to nearly $6.5 million. These are graphic examples of the big job ahead in 1948. Remember, greater sums are required to do an equal job. So give generously to the Red Cross 1948 fund campaign. This is Ron O'Connor, ladies and gentlemen, saying it's Red Cross time. Time to give for service to others. There's a big job ahead in disaster relief, service to veterans, and the new National Blood Program now on its way. It's your Red Cross. Keep it going. Give generously to the 1948 fund campaign. This is Howard Petrie, ladies and gentlemen, saying be a good neighbor. Support your Red Cross. Its 1948 fund campaign is now underway. The Red Cross is your good neighbor, and when you support it, you help build a stronger America by aiding the needy and distressed. Remember, it's Red Cross time. Give today. Give today. Give today. Give today. Give today. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Art Linkletter saying, when you support your Red Cross, you have a personal part in bringing mercy and relief to disaster victims. You provide services to veterans and their families. Remember, in everything it does, the Red Cross depends on you. This is Bud Heaston speaking. Relief for disaster victims, assistance to veterans and their families, life-saving blood and its products for the sick and injured to be supplied through the National Blood Program. These are things the Red Cross can provide in your name through your contributions. Give today to the 1948 fund campaign. Your local Red Cross chapter of the American Red Cross presents a special transcribed program starring Ella Raines as Mary Atkins, Red Cross field director in an army hospital. One of the nicest things about being a Red Cross field director in an army hospital are the letters you receive from time to time from the men who have gone home to join the ranks of veterans. I remember one letter from a chap named Johnny Ryan. It began... Dear Miss Atkins, it's a long time, I know, since I left the hospital, but I've never forgotten how you helped me. There's probably been so many fellows moving through the hospital in these last couple of years that perhaps you don't remember Johnny Ryan. Yes, I remember Johnny Ryan. Mostly because he was so fun-loving and eager to be at home with his wife and baby. He had been at the hospital for over a year, surgery and special treatment for his eyes. I'd helped in arranging to have his wife and child come to be near him. Yes, I remember Johnny. And I remember that night he came into the office. A tenseness told me that the reality for which the doctor, his wife, and I had been trying to prepare him was here. He sat down near my desk and said quietly, They're giving me my discharge. Are you ready? It means they can't do anything else for me here. I'm going blind. I could see the future reaching out in his mind. The problems piling up one on top of the other. What does it mean? A week? A month? A year? I have a wife and baby to think of. Suppose I go blind before I reach home. Suppose it's even tonight. I'm sure the doctor would have told you. I can't take a chance, Miss Atkins. I have to get Joan and the baby back home as soon as possible. I have to get things straightened out. I have to do something now. I could see how deeply he was affected. It would be cruel to make him go through the night without some reassurance that there was help at hand. I said, All right, Johnny. Let's get some of those things straightened out right now. Fortunately, I was able to answer most of the questions. Some, however, I had to have more information to answer. But I assured Johnny that they would be ready the next day and asked, Would you like me to put them in a letter for you? Yes, please, a letter. I don't want to forget. I can't forget anything. I have to know what to do in case. Yes, I remember Johnny. And I had often wondered if I had helped him as I had hoped. To feel a little more sure that he would not be quite alone in his difficulty. And I was never sure, of course, until I received that letter in which he wrote it. All you did for me during that year in the hospital, your interest and assistance, your answers for all my questions, your encouragement, giving so simply, gave me a reassurance nothing else could have. And the fact that my local Red Cross chapter was familiar with my difficulties, threw a letter from you, and have advised and helped me on so many occasions. I don't think anything has meant more than planning for the future, that the Red Cross would see me through. Friends, this is Ella Raines. Today, this nation has more than 18 million war veterans. Day by day, the varied services of the Red Cross are extended to those requesting help with their personal and family problems, in giving emergency financial aid, in helping prepare and present claims for government benefits, in assisting with welfare and rehabilitation for the hospitalized. The Red Cross asks your help that those services may be continued in your name. This is your chance to serve those who served you. Give to the 1948 Red Cross Fund Campaign. This special transcribed program featuring Ella Raines was presented by your local chapter of the American Red Cross. Red Cross presents a special transcribed program starring William Bendix as Marty Backus. My name is Marty Backus. I'm a bachelor, 35 years old, and a guy who always figured himself a pretty smart apple. A guy who knew all the angles, and a guy who could take care of himself. I didn't go for this good neighbor business because the way I got it when anybody gives with the help and hand is always a catch to it. Anyway, I'd never seen any different. So that's the way it was with me when a tornado comes along one afternoon and slaps my house down around my ears. Wasn't much of a house, just a little place on the edge of town. I was managing to make payments on without much balance in the bank. But I got it without any help from anybody because, like I said, I could take care of myself. But then that tornado comes along, roaring in like an express train going through a whistle stop, and knocks me and my house into the middle of next week. When I come to, there's a guy pulling me out from under what's left of the house. In a little while, he gets me out and without giving me a chance to say anything, goes to work fixing up a gash on my head. I'm okay, I can take care of myself, I says. But he says, you've been lucky. But you better come down to the first aid station and have the doc look you over. Besides, you'll have to have something to eat and a place to sleep. I'm figuring, if the rest of the town looks like this, where the heck am I going to eat and sleep? But he tells me they'll fix me up at the Red Cross canteen and shelter. Let's go, he says. I got a lot of work to do. And in no time, we're in a car and headed for town. Well, this looks an awful lot like the good neighbor business. And I'm getting suspicious because, like I said, I figure when anybody gives with the helping hand, there's a catch to it. But he don't make no pitch. And in no time, we're in the center of town. He drops me off at a Red Cross aid station. A doc checks me over. Then another Red Cross worker lines me up with a canteen where they really give out with the chow. Then another checks me in at a shelter where they set me up for a bed and some clothes for as long as I need them. So I decide I'll go out and look around. What the tornado did to that town wasn't pretty. But in spite of the mess, it looked like the Red Cross, together with everybody who could help, was whipping things into shape. Doctors, nurses, rescue and fire crews, police, drivers, everybody, working like teams, getting help, medicine, food, clothing, beds, blankets, everything, where it was needed, when it was needed, to whoever needed it. And nobody was asking, did you give to the Red Cross or did you ever do anything for me? Well, I'm still feeling a little groggy from getting knocked around, so I go back and flop on the bed in the shelter. My head was hurting, but a couple of thoughts managed to push through. Marty, I says to myself, Marty, you ain't been such a smart apple after all. Maybe you can take care of yourself, but there are sure times when you need a lift from somebody else. And Marty, I says, Marty, remember one thing. When somebody gives with the helping hand, there ain't no catch to it. Ladies and gentlemen, when disaster strikes, perhaps you wonder how the Red Cross gets there so quickly. The point is, it doesn't have to get there. It is there. Yes, when disaster strikes, the Red Cross is on the spot, ready to provide doctors, nurses, and other workers food, clothing, shelter, and medical supplies to those affected. And the Red Cross is there, giving this assistance in your name, because you are the Red Cross. Keep the Red Cross where it is needed, doing what is to be done. Give to the 1948 Fund. Your local Red Cross chapter of the American Red Cross has presented a special transcribed program starring William Bendix. This has been a public interest of this station. Your local Red Cross chapter of the American Red Cross presents a special transcribed program starring Robert Montgomery as Dr. John Lane. The scene is an average American town. Dr. John Lane, ex-army doctor, now associated with the local community hospital, has just returned to his home following an emergency call. He is settling in his favorite chair by the fire as his wife sets a cup of hot tea on the table by his side. I thought you might like a hot drink, John. It's so cold tonight. Thank you, Deb. How did it go? We made it. Yes, I was listening to the radio. I heard the request for blood donors. I wondered. Yes, so did I. But they found someone in time. Yes, in time. Oh, I'm glad. It's too bad. Why, John. I mean it's too bad it has to be done that way. But he was saved. The blood arrived in time. Yes, I know. But in time can mean almost too late. And that's no good when a man's life is at stake. Or if it were just this once you could say it's one of those things. But it happens so often. Time after time there are emergency calls. Too often we must wait and wonder if the blood will arrive in time. Doctors shouldn't have to wait when blood is needed. But aren't there supplies of blood in the hospitals and in the communities? We have a blood bank, yes. But not adequately supplied, I'm afraid. As for the rest, well do you know that only 35% of the hospitals in the country have private blood banks and many of them like us aren't able to supply all the needs of the hospitals. But John, I know great amounts of blood and blood plasma were necessary during the war. But why is there such a great demand now? As long as there is accident, injury and disease there will be a need for the life-saving and healing qualities of blood. Blood to be used in shock or hemorrhage from accident, in surgery and certain diseases. And the need doesn't stop with whole blood. Products made from blood have an important therapeutic value in brain and nerve operations, in treatment of kidney diseases, certain anemic conditions, measles prevention, and the healing of certain wounds as well as in the treatment of those known as bleeders. These are only some of the life-saving and healing qualities of blood that we know. I saw what blood and blood plasma did during the war for our sick and wounded. The Surgeons General of the Army and Navy themselves have stated that together whole blood and blood plasma ranked as the foremost lifesaver of the war injured. Why shouldn't they hold the same place in peacetime? We have the knowledge, but to use this knowledge we need blood. I'm sorry, dear. Well, I guess I feel pretty deeply on the subject and once I get started... Oh, I understand how important it must be to you, dear. But it should be important to everyone because it is something which concerns every man, woman, and child. If they are to have the benefits of the wonders of blood, then something must be done to make blood available to everyone, everywhere. Blood that will be ready and waiting for immediate use whenever it is needed. That is the only way. But the question still remains, will something be done? Or will we go on as we are, with inadequate supplies of blood and its products, forced to stand by and watch suffering, not knowing if we will be able to afford relief, forced to withhold saving surgery for precious minutes that may mean life or death, forced to depend on frantic emergency calls as we wait and wonder, will the blood reach us in time? Ladies and gentlemen, this is Robert Montgomery. The question asked by Dr. Lane in our brief sketch is a question asked by many doctors and patients throughout the country. And there is an answer that lies in the plans of the American Red Cross for its new national blood program. Dedicated to saving lives and preventing human suffering, this program, now on its way, is designed to make whole blood and ultimately its derivatives available without cost for the products to the nation's entire population. This tremendous project will take from three to five years to become completely established throughout the country. But it must have your continuing support and cooperation if it is to realize this goal. You can help bring about this realization by contributing now to the Red Cross 1948 Fund. This special transcribed program was a presentation of your local chapter of the American Red Cross. It was a public interest feature of this station. Thank you.