If the fire department had to contend with only the extinguishment of fires of accidental origin, that in itself would be a full-time job for the New York City firefighters. But this condition is aggravated considerably by the number of set fires, which are the most difficult to extinguish because of the highly inflammable materials used in starting these incendiary fires. These willfully set fires are the work of arsonists or firebugs, and this type of fire presents the greatest potential hazard to life and property. In a modern fire department, extinguishing fires is only one of its tasks. Our department is as modern as science and human ingenuity can make it, and in 1949 our firefighters for the second successive year confined 99 and 9 tenth percent of all fires to the area involved upon arrival, thus reducing casualties to a minimum as well as keeping the property loss to an almost irreducible low. The principal task of the Bureau of Fire Investigation, which is composed of fire marshals, is a suppression of arson. Arson is one of the oldest rackets in the world. It's a contributing factor to our fire loss and has brought death and injury to innocent persons. The incendiary fire of today is quite different from those of years ago. Like other criminals, the firebugs methods have advanced with the times. His schemes and contrivances and the fiendishness of his operations are sometimes exceedingly ingenious, particularly in the arrangement of time plants so that he may make his getaway before the discovery of the fire and thus attempt to establish an alibi. It would be very interesting to you if I describe some of the methods employed in setting fires, but our fire department has always made it a practice not to disclose this information because it's against the public interest. For you never can tell when some weak-minded person might decide to try out one of these methods and the result might be disastrous. Fire marshals conduct highly specialized investigations of fires of suspicious or incendiary origin and gather the evidence needed to prosecute the guilty. Fire marshals are on duty around the clock and respond to all multiple fire alarms, suspicious fires, and fires where a loss of life has occurred. They made 20,500 investigations in 1949. 106 persons were arrested for arson and 77 were convicted and sentenced, including 34 juvenile delinquents. 20 of the persons arrested in 1949 are awaiting trial. Never during the past 20 years has the fire marshal's office been more successful in the suppression of arson than during 1949. For in that year, five persons who committed murder in the first degree, murder by arson, in which seven lives were lost and 12 persons severely injured, were quickly apprehended by the fire marshals, and in each instance a confession obtained. Two of the murder by arson prisoners set incendiary fires to conceal murderous attacks upon their victims. One of the accused was sentenced to from 20 years to life. The other was a judged insane and committed to Matawan State Hospital. A third, motivated by revenge, started a fire where one man was burned to death, another severely injured, and 18 horses destroyed by the flames. He pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the first degree and was sentenced to sing sing from seven one half to 15 years. The fourth case resulted in the death of two persons and injury to eight. The prisoner pleaded guilty to second degree manslaughter and was sentenced to from five to 20 years. The fifth of these crimes was committed by a man who was a judge criminally insane and committed to Matawan State Hospital. The fire he set killed two persons and injured two others. The motives inspiring the fire bug are many, but the chief ones are avarice and hatred. Then there is the pyromaniac. He sets fires without a motive. He is often a madman. He is a potential killer and sometimes kills, although murder is not his primary purpose. He usually sets fires late at night in places where they are the most difficult to extinguish and where the fires can do the most damage. He has an insane urge to see flames and hear the fire engines. To find the fire bug requires hard work backed by extensive experience and I am happy to report to you that we usually get them. Indicative of the work of the fire marshals is the fact that in the early part of 1949 we gave a refresher course to the fire marshals primarily to acquaint them with the new techniques of investigation together with the legal and technical procedures in arson cases and information on economic trends in business and industry. The people of the city of New York may rest assured that their fire department will continue its valiant, ceaseless and successful efforts to safeguard life and property so that our metropolis will ever be a safe place in which to live and work.