Thank you. Mr. Polk. Jampanen. Janssen. The winners, reverend and distinguished friends who have come here to the ceremony at City Hall. I bid you all a hearty welcome here. And now, children, since you thought you were only 50 when you came in, but you see, Gene Pope has given me a scholarship too. So 51 today. It's nice to look at you, all of you, and see you so happy and so gay and so full of hope in the future. I like to think that Gene Pope was inspired when he said to you that, the opportunities that you're going to have as you grow up, in our nation and throughout the world, are greater, more numerous, than they have been at any time in the history of the country. When you stop to figure the things that have happened in the 40 years that have gone by, factually, since 1910. When you think of what happened to peoples in every part of the world, those who were then young, and who are today, about age, and who are now in the world, are more clear, more numerous, than they have been at any time in the history of the country. When you think of what happened to people in the history of people, or are more likely to think of what happened to people in every part of the world, those who were then young, and who are today, about age. When you think of what happened to peoples in every part of the world, those who were then young and who are today of our age group, we who have been spared to see them, have had many a shudder from what happened to the peoples of the world in that 40 years. Up to and including what you yourselves have seen during the last war and the conditions that led up to it. There is a hope for you now that we have a United Nations. Young and weak though it may be at the present, it still is an institution that has the good will of all the peoples of the world in it. Even though it doesn't always come up with the answer overnight, it still is an institution that has one main objective. That the wars, the struggles, the destructions, the injustices, the starvation and the lack of hope when the war is over, can all be eliminated when this institution lands on its feet and develops its manly strength. And it's my hope that you, growing into young womanhood and manhood, you as you progress down through your lives, and may God grant you to be full measure, that you and the children who follow you, and those who follow them down through the corridors to the furthest point in time that we can dream about, that you and the world, thanks to this institution of the United Nations, will give us a world that will never again see anyone of you, or those who follow you in uniform will never see you in a war again. That the efforts of the world will be turned towards, not destruction, but constriction. That it will be a better world that you're coming into. That it will never be turned towards, not just one part of the world, but all of us, every inch of it, every corner where there is a man or a woman, or a boy or a girl, the whole world. You have come here today to receive scholarship for war. So first, let's find out what the inception of that was, just to show you how really, truly good the world is becoming all the time. Generoso quote, the El Progresso, the group of Italian ladies and gentlemen who gathered together and planned to celebrate a day that's not only sacred to them, but historically sacred to every person who's fond of our country. Columbus Day. Columbus Day. Columbus Day. And not satisfied with a normal, average celebration that would come and go on one day, desiring that just as Columbus planted his feet on this continent, and those who followed him built it and kept on building it, that a Columbus Day would, in its justices, would, in itself, reach another frontier, would again, begin a growth that would keep on growing, and looking around to find how best to do that. In their wisdom, but in their wisdom, but in their love and their generosity and their patriotism, too, they decided to connect the celebration of Columbus Day with exactly what is happening here, with the getting of scholarships for worthy youngsters in our schools, who might have to terminate their education too soon, in order to give them an opportunity to progress with their education. And to finish it, and to finish it, and to become greater because of that increased education and family. But that would be one way that would prolong the celebration down through the years, as long as the winners of those contests live. And who knows, are killed at this time from any one of the celebrations of Columbus Day, who can tell by providing additional education to the extra bright and extra-industrial children of great characters such as you can see. And those who have pursued you and those who follow you. Hope can tell what outstanding contributions one of you or all of you may make, so that long after we have passed from this earth, that contribution that will be made as a result of their time, will make this world the kind of a world that we've dreamed of. A kind of a world, a kind of a world, a helpful world, one that will brave every human being, every one of God's children, no matter where they are or who they are, to the dignity that is intended by the creator of the people. You, of your own right, will join with me today and tomorrow, thanking Dean Pope and his committee for this great contribution of taking it. Thank you, this recognition of the universal rights of every citizen, no matter what their background, no matter what manner in which they adore us today. You will join with me today and what they will join with me today and what I need to continue to do while they have the hands of the plow. And you, yourselves, you, you, you were worthy, on your own right, born out of your own neutral energy, born out of the use of that brilliance which the kindly creator gave to each one of you. You, with your industry and your character, and your stick to it in, you come today, on your own right, to receive not only an honor, to receive not only a gift, what to accept, what goes with that gift. You, with your own right, to receive not only an obligation, but you, with your own right, to receive not only a gift, but you will take your place in the normal leadership that your talents now firmly proven, that your talents call for. In my leadership, there will have to be first and firmly implanted, this great basic concept, the concept of our democracy, the concept of what that means as against, one against the other, the respect that every one of us owes to our neighbor. To not only that, things, loyalty, and justice, that we must show when the opportunity comes and this will not be done overnight and those of us who have achieved now, thanks to God, many, many years of living, we know that these things are not accomplished by just sitting down and looking at them. the conflict of children with struggles and worth. There will come times when you'll have disappointments, and you'll be called upon to bring from within you the courage to keep on fighting even when you think it's lost. And there's just that thing that will make you the leaders that we know you can be if you follow the truth. Once upon a time, somewhere in my indiscriminate reading, I read a story of a traveler in the mountains of Italy. And there was a fast-running stream, and there were logs on that stream, many, many logs. And there was a man at the edge, the water's edge, with a long hook, a log hook. And every now and then, as the logs went down, he picked one and hauled in to the shore. Not many, once in a while. The traveler said, Senor, why is it that you allow all the logs to float down with the stream, but every now and then you choose one log? And he replied, Sir, all of these logs that you see go down to the shore, and they're cut up for firewoods, for cheap work, for average work. But every now and then, there was a log that grew on the very top of the mountain. The frost hit it. The winds from the four corners hit it when it was tiny, little time. It grew up against all the forces of nature that were lined up against it. It grew to full maturity. And that's log. That's the stream. The cause of its struggle is made of a fine plate of wood. And we fade that so that the great artists can passion it into masterpiece. It is from that kind of wood that the art can live. You, change it. Thank you. Amen. We left the nineties in the Najee. Thank you very much. Thank you.