We present the UN album, a program of news, views and interviews compiled and edited by United Nations Radio. In this edition of the album, you'll hear from a young lady from the Philippines telling about her job at the United Nations. Mr. Per Featherspiel, Danish Member of Parliament and formerly a UN delegate, records a special message for the United Nations on its fourth birthday. And Mr. David Owen, Assistant Secretary General for Economic Affairs, speaks about the UN's great plan for help to the backward countries of the world. Now, here's Lyoff Stanley. Well, I'm not going to start the program with a record from the album today, as I have sitting opposite me a very charming young lady. Her name is Claudia Cruz, and her home is in the Philippines. Miss Cruz is just back from her native land after a spell of home leave. I asked her to drop in and tell you something about herself and what she does. Claudia, will you tell our listeners exactly what you do here? Well, I broadcast the news of the United Nations in Tagalog. Do you know Tagalog, the official language of the Philippines, the national language? I certainly do. Well, now, it must have been rather interesting when you got home, meeting all the people who listened to you. And you tell me just before we went on the air that the schoolchildren took a special interest in your newscast. Oh, yes. I got as big a kick out of that as you, remember? Yes, I do. When I paid the radio station which broadcasts our news a visit after a few days in Manila, I had the most interesting talk with the manager, Mr. Francisco Trinidad. I was telling him how pleased I was to know really how well-known our newscast has become. How once, when I was interviewed on the air in another station, where there were some 50 or more students at the time on a sightseeing tour, there was only the usual curious stare at a new face when they saw me. But as soon as the introduction, the newscaster in Tagalog from the United Nations came from the interviewer, there was a distinct and very gratifying murmur of recognition. Oh, how nice. And do you know what Mr. Trinidad said? No, I have no idea. Tell us. He said, do you know that at 3.30 sharp, every afternoon, from Monday to Friday, every school child, even in the provinces, listens to you? You are current events, he said. I could only gape with surprise. Of course, I was delighted to hear it, and right there and then I resolved that it would be the first thing I was going to tell you. After all, you shared the newscast with me. You do the English five minutes before my Tagalog ten. Well, it's very nice of you, Claudia, but it's after all you that do the newscast in Tagalog. Oh, well. Now, perhaps you can think of some other anecdote or little story that happened when you were on leave in the Philippines. Well, yes, only I do not know whether I should talk about it on the air, the one I have in mind, I mean. Well, now, why shouldn't you talk about it on the air? Let's hear it anyway. Well, you see, it's connected with mahjong, of all things. Mahjong? Once I was invited to lunch by a well-known doctor's wife. It was a hen party. A hen party? What on earth is a hen party? Oh, we were all women. Oh, well, I never even heard of one. Let's hear the story. Well, after lunch, we were to play mahjong. There were eight of us with our hostess. There were a couple of congressmen's wives, the wife of a businessman, and just plain wives, I suppose. Uh-huh. And I. Someone played soft music when we were starting to play. Then at 3.30 sharp, someone turned the radio loud enough so everybody could hear. What were they playing? And what do you mean, what were they playing? There you were, unmistakably you. What, me? Starting UN news. I smilingly asked if that was just to please me. And I was told, most certainly not, that the United Nations news happens to be interesting to them. One of the women playing with me explained further. It seemed that it all started when the tension over the Berlin blockade was at its height. They were all so anxious about the world situation. And the only means of getting direct news, aside from the papers explained, was our newscast. In fact, we even found it better, she said, because it stuck to official news. It allayed so many of the fears the news items unnecessarily create. And listening to the 3.30 UN newscast, our newscast, has been a habit ever since then. Well, thank you very much, Corina. Perhaps you'll just tell our listeners how you do start off this newscast in Tagalog. Oh, you do that, Lyle. You say it much better. Now, I think you just want to make fun of me. Oh, no. You sound very much cuter. Go ahead. Well, will you do it if I do? Mm-hmm. Ito ang mga bansang makakaanib. Na tumatawag sa lahat ng tao sa daigdig mula dito sa Lake Success sa Nueva York. Well, thank you very much, Claudia Cruz. Well, now, as you probably know, the United Nations recently celebrated its fourth birthday. And on this day, messages poured into our headquarters from all parts of the globe. I've got one of these messages in our album today, which I'd like you to hear. It was recorded in Denmark by Mr. Per Federspiel, a former Danish delegate to the United Nations. Mr. Federspiel, who is a member of the Danish parliament, talks about the small nations in the United Nations. The small nations greet their union on its fifth anniversary. Their faith in the United Nations should be unshaken. They may suffer disappointments. They may see their hopes frustrated. But if they lose faith in the power of international cooperation, based on tolerance and goodwill among all peoples, then they lose faith also in themselves. The decisions which sway the destinies of the world may be taken elsewhere. The United Nations organization may find itself faced with irreparable facts. In the councils of the great nations is vested a power which may be used for good or for evil. Whatever the great powers do, their policies are now, in the assembly of the United Nations, and in all its agencies and committees, open to the scrutiny, the comment and the criticism of all. An international democracy is not built up in one day, any more than you can create a parliamentary procedure and tradition overnight. Traditions and usages are built up slowly under the pressure of circumstance and expediency. The traditions of the United Nations are now beginning to take shape. Some of them are good, others are bad, as in all human affairs. Among the good traditions is the practice of calling in advisors and administrators from small nations to deal with problems of international concern, affecting also the interests of the great and powerful nations, and to abide by the authority of those thus appointed by the United Nations. The procedure in all such cases has not always been perfect. The experiences from the important problem of partitioning Palestine show that an original procedure, recommended by the constitutionally required majority, could not be executed and had to be amended by a series of improvisations. But the United Nations stood up to their responsibility, as well as circumstances permitted, and never lost their grip on the situation. The organisation had to suffer humiliation and open defiance. Patiently it stuck to its purpose, and achieved at least one of its aims, and in the light of the Charter, the most important, that of preventing open warfare. Now, this is one of many examples, which should guide the small nations in their policy within the United Nations. Whatever difficulties may beset them, whatever frustrations they may meet with, they have one powerful weapon, the weapon of free speech, and the power of voting in accordance with their conscience. There has been, there is no need to deny it, a deplorable tendency to belittle the strength of the United Nations. The mentality of the spoiled child, if you can't have it your own way, you just run away. But where do you run? The statesmanship of today requires a determined insistence on strengthening the hand of the United Nations organisation, weak though it may still be, to overcome the difficulties, and build up also in the international field, the democratic way of life, which has brought strength and prosperity to so many people. These national democracies have been built up slowly, through many setbacks, by the will of the peoples to be masters of their own destiny. Why should not this task be achieved in the greater field of universal human affairs? Today, the gigantic skeleton of the United Nations building is towering over the rock of Manhattan. See to it, you statesmen of all nations, and especially of the small nations. Your job is to build. That was the birthday message sent to the United Nations by Mr. Per Federspiel, member of the Danish parliament and former Danish delegate to the United Nations. And for our last record in the album, we return to the United States. A short while ago, a large number of people gathered together in New York's huge Waldorf Astoria Hotel. The occasion, the closing session of the annual forum of the New York Herald Tribune, and among the many distinguished speakers was Mr. David Owen, Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations in charge of economic affairs. Mr. Owen is an authority on a subject which has captured wide public attention, technical aid to the underdeveloped countries of the world. And he's a senior official of the United Nations concerned with its organisation. David Owen was a member of the British delegation to the San Francisco Conference when the charter was signed. Now here's part of Mr. Owen's speech recorded at the Waldorf Astoria. No one doubts today that the coexistence in the modern world of nations at widely differing levels of economic development is a serious danger to an enduring peace. What is not generally realised is how widely different these levels actually are. It is estimated that the average income per head in the United States of America in 1947 was over $1,400. And in another 14 countries it ranged between $400 and $900. But in 25 other countries again, comprising much more than half the world's population, average income was less, often very much less, than $100 a year. Such differences are morally intolerable in a democratic era. And the fear, the envy, the subservience, the exploitation, and the hypersensitive nationalism which they engender are scarcely conducive to the establishment of a peaceful world order. What are the underlying factors which give rise to these violent contrasts in living standards between peoples? They are certainly not due to any innate difference in native wit or intelligence, nor can they be ascribed in all cases to differences in the distribution of natural resources. The key to our problem lies surely in the means whereby men seek to master the forces of nature and harness them for their own ends. We live in an industrial age, an age in which, by dint of unparalleled technological achievement, men have compelled the machine to lighten the burden of living. The Chinese farmer, with the strength of his body and the primitive implements of his forefathers, toils to scratch a bare living from the soil of his country. In this country, and in Europe, the tractor ploughs out the land with untiring power and sets men free for productive labour in factories and workshops. In Paris, this time last year, the General Assembly of the United Nations appropriated nearly $300,000, a modest but nonetheless important sum, for the first year of a new technical assistance programme. We have used these funds to organise expert missions to advise member governments on their economic development programmes. We have granted over 60 fellowships for advanced technical training abroad to technicians drawn from over 25 countries. And we are also promoting the training of local technicians within the underdeveloped countries themselves, with the help of visiting experts from abroad and the organisation of technical training institutions. In short, we have already established in the United Nations a focal point to which underdeveloped countries know they can turn for various kinds of technical assistance in connection to their plans of development. At a time when the cold wind of the economy is blowing keenly about the world, it is an attractive feature of the United Nations programme of technical assistance that it does not pour for the expenditure of vast sums each year. It is a programme which will produce constructive results out of all proportion to a relatively small annual outlay. But far-reaching changes in social thinking, in social habits, in social institutions will also be called for in many countries if the programme is to succeed. Obsolete systems of land tenure, oppressive landlordism, gross inequalities of wealth, inefficient and sometimes corrupt financial and administrative arrangements all stand in the way of economic development and improved social welfare. It is the merit of the great programme which has now been endorsed by the General Assembly that it gives new hope to progressive elements throughout the world that long-overdue social changes and technical advances may be achieved without the grim midwifery of destructive revolution. It promises to be one of the greatest adventures of our time. Those were the closing words of the speech given by Mr. David Owen, Assistant Secretary General for Economic Affairs at a forum sponsored by the New York Federal Tribune. And so, once again, it's time to put the album back on the shelf. I'll be with you again next week to turn over the pages of your UN album. The UN album is edited and produced by United Nations Radio. The UN телeng bird who's truly esempio in by the New York and Australiancape and тебя has Cont distraction of our own and abbiamo is executed as you as you have worked Even if you able to get your↓ You