Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman, Johnson E. Fairchild, welcoming you to the Cooper Union Forum Program. This evening, in our Psychology of Emotional Growth series, we have progressed to a state where we feel, we think, that we are able to discuss the adaptive problems of adolescence. We have been brought up slowly from prenatal problems through infancy and several others to this point. And our speaker this evening, Dr. Nathan W. Ackerman, is going to discuss for us the adaptive problems of adolescence. Dr. Ackerman, a Romanian-born American citizen, a physician, a psychiatrist. Dr. Ackerman, a psychiatrist. Well, I made a list of good doctor's things. I will show it to our audience in the Great Hall. It's a whole, for the radio audience, it's a whole page. You can't see it, but believe me, it's a whole page of honors the doctor has. Director, Council Child Development Center, Associate Psychoanalyst, Psychoanalytic Clinic for Training and Research, Associate in Psychiatry, Department of Psychiatry, Columbia University. And it goes on through other equally worthy and important organizations. I have made an agreement with the good doctor who stated that I could just settle for the first three on the list. So it's a pleasure for me to present Dr. Nathan W. Ackerman. Dr. Ackerman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I might say first to Professor Fairchild that a short man needs a long introduction. That's immediately pertinent to some of the behavior of adolescents. The more inferior they feel, the bigger they want to be. Tonight in this lecture series, when we talk of the adaptive problems of the adolescent personality, we make the big plunge. Now, I'm going to tell you something about the social and psychological struggles of the adolescent as I see them, stressing particularly the meaning of certain kinds of behavior. But bear in mind that the behavior of adolescent persons has always fascinated students of human nature, always will. There are, just as we all of us think we know something about human nature and psychology, because we all have a mind and operate with it and observe inwardly, try to at any rate, what goes on. That's really the basis on which we all of us feel that we understand something about psychology, because we're constantly observing our inner selves. So in the same sense, everybody thinks they know something about adolescence. Everybody's had an adolescence. And no doubt, up to a point, that's true. Beyond that point, however, there are still mysteries about the behavior of adolescents, which remain, to date, unsolved. The kind of behavior that characterizes the adolescent personality is really a natural laboratory in the study of human nature. Let me say first that the behavior of adolescents, as you all know, is characterized by instability, by rapid, often unpredictable changes, subtle nuances. And one day we may feel that we understand perfectly what's motivating the adolescent in this or that act, and the next day feel utterly baffled. We simply cannot make out why the child, boy or girl, is behaving in that particular way. Now, uh... This particular characteristic of adolescent behavior, its instability, its changeableness, tends to make parents, particularly, often misunderstand the adolescent. It's terribly important for parents, for teachers, for doctors, too, to understand adolescents, because if they're misunderstood, if they're alternately disciplined one day and indulged the next, there can be considerable harm from that kind of inconsistent handling of adolescent behavior, changeable as it is, particularly by parents. So it's awfully important to understand as much as one possibly can about this, uh... um... unpredictable element in adolescent behavior. Now, it so happens that, uh... in psychiatric practice, if one specializes in children, adolescents, one has occasion often to, uh... uh... meet parents in the office who... come because suddenly... suddenly... new kinds of behavior have popped out in their child... their worry. Now, sometimes that new kind of behavior... does really represent... a beginning symptom of a serious disturbance which requires the attention of the psychiatrist. sometimes the parent imagines the worst. Either the child is turning criminal, going out with bad boys, has become involved with the gang, and is going to get involved in antisocial and delinquent behavior of a serious nature, or the adolescent is alarmed, lest this strange, un-understood behavior be a preliminary expression of some serious mental illness. Now, what happens is that in some of those instances, the worry of the parent is warranted. In other instances, it is not at all justified that the adolescent is undergoing normal change for that age period. And, uh... in other instances, one gets the opposite. The parent will come in and... perhaps with considerable... resentment, perhaps with a grudge against the teacher or doctor who made the referral to the psychiatrist. Perhaps they come under protest, insisting that, uh... the behavior that's present, peculiar as it may be, is only what everyone regards as the normal shift in equilibrium of the personnel in adolescence, and therefore there's no reason whatsoever to be burdened with a visit to a psychiatrist's office. Now, in my experience, such mistakes are often made, not only by parents, but by teachers as well. Almost in no other period in life are there so many mistakes made in judging the meaning of the behavior. There's a good reason for that. Namely, that the, uh... the, uh... changeable behavior of the adolescent can intermingle and interact with pre-existing personality weaknesses, with pre-existing symptoms of emotional disturbance and social maladjustment, the changes that are inherent in the adolescent process itself, may interact with pre-existing disturbances of the personality in such a way that sometimes it's very difficult to determine when actually an abnormal condition exists, and when the temporary disturbance is simply normal manifestation of adolescent transition. In any case, in my talk to you tonight, I'll try to indicate, to some extent, how this intermingling of character traits and emotional tendencies that have an earlier origin in the development of the personality interact with the processes that characterize adolescence itself. Let me review with you first some of the manifestations of adolescent behavior. Manifestations which, as I tell them to you, may seem, on the face of it, to represent, uh... real disturbance. But remember that adolescence normally is a disturbed period. Anxiety is ever-present. Conflict pervades the entire experience of the adolescent. So that, uh... one has to distinguish between normal and pathological disturbance. Now, sometimes an adolescent can show quantitatively very intense disturbance and yet come out of it relatively unscathed, may pass through considerable turmoil, may have a considerable emotional storm, which, uh... may carry with it rather, um... considerable difficulty for the adolescent's family environment. The sufferings of the adolescent are sometimes imposed painfully on the family of the adolescent. And yet, an adolescent may pass through such storms and come out with not even a scar, with reasonably good mental health, and may emerge into adulthood with good personality integration and be prepared for the tasks that lie ahead. Now, the manifestations, what are they? First of all, insecurity is very common. Changes of moods are very frequent. Sometimes periods of elation, feelings of being on top of the world, being able to lick every problem that comes along, an exaggerated kind of confidence. uh... sometimes the opposite. Temporary moods of blueness, loneliness, despair, a... a loss of confidence, and, even with that, a fear of normal competitive experiences of adolescence, and a fear of failure in undertaking new experiences or meeting new problems. Now, of course, along with that, self-centeredness is a very common feature, too. Um... Closely associated with the adolescent's intensive preoccupation with himself is a strong urge to show off, to display prowess, superiority, whether in the intellectual field or the athletic field, to be attractive, to be attractive, to be popular, to win a good deal of attention. Uh... Along these lines is reflected a rather prominent exhibitionistic tendency, which is also normal. Of course, the sexual urges, interests, preoccupations, fears are at the very core of adolescent behavior. Then, the behavior, the social behavior, as it relates to on the one hand, attachments to members of the same sex and on the other, to the other sex. Certainly, in the early, earlier phases of adolescence, the adolescent tends to show a... an allegiance to those of the same sex. The initial preference is for boys to stay with boys and girls to stay with girls. later on, there's a sharp shift and it goes in the opposite direction. Now, since adolescents, uh... mature at different rates, one often finds that two boys who've been very good pals, inseparable buddies, um... meet a very real problem at a certain point and may be of the same age, yet one of them may have matured more rapidly than the other, gets himself a date, begins to be wrapped up in girls, perhaps even goes girl crazy, and his buddy, or erstwhile buddy, suddenly feels deserted, unloved, as though his partner had been treacherous because the second boy has not yet matured to the point where he's ready to make that shift, and is still very dependent on his buddy, and resents the dis... the implied disloyalty of the buddy getting girl crazy and no longer having time for him. Self-consciousness, lack of ease with one's body, exaggerated preoccupation with experiences that have to do with the body, preoccupation with physique and health in general. These are also frequent manifestations. Then, hero worship, fear of inadequacy, particularly in competitive situations, and in relation to such plaguing inferiority feelings, the urge to be big and to prove success, power, achievement, and one or another field of activity appropriate to adolescent life. Also, a trend toward conflict, not only with oneself, but with surrounding society, expressed prominently in the context of conflict with authority, first with parental authority, but also with all other symbols of authority. Religious symbols, governmental symbols, and in that connection, the problem with authority, there is considerable interest with issues having to do with social forces, social classes, fascism, religious problems, a good deal of among the more intellectual of the adolescents, a good deal of groping around with new intellectual points of view toward what goes on in the world. All that represents part of the adolescent's effort to somehow get oriented, to come to terms with himself and build a stable picture of himself as a person on which he can rely, and then adapt that to his view of the outside world. Now, of course, rebelliousness has been advertised through the ages as a very central manifestation of adolescent behavior, and it is, but what is not so often remarked upon is that adolescents are, in certain circumstances, as intensely conforming and submissive as they may be rebellious in other situations. When an adolescent wreaks havoc in his own home by seeming to to be perverse about everything, to refuse to accept the parents' values and standards in connection with any matter at all, that same boy outside in another group in a gang or at school may be at the same time a rather distinct conformist. In other words, the rebellion may be localized, may be expressed in one social setting and be seemingly altogether absent in another. Now, I'm not going to spend but a minute or two on the underlying biological changes that are so closely related to adolescent behavior. There are, of course, important biological and glandular and other physiological changes that are the inevitable accompaniment of adolescent development. And those glandular changes, of course, underlie the emergence of the sexual drives. But in relation to these, to the biological basis of adolescent change, one must bear in mind one very important consideration, namely that the reason the reason why the adolescent's image of himself and also our view of that same adolescent is so unstable is that the self, the personality of the adolescent is pressed upon in, from two directions. It's almost like a piece of a Swiss cheese between two layers of bread. the Swiss cheese is the adolescent. And literally, they are sometimes punctured full of holes by the pressures that, uh, assault the personality, the intactness of the personality from two directions. From within, in terms of these biological changes, which exert a constant pressure for the adolescent to adjust to them, and from without, in terms of the social demands, expectations, threats, exhortations, that is the cultural standards imposed, um, restrictions and expectations upon the adolescent, the adolescent must adapt to those, and turning inward, the adolescent must adapt to the pressure from within of all these very significant physiological changes. We all know the rapid changes in growth, height, and weight that takes place in adolescence. I believe last week Dr. Glose, uh, made mention of those items. Of particular importance are the changes in bodily contour, the changes in the skin, the acne eruption, which is so common, the growth of the genitals, the change in voice, the development of other secondary sexual characteristics, menses in girls, and the emergence of the capacity for seminal discharge in boys. Now, in close relation to these physiological changes, uh, there are very perceptible changes in social, emotional, intellectual behavior, but all these changes are rather poorly balanced, poorly integrated. Uh, there may be all kinds of unevennesses. A child may grow very rapidly in respect to one of the features of adolescent development, and seem not to develop, in other ways at all. In other words, it may be normal for some adolescents to mature in a patchy way, showing very rapid maturation in respect to some features of adolescent change, and seeming for a while not to develop at all in, in other features of adolescent behavior, adolescent, uh, development. Uh, for example, one may get very precocious intellectual uh, grow in one adolescent, uh, not accompanied by the appropriate degree of emotional or social growth. There may be a considerable discrepancy there. Or one may get the reverse, very rapid physical development, uh, uh, very healthy sexual and social development, along with the physical growth, and for a while, seemingly a retardation. of what one would, one would, what one would expect by way of intellectual development, um, commensurate with the other aspects of growth. Now, but, there are all sorts of individual variations from one adolescent to the next, but also in the, in a single individual, in one adolescent, adolescent. There may be all kinds of, uh, disequilibrium, imbalance. Um, so that, that is what accounts for the characteristic awkwardness of adolescent, uh, social conduct, uh, extraordinary self-consciousness, for which there's a very real basis. Uh, they change so rapidly in all these respects, that no sooner have they gotten attuned to one image of what they were, uh, than, uh, in a little while, they have so rapidly changed, they no longer know themselves, so to speak, and, uh, it's as though they feel they are strangers to their own being. It is possible, within a six-month span, for a single adolescent to change so rapidly, as to feel strange to himself. Now that, uh, uh, phenomenon is, places considerable strain on the adolescent. And so there is this, uh, continuous insecurity, the self-consciousness, the physical awkwardness, and the social, uh, lack of ease, discomfort with people, especially at first, with persons of the opposite sex. Now, a word about, uh, the role of sex, in the two sexes, um, this is important in that it involves the relationship between boys and girls, when boy meets girl. Um, up to recent times, boys had one attitude towards sex, I'm oversimplifying this, girls another. That is for boys, to a large extent, for sex, for sex sake. They're, uh, driven by their craving for some direct sexual satisfaction. I am not referring now to mature experience, but rather to, uh, that which is appropriate to adolescent behavior in our own culture. In any rate, for boys, uh, the, uh, it is sex per se, sex for, for its own sake, that, uh, motivates the behavior, whereas in girls, it, uh, has been, to a much greater extent, that sex is not something for which they immediately strive for its own sake, but, uh, rather that sex represents a, a means to an end. It is, uh, part of their security striving. It is, uh, necessary among girls, in order to be popular and accepted by the other girls, to have dates. Um, it is necessary to have dates, if one looks forward to winning a husband, and having a family, and having the conventional security of a family. The usual prestige, conventional prestige, that goes with having a family, etc. So that, uh, to some extent, the motivations of girls having to do with sexual issues are always influenced by their security strivings. In more recent years, uh, in association with many other critical social changes, changes in standards, there has been a franker attitude among girls towards sex, and to a large extent, uh, it is sex for sex sake among certain, um, proportions of the girl population as well. Now, I've already indicated, uh, the, the way in which the adolescent personality is, uh, it's intact, it's intact, it's intact, from within and without, from within by the biological shift, and from without by the cultural, social pressures. Uh, and, that has a good deal to do with the way in which adolescence is often characterized, namely that it's, uh, something between one thing and another. It's nothing in itself. It's an in-between phenomenon. Well, in one sense, it's entirely true. It's an in-between phenomenon, and therefore, uh, the adolescence is neither a child nor an adult. Uh, uh, but it's a peculiar hybrid of the two. In another sense, adolescence is, does represent something positive, because it does represent the expression of sexual maturation, sexual differentiation, within the setting of a given culture. uh, so there are some very distinctly positive characteristics of adolescence that relate to this process of sexual maturation, within a given culture pattern. Uh, there are many other manifestations that seem to tie the adolescent to childhood, and others that propel the adolescent forward into adulthood. And this is reflected in psychological, uh, reactions of one sort or another, that, uh, with all the unevennesses of adolescent behavior, some of the behaviors suggest a longing to go back to childhood, uh, because of the fear of what lies ahead. There are too many dangers and menacing, uh, situations that seem to lie ahead, problems that seem not to lend themselves to successful solutions, so there's some longing to go back to the security of childhood. On the other hand, uh, there are other situations in which, uh, there is expressed a fear of going, regressing, uh, to the childhood level of behavior, a fear of being a child, and a very determined insistence on being accepted as an adult. Perhaps an insistence on being accepted as an adult, far beyond what the actual circumstance justifies. So, what I'm going to do with you is the following. Um, I'm going to talk a little bit about adolescent behavior in groups, uh, some of the difficulties that adolescents experience in adapting to society today, which is passing through, uh, a critical stage, a critical stage of change. uh, I'm going to discuss with you also some of the concrete content of the conflicts, the inner conflicts that the adolescent experiences, some of the more common forms of conflict, and what I think they mean. So, um, it's common knowledge, of course, that adult group life for adolescents is extremely important. group associations outside the families, school associations, fraternities, sororities, gangs, baldings, um, cellar clubs, little groups that meet in the bowling alleys and the pool rooms. Now, there have been many interesting studies of the group life of adolescents, uh, the object of which was to attempt to discern in what way the group identifications of adolescents contribute to delinquent behavior. Many interesting studies of that sort have been made. But, uh, perhaps in relation to what one reads about such things, as the criminal behavior can emerge from bad associations, gangs or evil. Um, it is perhaps somewhat overlooked in some quarters that the group relations of adolescents, uh, can be fully as constructive socially as they sometimes are destructive. of course, schools recognize that, teachers recognize that, uh, many efforts to integrate groups of adolescents in organizations within the community, particularly educational organizations. However, many times these efforts fail for reasons that we ought to try to understand. uh, many times adolescents, uh, show, uh, early boredom with a group of relations in, in school, or in the parks, and gravitate to these dives, cellar clubs, places that are sometimes regarded as, um, um, dens of iniquity, breeding places of crime, so on, they aren't nearly that bad, really. And one reason why, uh, why they often gravitate away from the more conventional group activities offered to these other places, is really that there is more fundamental understanding, more sincere appreciation of the goals and struggles and pains, and basic emotional needs of adolescents, more appreciation of those things, in some of these less respected groups, than there is in the more conventional groups. Unfortunately, that's too often true. and therefore it's only natural for many adolescents to be drawn to places where they feel, not only accepted, but where the unique nature of their kind of living, is, more important than anything else. uh, now, uh, let me add a comment in this connection, to a particular trend that often shows itself in some places, particularly in connection with those adolescents who don't feel understood at home, by their own parents. If the adolescent feels unappreciated, unaccepted at home, and does not readily find acceptance in social groups, immediately outside the home, community, school, or elsewhere, church, there is a tendency for the adolescent to express his resentment of that lack of acceptance, by forming a separate group of his own, isolated from the rest of the community. community. Now, uh, um, you know how proud gangs are, certain adolescent gangs, of their, um, privacy, of, uh, their, uh, own particular rules, moral codes, their oaths of allegiance to each other. You know how they treasure the, uniqueness, and the privacy, of the aims, and standards, by which their particular gang lives. and the patterns of relations between adolescents that are set up within that gang. Uh, what happens there is really a tendency for the adolescent sometimes to be so disillusioned in the wider society, along with the parents, uh, that he goes off by himself and makes a little private world of his own. Now, uh, the attempt is to wall that little private off from, uh, wall off that little private world from the rest of the community, from his own family life. It's an attempt that's never fully successful, at best only partly so, but, within the kind, confines of that kind of warm, close-knit, uh, group life. The adolescent may feel that he achieves what he is looking for, an identity that suits the particular nature of the emotional needs and experiences during this phase of transition. Now, um, uh, the, uh, kinds of groups that the adolescent chooses to affiliate with, or belong to, is influenced very much by the character of the adolescent's relations with his own parents. Now, as we all know, uh, child, developing child, looks up, usually looks up to the parents, and the parents have earned it, the child certainly does, and erects, uh, certain ideals about the parents. uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, he, cherishes the ideal picture of his two parents. Now, what is characteristic of adolescence is that, uh, almost inevitably, in every instance, at some point during the adolescent transition, there is a measure of disillusionment in that ideal picture of the parents. There has to be because it's not a real picture. Every child wants to over-evaluate the parents, and needs to in the early part of child development, but as his personality matures, as he assimilates reality, as he has opportunity for comparison of his view of his parents' nature, with, uh, other persons' opinions and judgments of the parents, as he has opportunity to compare the teacher with the parent, or the priest with the parent, or whatever, the unreal, sentimentalized, romanticized picture of the parent, of course, changes, must change. And in adolescence, there's always some degree of that kind of disillusionment, and when that happens, there's always this seeking out of a hero somewhere else, and that hero is sought in the group, a group leader, or something akin to that. So, uh, uh, since there is so much change in the personality makeup of the adolescent, and since his inner image of himself is constantly in flux, the adolescent enjoinive group often selects a group that's going to fortify a particular concept of himself that he wants to cling to, a flattering, uh, concept perhaps, one that builds up his self-esteem, or he will choose a group in which the, uh, the leader, the one whom he now admires, in place of the parent, represents character traits exactly opposite to those possessed by his own father. Sometimes there is, uh, a disillusionment in the greatness of the father takes the form of the selection of a group and a leader, for hero worship, that, uh, symbolizes a rebellion against the father, and a rejection of the father as his idea. Though, uh, most times, adolescents, uh, succeed in integrating themselves pretty well in group life. Uh, the more disturbed ones fail. Those are the ones that get to a psychiatrist's office. Uh, now, there's a great to-do in adolescence, uh, both on the part of the boy or girl, and on the part of the family. But the adolescent should, uh, it's time now for the adolescent to find himself. He must begin to maturely appraise his abilities, his shortcomings, um, in relation to real opportunity, or a restriction of opportunity. He must make a choice of occupation. He must prepare for the tasks of adult life. He must be serious about himself. To any rate, he must come to grips with what he is, must know himself, must find his real self. Now, the adolescent, uh, makes a tremendous effort to do that, to find his real self. The parents are also anxious that the adolescent do that. Uh, but, when the adolescent kicks over the traces of family life, is no longer confined by family life, or by the standards, values represented by the two parents, and seeks other ideals to emulate, and finds them in other groups. Very often, that ideal is found in a person two or three years older, simply an older adolescent, or a very young adult, who becomes the, uh, object of hero worship. At any rate, in that process, uh, um, of attempting to find oneself, it's also possible for the adolescent to lose himself. Within a, I'm talking now about his inner individuality. Sometimes a, an adolescent with, with exaggerated insecurities, and inner conflicts will enter a group, and have such an intense striving to conform and be liked and accepted, to find a place for himself within that group, that he overdoes it, and so much submerges his real individuality as practically the loser. So, on the one hand, there's the issue of finding it, on the other hand, the danger of losing it. One can lose it within one's own home, uh, or lose it outside the home. That, uh, is influenced by a number of criteria having to do with personality, uh, relative personality, health, and intactness, or lack of it, that I don't want to go into now. Um, just one word about some of the difficulties of adjusting in modern society, then I go on to the, uh, the, uh, the, uh, inner emotional life, adolescent. Uh, I think I will omit that. It's getting late. If there's time, I can come back to it. Uh, just one word about it before proceeding, uh, with my other comments. That is that today, in the kind of world in which we live now, which is, uh, changing in a very crucial way, changing in the social system is changing, the economic structure is changing, the relations between nations are changing, the dominant patterns of human relations are changing. With that, values, standards, are also in a state of flux. That makes it particularly difficult for the adolescent to adjust. There aren't the familiar guideposts, uh, for the adolescent, uh, such as he might have had 50, 75 years ago. The paths of maturation, of, of movement into the future, are not so clearly seen by the adolescent now, as they might have been in social, in a period, when society is more stable than it is today. Sometimes the adolescent doesn't know what the world expects of him, where he stands exactly, with his own family, or with the community at large. And, uh, there aren't the usual examples set for him, both with regard to his, uh, ordinary emotional and social behavior, and also with regard to choice of occupation, and so on. Also, there is the fact that, uh, that, uh, this is a, uh, modern industrial world, and to get on in the world, with any measure of success, competitively, one must have a certain amount of equipment, technical equipment, uh, requires more education, more training, and that, uh, holds the adolescent back. It, uh, the inability to make, uh, earn one's own living, without getting some training, technical training, makes the adolescent more dependent, for a longer time, and hampers somewhat, his sexual maturation as well. Now, let me go on to, uh, some remarks about the inner psychological life of the adolescent. I think, uh, of first importance, uh, of first importance, in the struggles, the psychological struggles of the adolescent to somehow right himself and find the appropriate spot for himself in the social world is the basic struggle to build up the self-esteem at no time in life does a person feel so exposed and defensive inwardly as an adolescent terribly sensitive terribly vulnerable to anything that remotely smacks of an insult belittlement humiliation one way to put it is that as compared with other ages in life preschool up to six years of age school age there's no other age when a person feels so undressed and so relatively without protection against emotional hurt as an adolescent now that's particularly so because of their characteristic self-centeredness, vanity, and the very significant urge to use all opportunities available to build up a solid sense of their own self of their own self to be able to respect and accept themselves and have real confidence in meeting new experiences, new problems now all of the conflicts that an adolescent experiences are always influenced by their primary struggle and that's particularly so because of the fact that I mentioned earlier there's so much inherent in the self is that the adolescent has because the change in the self has been forced all the time from inside and outside the kinds of conflicts that involve this very central need to build up self-esteem are those which are expressed on the negative side by failure of confidence by failure of confidence by inferiority feelings of all sorts by feeling of not being popular not being looked up to feelings of inadequacy physically athletically competitively inferiority now those feelings of inadequacy inferiority damage self-esteem are reacted to in a great variety of ways it's certainly commonly known how the commonly understood and how the adolescent attempts to compensate for such inner feelings of weakness he tries as far as possible not only to hide it from others his feeling of weakness and inferiority but also from himself doesn't like to admit it and one of the one of the frequent expressions of that unwillingness to admit weakness one of the things mothers worry about that an adolescent boy who just had a physical illness will insist upon nevertheless upon going out and doing everything on the football field that the boy next to him does he simply will not admit any handicap whatsoever and will get quite irate at the mother if she reminds him that he's just been through a siege of illness and perhaps isn't is a little different from an ex-boy and can't play his part in a ball game quite as well yet there are many other compensatory expressions of these compensatory tendencies tendencies tendencies tendencies to uh to display oneself to assert superiority in a great variety of ways to brag at all costs to demonstrate one can do things that the next fellow can't do and so on and those things are accompanied by fantasies imaginations of greatness um now here for example is a sixteen year old boy very superior in his actual native endowment with a uh quite striking discrepancy between his actual abilities and his accomplishment in life his accomplishment was practically nil he confessed he had no ambition except to be a bum uh he sort of rubbed it into the old man with that remark because his father was uh uh a very much of a success uh a very well known man and uh by uh asserting his only goal was to be a bum he uh was always sure to be able to rub the father the wrong way but he insisted with other folks as well that he didn't expect anything serious out of life all he wanted to do was have fun and nothing more and he claimed very determinately that uh no matter what the family background was or the father's uh standards and uh ideals uh it was his prerogative to be a bum as a human being as his own choice and if that's what he wanted that's what he wanted uh he agreed that he he in doing so he mustn't hurt anybody else with that much responsibility he would have to assume but otherwise he wished to assume no other responsibility and was interested only in what pleasure he could now gain in any way available uh he he he not only rejected all the usual responsibilities and dissipated his energies uh but he also very much fortified a pattern of passive resistance to all authority not only at home but at school as well although quite brilliant in his native intelligence he was an utter flock scholastic and uh and uh uh he was proud of him however the picture isn't as comfortable for him as what I've told you up to now might might leave one to expect uh behind this uh uh outward guise of indifference he had very very intense inner conflict which he concealed completely from his parents he never would admit to his parents that he had any anguish or inner suffering or that he uh had the slightest doubt uh that uh his only ambition was to be a bum but in private interviews uh completely other set of attitudes emerged he was especially conflicted and tormented because he could make no friends he antagonized his peers by by a show of arrogance super silliness um um sarcasm and uh in that way he alienated himself from those of his own age as well when he showed his inner emotions more frankly he was quite depressed despairing had a profound sense of defeat and actual fears of death in fact he said he didn't expect to live long his self esteem had been deeply injured years back by a conviction that his very successful father ambitious and vain as he was did not prize the boy for himself but only to show off the boy's intellect in public well that's one instance uh indicating uh some of the contradictions one sees a surface conscious attitude disclaiming any ambition whatsoever except to be a bum uh and inwardly a very profoundly damaged self esteem the origins of which i can't go into at this moment now uh in relation to this struggle to build up a secure sense of self there are all sorts of commenting doubts in their list of extremes since he doesn't know what exactly he is himself he also doesn't know what life is and cannot appraise other persons so there's a a doubting anguish questioning groping stage and among themselves adolescents will sometimes philosophize and trade notions about what life is and what are they here for and uh do they really have a place in this world and uh what is their importance in the larger scheme of things should they fight if there's a new war why on which side what would they get out of it things like that uh toward what goal and in moments of discouragement they'll say what good is it all uh life's beautiful anyway uh life isn't worth the struggle in connection with that kind of groping there's a sometimes a feverish uh searching to stabilize the sense of self and stabilize the orientation in relation to that inner image of themselves the orientation to outer society and to other persons close to them the inner self which one only sees at times and this uh varied outer self the multiple social of the inner self which one only sees at times and this uh varied outer self the multiple social cells that an adolescent uh seems to assume in different group settings adolescence can act different way in different social situations sometimes very differently and there's a very fascinating very fascinating thing to watch the interplay between the inner self and these various external guises of the self that are assumed in accordance with the expectations of different groups as they join them or participate in them I want to say a word since getting late about some of the conflicts having to do with moral feelings guilt reactions uh adolescents have a terrible time with their country for a variety of reasons one that the kind of standards of right and wrong and good and bad that they've been indoctrinated with in childhood no longer fit the problems of adolescent relationship relationship and social relationship and no longer appropriate sometimes there's a severe clash between the kinds of criteria good and bad and right and wrong of criteria, good and bad, right and wrong, the standards of the parents that they've absorbed, and the sharp discrepancy between those criteria and other criteria, right and wrong, that would suit the kinds of experiences and social situations that their adolescent meets. Though there is the tremendous need to mature the conscience, to bring it up to date fairly rapidly, to make it somehow commensurate with the kinds of human problems and kinds of conflicts and social situations that the adolescent feels like. There is also another feature which is extremely important, namely that in adolescence, like in no other time in life, there is a terrific struggle between the urge to freely express basic impulses, whether they be aggressive, rebellious urges, or sexual feelings. There is a certain quality of nudeness in the adolescent personality in that deeper experiences, psychic experiences, are not strongly repressed. There is a tendency for the whole thing to surge up, not the whole thing, but a good part of it to surge up into consciousness. So that the adolescent is more dependent for socially controlling his behavior on suppressing impulses, rather than repressing them. Repression is an unconscious, automatic process of inner controlled impulses, and suppression is a conscious process. Now that's one reason why in adolescence all sorts of queer things happen. Social behavior is often quite bizarre. Strange things are done in what in kids that are ordinarily normal. There's a tendency to act out these impulses. In certain social situations, the adolescent self-control is adequate. In other situations, the control is not adequate. These urges burst through insufficiently controlled and well-sufficient discrimination for the situation or for the consequences of the act. Now in connection with that kind of behavior, there is the tendency, there is a tendency on the one hand, to the adolescent to feel intense guilt, which is very playful, by question the right and wrong, particularly about sexual matters. But on the other hand, there is also the tendency, because of the relative lag in the quality of the conscience. That is, it isn't up to date. It isn't mature enough for the years, and for the social problems met. There's a tendency for the adolescents to do what we call externalize the conscience. That is, to act as if the standards of right and wrong are determined not from within, but from without. By example set by older adolescents or young adults, by leaders of the game, by teachers, a response to a group of the students. That is, there is a tendency to renounce, in some measure, a personal responsibility for the right and wrong of things, and to determine one's behavior in accordance with what once, what someone else says or implies, or stands for in terms of moral attitude. But the adolescent may conform with that external conscience represented in the outside person, or he may protest. He may accept those standards, or he may fight against them. Now, for that reason, there are frequent shifts of mood in adolescence. The guilty moods are often accompanied by a certain degree of blueness, loneliness, feeling of unwellness. There are also the opposite moods in elation. Now, and in connection with social behavior, there is this unpredictable phase, in which, at times, the same adolescent may seem to be highly impulsive, and may show what appears to be very bad sense about the connotations of a given social situation, and simply have no tact whatsoever, do something utterly unfitting. And then the parent will be amazed and incredulous, because up to now, that particular child had showed good judgment, good discrimination, and good judgment. In various social circumstances, and suddenly it seems to fail him utterly. So in some situations, you get a bursting through these impulses, inadequately controlled and out of tune with the situation, tactless. In other situations, the adolescent will show excessive cautiousness, rigid cautiousness, a kind of over-control. And you may have swings, alternations, between a tendency to blurt out whatever one feels, or to act out whatever one is driven by inside, or to sit on oneself and be abnormally inhibited, unspontaneous, emotionally dead. Now, some adolescents are more the one way, and some more the other way, but it's also possible for the same adolescent to pass through different stages of seemingly exaggerated, inhibited social behavior, and the opposite, released behavior. There are, of course, the frequent cravings of excitement and danger, the urge to get a big thrill out of things, that are associated with certain kinds of delinquent social conduct. I can't go into that here and now. In fact, I guess I've taken too much time already, and you do want to ask some questions, I believe. I can't take the time to go into the meaning of the basic sexual conflicts of the adolescent experiences. I've hinted at some of their nature, perhaps in the question period, if you raise some questions concerning that, I will have a moment up to the top of those matters. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Dr. Ackerman. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Ackerman, for that very careful analysis of the problems of adolescence. I am sure... Thank you. I am sure that... I am sure that you have told a lot of people, a lot of things about ways in which they can adjust their family problems, and can both understand themselves and also any people that they may have at home of adolescent age. I found it a very difficult age, too, sir. I should warn you... Come on up here, doctor. I should warn you that... I was very interested in that story about the 16-year-old who wanted to become a bum, because most geographers are known as educated bums, sir. I have a little personal feeling for that. There is one thing I'd like to mention to you. Some of you may not have picked up the booklets. New York State mental hygiene booklets put out by New York State are available in the back of the hall. If you do not get them on the way in, why don't you pick one up on the way out? Understand that has nothing to do with Cooper Union. That is New York State mental hygiene project. Also, next week, I believe we will have the New York State mental hygiene exhibit here in the back of the hall. We're going to take it from Grand Central Station and bring it down here where more of us can see it without taking a train or something. I would like to also state that if any of you have heard a dog bark, you're right. Some people may have thought that they were hearing things. There is one of the finest, nicest dogs that I have ever had the good fortune to meet in Cooper Union, sitting right over here, and a very intelligent and well-behaved dog it is, too, and we welcome that fine seeing-eye dog. Now, Doctor, what is the cause for adolescent crushers? How can you detect these crushers and how can you redirect them? I'm not going to allow Professor Fairchild to escape the implied question he posed a moment ago. He said, in effect, he was an educated bum. Excuse me, Doctor. I didn't say I was. I said some people claim that's what geographers are. Well, I would say to that that if a bum gets an education, he at least makes a better order of bum. The question is, what is the cause for adolescent crushers? How can they be detected? How can they be redirected? You have to be sure in the first place that there's reason to redirect them. I presume when the phrase crush is used, adolescent crush, it refers to the relations of one girl to another. a girl taking a somewhat older girl for her ideal, becoming deeply enamored of her, and having that girl, the older girl, set the example for the younger one. Certainly, those kinds of sentimentalized attachments are one of the expressions of the surrender of the original mother as the ideal, and taking this older girl now as direct substitute for the original idealization of the mother. crushers among girls are normal experiences if they aren't too intense, if they aren't too prolonged, if the girl has some amount of good sense about their place in life, and if the young girl is not too exclusively dominated by that kind of immature worship. It isn't love, I almost called it love, but it certainly isn't love in the mature sense. It's a kind of immature reverence of an idealized image of a somewhat older girl who takes the place of mother. Many such instances are not too exaggerated, are perfectly normal, and can be ignored. Now, in some instances, however, they do signify something abnormal. They are too intense, all other contexts are excluded, nothing else interests the girl but her one ideal. Certain sexual urges may creep into the relationship, even though they may not be expressed openly. But certain types of sexual deviation may be part of the expression of such a relationship if it is intense, excludes other more normal contacts, and carries a degree of importance which is entirely disproportionate to other issues. So, they have to be diagnosed. If they're abnormal, they have to be understood expertly and so treated. Many of them are normal and need not be redirected. Dr. We could kick this bum around a long way, but we're not going to do it again, are we? Does reading many mystery novels indicate an escape of the adolescence from the reality of life? Do you ever read mystery novels? I do. Ask my wife. I sometimes have and sometimes enjoy them. Reading mystery novels. Everybody's, at one time or another, has been secretly the murderer. And certainly many of us in our teens have tried to conjure up the perfect crime. Well, motives of that sort, the imagination of the perfect crime, and some kind of heroic killing off of some other person who's been pretty much of a nuisance. A fantasy mystery of that sort in the adolescent's mind is certainly one of the elements that spurs the reading of mystery novels. It may be perfectly normal, and some amount of escape from the drabness and harshness of some kinds of reality is also normal. Uh, Doctor, a gentleman would like you to say something about, uh, the failure to throw off parental control. In other words, what happens when parents thwart the offspring's efforts to find themselves by completely controlling them during adolescence? Well, I think that kind of question all but answers itself. Parents, uh, who attempt rigidly, uh, right through adolescence to dominate the adolescent's path in life are going to have trouble. They rarely succeed. They rarely succeed. You cannot, uh, rigidly shape the adolescent development, uh, at all. A more intelligent person, uh, parent certainly allows rudem, allows some freedom for the assertion of the developing individuality of the adolescent. Otherwise, there's bound to be trouble. Now, when the adolescent does vigorously defy the parental authority, you will always notice that they don't do without some authority. If they destroy, uh, parent's authority, they do seek out the semblance of authority somewhere else. They need it. Uh, Doctor, uh, Ackerman, several people have, uh, written in a somewhat similar question. Uh, this 16-year-old boy you described, uh, fits perfectly a 45-year-old adult. I, uh, I thought there were some similarities I recognize in that. Uh, is there any chance for this person, this 45-year-old person, to ever grow up, uh, emotionally? And how, uh, should one proceed to do that? Uh, how should one proceed to, uh, advise one to do that? Anything you can do to help us? With such a question as that, I could make money on the radio. Uh... It may be true that the, uh, description of the 16-year-old I gave fits this particular 45-year-old man, but I doubt if it's true that this middle-aged man fits my 16-year-old. Um... I simply cannot answer that question categorically. I would have to know a good deal about the man. Certainly, if a man hasn't matured by 45, the chances aren't very good. When does an adolescent become an adult, Doctor? Any time at all. If that's to be answered in terms of the years, it's difficult. Uh... You know, the maturity of a person isn't measured exactly in years. Um... Uh... Certainly, uh... Uh... The age of a child doesn't tell how big it is or how much it weighs. Uh... Children mature at different rates physically. They mature at different rates emotionally, and socially and sexually as well. Uh... Uh... But roughly, uh... In terms of years, um... Adolescence is anything up to, uh... Uh... Twenty-one. Around there. Physiologically, some people are still adolescent. I'm talking about the physiological criteria now, even beyond the age of twenty-one. But more really. The physiological aspect of it is usually reasonably complete by around that age. The psychological aspects may take any amount of time. Dr. Is hero worship a quality of adolescence only? Excuse me, you know, I don't make all these up. You know, I'd give myself sixty-four dollars if I had the right answer to that one. Uh... No, of course not. Hero worship is not exclusively manifestation. Of adolescence. Uh... Sometimes it takes, uh... Some rather evil form socially. Witness the last walk. And the grandisement and worship of, uh... Those heroes became dictators. Uh... That kind of worship was not limited to adolescence. Though in Germany, of course, the... The adolescent gangs, the Nazi adolescent gangs, with their own particular kind of reverence of the Nazi God, uh... Played a very considerable role in the intensification of the Nazi movement on a wide social scale. Dr. Ackerman, somebody would like to know if it's better for an adolescent to express himself sexually, disregarding all the social mores, and... Or is it better for him to suppress himself? Is there... Is there... Is there an adolescent in the house? Is there an adolescent in the house? Is there... Is there an adolescent in the house? It is frankly impossible to answer that question now. They're getting worse and worse. It is frankly impossible to answer that question. Each person answers the ethical aspect of such a problem for himself. There is no such thing as complete license in any society. You cannot be anarchistically free as an individual. You always have the rights of others to consider. And at the very least, the privileges and rights of other persons involve a need for some measure of social control. That's a very different thing from making people feel guilty about their sexual interests or urges. Whatever they may be, they needn't feel guilty about having them. But some degree of restraint is, of course, a basic necessity for community living. Dr. Ackerman, the first six years are always stressed as being highly crucial in psychological development. Just how does the adolescent period compare in cruciality in an individual's development? First place, are the six years the most important? And if so, how do they compare with the adolescent period? Well, of course, the development of psychoanalysis is responsible for the principle that the first six years of a child's life molds the character in very important ways of the child. And that perhaps the most important aspect of the character of the child is already formed by the age of six or seven. However, bear in mind at the same time that character doesn't stop changing beyond the age of six. Some of the more important features of character are formed by that age. But it is possible to continue changing at a slower rate after the age of six, right through life, in fact. But at a much more subdued rate. Now, what happens in adolescence is a shaking up of all the patterns of the character. So that any latent weaknesses or particular exaggerated emotional tendencies conditioned by the early family experiences will once again emerge in adolescence. Adolescence shakes up the whole person and it brings up to the surface everything that has been uneven or weak or exaggerated or vulnerable in the development of the character up to that time. Dr. Ackerman, how do childhood diseases affect the adolescent personality? What diseases? Let's take some of the most common childhood diseases that you would like to mention. Well, I would say very differently. You're talking about mumps is one thing. You talk about rheumatic fever that has left behind a weakness of the heart. It's quite another thing. You talk about encephalitis. It's still another thing. I find it impossible as a doctor to answer that one. All right, sir. Then, since an enormous number of adults seem to exhibit very adolescent behavior, why is it that some people grow out of adolescence and other people never seem to? What is the reason for the stoppage of emotional growth in people, sir? That's a question I suppose we want answered in about five seconds or eight seconds. I'll answer it. I won't answer it. I'll tell you something else. I knew a very fine artist, painter, who said this. He was 50. He was a child and hoped to always remain a child. He loved it. He said the trouble with grown-up people is that they've forgotten how to be a child. They've forgotten how to play. And you think that's the tragedy of the civilized world. Well, nobody grows up completely. There is no such thing as complete maturity. Every one of us has some child in us, some adolescence in us. It's a question of how much and how is it expressed and how appropriately or otherwise. So that we never get completely independent of other persons at all. We're never that strong. It's a question of maturity to the point of achieving satisfactory, interdependent relations with other persons and nothing more than that. So the preservation of some childlike quality and the preservation of the ability to play with pleasure, be spontaneous and free and sparkling like a child is a nice thing and you ought to hold on to it if it doesn't interfere with your other tasks in life. Thank you. Doctor, you mentioned a vacillation in the parent's attitude. That is, disciplining a child one day, indulging a child the next day may be of great harm. In which course do you consider the proper attitude to take towards adolescent excessive? Is there a middle ground that the poor parent can walk, sir? Well, I think I gave a little hint about my view of that question before when I said that society and social relations cannot exist without some symbols of authority. Integration of social relations are based on values upon which the members of the group agree as being the more important values and goals to represent that group. And in a sense, any integrated group agrees on certain symbols of authority. The management of society necessitates that. So it is similar within the family group. There must always also there be some symbol of authority. The question is not should there be authority or no authority. The whole question is how you use it. Intelligently, with understanding, flexibly, or do you abuse it? Doctor, as a closing question that might amaze you a little bit, there's a person here who would like to know what to do about an adolescent who has been married and divorced and is now 23 and says he'll never get married again. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.