This morning we come to the fifth in the series of the Institute for Religious and Social Studies dealing with New York City, city of the world toward the social and cultural anatomy of New York. Our speaker is Dr. Ordway Teague, chairman of the Board of Higher Education, who will speak to us at this time on problems of education in relation to this series on the city of New York. Dr. Teague. Mr. Chairman and friends of the conference, I think my topic might be spoke, might be called, uh, the city colleges and intercultural, interfaith, interrace relations. As we enter the second half of the 20th century, it would seem to me that without putting too heavy a burden upon our seriousness of approach, we may say that in our city, as representative of our nation, we confront the white man's burden, not in the Kipling sense, but in a new American democratic sense. There is a cross we bear. As Gunnar Myrtle said in the title of his study, we are in a dilemma. We are in a new one. We are in a new one. And somehow the total relation of whatever you want to call it, the white, the Aryan, the Caucasian, however it is to be most correctly designated, the relation of those peoples in American society to people of other color, race, culture, and religion, confronts us as perhaps the most urgent. I confess it from my own point of view. Even above and beyond, for example, the problem of the relation of communism to an enterprise system like our own seems to me to have to take subordinate place to the relationship of white American democracy to those of other colors, of other races, of other creeds. And our ability or our inability to enter into, I don't like the cliche, but it is tremendously true and dramatic, our ability to enter into one world is at stake. How are we to come into a common world with our fellow men of other kinds? Now, New York City is, in very truth, a microcosm, a world in miniature of a good deal of the problem. I hope I won't be felt to be complacent in my delineation of the effort of the colleges of New York City to confront and cope with that problem insofar as it's appropriate for them so to do. On the other hand, you will not find me, in relation to the mandate of our colleges, to be an alarmist. Also, I am only charged to answer for one part of our municipal corporate life, namely that part of it which is the responsibility of the free public municipal colleges, over which I have certain trustee responsibilities. I am not addressing myself, time being part of the problem, to the responsibility or the contribution of the other higher education institutions in this city. Nor am I able, in the limits of time, and partly, indeed, in the limits of my knowledge, to characterize as I would like to, and as you should have for a full picture, what goes on in the elementary and in the high schools of this great city vis-à-vis the problem of multicultural relationships. But our city is, in very truth, and our colleges, our free public colleges conspicuously, are a training school in the practice of democracy out beyond the conventional limits of it of a century ago. I must, in order to discuss that contribution and that responsibility and how it's assumed, characterize, ever so briefly, how it is that the city colleges conduct themselves, because their manner of operation is of the very essence of an effort to overcome difficulties of too great narrowness of approach to this problem. Even assuming that everyone in the room knows just how we operate, I must still emphasize one or two aspects of our basic method of procedure. We have four colleges. The College of the City of New York, City College, 139th Street, 7th Street, Hunter College in Park Avenue and in the Bronx, Brooklyn College in the Borough of Brooklyn, and Queens College in the Borough of Queens. In each case, a usual liberal arts education leading to either a BA or a BS degree is being given in all the colleges. There is a minimising of any explicit vocational education of a more narrow sort. They are liberal arts colleges comparable to others that we might name. And that objective is clearly, at present, kept dominantly in view. Quantitatively, we are large. We are staggeringly large, if pure numbers are the indication. About 32,000 young people, boys and girls, are getting the undergraduate degree in these four colleges currently in the day session. Another few thousand are striving valiantly to attain the degree in evening session work, which of course takes a longer time because there are less hours in the evening. And then the balance to make up the 70,000 total students that we enrolled are either graduate students, late afternoon students, or evening students, either adult or other. And it cuts across our clientele, as I'll indicate a moment, in characterising how one gets into our colleges from the high schools of the city. Naturally, our college population cuts across every group, racially speaking, in our city, as it properly should. In order to be sure that the overall conduct of that board, of those colleges, shall be mindful of the interests of the great groups in this city, the law wisely provides a certain degree of borough representation on what is called the Board of Higher Education. Beyond that, the representation is not explicit. It has become historically tacit. By which I mean that we have representatives on the board, not only by boroughs, but from the important religious groups. Protestant, Catholic, Hebrew. We have on our board one member of the Negro community. We have men, we have women, we have lawyers, we have professional people, we have others. our board is designed and the appointments from time to time for our nine-year terms of office are carefully calculated to keep a careful balance in the voicing of these important points of view toward the conduct of our city and of our colleges. Similarly, it should be explicitly recognized for purposes of this discussion that certainly in recent history and my knowledge of it, we have been mindful of this even in the overall administration of these colleges. City College and Brooklyn College. City College has a president who is a Quaker friend. Brooklyn College has a president which came out, who came out of the Dutch reform influence. Up until a year ago, Queen's College under President Clapper was headed by a person of Jewish descent. At Hunter College in Manhattan, the president has and the previous president was, has been a member of the Catholic faith. So that in the very overall direction of our colleges, we have been mindful of these diversities and been anxious to let each individual college have the benefit of the diversity of points of view, direction, of interest which grows from that type of diversity. Let me emphasize, because I shall advert to this again, that we have no residence facilities. We have been somewhat humorously and sardonically referred to as subway colleges. You go with classes at nine o'clock and if you get through at three or four or five, you go home in the subway and there are no dormitories. The social life that we are able to provide, I want to mention specifically in just a moment. They are completely free as to tuition as far as the undergraduate degree is concerned. The evening work, the special extra work is paid for at very modest fees. Now, how are our colleges brought together, so to say? Let me say a word first about the faculty, the faculties and the way in which they are constituted. And for the most part, may I say parenthetically, what I will have to say applies to us all and where there are differentizations from college to college, I will try to indicate that. In the last 11 years, our faculties have been, the appointment to our faculties has been initiated departmentally by departmental committees where vacancies were known to be occurring in English, German, political science. The effort is of a departmental committee to scan the field, hopefully to examine who for the position available, whether at whatever salary and whatever title, whoever may be available around the country is most suitably qualified and will accept the appointment. In the search which we make for teachers, it can be said, I think, without equivocation, that we are not at all concerned, we are not at all concerned with the, with anything but the total academic, scholarly, and personal attainments and teaching attainments of the individual under consideration for appointment. There is no consideration of race, there is no consideration of religious affiliation, literally. That, I think, can be said quite emphatically. The fact that we don't always have as many as wider representation of all elements as any given faculty is, I can assure you, only accidental to the needs of that college and the accessibility of persons from a given group for positions in that particular field or college. When I say that, I'm thinking particularly, for example, of Negro teachers. I wish we had a larger number of full-time members of our faculty who are Negroes. We don't have as many as would be desirable. We have some when we have increased that number in the last five years and will increase it as more and more Negro young men and women qualified through PhD study for teaching posts under the particular scholastic prescriptions which we make. I think it's not in inexpedience on my part to make mention of one specific incident which those of you who read the New York City papers cannot be unmindful of. There have been allegations at City College that one department head had been discriminatory in his practice in the selection or in the helping of selection of new departmental members and in his own personal attitude toward students. Such allegations are, from the point of view of our board, from the point of view of our city, extremely serious and are taken when such charges are made with great seriousness. And our board, after the faculty had given the most critical and exhaustive examination to these allegations, our board went all over the situation again as a board through a committee and reached the same conclusion that the faculty had reached. There has, despite that, been a certain amount of excitement, nay, agitation, outside of the walls of our city and to some extent at that time within the walls among students and others, that fair play had not been had. For the record, we'd also said that this particular instance, appeal has been taken by a certain group to Albany, to the Commission of Education, for a review of what has already happened. Undoubtedly, in the next little while, some determination from Commissioner Spaulding may reach us. The outcome, which of course I know no more anybody else. But I think it's only fair for me in my position to say that whatever the Commissioner may find, that both the faculty of the College and the Board of Higher Education feel that in this particular instance there have been no grievous inequities, that there has been a certain amount of almost willful and persistent persecution, and that we're hopeful that when the instance is over, the kind of thing it represents will not recur. as it had not ever occurred in just this form previously there too. In short, our faculties are again representative of a highly cosmopolitan selective process. Indeed, if there is any, I take this next remark upon my personal responsibility and say that if there is any educational problem, it sometimes is, that in a certain natural course and state of survival, young people who have gone to our college, who then go on and get their MA and their PhD, tend to be eager to be brought back into our system as teachers, so that we have to be mindful of not having too much of what used to be called inbreeding in the recruitment of our faculty from our own graduates who have had relatively limited, may we fairly say, I think, relatively limited other experience even though they have had the necessary graduate training. Similarly, with respect to the admission of students, students in the first place, of course, have to be the children of residents of this city in order to have the benefit of this free education. The major requirement is that you shall have had a certain total high school average in the New York City high school to which you went. That average is dictated, that academic average is dictated by very pragmatic considerations, namely, the amount of space we're able to accommodate students in. At present and in recent years, although this isn't completely accurate, as a generalization it's valid, it takes about an 79 to an 81 overall high school average to qualify for admission to the college. There are certain deviations from that because borderline cases we allow to take certain special examinations to see if they may qualify, and some do, although they haven't had that actual average. But our admission is completely without respect either to sex or to color or to creed or to any other consideration whatsoever beyond the indicated ability to profit by the academic work at the college level. And that means, again, that our student populations are representative of our city in their racial and religious composition. And in general, speaking at once removed, as I have to, not being administrative officer of a college, and in general, I think I am within the realm of accuracy in saying that the personal relationships through those four years that go on completely minimize, completely subordinate any considerations other than those of personal merit by and large in the relationship that the college students have to the institution. Now, I realize that we're not perfect, and I realize that every student isn't completely devoid of personal prejudice toward one or some other group. But I would think you would search far to find institutions in which there was less made and less awareness of these differentiating factors than in our four city colleges. And the place and the performance given in terms of offices and activities to students of diverse backgrounds has been exceedingly gratifying and heartening. What then do we do in this practical world of living diversity to encourage further understanding and kindliness in respect to intercultural interfaith relationships? It's done differently, may I say, in the four colleges. I mean to say the head-on effort to help to further ameliorate any possible tensions and conflicts. It's done differently in different colleges. First, as to the general situation, we are helped in our colleges as to teacher-student relationship, which is, after all, the basis of the education. We are helped by the fact that in terms of the structure of our buildings, small classrooms, and in terms of our educational policies, we do not have huge lecture courses, with some few exceptions perhaps. The typical situation is a section of 15 to 40, 35 young people with a teacher, and because it has to be in sections of that smallness of size, the number of times a given teacher has to repeat the same subject may seem unduly difficult and irksome for that teacher on occasion. Because our, due again to financial considerations, our customary procedure is that each teacher teaches three, teaches five three-hour courses. The typical teacher load is 15 hours a week, which compares adversely, you will realize, to what is done in many other more favorably situated colleges on the financial side. A load of, teacher load of nine or ten hours a week, and certainly not over 12 would be regarded, I think, as the more desirable. One, it's not typical with us. nevertheless, we do attain that degree of intimacy on the part of the teacher with a group of 25 or 30 young people. It isn't adequate, it isn't perfect, but I think, there again, I can say that there is more solicitude on the part of our staff today for an individual relationship to our students, to all of our students, than was ever true before, or than is characteristic of many state universities where the numbers are somewhat comparable to those in our institution. The extent to which each individual teacher, irrespective of subject matter, is concerned to take what I may be allowed to call a global point of view would naturally vary. But as I looked over the roster from Brooklyn College and saw the number of courses in the fields of sociology, anthropology, political science, social psychology, that were quite directly addressing themselves to problems of inter-race, inter-faith, international organization, I could say certainly as a Brooklyn College, that there was a head-on intent on the part of many teachers in the social sciences certainly, to infiltrate into that teaching thought, reflection, concern about one or another aspect of this urgent problem. Somewhat similar things can be said in one or two of the other colleges. Other places, they make it a pervasive characteristic of all the courses without going at it so deliberately. Since my knowledge of the system, which now is 12 or 13 years in duration, we have been spending more money, we have been directing the time of more of our teachers toward personal consultation of a counseling sort, both as the individual's private career, his prospects, his educational needs, and the like. Again, in our city, with the tensions and the pressures, the need for and the importance of a personal contact, personal advice, is of immeasurable help. Peculiarly so, indeed. Let me digress there to point out, for example, and I am treating the subject without gloves, there's no reason for not doing so. Take, for example, the problem of being sure that as many of our young men as desire and seem to have the intellectual and the personal characteristics are given the opportunity to get on into the study of medicine. The record of medical schools for the acceptance of Jewish boys is not conspicuously successful from the applicant's point of view. In one of our colleges, we have quite changed the rate and the amount of acceptance by medical schools of our graduates by virtue of some intensive personal counseling work when boys became identified, let's say, in the junior year, in the last two years, became identified by the administration as seeking to enter medicine as a colleague. And not only in terms of the academic course, which is relatively easy, but in terms of personal characteristics, in terms of their total development as whole personalities. Guidance can be offered, shall we say, coaching suggestions can be made, and this particular institution, now where it, where five or six years ago, it had one or two boys who were able to get into some medical school or other, is now finding that of its seniors, 10, 12, 14 boys are qualifying and are being admitted. Now that, whatever secret there is in that achievement, in that change of situation, is due to a more intensive, a more solicitous relationship, individualized relationship between teachers, administration, students, and the administrations of medical schools. And of that kind of thing, we will do more, and we are constantly doing more rather than less as time goes on. I cannot say that we are, in terms of our curriculum, in terms of our courses, performing a model job of understanding and increased sympathy on racial and cultural problems. That we are mindful of it and doing each year more than we did before, I am convinced. Now a word as to what takes place in the life of the student away from the classroom. Perhaps the most important activity which we have created and done deliberately to give a social milieu in which the student's life may fall, failing residence provisions, is the development in each of the colleges of what we have come to call the house plan. Concretely, at City College uptown, through the generosity of the Lewiston family, we have taken over several houses, thrown them together, and they become available for the social life of the young people, both as individuals and through club functions which they bring in to those buildings and rooms under direction supplied by the house plan itself. Similarly, in the 23rd Street part of city colleges, through the donation of Mr. Lampert, similar facilities for social life off the campus are being provided and social activities are organized. You see, we have no student unions in the sense that there is that beautiful student union in Ann Arbor, for example, and as there are increasingly in larger state universities, we have nothing comparable to that as a meeting point for the non-academic part of the student's life, including the things like the running of the student papers and the dramatics and the glee clubs and all those club activities which have to be housed. We house them in a most, well, temporizing kind of way, I'm afraid, because of lack of space. but our effort is not without reward in terms of supplying the occasion of meeting other young people of different backgrounds, of the other sex, and of creating social situations, social occasions of all kinds which are a very definitely educational force in terms of a whole personality. Each college also, of course, has its religious clubs, each college has its Hillel, has its Newman Club, for the most part a Douglas Club for the Negro students, a YM or YWCA as the case may be, and no doubt others. From my personal point of view, there's always the potential danger that those groups may turn in upon themselves in their meetings too greatly. And yet, I am assured that through the creation of what we are calling, specifically at Brooklyn, for example, interfaith councils among the leaders of those religious clubs, interfaith councils, that there is definite mindfulness of this problem and definite solicitude to have activities that are genuinely religious in nature that, so to say, rise above the differentiating factors of the observances of the respective religious clubs. Now, that's not always easy to achieve. One reason isn't easy to achieve because being subway colleges and having the difficulty of holding young people on the campus when their class life is over, when their class day is over, we have had to resort in each college to a provision that one day a week, I believe it's usually Wednesdays from 12 to 1 or whatever, is the time set aside for the club activities. And obviously, no person can attend but one club at one period, so that if there is a meeting of Hillel and a meeting of interfaith council simultaneously, the student obviously has to choose. Well, that's just one of the difficulties we're under in the limited amount of day to which our students are subject to the total influence of the college. There are subject matter clubs, there are, to a very modest extent, fraternities and sororities which of course do not have living facilities. In short, the organization of the social life and the likelihood that the regular students shall be in one and usually several student organizations where social experience is being obtained is very substantial and is a very important, indeed an essential part of the educational work we're trying to do. partly extracurricular and partly curricular are the efforts being made through the guidance of our education and sociology departments as well as the religious groups to make possible volunteer social work activities of our students in the local communities. City College, through something called the Community Service Division, has in recent years been rendering really conspicuous service in a part of the city which is substandard, may we say, in terms of living conditions and play facilities and also inter-race tensions and there has been conspicuous work done under faculty guidance in giving our own young people experience and in giving the youngsters, the children, opportunity for inter-race experience and for recreation, education, which has been invaluable. Similar work has been done in settlements through Hunter College and through the education social departments at Brooklyn College. Indeed, one can say that the conscious contribution of our faculty plus volunteer student assistants, that the conscious contribution of our faculty to the coping with peculiarities along these lines in the respective neighborhoods where their institutions have influence has been a very gratifying development of recent years and one which will, I am confident, be extended as time and as our recognition of this importance goes on. Both in terms of capital outlay and in terms of salaries, we have been on the tight side. of this and Mr. Mr. O'Dwyer faces a somewhat different problem with the tremendous claims there are for the other vital social services in this great city which also have to be provided for and which in terms of numbers from the overall point of view no doubt seem far more pressing. I am thinking of the public schools themselves and of the hospitals themselves. Seem far more pressing than the higher educational needs which relatively to the whole are in numbers small. So that we are, we are, those of us mindful of the college obligation, we are always trying to make it clear to our fellow citizens that we do what we can do. But we need student unions, we need more people hired in the higher professional echelons, we need facilities for auditoria in one or two of the colleges and we just aren't able to do what we should. I think you'll be interested to know this, we have been having made at the instance of this municipal planning commission and the board of estimate a study by an outside educator and a group of architects here of the, of the needs of our colleges population wise, not educationally but population wise and facility wise in the next five, ten, fifteen years. That study is going to completion and will be available in print early in the new year. Well, I'm sure that that's going to shock a great many people both within the city administration and among our citizenry when we get this objective examination of the, of the rightful expectancy under the law of our city's young people for college education which we are not now doing and will not do with population trends increasing unless there is some quite substantial addition to the resources which we have. Our problems and they bear directly upon the efficacy of our labors in the field of intercultural education. Our problems are those of support, of adequacy, of plan and of salaries. I hope looking at it from this same point of view that we're today thinking of that the time will come when the city will feel it can afford to give a residence experience, a dormitory experience, of at least a year to the great majority of young people who will be taking a college course in the city colleges. I hope that we'll retain a situation where every student will know and be mindful that some teacher cares for him individually and cultivates that individual relationship for all that it is worth in terms of personal fulfillment. I hope we'll get student unions in every college. I hope as our teachers become more mindful of it that every course where it relevantly and sensibly can be done will be given in what I call a global or universalized reference. the way in which we are to move toward one world, toward a sense of one world on the part of young people in college, the way in which we're to move in that direction is not unknown. The elements of personal experience, of personal contact, of the generation of personal goodwill through association is all a direction in which we are moving as rapidly as seems possible under the situation. But it is necessary and we do need and we will prize the effort that every religious organization and agency in this city will make, that every appropriate civic agency will make, that every educational institution will make, toward fostering the desire for the young people coming to us and with us, fostering the desire for one world, the desire to overcome the limitations out from which they came from the point of view of prejudice or criticalness of those of other groups. We need that support to help in the process of fostering a desire for one world amongst us and in supporting us in the ways and means which we're using in higher education to help young people turn their minds and their hearts in that direction. The problem is not impossible. The problem is not impossible. But it takes a kind of commitment within the college and a kind of support on the part of the community which can accelerate this matter once both of us are equally and commonly mindful of it. Thank you. Members of the Institute for Religious and Social Studies are used to frank and vigorous statements from Dr. Teed and they haven't been disappointed this morning. I'm sure there are a number of questions have been raised in your minds and we'll have those questions at this time. As a matter of fact, one question that was asked shortly before you began to talk, Dr. Teed, was this and I think it's still relevant and ought to be raised now. What specifically can we do as citizens to forward the intercultural educational efforts in our city institutions for higher education? Who is the we, Mr. Hogan? I gather this educational and religious group as citizens. The most important single thing is to support through the appropriate agencies that go to the Board of Estimate meetings to support the efforts that we're making for an auditorium and to accommodate our Brooklyn College students together. For a library at City College where more than 300 out of 7,000 day students can sit in the library and read. For a library and an auditorium in Queens College. You can't run colleges, gentlemen, without the necessary paraphernalia. and everything else has to take second place to the provision of that. The place where those battles are fought out is the Board of Estimate. And if citizens and appropriate citizen agencies will come at the appropriate time to the Board of Estimate and tell them what they think they know they want, that's the most urgent thing of all because we'll implement it. We'll do our level best to implement it operationally when we have the facilities in the colleges to work with. The second question, Dr. Teed, is this. What is the method of allocation of funds for the support of our local city-supported colleges and how can they be enlarged? The original method is supplied in the state law and it has, it's a ratio between our growing at present attendance and the, I'm too complicated to go into it. It's an established relationship as a minimum. Ever since I've known about it, we have never been as low as that minimum prescribed and required in law. The state prescribes that the city must appropriate certain monies. The city is obligated to run these colleges by state legislation and obligated to offer certain support. More than that, support is already being given and it becomes a question beyond that. If you want to exceed by, still further, those legal minima of persuading the city that the claims of the colleges for these buildings and for salaries are more urgent and more pressing than the claims of the lower schools or the claims of the hospitals or the claims of the sanitation department or the fire department. It's as simple as that. And if I were any good, I probably would have, to my credit, the securing from the two mayors under whom I've served far more millions of dollars than is true. But my name is not Robert Moses and I don't seem to be able to overcome the natural limitations that there are budget-wise downtown. The next question seeks to press you into being a real prophet because you're expected to answer the question of what will be the chief developments in our city, a city's educational institutions, I assume, for higher education in the next 15 or 20 years. This, at this point, is a purely personal remark, made purely my personal responsibility. Assuming the city officials take seriously and responsibly the mandate which is upon them in terms of increasing population, in terms of the sense of our citizenry for what they want for their young people, we must enlarge the facilities. I don't say on the same ground because that question of devolution of space is another question. But we must enlarge the facilities of City College. We must, of course, enlarge the facilities of Queen's College where we have only about 2,800 students in the fastest-growing borough in our city. My own view is that we will help meet the problem of numbers and help meet the real educational need also by working with the state, with the new state university people in the bringing into our city under appropriate joint measures of support two-year colleges, certainly one on Staten Island and the allocation of additional ones is certainly subject to very capital scrutiny. but certainly ten years hence there ought to be, it would seem to me, probably in every borough, a two-year college, co-educational character, free tuition-wise, which isn't now in state law. and that would enable a great many of the young people who graduate from high school with a 65-66 average and that gap of people between those and the ones I mentioned who get an 80 average. A lot of those young people to take at least two-year college experience would have some slight vocational emphasis within it and enable those who really qualified for superior intellectual and academic attainment to transfer into the existing colleges. Now that's putting it very quickly. But undoubtedly, as I said, we have about 32,000 day students. Undoubtedly, the reports that we're going to get as to the population trends in relation to high school graduations from only our academic high schools and the kind of marks that we know our high school graduates are getting, we probably ought to be thinking about providing for certainly between 50 and 55,000 BALBS young people 10 years hence. We can make the provision if we can want to get the money. The next question relates to legislation. The questioner wants to know what kind of legislation is now before our state legislature and here, would you outline briefly, in other words, the problem of legislation in relation to the aims of city colleges? There is no acute legislative issue that comes to my mind unless somebody prompts me about it that bears upon our problem. With this important exception, the law which was put through in 1948 after this study of the need for a state university, as it applies to the provision, to the inception of two-year colleges, the law says that the only way that those can be initiated is under a tripartite arrangement of the locality, city or county or some local region, providing a third of the capital support for buildings and land. The state coming in and providing a third. No, I guess it's, pardon, I guess on the capital thing it's half and half. The state and the locality, half each. But on current operation, the locality, the state, and the student meeting current operations on a one-third, one-third, one-third basis, although the state law says that the local community may take two-thirds of it and then not have any tuition. Now, it's my personal opinion that that does not conform to the best experience with two-year colleges in other parts of the country. The two-year colleges should be under a state system. They should be wholly initiated by the state. They should be wholly paid for in terms of capital equipment, operating expenses, by the state. They should be free. And the devolution of responsibility should be as great as possible with local visiting committees, visiting groups, or local trustees responsible to the state overall trustee body. That will require, to do that, would require change in the law. It's very conceivable that the state university trustees themselves may think along these lines and feel that sometime in the next two years they may want to propose such emendation of the legislation about two-year community colleges. Dr. Teed, we have another question on what types of programs you feel there should be in the area of cultural education, a specific program. Apparently, this is a question directed to some of the remarks that you made earlier in your talk when you were discussing the developments in intercultural education. Would you expand on those remarks? Wouldn't the asker the question ask me a little more specifically because you don't want another hour's lectures on curricula in the city college? I can give it to you. I can tell you about curriculum in the city college, but I don't think you want it. I think... Can't the asker ask me a more specific question? Will we... Well, I'll tell you, we'll go on to another question... I'll answer anything in the world, but that's a long answer to give to that. All right. The next question has to do with religious education in the city schools. What do you believe should be the future of education in religious matters in the schools? If, by religious matters, the answer... the asker of the question means knowledge, understanding, exposition of the doctrinal positions of the denominations of the Catholic Church of the Jewish faith, I, of course, am profoundly opposed to any such. I'm unqualifiedly opposed to any doctrinal presentation that would be a matter for appropriately inculcation at the level of the special schools of those particular faiths for which they would be primarily responsible. Now, if by religion you mean, and I know most of us don't mean, but if by religion you mean that you're trying to have young people mindful of their social obligation, having young people generate, so far as is possible, a sense of reverence toward life, concern for their fraternal obligation out in the world around, mindful that there are forces at work in the world which aren't wholly accounted for by their efforts. If that's what you mean by religious, I am sure that any teacher of goodwill, any high-minded and lofty character who is a teacher, a teacher who has a lofty character, is by virtue of his relationship with the students inevitably, up to some measure, influencing those students to share in and emulate the fineness of his character and the range of his aspirations. There is far more of that going on in school and college than citizens realize. if you choose to call that only moral or only ethical, all right, but it's going on. Our schools are not as secular, they are not as brash and brittle as some would have us think. Our teachers are there as teachers because in nine cases out of ten, they are devoted people because they are interested in the unfoldment of the character and the mind and heart of young people. And all of that at its qualitative best is religious in my view. And to that extent, they are doing what would in other connections be called the Lord's work. Thank you, Dr. Tate. This concludes the fifth in the series conducted here at the Institute for Religious and Social Studies of the series on New York City, its social and cultural anatomy. Dr. Tate has just spoken on problems of education in New York City. Thank you.