Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson E. Fairchild welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our series, 1950, midpoint in the 20th century, and one of the great topics of discussion that seems to be bothering a large number of people today is the subject of the prospect of human survival. As we have developed so many wonderful scientific inventions and as we have developed so far in civilization, it seems that we begin to have a little doubt about whether a human individual is going to survive. I am sure that most everybody is acquainted with Dr. Hogben's books. I will refer you to just a couple of them. Dr. Hogben's book, Mathematics for the Million, Science for the Citizen, and his latest one, From Cave Painting to Comic Script, which I hasten to add is not on the comics. Dr. Hogben was here almost exactly nine years ago to the night. It's not quite nine years ago to the night, and we're very happy to have him back with us this evening. Dr. Hogben was here, and before he goes on, I want to tell you that our distinguished British visitor has found himself one day speaking in Minnesota. Dr. Hogben was around 40-odd below zero. The next day or two, he found himself in another section of the United States, in an eastern section not far from here, where the temperature was around 70 above. Dr. Hogben was around 40-odd below zero. As you so well imagine, that puts a considerable strain on any speaker's voice, and he is suffering severely from a bad throat. He is filled with penicillin. And so he said he is not going to be fiery, but he is definitely going to speak to you, and I'm very happy about that. And may I present Dr. Lancelot Hogben. Dr. Hogben. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, the animal species of which we are members has existed for about 50,000 years as such. During those 50,000 years, not a few others have disappeared, as have the mammoth, the dodo, and the great orc from the surface of the earth. Now, it's not very likely that human life will become completely extinct 50 years hence. But it is quite possible that man will then have ceased to be the dominant species of the class mammalia. To say that we ourselves may in fact be the last generation of civilized human beings on this planet is not a picturesque exaggeration, nor is it merely alarming. It re-echoes the sober and unanimous verdict of the world's leading statesman and the world's press during the three days after August the 5th, 1945, on which date occurred any event for which historical scholarship has no precedent. In the words of Mr. Churchill, two days later, it was one which should arouse the most solemn reflection in the mind and conscience of every human being capable of comprehension. On the same day, the London Times declared it to be the view of the statesman assembled in San Francisco that the world was facing its last chance to end the scourge of war, the alternative being an ordered peace or destruction. The York Times voiced its unequivocal view in the bewilderment that such a stupendous announcement must bring. One consequence stands clear. Civilization and humanity can now survive only if there is a new development in mankind's political thinking. Science, in the person of Sir Henry Dale, who, as president of the Royal Society, enjoys the highest professional distinction in Britain, delivered its own verdict in its own austerely temporary idiom. In a message released on August the 8th, Sir Henry Dale declared the release of atomic energy now an accomplished fact. The fact can either destroy civilization or immensely enrich its possibilities. It is everybody's concern, but I do not think that the special right of the scientists to be heard will be questioned. Now here is no embellishment of rhetoric, but the prospect the assertion invites us to inspect is one which our pilgrim fathers might have described without overstatement in the more compelling words of the prophet Micah. The author, for behold, the Lord cometh out and will spread upon the high places of the earth, and the mountains shall be molten under him, and the valleys shall be clipped as webs before the fire. What was self-evident to every literate and reflective human being during the three days of blinding lucidity which followed the flash of the first atomic bomb is not less true today. It is today as true as then that it is race suicide to leave the conduct of world affairs to sovereign states with no court of appeal other than that of the gangster, with no law other than that of the jungle and judgling, with no way of resolving their differences other than the release of unprecedented and well-nighed to unimaginable resources. It is as true today as then that civilization must now organize a government on a world scale or perish. It is as true today as then that men and women of different countries, different trees, different color, must henceforth become co-clarity modern techniques can assure the world of the world. And as then, as then, or be big fellows in a common grave. All this is sober truth. But a thousand times woe to the inhabitants of the earth. We are now in the breathless and unthinking suspense of an atomic armaments race, waiting the apocalyptic doom when the kings of the earth and the great ones and the rich men and the chief captains and the mighty men and every bondman and every free man shall hide themselves in the things and in the rocks of the mountains and shall cry to the mountains and to the rocks, fall on us and hide us from the face of him that sitteth upon the throne. For the great day of his wrath has come. of his wrath has come. To be sure, these are the words of the evangelists rather than those of the men of science, but is it not, as Albert Einstein has reminded us now the pitiable responsibility of men and of science, to what may be the last generation of civilized men and women left on this planet, to proclaim in the forum and in the market square, to what a pretty past the reckless misuse of scientific ingenuity has brought mankind, yea, to Christ, havoc, and the very house stop. Ours is a time when the men of science can have no other knowledge to a world of otherwise lost and damned souls, without a Bunyan to be forced from the city of destruction and... In Bunyan's narrative, you will recall, those of you who have read it, that Pilgrim set forth, soon to fall in with a certain Mr. Worldly Wiseman, who berated him as one of those weak men who, meddling with things too high for them, fall into distractions, which distractions did not only unmanned them but cause them to run upon desperate ventures to obtain they know not what. Today it is the voice of Mr. Worldly Wiseman that is the voice of those who say, we have heard all this different talk before, and the brass hats, obviously the day-to-end boys get the answer, why not let those who have the know-how do all the worrying. So speaks Mr. Worldly Wiseman, and he talks very knowingly about radar screens and ribbon cities and deep underground honeycomb communities where we are going to seek safe sunless quarters while the earth above us are desks of traitors, and in case we are the same in life as our food. This Mr. Worldly Wiseman of course happens to be an American, an American, he doesn't do that, he's going to do domicile in Europe, he goes on to say that after all we heard the last war was going to be a very terrible war, but really it was a very, very nice war. We made a man of the boys, and when they came back they had to go to gratuity, that is, if they did come back in fact, and, and, and, of course they could go to college on them. To be sure, the RAF were shooting down 70% or more, who cares, of the fly bombs before the Nazis switched over to V2. And to be sure there were at one time about 4,000 qualified scientists and big experts around the Massachusetts Institute of Technology working on the V2 itself. Well, fortunately also the Allies occupied Normandy and the war-chairing sites before V2 got into its stride, for the backroom boys did not, as it happened, find an answer. And if they had, what sort, might a reasonable man expect? Who's ever heard of a 100% successful countermeasure to any device of war? Suppose then, and I doubt it, that only 5%, and the backroom boys can guarantee that, only 5% rockets are propelled into the stratosphere with an atomic charge find their mark. At the modest estimate, six of them, I'm not talking about the hydrogen bomb, I'm just talking about the old fashioned, you can possibly harm this bomb. At the modest estimate, six of them could completely paralyse the industrial life of Britain and may more kill a quarter of its population. Well, what would be the result if only one of them found its mark in the middle of Manhattan? Now, maybe that will take time, and I mean, to get one into the middle of Manhattan. But General Gloves, who ought to know, has recently given to the British press an interview in which he disclosed the possibility of making every British harbour unseaworthy in the first 24 hours of what he picked freshly and indulgently calls a slugging match, by the explosion of remote-controlled atomic bombs laid from merchant ships outside the three-mile limit. Thereafter, a large part of the island population will starve, he explains. But adds, gratifying me, that the ground will still be available for use as an American airbase. Admittedly, that is our funeral. But in the interest of good Anglo-American relations, I wish to convey to you the message that it may be unwise to place too much confidence in the British overvaluation of funerals as a form of indoor and outdoor sport. In Bunyan's parable, Mr. Worldly Wiseman did not accost Pilgrims, and his former companion, Mr. Plyable, having fallen into the slough of this pond, had returned to the city of destruction. Today, we need not call it a slough, we can use the modern word, lake, and substitute success for this pond. In the autumn of the many hopeful pliables, to whom the United Nations Organisation was the vision of the promised land. They've seen it become a sounding board for the old passions, a platform for the old intrigue, a playground for the old power politics that has plunged civilisation into catastrophic wars in our lifetime. And like pliable they now ask, if we have such old speeds at our first stepping out, what may we expect to reach this end of journeys in? America and Britain, they say, have abundantly shown their desire for control of atomic energy. USSR has repeatedly exercised its veto to thwart any rapprochement between East and West. We have done all of these candies. What more candies is? And then, because fear drives men and women to seek this rich remedy for an otherwise intolerable expectancy, another voice speaks out of the mire of this pond. If war must come, would it not be better if war, a very quick war, came soon and before the Soviet Union has attained a level of technical confidence sufficient to make it a formidable show? This, of course, is where despair makes way for madness. We have had two wars in our lifetime. The first gave birth to Bolshevism. The second added how many square miles the territories under the citrican hammer, some of you may know better than I did the challenge of the geographer's will. The next will merely create such chaos and disillusion as turns the mind of any who survived it to communism and dictatorships as only practical experience. And if Americans are really in earnest about converting to communism, there are many expedients, surely, to try before falling back on a war, which may destroy themselves as well. For instance, your newspapers might cease to make a build-up for the communist denial of the possibility of finding the middle way, which Britain, like the Scandinavian countries before her, is now courageously pursuing. Those of us, my friends, who can still find rational ground for hopeful effort in the face of so disastrous and catastrophic a prospect, can do so because we believe that it is utterly false to delude ourselves that we, in Britain or America, have in fact done everything on our side to lay the foundations of a stable world order. We believe that it is not too late to do the right thing if we recognize the folly of believing that a war which could give the coup de grace to communism would necessarily be a quick one, with consequences other than irreparable disaster to civilization. But if we do believe it's not too late, we also know that we do it later than we think. Pilgrims' dagger out of the mire in Bunyan's terrible means a monstrous burden of guilt. And there is a monstrous burden of misunderstanding. We must offload ourselves before we too can get out of the slough of this bond. Above all, we have to make a new approach to Anglo-American, to Russian-American relationship. Now let us therefore start by asking what is the prevalent American viewpoint. Many, if not most Americans, appear to believe that the Kremlin has an insatiable lust for world domination sustained by a ruthless fanaticism. In support of the contention, it is possible to cite the consistent testimony of Marxist theologians who reject the possibility of any modus vivendi between the Soviet and the American way of life, and deny the possibility of a resolution of a resolution of differences without reposting violent measures. One can also assert, and with some justice, that the nation committed to the inevitability of a final showdown as its official creed is not likely to delay action accordingly when in a position of advantage. Now, it is possible to accept every one of the foregoing propositions without deriving any substance for the belief that American or British foreign policy is in fact set on a course, likely to curb that appetite for world domination which the violent language of Mr. Viszynski appears to disclose. By the same tone, it is possible to put the case against the Kremlin at its worth, as I shall do, only to see more clearly how disastrously little we have so far done to ensure our future and the preservation of our own hope works. Let us therefore look at current events on the assumption that there is a desperate pressure group in the Soviet Union, as in fact elsewhere, bent on war to achieve its ends. and accordingly that it is desperately important to us to deprive them of the means of precipitating armed conscience. within the framework of any such assumption, one must ask at the outset, from what essays do such men derive the confidence to challenge a combination of powers with such immense technological superiority, as the Anglo-Saxon bloc and, no less important, a combination with so much greater capacities of fuel production. Now surely, the American fear of communism as an expanding free gives us the clue to an answer. The Kremlin has two groups, its fifth column in Europe, and its fifth column in Asia and Africa. Is there, I mean, those who would view the outcome of the Third World War with complacency? It is surely because America alone cannot master a task force able to take advantage of its own overwhelming technical superiority in guerrilla warfare on a world scale. Now one in the capable conclusion to which this leads was indeed clear to many Americans when President Truman first announced the Markle-Aid project. It is a commonplace that the best insurance against the westward drift of communism is the reinstatement of prosperity in Europe. But since communist propaganda challenged at the outset any such intention as a substitute for American interference in European affairs, it is equally indisputable that any aid to Europe on that understanding must be unconditioned. Communist propaganda had indeed a bad start. For the most part, the continent greeted the announcement of American aid to Europe's post-war recovery as a gesture of unprecedented generosity and wisdom. Then as months went by, while the legislature of the United States haggled over the premium for this very favorable proposal for life insurance, new voices asserted themselves. Candidates in your primaries, newspaper proprietors in their editorials, Wall Street tycoon conferences declared, and released for the European press, that no cent should go to Britain, no cent, no dollar. And this Britain banned the steel nationalisation. Britain turned out Mr. Ackley. Britain adopted free trade. All this at a time when Britain was the one primary European power, where communism had no secure foothold, and that because, and that because Britain was steering grimly to a welfare state, a state with the most ample guarantees of the Britain's birthright to know, to argue, and to utter freely according to conscience, all this at a time when Britain was the one foolwork against the westward advance of the police state. As a grandfather of three American children I have come here to see for the first time, I know that I am one of the few people in Britain who know that such utterances are not the thought of thinking America. I do not believe that they represent the American majority of opinion, but lacklessly they do represent the only segment of American opinion that is articulated in Europe today. That being so, it is only too true to say this. What Russian foreign agents could not have done in twenty years under their own steam to promote distrust of American good intentions Americans themselves have accomplished in as many months? Lamentably, this is not all there is today. For it has now become evident that American aid to Europe has as its avowed official aim, rearmament for a struggle in which Europe is the first forlorn line of defence. This would still be a calamitous mockery of the deep desire for peace of a war-weary continent if the American press could have the good sense or the good taste to muzzle its own warmongers. But to make matters worse, newspapers articles by American military strategists have now weakly familiarised the ears of Europe with the adjective expending law. No week goes by without the publication in our press of evidence that there is a very vocal, if numerically small, pressure group in America which would welcome a war for which America will supply the bombs, while Britain and the Benilux countries supply the babies. Here is an example, widely publicised in our own press, the utterance of an American senator, whom I believe rejoices in the military view point archaic name of Ken. The other Russian centres we must hit in a week. We will not necessarily have to send our land army there. In the next war, as in the last, let us recruit our soldiers with other nations and let them send their boys into the holocaust. That is what long-range claims mean. Now I put it before the bar of the greatest potential source for peace in the world today, the conscience of American womanhood. Do you really think that Belgian mothers and British mothers will buy this line of talk? If so, and you can buy that line of talk on every railway bookstore in Britain in Newsweek and Time, and the other representative organs of the more regrettable faces of American opinion. Do you really, I put it to you again, think that Belgian mothers and British mothers will buy that line of talk? Well, it is so, and I know you don't believe it. Even our own brass heads don't believe it. So I am not going to quote my opinion on this passage. I shall leave any comment to our leading British strategist, a very conservative soldier, Major General Fuller, in the article from which I quoted the statement. says Major General Fuller in an article on September the 11th, 1949, this fall, commenting upon the Senator's remarks, a delightful picture, atomic bombs for the Americans, hail and Tommy for the rest. But will the other boys agree to it? OK. OST And even if they do, are they capable of holding a frontier stretching from the North Cape to Trieste without adding Greece and Turkey in a few ordnance? And then this is a major general. And Western Europe has not the manpower to resist Russia and her satellites. Now, I read you the statement of a senator. And we have very objective reasons for regarding an American senator as much more important than an English Jew. Because the House of Lords has no power to veto the legislation the House of Commons has passed. And I've also read you the comments of an English major general. They're not the reaction of a professor who's been pilloried by an irresponsible press after sustained mental torture by a Gestapo-minded committee. The words I read were the deliberate verdict of a military man who likes as little as Americans to see his own folk figure as the fool guy of a foreign car. I say that a single statement such as the one, and it's one half a dozen one can pick up on the railway book store any week in Britain or any week anywhere in Europe. A single such statement as the one which I have cited, as the one which provoked the remarks from Major General Fuller that I quoted, does more to make a fifth column in Europe than all the work of all the Moscow agents at large on five continents. And I repeat that American periodicals for sale and the only American periodicals for sale on railway bookstalls in Britain abound with such statements. By what right and by what logic do Americans believe that Europe is at one and the same time willingly expendable and cheerfully dependable? Blinded by hatred of Russia, individual Americans, individual Americans, unrepresented of the deep and widespread desire for peace of the bulk of the American nation, have done more than communists could reasonably have hoped to spread distrust of America's good intentions and to consolidate a European fifth column. And if you are looking for those who are helping the advance of communism, it is men such as I have quoted that should be in the dot today. Now, I hope I have indicated to you that the European fifth column, reinforced by the reckless cynicism of American warmongers and the commercialism of the American press, is only one of the major military assets of the Kremlin. But there is another, and it is even more important to get it into focus if we are to reinstate hope in a world that is drifting to disaster. To do so, let us, after all it's not much of a price to pay for survival, let us relinquish the luxury of self-righteousness for a few minutes. Now, we who enjoy the privileges of the Anglo-American culture value a freedom of discussion, the existence of which is very real in Britain, as also in Scandinavia. For those Britishers who have the privilege that I have of standing before an audience such as this tonight, it is evident that this is a very real tradition also in these United States of America. that I hope that you will have in your hearts to forgive the ordinary British reader, who can no longer travel, when he hears of the exploits of the Congressional Committee on Un-American Activities, if he feels that he's under no moral obligation to take an American's profession of respect for free speech at their own valuation. Thank you. Be that as it may, assuredly, and very obviously, that the citizen of the Soviet Union does not understand the importance of charity in this tradition. And on that account, it's very easy for us in the United States, in Britain, in Scandinavia, to look at the current culture conflict between the two great world powers as a clear-cut choice between intellectual liberty and mental slavery. But, should we see it in the same way if we'd been born with a black or yellow-skinned in southern Rhodesia or Nigeria or Malaya and have there enjoyed what few educational amenities the local scene could offer? Surely not. Inescapably, our perspective would have been different. For a high level of general literacy is a prerequisite to deep respect for intellectual freedom as we ourselves rightly concede it. All too few in Britain as yet sufficiently realized the world significance of the fact that Russia has prosecuted among the backward minorities taken over from the Tsarist regime a program to liquidate illiteracy with a vigor which makes the Soviet Union an emblem of hope to oppress colonial people throughout the world. Americans, with a far cleaner colonial record than that of Britain, have still to grasp the military, I repeat, military meaning of the fact that Paul Robeson can walk in the streets of Moscow as he cannot walk in the streets of Memphis with a sense of human dignity. At this moment, the USSR can count on mobilizing one half of the world's inhabitants against the chromatocracies of the West if we continue to indulge in the criminal lunacy of the fantasy that America's technical resources for blasting away to atomic victory over the stricken and slindered corpse of Europe will suffice to curb Russia's appetite for expansion. Need the Kremlin be frightened of technical and manpower resources powerless to handle an Asia with a new assurance and an awakening Africa when her armies are at the channel ports with war industries in the Urals beyond the danger of the cap from air? I say, ladies and gentlemen, if communism is spreading, if it is a threat to American folkways, if it is an obstacle to peace, it is so because and only because of our failure to offer a constructive alternative to world communism either as a guarantee of security from war or as a guarantee of security from want. And if these are the things that we ourselves wish for, our concern is quite simply this. Have we, on our side, really done everything to mobilize the rest of the world in a united front of action and of proposals which commend themselves to the common sense and conscience of mankind outside the Iron Curtain? Have we, in particular, given a new message of hope to the underprivileged communities of Asia and Africa? America? Now, were it not for one prevalent misconception, it would be transparently clear that the answer to both these questions is an imperfect negative. It is not possible to do justice to the doubts and perplexities of many misappliables in Europe and America without brief comment on the regrettable terms in which the USSR rejected the Baruch plan for world atomic control as an unwarrantable infringement of national sovereignty. Here, let me say that what reasons the Russians gave for rejecting the Baruch plan are of less interest than the real ones for rejecting it. If only because the peculiar way in which the Russians used the word democracy should check the impulse to place overmatch importance on the way in which they use the term national sovereignty. It is not unduly charitable to presume that it mainly expresses a fear of external interference with their own way of life and such fear is not a disorder peculiar to the steps of Siberia. You will find it in Manchester and Maryland and the which is an outface in the next another little theosophy. The main issue we've got to face in this connection is not what notice lie way back of Russia's rejection of the Baruch plan but whether the plan itself makes sense. Now, about this I'm not going to express my own view at all. I'm going to quote you because I know you want to hear a representative viewpoint and I will neither flatter denigrate myself nor flatter the British public assuming that I'm necessarily a representative Englishman. I'm going to quote the comments of our most I think independent English newspaper The Observer is no friend of his fellow traveller it's not even sport of the present government and if you ask me what its politics what were I'd have to fall back on a figure of speech the grammar books call oxymoron by describing it as intelligently conservative. Referring to the Atomic Energy Commission deadlock in 1946 the observer in a recent article said this I'll go on quoting while I keep my hand up and throughout these procedures one basic issue has never been squarely faced and I got it right this time last time I read this out loud I said fairly squarely and throughout these procedures of the Atomic Energy Commission deadlock one basic issue has never been squarely faced how exactly is an international control scheme to be protected against sabotage let us suppose that a control scheme on the lines of the Baruch plan with the ADA in charge and the inspection service everywhere were to be agreed upon and introduced if Russia were to seize one of the plants in her territory or merely to obstruct the inspector what then would happen there can be no secure control of atomic energy clearly unless some international authority has at its own immediate command an armed force superior to any armed force possessed by any national government but since no such authority could command a force superior to the normal armed force of a major state it follows that no effective control is possible without universal disarmament to a token level the authority could then have its own fairly small force an airborne world police force armed with guns it would maintain an inspection service everywhere its task would be to see that no atom bombs and not only atom bombs no powerfully destructive weapons of any sort including bacteriological weapons were manufactured anywhere one first step might be for the western powers to declare their conviction that effective control is impossible without such a radical surrender of sovereignty and far again disarmament and put up the plan to the Russians placing starkly before Russia this as the world's one chance of lasting peace and this project I don't know that just nd nd the earth folks i who out nd and i wash nd the and at least this would clear the air it would supersede and I ask you to listen to this verdict on the much publicised vera plan it would supersede the interminable unreal discussions about details of control unreal because the one thing we cannot have the one thing not worth talking about is an effective control scheme superimposed on this present system of sovereign states each commanding powerful armour that ends the quotation so we get down to this we cannot have effective control of atomic energy until we have some sort of federal world government we cannot have effective inspection of atomic armament production without a police force to back the inspectorate with the authority of government without federal world government conventions and agreements to restrict the use of atomic weapons are merely charades fit for a children's Christmas party so far we've tried local pets which can merely exacerbate Russian paranoia neither America nor Britain together nor singly have as yet offered to the world a proposal of world federal government which could give compelling reality to our professions of good faith including no doubt our sincere desire to place this great new instrument of potential prosperity at the service of mankind which will be our position in short those of you who say we have done all we can Russia won't pay our position surely recalls the remark of the veteran feminist Ellen Kaye during my undergraduate graduate attitude when she said that nobody is entitled to dismiss monogamy as a failure until somebody has tried it we do not yet certainly know whether the software confusion would have risked the rebut of rejecting realistic proposals that we have not in fact yet offered but I can see that it would be rash to assume that Russia would be easily persuaded in her present temper to play on such proposals what we can assert and what I do assert with reason is that we can deprive a military pressure group in the Kremlin if such there be of its only effective weapon in a war of ideology comparable to what happened during the spectacular eruption of the Muslim world if we ourselves place unreservedly before mankind a plan unequivocally indicative of our own good faith and capable of uniting all mankind in a concert no one group of rulers could likely challenge as yet we have not done so whether the USSR would play the role of North Carolina in the act of federation of the first world constitution is not therefore a matter of very profitable speculation what matters what matters is that neither America nor her satellites have as yet put forward a plan which the USSR could reject only at the cost of immeasurable damage to her moral prestige in the rest of the world and for that reason at the cost of what I here repeat are her only formidable assets in a bid for world power so in facing up to our failure and complacency we've disclosed the two essential desiderata of such a plan first we must realise that those of us who have different folkways different ideologies must henceforth live together or die together and there's no place left to hide in we must make it abundantly clear what we ourselves mean by relinquishing national sovereignty that is to say the luxury of dying together because there is no world law except the law for judgment we must make it abundantly clear that this is not what the Russians mean by the infringement of national sovereignty that is to say the imposition of our own culture and of our own economic institutions on other people with different explanations so that any acceptable proposals of world government must be proposals for federal world government with a supreme court to safeguard all reasonable claims of the constituent states to manage their internal affairs it is a hope making fact that the hardest constructive thinking on these lines is going on right here in America in groups such as led by Robert Hutchins in the University of Chicago but not least important is the necessity of finding a formula of world federal government to sidestep controversy about representation in a world parliament with due regard to two realities one is that western nations will not likely surrender national sovereignty on the basis of proportional representation while an overwhelming majority of the world population are still illiterate but the honor is that a franchise qualification based on literacy may well aggravate the suspicion that any such project is merely a super imperialism to close the ranks for a coming clash with the Soviet Union while it is still in the position of moral leadership these are the colored peoples of the world so that if literacy admittedly sets a necessary limitation on representation in a system of government capable of salvaging civilization the acceptability of the principle assuredly demands action to forestall the suspicion that it is not a device for maintaining the status quo I submit that a compelling proposal for world federal government must take within its scope of the creation of a statutory body which I can best describe as world infringement organization by analogy with FAO and WHO a body which would have these powers first to enforce on trustee nations the obligation to implement a program of the of universal literacy with a fixed time limit in territories within their control with a fixed time limit in territories in their control secondly to make recommendations on the eligibility of backward communities to greater autonomy with due regard to their educational progress within that framework third to revise at regular intervals the franchise qualification of independent nations not as yet eligible for representation on a basis of equality with western nations which have in fact established universal literacy within their own remains and fourth at a cost which would be trivial compared with the fripperies and flummeries of UNESCO to facilitate the circulation of new instruments of education especially the fullest exploitation of visual aids in the interests of underprivileged cultures of communities where the tempo of the reduction of the literacy must otherwise be limited by the number of teachers available such then as the basic decision after the plan and today in that situation men such as Albert Einstein Robert Hutchins John Boyd Orr who assert the imperative and instant need for such action are not the visionaries of today on the brink of irremediable disaster those who put their faith in protocol and power politics are those who are out of touch with the realities of the atomic age nor is it clever to doubt the possibility of undertaking this great act of self-insurance nearly 200 years ago a notable group of men put forward a proposal for a new sort of government on this continent nobody who was anybody believed in it everybody who was anybody doubted it in the same spirit as our fathers let us go before the tribunal of history in the same memorable faith with the same undying courage asserting a new message of hope to mankind we hold these things to be self-evident that our offspring are entitled to carry on the human pilgrimage into the unknown as co-heirs with us to the abundance that modern science can confer upon us and the people how are we going to translate that faith into positive action when the major preoccupations of the political executive and the state departments are the bread and butter problems of world trade and the day-to-day expedience to gain breathing space in a world armament race only one procedure will force our political leaders labour and conservative in Britain democratic and republican in America to act decisively on behalf of the war-weary and peace hungry peoples of fight continents we must mobilise a world public opinion so dramatic so compelling that no government can disregard it and already there are organisations in Britain in these United States in Western Europe working to that end in America the United World Federalists alone have 40,000 members already more than half the states of this union have placed on record in general terms their approval of world federal government and I understand that five states have now recommended the calling of the Convention for an amendment for the constitution necessary for incorporation of America in world government if and when the occasion arises the time has now come to put peace before party to espouse the principle of universal law and order with a singleness of purpose comparable to that of the leaders of suffrage movement when they won the vote for women in Britain we must bring into being in all the free nations a worldwide party the party of human survival and if any of you want to know what my views about the British general election are I will forestall that question at this stage by saying I am neither a conservative nor a liberal nor a member of the Labour Party but a survivalist I do not fear any different response to courageous leadership with a clearly conceived ending view what we must rather fear is that those with knowledge and intellectual gifts to undertake research and study prerequisite to a clearly conceived goal and policy will fail in their duty if it takes the personnel of a ministry at least six years to draft the bill for a national health service before it is ready to put before the British Parliament is too much a hope that an assembly here and now called by governments forced by popular pressure to explore the possibility of agreement about a world constitution would make much headway unless it can draw on a ready fund of formidable talents and expert blueprints the draft of a world constitution must embrace the diversity of themes first there's the legal framework which safeguards the right of constituent communities to pursue their own folkways impeach with one another but second there are the services which any government must undertake if it is to be more than the formula of a negation and third there are the steps by which it is practicable to invest a global government with supreme authority by an overwhelming concentration of forces and both there is great hope and inspiration in what the Chicago circle have undertaken in a solid contribution to the legal aspects of the problem but the functional problem the services the government must provide maintain to be sure there is already within the framework of the United Nations a skeleton of an international civil service for ministries respectively concerned with food and health with new and more realistic terms of reference UNESCO might cease to be synonymous with fiasco and become what I have called world infringement organisation guaranteeing freedom from ignorance as FAO and WHO exist to guarantee freedom from hunger and disease but another functional problem of world government comes into focus if you ask yourself by what steps a federal world government could invest itself with supreme authority now we must envisage the possibility that the subject will not immediately come into the scope of its provisions and advantages if so it is imperative to prescribe the plan of investiture leaving the door open to eventual participation and disposing of any rational grounds for suspicion of aggressive intention against a nation or nations not as yet ready to participate during the transitional period our problem will then be to consolidate overwhelming force at the sovereign disposal of a supernational but not as yet universal authority to do so without relinquishing the promise of prosperity by immediate result immediate relief from an otherwise intolerable burden of arms now this may require sacrifice on the part of those Americans to whom the principle of private enterprise is sacrosanct for it is difficult to see any solution alternative to the creation of a monopolistic international aviation trust under semi-military control albeit a public utility whose primary function is peaceful it was thus the British overseas airline corporation came into being under our control at the end of the war and if there were no other reason for putting that view forward I put that view forward for this simple reason that in the large the private ownership of large aircraft in the atomic age is a dangerous a meaning to human survival world we must return to where we began to the three days when the flash of the first atomic bomb transitory illuminated the mental darkness of mankind time when the New York Times declared that civilization and humanity can now survive only if there is a new development in mankind's political thinking the challenge of our time is without historic precedence but so was that of the colonists at the end of the 18th century it calls for exacting intellectual effort as is also true of the challenge to which Franklin Jefferson Tom Payne and Alexander Hamilton responded in their day and generation to the question what is the prospect of human survival the answer is therefore this the prospect is what we make it if we are timid and faithless it is sorry comfort that there may be no survivors to record our failure if we face the future with mental courage and with a determination to find a people's way out of the quagmire post-war power politics history may record ours as the beginning of a golden age applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause applause Well thank you very much Dr. Hogben for giving us that very stimulating and very interesting British point of view would you please come up here sir applause applause applause applause applause I have quite a few questions here Professor Hogben maybe we can answer them quickly any one of these would take a book or a whole lecture to answer but let's try and see if we can get over as many as possible the first one here is our condition for martial aid is not what you stated it is not that England give up the welfare state we want the Western European nations to unite why is the British government against that one are they and two do you feel that way about it there are two different questions here the first is that I said with all the emphasis of which I am capable that I was not stating in my remarks about the American attitude to martial aid what all Americans thought or even what a majority Americans thought what those Americans whose views are current through the American press in Europe do in fact think and therefore there isn't very much point in answer to the first part of the question because it is answered in what I said adequately but there is a much more serious question in this we want the fellow citizen who asked the question is we want Western Europe to unite well well why do you want Western Europe to unite just to be the foregad of Russia I mean what's the point in Western Europe to unite I mean I just want to put it to you that whoever Western Europe picks a quarrel with Western Europe including Britain are going to be the hand between the sandwich and the next war whoever wins the next war if anybody does win the next war I don't think anybody will really win the next war but at any rate there won't be anything left of ourselves what we want is not local PACs that are just going to make the Russians feel more aggressive Western Europe is an invitation to Russia to for an invitation to the Red Army to walk to the channel ports before America hasn't a substantial continental force there there is only one guarantee for peace and that is to start having what is the only permanent guarantee for peace right now and that is world government and as you haven't even begun to amend the constitution of the United States so that you could enter into world government why are we expected to start by having Western Europe united so as to provoke Russia into a war on the assumption that we are the mercenaries of the United States thank you Dr. Hogman I might tell you that about two weeks ago Dr. Hans Cohn speaking here stated that he wanted to go on record as saying that there would not be any more war that we would not have a third world war it's very interesting these various different points of view Dr. Hogman do you think that a world federation coming out of fear of being bombed out is built on a very strong foundation well I'm not very interested in what motives these people to do sensible things it's always seemed to me that one odd characteristic common to rather amateur psychoanalyst Plymouth Brethren communist eugenist is to think that when you have explained why a man holds particular beliefs you've shown that his beliefs are wrong is that where of course true it would mean that there would be no explanation of holding correct beliefs a view that I don't hold I don't give a damn what reasons people have for starting world government providing they started you said you were a survivalist sir good evening and your name please Mr. Harris how can you reconcile a so-called social labor government with a foreign Churchillian colonial policy well then I don't know that I am sort of to come before this audience either to as a salesman for the British Conservative Party or the British Labour Party and therefore I don't know that I'm really under an obligation to do either as a survivalist I think they're both wrong so far they've done nothing yet either of them substantially to prod the United States into reasonable action alright thank you and good evening and your name Mr. Mittler precisely what positive constructive measures can you suggest or propose for a program for survival you suggest that you're a survivalist in other words what is the platform of the survivalist party certainly an amendment to the American constitution is not a sufficient measure because it takes but one to start a war well when I say that I'm a survivor I mean I'm a member of one of the many groups that are working in various countries like for example the United World Federalist in America to force their own governments to take action by the convention of a special assembly also the United Nations to set up a world federal constitution nation and it seems to me a quite simple thing to create a body of public opinion if you want to badly enough if human beings do want to survive which one leaves a doubt sometimes human beings do want to survive simple enough to force your politicians to take steps to inaugurate the setting up of world government thank you professor here's another question how could a world government among other things relieve the overpopulation for example as places mentioned here as mentioned have made in some areas of Italy well I don't think that that would be one of the problems of world government I mean as far as I know it would require a new amendment to the United States Constitution in order to force compulsory birth control on the state of Georgia but that doesn't in spite of all that you've kept the peace with one another for quite a large number of years yes good evening your name Mr. Drayson I would like to ask whether the professor doesn't agree with the view which I hold and others do no doubt that Mr. Churchill started off the Cold War with his notorious speech the get tough speech in Fulton Missouri and by the same token and by the same token in line with your survival spirit can Mr. Churchill not now be moved since we are all faced with utter destruction within the next 50 years to recant that get tough speech in some manner and make it felt and make himself felt all over this world he's getting pretty old he himself is somewhat of a survivalist and let him give us a chance too our friend seems to wonder ask what my opinion of Mr. Churchill is when I was 30 years younger I regarded him as a menace during the war I regarded him as a necessary evil and today I regard him as the greatest asset the Labour Party has neck neck neck neck neck neck neck neck neck Thank you sir Good evening Mr. Hart Dr. Hogman you speak of Russia eliminating illiteracy but look at the distorted view that the Russian people read in Pravda and the Russian press in general what good does it do Americans and English desires for maintaining peace when the Russian government controls the Russian press Dr. Hogman I don't care what you read if I'm the guy that tells the printer what to print I couldn't agree with you more I think and it is evident like myself you derive much more help from the printed words than from the spoken words because the passage in which I referred to the liquidation of the literacy in the Soviet Union hadn't the slightest relevance whatever to your the question you have asked I was not stating whether it was a good thing or a bad thing the people in the news about whether it was a good thing or a bad thing that the liquidation of illiteracy had been accomplished in the Soviet Union so rapidly in view of the tight censorship that does exist of opinion in Russia and merely stated not what I think was a good thing but because Russia had achieved in about 10 years more than at the present tempo the British Empire in fact the territory might be expected to achieve in 150 years Russia had in fact become a symbol of hope to the adequate peoples of the world and I'm taking that as an objective fact not as a moral judgment thank you good evening the last time I had the privilege of reading any of your utterances Professor Hogman we were just in the middle of the Lysenko controversy as far as I recollect you had been invited by the BBC to air your opinions on the subject opposite such other eminent persons as Bertrand Russell Julian Huxley etc. much to your embarrassment I'm sure you'll find it hard to defend the eastern official version at that time also your later article in I believe the London Daily Worker left me very confused could you perhaps clarify your opinions on this subject especially in the light of some of your statements tonight and your obvious and sincere belief in freedom for the individual if I could take this back to Great Britain as one of the great jokes in my career I do not know whether a two man living J.B.S. Haldane would be more angered to be confused with Lensseless Hogman or Lensseless Hogman angered to be confused with J.B.S. Haldane yes sir I would like to retract right here I did confuse you with Professor Haldane thank you you're certainly a gentleman Dr. Hogman what can an individual like all of us here what can an individual do to get world federal government what can an individual well I mean if you ask me what you should do I didn't come here to speak for United World Federalist but you'll find the telephone director that seems to me the most active group of people in the United States and I didn't know the resistance until I came to the United States this isn't a put up job alright thank you good evening good evening my name is Mr. Herbstein Dr. Hogman beyond the attainment of world government which seems an eventual goal what can the American people do immediately to make their will for peace felt in policy controlling circles so that there may come about the basis for peace namely an end to the Cold War and some rapprochement with the Soviet block of powers what forms of action can be taken specifically I'm thinking in terms of something that will reach the powers that be that control policy so that the aroused public opinion that you referred to may express itself irresistibly well I should say to that it's more or less included an individual cannot express himself actively except by becoming one of a group of individuals and agreeing with other individuals to take action as a result of common agreements about what things be wise and most effective to do I'd venture to suggest the largest body of people working for world government in the United States and I can't don't think I can add more to that I just want to say one thing I got considered tomorrow I literally talked my throat out tonight and it's made it very difficult for me to keep going up to date and then I had the greatest shock without previous psychiatric treatment I couldn't have put up to in 55 years of my life nobody's doing great part of which I've more or less known J.B.S. all day nobody's ever instructed me or him by including the field thank you very much doctor and for your long and hard work at the field thank you thank you