Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. We are happy to announce that the National Safety Council has awarded one of its public interest awards for 1950 to the Reviewing Stand. The award was made for exceptional public service to safety through the vital role the program played in the reduction of the overall accident death rate to a record low in 1951. The Reviewing Stand appreciates this commendation and wishes to extend thanks to the National Safety Council for this outstanding award. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses by transcription, who should drive automobiles. Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the licensing of drivers, the qualities of a good driver, and the procedures to follow in handling problem drivers. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. The Northwestern University Traffic Institute is conducting a national training program for Chief Driver License Examiners. Twenty-five states are represented in this professional in-service study. Two of our speakers today are associated with this program. Mr. James S. Baker, Director of Research at the University Traffic Institute, and Mr. Fred P. Williams, Chief Examiner for the Driver's License Division of the State of California. Our third speaker is Ms. Agnes Sharp, Chief Psychologist and Director of Research at the Psychiatric Institute of the Municipal Court of Chicago. Now, in opening this discussion, Ms. Sharp and gentlemen, I would like to ask what appears to be a rather obvious question. Why should we license automobile drivers? Baker, why should we? It's proved to be the most economical and effective way of getting at a certain phase of the traffic accident problem that we've been able to devise. It's the only way that you can make sure systematically that all people have some minimum degree of ability and knowledge before they're cut loose in the road, and a degree which is necessary for the safe driving in traffic. Without that licensing procedure, there is no control over a lot of people who would otherwise go onto the roads quite unqualified. To what extent are automobile accidents caused by poor driving, Williams? Well, in our experience, mechanical defects, highways, and that type of situation causes between 10 and 15 percent of the accidents. The balance, I think, are directly attributable to poor driving on the part of one or more of the drivers involved in the accident. Perhaps we can look at it this way. Since 1925, the accidents per hundred million miles of driving have gone down from about 18 to 7 and a half. That means we've made tremendous strides in saving people's lives on the highway. A good deal of this has been done by improvement in the vehicle itself. Automobile manufacturers have put on four-wheel brakes, shadow-proof glass, and all the other features, so that today we find it rather rare that you can blame the car exclusively for an accident. There are no longer steering wheel failures. Very few accidents do to blowouts, and cars can turn over several times without crushing the occupants because of the better construction of the tops. Highways also have been greatly improved. And, uh, whereas we used to have intersection accidents at many places, we have, uh, now put in, uh, traffic lights at those places or separated the grades, uh, with railroads, and those improvements have been made. We've got reductions. Now if we look to future reductions, where are we going to get them from? What are we going to do from now on out to, uh, prevent 35,000 people a year from being killed on our highways? We've got to look to a difficult quarter, and that is something about the driver. And we haven't spent the money or the time or the research on driver control that we have on improvement of the cars and highways. Do all states have, uh, driver licensing laws? Uh, only, uh, one state in the United States does not have such a law at the present time. However, the, uh, effectiveness of many of the laws in some of the states is rather poor. Uh, the actual, uh, uh, administration isn't too good in several of our states, unfortunately. I take it then there's considerable variation among states in these, uh, driver license laws? A very great deal of, uh, variation. Some of the state laws are essentially revenue measures to collect some money from drivers, perhaps chauffeurs also, for the purpose of building highways. And, uh, there is little to be expected from them in, uh, actual reduction of accidents. Missouri, for example, is such a state. Other states have looked, uh, upon this, or come to look upon it largely as a safety measure, and are really making driver licensing pay off in the reduction of accidents. Uh, Connecticut, which has been in the business a long time, and Massachusetts, and some of the other eastern states, are doing that now. What would you say are the principal weaknesses in these driver licensing provisions, the country over, Williams? I would think that it is a lack of authority to, uh, uh, take the actions that are required in some states, but more than that it is the, uh, the fact that we are unable to give an adequate test because of the financing. Uh, the national average, uh, for overall driver's licensing is about 27 cents per license issued. Uh, the average allowable for the actual examination out of that, however, comes nearer 12 cents, uh, for a driver per year. Uh, this sum is, uh, obviously inadequate if we are going to go into, uh, very, uh, thorough or exhaustive, exhaustive tests. Now, it isn't, it isn't that the, uh, enough money isn't collected from the drivers for that, because the, uh, average, uh, driver pays in about 93 cents per driver per year, of which only around, what did you say? 27. 27 was, is spent for actual licensing, uh, business, the rest being general funds. Uh, now another thing that I want to point out is a definite difficulty with licensing operations, particularly in, uh, the Midwestern states of Michigan, Wisconsin, and Illinois, and that is that the, uh, licensing is distributed, uh, between several agencies. In Wisconsin and Michigan, the examining is done by local officials on a part-time basis, i.e., that's a, it's an amateur job. Uh, in Illinois, the driver improvement work, that is the handling of the repeaters, is done by local courts who have the facilities, the background, with the exception of such courts as Chicago has, where, uh, Miss Sharpe's work will, uh, deal with some of the problem drivers. Do you have that kind of divided authority in California, Williams? No, all, uh, all of the authority is concentrated in California, in the Division of Drivers Licenses, which is a, uh, a portion of the Department of Motor Vehicles. Under one head, we have both the licensing and the driver improvement work. Uh, no examinations are given other than by trained men. Uh, we find it much more effective and easy to handle. Well, now, assuming you people have the funds and the authority necessary, uh, can you tell what, uh, is a good driver? That is, what does a, a good driver have to have or do that, uh, that a bad driver doesn't have to have or do? That's a very difficult thing to say, of course, because, uh... Of course, that's what you're up against. Yes, we're decidedly, because until we can say which drivers are the good drivers and which are the bad ones, we can't decide what tests will pick out the good ones and what tests will pick out the bad ones. But in general, we look toward those drivers with, uh, five, six, seven, eight hundred thousand miles of handling a big bus in all kinds of weather and traffic without any accident, not just a reportable accident, but any minor accident even, as the, uh, as the, uh, perfection, you might say. And toward that, we strive and, uh, we try to see what those men do that others don't. And it's on the basis of some of those things that we set up these tests. That doesn't mean, however, that we can require the abilities of those drivers of the general public. If we did, we would cut off half the drivers on the road today, which isn't impossible. And the commercial vehicle fleet, you see, we can skim the cream, as it were, of drivers and take our pick. Whereas in licensing, the best we can do is expect to drain off the dregs at the bottom of the crop and, uh, and, uh, take out the bad ones only. What do you test for when you give these tests? We test for the, uh, various capabilities to drive. For instance, we test for the man's physical, uh, ability to handle the car, like test his vision, which is very important. We test his hearing. We watch his coordination to a certain extent. Then, of course, we must test for his knowledge of the rules of the road and the traffic laws. And, uh, the final and, uh, generally the, uh, thing that determines whether the man will be, will be licensed is, uh, the, uh, driving test or road test. In that test, we test for his skill in manipulation, whether he can, uh, properly perform with a car. We also test for his reaction to other drivers on the road, how he shares the road with other people. Does he do it with safety or not? And those are the things we watch for. And Miss Sharp has been sitting here, uh, very quietly. I'd like, I'd like to ask her about this, uh, uh, kind of situation. Let's say you get the, the driver that, uh, Williams has been describing. He's mechanically perfect. That is, he knows his automobile. And yet he still has accidents. That is, I, I imagine you have accidents, uh, coming from people who really know how to operate automobiles. Yes, I'd like to know what some of his attitudes are, his social attitudes, his politeness, his general politeness, his, uh, degree of temper, how quickly he can be frustrated, how low a frustration point he has, how angry he can get. I'm assuming that, uh, the private driver, not the truck drivers, not the train chauffeurs, but the ordinary individual driving, acts in his car much the way he acts any other place. And if he isn't able to train his, and to train, to be trained to restrain himself with this dangerous vehicle, isn't he going to be a bad driver if we can't help him, as we train him to drive, or as we examine him, to, um, see that he is a social being who must drive in the fashion, uh, the law suggests, so that he himself will be safe, and everyone on the street, and in other cars is also safe. What do you think about that, Williams? Uh, that's, that's very interesting. I wish we could do it. However, we do have one factor that, uh, we have to meet all the time, Mr. Sharp, and that is, uh, there is apparently very little relationship between, uh, intelligence and driving. You're not speaking about, uh, intelligence as such, are you? No, I wasn't talking about intelligence. By intelligence, we mean the ability to think and solve problems. Now, that's necessary if there is a bad road problem or congestion in traffic. You must have a certain degree of intelligence. On the other hand, most of driving, uh, is made up of gross movements, the motor skills, that are very much like walking or running. They're, or like driving or flying a plane. You do it by muscular balance and coordination. So that given the, uh, minimum, so to speak, of intelligence necessary, I'm talking about the personality structure, the way a person acts, his social adjustment, his emotional maturity, his, uh, disturbances over little things. Well, you're talking about the, the guy that gets tough, that, uh, is, uh, even though he knows how to drive a car, he's just a hazard on a public highway because of his temperament and his, his attitude. He's bratty. Yes, but there, in addition to those, there are large numbers who aren't, uh, uh, who know how to drive and can do it all right, but who don't, and yet you wouldn't classify as being of that type. Here's the fellow who, uh, goes out on the highway and without being frustrated or anything else particularly falls asleep while he's driving, runs off the highway and kills himself. It isn't a matter of, uh, of exactly, uh, these emotional stresses, uh, in, in the positive sense, but in a rather negative sense of, uh, of indifference or slacking off or taking too easy the driving problem and assuming that the car will run itself for some reason. And, uh, we find them also in accidents. But that still doesn't answer Miss Sharpe's problem. We may have sleepy drivers, but we also have these bratty drivers, was that the term you used? Yes, sir. Uh, can you detect them? Can you do anything about these, uh, boys of that sort? Well, so far, nobody has, uh, brought forth any test that can be applied in anything like the time with anything like the degree of certainty that we would need for rejecting them from the stand, from, uh, driving. Of course, if these fellows become repeaters, uh, you get at them, don't you? Oh, yes. We can handle them if they become repeaters. And how do you handle them? Well, uh, the normal procedure is to call them in by, uh, one of several processes, the best, uh, method, uh, usual terminology is to call them in for what's known as review examination. In which you, uh, go over the man's problem and, uh, get his background. You go, uh, a little further than you would in a normal examination and try to determine what is causing, uh, the accident. And, uh, from there you attempt to, uh, work with the individual, uh, to, uh, uh, get him to overcome that particular difficulty. Yeah. Do you think, do you think that would help, uh, Ms. Sharp? Yes, I think that would help a good deal. I think I'd like to make this comment. It's sort of one against two here. It seems to me that, rightly, we have spent the, most of our energies in the past on improving cars and improving roads. I think those were the first two steps. The motor, uh, manufacturers have done a grand job on the cars. The engineers and the National Safety Council, the Traffic Institute have been working on speeds and on roads and improvement, all these things, and training people. Now, I think, uh, the third thing has got to be added as fast as we can. I'm not being critical. I'm saying we're ready for the next step, which is the attempt to understand the private driver who, who doesn't get the degree of training, and the degree of examination, and doesn't, doesn't have the same motivation in driving. If I'm driving commercially, I'll lose my job if I do certain things, so I'm careful. But as a private citizen, nobody is going to take exception to all these anti-social, careless, uh, looking away, going to sleep, uh, double parking, speeding, racing, all the things that I might do as an individual, and no one controls me. Well, uh, it isn't as bad as all that, because right now the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators, uh, getting the, the Northwestern University put on this training man is beginning a program in that, uh, direction. This program is, uh, underway. That's why we're here. Uh, the, uh, so that we are making some progress. And just as we tackle the tough job, uh, last of, uh, the driver and did the engineering job on the cars and highways first, so we're tackling the easiest part of the driver first by the, dealing with the examiners and leaving the later, the, uh, work, uh, with, uh, drivers of the problem type. Uh, we hope someday to get into that. We'll be forced into it. Would it help to have an educational requirement for a driver's license, Baker? I believe we'll come to that eventually. Uh, by that you mean a requirement that a driver must have gone to some school of some kind for the purpose before he's licensed to drive. Well, you don't let a man take an airplane out and drive it without, uh, so many hours of training. Exactly. That is true now in a number of European countries. They have an educational requirement that you must have been to certain kinds of school. But the reason we don't do it in the United States today, more generally, uh, is that most people haven't yet, uh, got a place where they can go to school for this kind of thing. Our high school driver training courses are developing in that way, but there's still only a small part of the, uh, people who want to learn how to drive have that facility available. Now, when that is more common, and particularly when it's available to adults as well as the high school children, I believe it would be a logical thing to add on an educational requirement. Wouldn't that get at some of the problems you're talking about, Ms. Sharp? Yes, I think it would be fine. What do you think about, uh, re-examining these drivers periodically? Now, I, I'm issued a driver's license, let's say, when I'm, uh, uh, how old in Illinois? Fifteen. Fifteen. And, uh, that's good until I'm ninety. Well, in, uh, in the meantime, a few things happen to me. In a great many states, including California, we have a, uh, re-examination, uh, once every four years when your license expires. Now, the examination is not a complete examination. We check your eyes, and, uh, we attempt to give you a check on the knowledge of the laws, and from observation, we have the authority to, uh, uh, to give you the complete driving test. Now, in addition to that, we have certain other authority. We can call you in at any time for a re-examination. When we have, uh, reason to believe that your, uh, faculties or your abilities have dropped in any way at all. And we do that quite freely. Of course, between fifteen and ninety, you would have reason to believe that everyone's faculties would change. That is, if, if, uh, eyesight and hearing are significant when I'm fifteen, they're just as significant when I'm ninety, it would seem to me. Now, there are two or three problems involved in that. In the first place, California is the only place that's doing that today. Michigan did for a while, but the trouble is that the examination, having to be done for a few pennies, is so thin that it doesn't take off the road the people who are known by their neighbors and friends to be bad drivers as repeaters. And I object to going down and taking an examination every three or four years, which is a nuisance and annoyance, when my record is perfectly good, and, uh, some, uh, boy in the community whom I know to be a bad driver, because of the accidents he's been in, goes down and takes the same examination and gets his license the same way I do without any more trouble, and doesn't get taken off the road by it. So that until the state is put some good money and real effort into dealing with the problem drivers, I am not in favor of a very thin examination for all drivers. Now, when they have done that, it is a logical step. Now, there's one other little problem that comes on in this. A number of states used to do that for the old drivers. Delaware and Massachusetts, for example, had programs in which the people, when they reached the age of 70, had to come up for examination again. That was well enough when the legislators, uh, at least the old ones, did not drive cars. But after the legislatures, who were old and on and years... Are you about to say that they then changed the law? They then changed the law. So that it's been wiped out in Delaware and in Massachusetts, because the people who write the laws, uh, were, I suspect, a little bit worried about what might happen to the driver licenses. Well, now, in the course of your, uh, remarks there, Mr. Baker, you referred to three or four different kinds of drivers. You referred to the repeater. You referred to, uh, the young man who, uh, you suggested didn't drive very well. And you referred to the older driver. Now, am I to, to gather that all of these people represent, uh, problem cases? They may be types of problem cases, indeed. Uh, the thing about the problem driver is, that, that's difficult is, that there are such a great variety of them. You have no rule for all of them. You've got the young driver and the old driver, the, the, uh, show off and the opposite. Uh, all of them being special problems. Each one with its own particular difficulties and, uh, uh, so on. Well, does chronological age have, uh, have anything very important to do with skill in, in driving? No, I don't think so. Uh, it's a matter of, uh, maturity rather than age. Uh, a youngster at 16 can be more mature than another youngster at 18. At the same, on the same basis, a man of 60, some of them are more, uh, senile than some at 80. Uh, you can't go on chronological age. You must take actual, uh, uh, physically demonstrated abilities, uh, in order to actually work on these, uh, problem groups. Well, isn't the reason we have a minimum age entirely because, uh, uh, a large percentage of the drivers, say, below 16, are immature, uh, sufficiently immature, so that they're not very good risks on the highway. Don't our figures for accidents show that? Yes, they do. They show that. That, of course, doesn't mean that all drivers below that age are that way. I, I studied the drivers in Ohio, a time when they had no minimum age limit at all, trying to find out how young we could find drivers to be. We found drivers at eight and nine years old who had driven a good many, uh, miles without any appreciable accidents. It can be done, but it's not the regular thing that you expect. I was thinking there that you may have, um, a youngster who needs to drive because he has only a crippled mother, or he's on a farm and drives tractors on the farm, is a good driver. We say he can't go on the highway without a license. I was thinking of people who drive in rural communities. We're apt, I think, because we're all used to, uh, congested cities, to be thinking in terms of driving in a city. Now, I, I think there, the hazards and the problems, of course, are many times multiplied. I'm wondering if there aren't some people who actually need a car, young, old, middle-aged, who may be handicapped in some ways, and what can we do about it? Oh, I think there's no question about that. The, many people, for example, who are unable to walk well are especially, uh, in need of cars to get about. Uh, but it's also true that, uh, when the person needs the car to this degree, don't you think, that he, uh, begins to have a greater responsibility with respect to it. That is, the farm boy who has to have a car to get to school and back and forth is more likely to be a responsible person with that car than the city boy who has no need for it except to his, uh, own casual enjoyment. Yes, that's very true. Uh, we have found by experience that, uh, we can license at a lower rate, uh, in the agricultural communities. Now, in California, we do have that law. Uh, a youngster under the age of 16 cannot be licensed if he lives in a city of any appreciable size at all. But a youngster on a farm can and is, depending on their need. That partly answers what you, uh, raised, Mr. Sharp. I might say that in, uh, discussing our problems with these 25 men we have for the AAMVA here at, uh, Northwestern, that they are acutely aware of the special requirements, uh, of certain people for cars, both with respect to occupation and physical disabilities. And they have shown a wonderful spirit in attempting to adjust their licensing procedures and examinations, uh, to the needs of these people. Now, they do that often by giving licenses when they wouldn't otherwise, but restricted to the circumstances under which this person needs to drive. Well, what kind of restrictions would be imposed? Could you illustrate that, Williams? Uh, on a young driver. Young driver? A young driver, for instance, that lived in a, uh, a farming community, uh, might be licensed to drive, uh, his parents' car to the nearest, uh, trading center, or in conjunction with the business of his father, or to and from school, or possibly the combination. Do you give such limited licenses for older people? Oh, yes. Uh, we attempt to find a need. Very often you will find an older person, uh, like an elderly man, who has lost a great deal of his capability, and who couldn't possibly cope with modern traffic. However, he lives in the country. Uh, his need to drive may be limited to a, a very short area, a few blocks, to and from a store, or his church. And in those cases, we attempt to examine him in that location. And if we find that he can safely drive that area, we do license him to. One of the most common, uh, restrictions for elderly people being applied today in a general way has to do with, uh, daytime driving only. Because, uh, uh, an important, uh, deficiency that develops with age, uh, is the inability to see low degrees of contrast and low degrees of illumination. Put it in plain terms, the pedestrian in dark clothes about 250 to 300 feet beyond a dirty set of headlamps at night. Uh, that, that person doesn't often realize, uh, what his limitations are and becomes a hazard. Now, uh, he can be restricted to daytime driving and not be exposed to those additional hazards to which he is, uh, liable at night. Uh, that's a very common kind of restriction and a very useful one. Well, now, Ms. Sharp, you're associated with the municipal court here in Chicago. Do you see, uh, many of these, uh, teenagers or oldsters who have had, uh, repeated accidents, uh, in your work? Yes, we do. The youngsters who have been, um, uh, in groups racing in games they play, uh, there was a period in the southwest side of Chicago when they ran down people on the sidewalk for fun. It got to be a very serious problem. Those were youngsters whom we would call, um, immature, childish, uh, showing off. They were the bratty kinds of drivers I talked about before. And what do you do with them? What authority do you have? You take their licenses away? Uh, as a psychiatric institute we have the authority only of recommending to the judge. We do recommend that either he, uh, have driver training or his license be withdrawn for a certain length of time, or that he never have a car without a, uh, one of his family or a mature person in the car with him. The judge who refers him generally follows our recommendation because he referred in order to get information, not always. I'm wondering about the senile driver, uh, a little bit on the confusion. Uh, by senile I mean people who are actually not chronologically old necessarily, but who show the deterioration of age and, and it is a disease. It is change of the nervous system. There comes a time, I think, perhaps, that you can't get insurance because of that confusion. And if we can't, if drivers can't be insured, should they be licensed? Now that's a question we may not want to discuss today. Well, with respect to the, uh, senile driver, I think one of the, uh, fortunate things with respect to the age is that by that time, most of these people don't need the car professionally. And we are not so concerned with the absolute need of the car. Uh, fortunately also, many of these people realize their own confusion and the, uh, or the problems it gets them into in driving. And, uh, from some trepidity, a natural fear of, of the consequences, drive less and under less exacting circumstances. Well, I'm sorry, Ms. Sharp and gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Who Should Drive Automobiles? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were James Stannard Baker, Fred P. Williams, and Agnes Sharp. We wish to express our thanks to the Traffic Institute of Northwestern University for their cooperation in preparing and presenting this broadcast. Next week, the reviewing stand will present as a part of the fourth academic conference being held in conjunction with Northwestern University's Centennial, a discussion of the question, Can we grow old gracefully? Our guests will be Dr. C. H. Harden Branch, Chairman of the Department of Psychiatry of the University of Utah School of Medicine, Clark Tibbetts, Chairman of the Committee on Aging and Geriatrics in the Federal Security Agency, and Philip Hauser, Professor of Sociology at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Can we grow old gracefully? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer has been Jerry Cawfer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .