Good evening. With the clouds of war hovering over us, the ever-present depressing news in our papers, a headline reading, 12,000 killed, more than half a billion dollars worth of property lost, would certainly make each and every one of you take notice. Yet these are our fire losses here in the United States, increasing every year. Good evening. With the clouds of war hovering over us, with the ever-present depressing news in our papers, a headline reading, 12,000 killed, more than half a billion dollars worth of property loss, would certainly make each and every one of you take notice. Yet these are our fire losses here in the United States, increasing every year. To bring these losses to you more vividly, let's compare them to losses suffered early in World War II. During the bombing of London, that we can still remember so well, we here in the United States, while still at peace, lost more lives, more property, than London. Through fire. Careless fire. Perhaps you wonder why I, a firefighter, wish to bring these facts to you. Al Smith used to jump right into the heart of the problem by saying, Let's look at the record. And that's what I'm going to do. The majority of fires, not only in the United States, but here in the city of New York, are in dwellings. The homes where you and I live. The majority of lives, those people, near and dear to us, lost through fire, are in these homes. Your home, your life, may be next to pay tribute to the god of war, of fire. Therefore, this problem is not only for the professional firefighter, your fire department, but becomes to each one of you, your individual and personal problem. Nobody, in his right mind, wants a fire. But lots of perfectly sane people act as if they did. Their attitude is always, it can't happen here. But it does happen, every day. Our job, yours and mine, is to keep it from happening more often. Fire prevention, from an idealistic viewpoint, would do away with this tremendous loss of life and property. Yet you and I, knowing the failings of men, can never hope to reach such a goal. But I say, with your cooperation, with your interest in this problem, these losses can be reduced. Fire prevention is merely stopping fire before it starts. Placing matches outside the reach of children is a simple example of fire prevention that you and I learned early in our school days. Yet, only recently, children playing with matches was given in the newspapers as the probable cause for a large fire in a housing development here in our city. Check your home for fire. Is it free of rubbish? Is the attic littered with papers and magazines that you intended to discard but haven't? Are your electrical wires overloaded, frayed or broken? Do you have extra fuses on hand? Are there old, uncovered paint cans in the cellar? Do you use flammable cleaning fluids near an open light? Are you careful with your smoking habits? Are they true yeah?" Is there a fire department near of firefighters. The benefits you, your family, and the city will derive from this training are legion. In addition to your protecting the city in time of need, this newly acquired knowledge and skill will assist you in your individual fire prevention program. Therefore, I ask you men to join the Auxiliary Fire Corps. The qualifications to become members are probably possessed by every man within sound of my voice. The basic requirements are that you be between the ages of 26 and 55, 18 to 55 if draft deferred, and that you be in reasonable good health. You may register at any fire station near your home or place of business. I ask your cooperation today in preventing fire and enrolling in the Auxiliary Fire Corps. Tomorrow may be too late. Good evening. With the clouds of war hovering over us, with the ever-present depressing news in our papers, a headline reading, 12,000 killed, more than half a billion dollars worth of property lost, would certainly make each and every one of you take notice. Yet, these are our fire losses here in the United States, increasing every year. To bring these losses to you more vividly, let's compare them to losses suffered early in World War II. During the bombing of London, that we all still remember so well, we here in the United States, while still at peace, lost more lives, more property than London, through fire, careless fire. Perhaps you wonder why I, a firefighter, wish to bring these facts to you. Al Smith used to jump right into the heart of the problem by saying, let's look at the record, and that's what I'm going to do. The majority of fires, not only in the United States, but here in the city of New York, are in dwellings, the homes where you and I live. The majority of lives, those people near and dear to us, lost through fire, are in these homes. Your home, your life, may be next to pay tribute to the God of Fire. Therefore, this problem is not only for the professional firefighter, your fire department, but becomes to each one of you, your individual and personal problem. Nobody in his right mind wants a fire, but lots of perfectly sane people act as if they did. Their attitude is always, it can't happen here, but it does happen every day. Our job, yours and mine, is to keep it from happening moreover. Fire prevention, from an idealistic viewpoint, would do away with this tremendous loss of life and property. Yet you and I, knowing the failings of men, can never hope to reach such a goal. But I say, your cooperation with your interest in this problem, these losses can be reduced. Fire prevention is merely stopping fire before it starts. Placing matches outside the reach of children is a simple example of fire prevention that you and I learned early in our school days. Yet, only recently, children playing with matches was given in the newspapers as the probable cause for a large fire in a housing development here in our city. Check your home for fire safety. Is it free of rubbish? Is the attic littered with papers and magazines that you intended to discard, but haven't? Are your electrical wires overloaded, frayed, or broken? Do you have extra fuses on hand? Are there old uncovered paint cans in the cellar? Do you use flammable cleaning fluids near an open light? Are you careful with your smoking habits? These are the simple causes of more than 40,000 fires here in the city of New York during the past year. The fire department is geared to handle its peacetime responsibilities with excellent results. However, it cannot hope to handle the added fires that may be caused by enemy air attack without the active assistance of a well-trained auxiliary force of firefighters. The benefits you, your family, and the city will derive from this training are legion. In addition to your protecting the city in time of need, this newly acquired knowledge and skill will assist you in your individual fire prevention program. Therefore, I ask you men to join the Auxiliary Fire Corps. The qualifications to become members are probably possessed by every man within sound of my voice. The basic requirements are that you be between the ages of 26 and 55, 18 to 55 if draft deferred, and that you be in reasonable good health. You may register at any fire station near your home or place of business. I ask your cooperation today in preventing fire and enrolling in the Auxiliary Fire Corps. Tomorrow may be too late.