Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Tomorrow in New York City, the Kefauver Committee opens its final week of hearings on its investigation of crime in the United States. What is the problem of crime in this country today? Who is responsible for seeing that our laws are enforced? Today, the Roundtable discusses how can we get better law enforcement. Taking part in this discussion are Rudolph Halley, Chief Counsel of the Kefauver Committee, O.W. Wilson, Dean of the School of Criminology, University of California, Donald S. Leonard, Commissioner, Michigan State Police, and E.W. Puttcomer of the Law School of the University of Chicago. And now, by transcription, we present Mr. Puttcomer. There is a widespread belief, as anybody who reads the newspapers knows very well, that we are facing a condition that extremely lacks law enforcement in the United States. I'd like to ask you, Mr. Halley, as Chief Counsel for the Kefauver Commission, what your opinion is. The Kefauver Crime Committee is just completing a year of intensive investigation of law enforcement around the country. There is no doubt that the Kefauver Crime Committee has found, and will in its final report find, that there has been lacks law enforcement, and that this lacks law enforcement is tied into organized crime throughout the country. Is that your idea, too, Mr. Leonard? Well, yes, I would agree with that. I think that anyone who would study the statistics on crime throughout the country would have to come to a conclusion that it's reached an all-time high. Well, you come from way out in California, Wilson. Are things better out the other end of the country? No, apparently conditions not only in the field of organized crime, mentioned by Halley, and also in the field of general crime, mentioned by Leonard, are as unsatisfactory in California as in other sections of the country. Let's get into this a little bit more in detail. I think the public is very much interested in what your commission has uncovered about these laxities, Halley. Well, the committee has found in cities such as Miami, New Orleans, Tampa, even here in Chicago, wide evidences that gangsters, former Paul Bishon gangsters, now turn mainly to gambling for a living. This lucrative field, where the profits have been estimated to run into the hundreds and hundreds of millions of dollars, has captivated them, and it's the main center of their activities. In order to operate in these various cities, they have corrupted local officials. The committee first went to Miami. There was no question there that at least one sheriff, and probably two, and many local police officials, in the very real sense of the word, were operating in collaboration with jamblers, helping them to evade and otherwise disobey the law. But was this simply a great mass of local problems, or did you tie them together in any sort of a way? No, the criminals were tied together from one end of the country to the other. The very nature of their ties was such that the strength of their organizations enabled them to intimidate witnesses, to bribe on a very efficient manner, to bring all their forces to bear at the point at which they wanted to concentrate. The result was that these criminals have been able to exploit modern means of transportation and communication, and have gotten far ahead of law enforcement's offices today. I imagine that there are other evidences of laxity besides the organized gambling problem, and what would you say about that, Leonard? Well, in recent weeks, it's been revealed in various parts of the country, Detroit, for example, that there's been a rather widespread traffic in dope, narcotics, heroin, and that. And in Detroit, in the past few days, the public was shocked to find that it's reached the level of schoolchildren. And I think that the great profits and the dope traffic have opened up this field of schoolchildren to the racketeer in dope, and it is a very serious problem confronting the nation. How does it look to you from the local level, Wilson? The same situation prevails there, obviously. I would add to gambling and narcotics, however, two other lucrative fields of endeavor in the field of organized crime, that of prostitution and also liquor. The Kefauver Committee, if I read the papers correctly, has found evidence that state authorities have not used proper care in licensing liquor dealers, and the history of law enforcement has frequently tied liquor operations closely with criminal activities. But in addition to the problems of organized crime in these fields, and some others as well, there remains, especially at the local level, I think, the problem of dealing with the ordinary criminal, the burglar, the thief, of whatever kind. I just want to add this, though, that because we have a great many problems with us now, doesn't necessarily mean that things are getting worse than they used to be. We so easily forget that there were plenty of problems in the past as well. Maybe we've had some success with them, and just because there is a lot to be done, I do not think we can say that we're confronting a condition of breakdown of law enforcement, anything of that sort. Well, the situation, as the Kefauver Committee founded, is rather this. We, of course, have not looked into any breakdown in local law enforcement with regard to such crimes as burglary, lawson, and things of that type. But turning to crimes on a larger scale, we do find a very close relationship to the crimes that are considered local and the nationwide gambling. They're financed by the gamblers with big money. They're protected by the gamblers with big money. I think Commissioner Leonard mentioned narcotics. Our investigation shows that there has not been any breakdown in narcotics enforcement. The Narcotics Bureau of the United States has done and is continuing to do a very fine job with a very small staff. Today, they have no larger staff and no more money than they had many years ago when things were a lot cheaper and when we had a much smaller population. On the other hand, there's no doubt that narcotics peddlers throughout the country are financed and organized by the same groups of people who control the big-time gambling. I wonder if I might interrupt there a minute, Hallie. I certainly agree with what you have to say. I believe there are only about 180 enforcement officers in the Narcotic Division of the Federal Government. And in the state of Michigan, only four. And certainly, you can't expect good enforcement when you have not appropriated sufficient funds to enable a proper staff to deal in investigative matters. I noticed in the press the other day that in New York State, following conviction of a person who sold dope to a school child, there was only a one-year sentence. And I also noticed that in Duluth, a judge up there gave 20 years to a dope peddler. And dope peddling in Duluth stopped with that sentence. Now, you've touched on the responsibility angle, Leonard. Let's hear a little bit about that. Who is responsible? Where is there any inadequacy? Well, responsible on what level? Are you talking about responsibility among officials or the public generally? I'd like to hear something about either or all of those phases. Well, I'd be frank enough to say that too often our citizen decries what he considers lax law enforcement as he walks through the door of a bookie to place his bet. Our juries are more and more inclined to treat the criminal with leniency. We condemn them. And yet our better class of citizens endeavor to evade jury service when called upon to perform this highly important public duty. We should bear in mind that the administration of our criminal laws may fall far below, but can never rise higher than the level of the individual juror who tries the cases. Well, and the citizen who looks for special favors for himself in building permits, parking tickets, all the little things that he's all too ready to forget about so long as it's something that he wants. Wilson, what about your views on that? I think in speaking of the problem of law enforcement, there is danger that we might think of it exclusively as a problem of the police. The police in the minds of the public is most frequently held responsible for any laxness in law enforcement, but actually the problem we're dealing with here, it seems to me, is the problem of the administration of criminal justice generally. And involved in that are a number of agencies, in addition to the general public that Leonard has mentioned. The prosecutor, the court, the police, the correctional agencies all play a part. And unless the performance standards of these agencies is raised, we cannot hope to better the conditions of law enforcement generally. Your problem is mainly to view the different organizations which are responsible for law enforcement and try to review their jurisdiction. In a state like this, you have a state police, a county attorney with his investigators, local and municipal police in the township, and then you have a sheriff's office. Almost all of these overlap each other. Frequently, the question is, who should have either prevented a crime or apprehended the criminal? Each one says he thought it was the other man's job. Only too often, the Keepover Crime Committee has tried to find out who was responsible for failure to enforce the law, and we just have been met time and again with the statement that it was the other fellow's job. You can carry that even farther. We've had a lot of instances of rivalry right inside a department where the detective bureau are trying to cut the throat of the district police forces. Do you agree to that? I do. The problem, however, is one of coordinating the multiplicity of agencies that are concerned, not only at the investigative level, but at other levels as well. And it seems to me that we must recognize the inadvisability of proposing the creation of a high coordinating power that will force coordination or cooperation from the participating agencies. The cooperation must be a free will offering from all of the agencies, otherwise we jeopardize our form of government. There's evidence of lack of coordination and cooperation between the agencies, generally due to distrust, jealousy between the agencies, and an ignorance as to the functions of the various agencies. And in consequence, tax and some other government agencies obtain information that would be helpful to the other enforcement agencies and fail to deliver this information to agencies that are interested. Dean, this isn't altogether a case of failure to deliver information to other agencies. Sometimes the agencies themselves are impeded by legislation. That's true. Which will not permit them to turn over such as income tax records to an investigating officer who wants to get certain information that will help them in the solution of his problem in the locality. But why shouldn't he have that information? Well, I presume it all relates to the price that the average American citizen wants to pay for his scheme of justice. Commissioner, that's one of the problems that the Keepover Committee is trying to tackle. The question of how information can be given to local law enforcement officers so as to increase the efficiency. You've mentioned, for instance, income tax information. Under certain circumstances, that can be made available by an executive order of the President of the United States. Similarly, information that we expect to the alcohol tax payment, which would be very useful in going after bootleggers, people who are evading alcohol tax payments, can be made available to local state enforcement officers. On the other hand, detectives working on a murder case in a locality cannot get information from Washington from the Social Security files that would help them in the solution of the case. Well, that is one of the other problems which we're attacking. An extreme example is, of course, the situation which might not concern the federal government at all. Suppose a man here in Chicago is murdered by a killer imported from New York. The evidence, the defendants, the guns are all in New York. They come into Chicago and leave immediately. It's not a federal crime. There's no crime been committed in New York. The Chicago police really have no possible means of apprehension. Well, don't you think that in certain cases like that, then the federal government, through its own law enforcing agency, should be in a position to aid local police in their own investigation of crimes without necessarily transferring jurisdiction of the case to the federal government? Well, you're getting into a subject on which the committee, in its last month of existence, is turning more and more to advisors such as the American Bar Association, such as Dean Wilson, who's been, and yourself, who are experts in the field. We want to know how to draft legislation which will aid the localities in coping with criminals operating across the country using modern means of communication and transportation, and yet avoid the creation of a super police force which is anathema, I believe, to the American public. So the answer certainly does not lie, in your judgment, in turning the whole job over to the federal government simply because the federal government has done a good job in what it has been doing so far. It not only lies there, not only from considerations of what would be desirable, wouldn't be a good idea, but also would be impractical. You take even the civil jurisdiction of federal courts. Many people want to go to federal courts with their cases, and for that reason the government has had to pass rules so that only certain cases are taken, even though the courts might take much larger variety. The reason is that the federal government, the federal courts, the federal prosecuting officers become so overburdened with work that you get a clog. There must be some distribution of work in a country this size. Well, as long as we operate under two systems of government, the state and the federal, we're bound to have a situation such as you're discussing at present. Is that not right? I think so, and I think Dean Wilson's given a lot of thought to that problem. Have you not? Yes, I agree completely with what you say. Certainly, in my opinion, it would be erroneous to attempt to transfer the total responsibility for law enforcement to the federal level. Fundamentally, I think it is a problem, a local problem, a problem of the people in every community, and until the people in the communities understand the significance of relationships that are involved, we will not get far. For example, I feel that the average person today, as Commissioner Leonard mentioned a moment ago, is unaware when he walks into the bookie joint of the significance of the activity. The consequences of petty gambling are far-reaching, as has been discovered by the Kefauver Committee and has been well known for a long while. Certainly, any time there exists in a community vice in any of its form, it's an open invitation for gangsters to come in and organize it with a view to establishing a virtual monopoly in that field of criminal activity. They monopolize it by corrupting public officials and by acts of terrorism designed to drive out competitors. They use their political influence not only to evade the law, but also to provide a prosecution of competitors in order to maintain the monopoly they've acquired. And it is from this source that the rich profits come, and it is the rich profits which enable them to corrupt public officials and to run the risks of killing and of being killed. Will you, gentlemen, as experts, all agree that the solution of our problem does not lie in turning it over as a unit, entirety, to the federal government? Yet we can't get away from the fact that the people as a whole, perhaps justifiably, have the belief that there is less political interference with the police agencies of the federal government and of the state police than is the case with the local enforcement agencies. How are we going to handle this problem of political control or influence in our local police forces? Well, the chief of the committee has, of course, addressed itself primarily to that subject. We think, the members of our committee think, that once the public knows the facts, once it feels the full impact of the facts which have been garnered, not in any one city or one state, but all over the country, that the public will be aroused and will do something about it. Once that has happened, and they are given some help by some further legislation increasing the efficiency of the collaboration between local and federal officers and between municipal and state officers, then we get back to one basic principle, which is that there's no substitute for a good, honest, hard-hitting district attorney. Yes, I think that's true. I think the problems between representatives of federal agencies and state and the local ones, on the other hand, should be recognized. For example, an officer of the federal agency doesn't patrol a beat. He doesn't come in intimate contact with people on that beat who may be trying to beat the law. He is not friendly to the law violator through daily contact and observation. I think you have a different problem there than you would have in a municipality. Then again, federal agencies are not called upon to perform the day-in and day-out duties of traffic policing and that type of activity. I think you have a different situation entirely confronting your federal agencies. Plus the fact that in the federal service you get career men, persons who go in there and devote their lifetime to enforcement work because they're secure in their position. I think that one of the things that has to be considered as far as remedies are concerned is putting the local police officer in a position where if he does do his job honestly and right, he's going to remain on that job. Isn't it true, Leonard, that you follow the same system in Michigan that the FBI follows, that is, of rotating your personnel from one area to another? No, that is not correct. We formerly did that, but we have problems of a person going into a locality and bringing up his family and the personal problem that would be his if we constantly rotated him at great expense. And then I think you lose something in local law enforcement that when an officer is acquainted with the geography of the area and the people in that area, he's in a better position to perform his duty and is less inclined to go wrong when he belongs to the local service clubs and so on. That may be, but remember, in England, no local man is eligible even for admission to his own police force. It's always an outsider. Yes, but Professor Puttkammer, once he is appointed to a community, he remains in that community performing law enforcement service all of his life. I agree with Commissioner Leonard completely, not only so far as a state force is concerned, but even so far as a municipal department, a man who remains on a beat becomes acquainted with the people and the conditions of that beat is in a much better position to provide a high quality of police service than one who has changed frequently. Even though the FBI does follow the system of rotation. I'm not completely familiar with the FBI practice, but I understand they are discontinuing that practice. Their problem is a different one anyway. In any event, I do not think that the solution to the problem of corruption lies there. There are reasons why it's easier to corrupt a man who is not rotated, who is more accessible. On the other hand, a man who is more accessible has to spend his money and live in the community and his neighbors can see how much money he has and how he lives. Basically, we have found that corruption exists only where the top authority responsible for law enforcement wants it to exist. The police commissioner at Miami Beach testified that he was told to lay off gambling. Therefore, he laid off gambling. That is a pattern which we have found around the country. Where the mayor, where the board of commissioners, where the police commissioner want law enforcement, by and large, the police officers want to enforce it and will enforce it. The number of dishonest police officers is very small in any community where their superiors want them to be honest and to do the job. Yes, and I think that the general tendency to pass the buck is all too prevalent. Parents are too prone to criticize police agencies for failure to enforce the law when they completely neglect, in many instances, their own parental responsibilities. We hear a lot of juvenile delinquency when actually, the term should be more parental delinquency. parents who fail to find out what their children are doing and fail to give them the right guidance and that. And we have youth in crime because there's been a breakdown in the home, the school, and the church. Well, we've heard plenty of things that are wrong. I'd like to get your views as to what some of the things are that we could do that would lead to improvement. Some positive recommendations that you might care to make. Well, I'd like to make one and that is on the level of state legislation. We have many, many instances where a person has been convicted of violent crime. Appeals' case to the Supreme or Appellate Court is released on bail and then continues in his criminal activity to pay off his lawyers on the appeal. Of course, we Americans insist that a person is presumed to be innocent until proven otherwise. But when a jury finds a person guilty, in cases involving violent crime, I think that while the appeal is going up, that society, for its own protection, ought to be in a position to insist that that convicted person remain incarcerated pending appeal and you'd have a lot less crime. What about the tenure of office of our police chiefs? We've thought a great deal and done a great deal about seeing that patrolmen are sure of their jobs. we've given very little attention to continuity in office of the head of the force. Now, it may not be an accident that Milwaukee has almost a permanent tenure for its police chief and Milwaukee, I understand, has a very fine reputation for law enforcement, too. The reputation is fairly earned. I'm not confident, however, that it can be accredited completely to the security of tenure which the Milwaukee chief certainly has. There are well-informed persons who are of the opinion that police chiefs in many of our communities have too secure a tenure, that the quality of service, police service in those communities would be substantially improved if the police chiefs were removed. Also involved is the question of discipline. Discipline, not only of the police, but of other agencies in the administration of criminal justice. But in any of these agencies, I think it only fair that we should review the situation to determine whether the heads of the organizations may not have been deprived of suitable control over their personnel by the device that you just mentioned, assuring security to patrolmen. Perhaps the quality of police service in this country would be improved if police chiefs were given a greater control rather than a less control over their personnel. But involved also is the question of educating the public which has been mentioned and community organization. I think a great deal must be done in both fields until the problem lies in the grassroots. And this is a democracy. Unless we are going to impose upon our citizens a form of government that is contrary to their wishes, the solution must be found at the local level through community organization and public education. And also providing some incentive to the local people for an improvement in law enforcement. The British, for example, have, by a system of conditional grants and aid improved the quality of law enforcement substantially. And I think we might give some thought to the advisability of such a procedure in this country. At the state level, however, not at the federal level. Thoroughly agreeing with what you've said about the local level, I think it should be pointed out that the two-fold recommendations which are now being planned are, of course, designed to try to control criminal organizations at the higher level, the nationwide level, where they seem to wield the most influence when they come into a locality on the basis of organizations around the country. In order to do it, the Chief Oliver Committee is considering recommendations to control big-time gambling, some kind of control over the wire service which furnishes gambling information to bookies, and some legislation to take away the huge profits which gamblers today and criminals today seem to be able to keep by evading and systematically evading the tax law. Well, it looks to me as if we could agree that lax law enforcement is plenty of a headache for us but that it isn't a new phenomenon and it isn't going to be solved this year or next year. I also find that we're in agreement that it isn't going to be solved by turning the whole job over to the federal government and washing our local hands of it. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable were Rudolph Halley, O.W. Wilson, Donald S. Leonard, and E.W. Puttkanger. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and publishes special supplementary materials. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription of the roundtable pamphlet cost only three dollars. Next week, the roundtable discusses scientific strategy for peace. Today's program came to you in part by transcription. The roundtable is a public service presentation of NBC. Stay tuned for the American Forum over most of these NBC stations. .