Hear that signal? It's a note that may mark the beginning of a very important moment in time for you. A moment that may save your life. Why? Because the story you're about to hear may be your story someday. And how you live it may mean the difference between life and death. This story shows you how to choose life. It's knowledge for the living. For the Living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Herbert Rawlinson. Nature sometimes moves in strange and mysterious ways. A lady has a headache. Now you've had a headache, I've had a headache. But this headache seemed to occur at regular intervals and it worried Mrs. Wilson. She realized what too many of us often forget, that nature's warning signals should not be ignored. So without waiting, Mrs. Wilson went to her family doctor. A little embarrassed, perhaps, at the smallness of her complaint, but nevertheless... George says I'm silly to bother you with this, Dr. Merkel. Wait until I see George. I'll bawl him out for being unfair to the medical profession. I wish you would, doctor. He kids me so much about my aches and pains. But I thought if you could give me something for these headaches. Why? Why? Oh, now you sound like George. Well, not at all. I mean, why should we treat the symptoms instead of trying to find out what's causing those symptoms and treating that? You mean you think there's something serious? Not necessarily. But let me see. You haven't had a real examination for over a year. From what you tell me, you're due for one. Let's start with that. Well, all right. It's just a headache. Now you sound like George. Oh, nurse, will you come in here, please? So, Mrs. Wilson, on that fateful day, had a thorough examination inside and out, which began at the soles of her feet and ended at the top of her head. It did seem silly when her only complaint was a chronic headache. But afterwards... Oh, dress so quickly. Come in and sit down, Mrs. Wilson. Well, am I all right? I'll know more when I get the results on your blood and urine specimens. Oh, then you don't know yet. I have some ideas. I'd like you to go up and see Dr. Dutra at the hospital. What time is convenient? Well, Friday. I'll call him and make the appointment right now. Dr. Dutra? He's a surgeon. And a good one. Fine diagnostician, too. He'll... Hello, Dr. Dutra, please. He should be in his office now. Doctor... Hello, Dutra? Henry Merkel. Hello, Fred. You busy? No, I've got a patient here I'd like you to see, say, Friday if possible. Good. What time? Ten o'clock? Her name's Mrs. George Wilson. I'll send her history along this afternoon. What? No. No. The uterus. Slight evidence of a lesion of the cervix. Yes, I've done a biopsy and I'll send the report along as soon as I get it, too. Thanks, Fred. Let me know after you've seen her. Right. Goodbye. Good night. Doctor. Is it cancer? Cancer? Now, what gives you that idea? Well, Dr. Merkel, my mother died of cancer. Cancer of the uterus. I know. But if you're thinking that you may have inherited cancer, you are wrong. You don't inherit cancer, Mrs. Wilson. Doctor, I want the truth. I want to know what you found, what you suspect. All right, Mrs. Wilson. Since you come to me with a history for a short time of irregular bleeding, I'm naturally suspicious. That can mean many things. But in this case, on internal examination, I find a small, shallow area of ulceration which should be looked into immediately. That's all there is to it. Doctor, how long? How long do I have to live? What? Listen, Mrs. Wilson, no matter what Dr. Drutra finds, you're one of the luckiest women I know for two reasons. Lucky? First, because if you have a cancer of the uterus, it's one of the earliest I've ever seen. That fact is going to save your life with the help of the second reason. What's that? The cancer team. When I examined you internally just now, I snipped out a bit of the ulceration I found with the biopsy forcens. In a short time, Dr. Drutra will have it in the hands of Dr. Hall, the pathologist at the hospital. He's the first man on the team to go into action. He's going to find out if you have cancer, and he'll know tomorrow. Now, in the pathology lab of the hospital, this bit of the tissue of Mrs. George Wilson is being prepared to have its fingerprints taken. It is handled with all the care with which the police would handle a murderous criminal. Labeled and named, it first sits before an intern who describes it carefully into a dictaphone. Lab number Y663-56. Mrs. George Wilson. Tissue from uterus. This tissue comes in one piece and measures two by five... So, the accused is booked. It's picture taken, as it were. But this is only the beginning. Fingerprints. All night long, the specimen and an automatic machine is dipped into chemical baths. By seven the next morning, it is thoroughly preserved. Then mounted in a block of paraffin wax the size of a lump of sugar. Paper-thin slices are cut from it, and the wax melted away in warm water. Picked up on a glass slide, the transparent bit of tissue is then dyed and stained. Twenty steps later, it ends up on a glass slide in a microscope before Dr. Hall, the pathologist, the man who can identify the criminal, cancer on site. Now we'll know. Y663-56. For Dr. Merkel and Dr. Dutra. May 3rd. Mrs. George Wilson. Material from uterus. Diagnosis, epidermoid carcinoma. Carcinoma. To you and me, and to Mrs. George Wilson, that means cancer. The first man on the cancer team has done his job. By the time Mrs. Wilson arrives at the office of Dr. Dutra, the doctor has the report. Knows what he's up against and what has to be done. When he's finished x-raying and examining Mrs. Wilson... Well now, Mrs. Wilson, I think you're a very lucky woman indeed. Dr. Dutra, I want to know the truth. Now may Dr. Merkel tell me what you're looking for. And my husband knows... Oh, yes, Dr. Dutra. Uh, just how bad is it? Is it cancer? Yes, Mr. Wilson, it is. Cancer of the uterus. Oh! Mrs. Wilson, you have nothing to fear. Nothing to fear? When her mother died of cancer of the uterus? We think we've progressed a long way since those days, Mr. Wilson. Mrs. Wilson has brought us her cancer early. Her lymph glands show no signs of metastasis. Metastasis? The cancer is small. It hasn't had time to spread to other parts of the body. The x-rays confirm this as far as possible. And I'm sure in my mind. Well then, well then what can be done? Well, first of all, we'll do an exploratory operation. We should do that at once tomorrow, if possible. That operation is relatively simple and consists of inserting a radium tube into the uterus. Letting it do its work of shrinking the growth. We'll have you put up on your feet in a short time after that, Mrs. Wilson. And then in a few weeks, we'll have you back for another operation for the removal of the entire uterus. The removal? But isn't that dangerous? Will I be all right? Dangerous? Not half as dangerous as allowing that cancer of yours to grow. Thousands of women are alive and well, healthy and strong because they had this operation in time, Mrs. Wilson. You've got the best chance in the world if you take it now. If you don't take it, the consequences are almost inevitable. Now you know the facts. George. Well, I think you can save her life, Dr. Dutra. Go ahead. Dr. Alpson, our radiologist, will be working with me on this. We'll make arrangements at once. The radiologist, the second top member of the cancer team. Master of the two weapons that heal by killing, radium and the X-ray. On some cancers, he uses the X-ray. On cancer of the uterus, deeper than the body and yet accessible, his experience prescribes the rays of radium to shrivel and kill the wild cells before they have a chance to destroy the life that harbors them. On the operating table, this battle against life that would destroy life begins. Ulceration confined to cervix of uterus as I suspected, Dr. Alpson. Yes, Dr. Dutra. We're lucky. I think we're ready. Go ahead, doctor. Clamps, nurse. Now the radium tubes are inserted. A tiny bomb of xylem destruction skillfully aimed at the area known as the cancerous. At the moment, it is in place. Time? 8.47 a.m. And with every tick of the clock, the malignant cells die. Until 30 hours later... Now, this isn't going to hurt, Mrs. Wilson. Just lie quietly, please. Horseship's nurse. Now the carrier. There we are. All right, nurse, you can remove the pack, please. How do you feel, Mrs. Wilson? A little sick to my stomach, doctor. Oh, that'll pass away in a few days. You'll be as good as new. You're in Dr. Dutra's hands from now on. So the third top member of the cancer team, the surgeon, begins the final attack against the cancer, which is trying to kill Mrs. Wilson. Scalpel, your radium has done a good job, Alson. Clamps? Any evidence of metastasis, doctor? None that I can see. I'm removing these two lymph glands here and here, just to make sure. There we are. And the operation goes on, carefully, painstakingly. Every cancer cell must come out. Every microscopic bit of tissue which left behind might grow again and become another cancer. And finally... All right, nurse, I think that does it. Mrs. Wilson has gotten through this very well. Very well indeed, Dr. Alson. Now it's over. The killer cancer has been apprehended, convicted, and done away with. And in a few days, Mrs. Wilson receives a caller in the room at the hospital. Dr. Mirko. Why, doctor? I know you two. I meant to get around sooner, but I knew Dutra'd take good care of you. Been talking to him, though. Oh, you look fine, young lady. I feel wonderful, doctor. But I'm still worried. Are they sure? Is he sure? Everyone's the same. You want to know whether they're sure you have no more cancer. I'll tell you this. Dutra is certain he's got that cancer of the cervix. And I'll take his word for it. Oh, well, that's wonderful, doctor. You don't know how grateful we are. That doesn't mean she shouldn't have regular checkups to make sure, George. I'm going to think this whole thing started with nothing more than a headache. Matter of fact, I don't know whether that headache had anything to do with your trouble or not. But you can be grateful to it for one thing. It saved your life. You mean you think I may have headaches again? Probably lots of them. But your biggest headache is gone, I can tell you that. And if you do have an occasional headache, I can tell you right now what to do for it. What's that? Take an aspirin. I think you're cured. Oh, it's better. If there is a moral to the story, it is this. Don't neglect even the simplest of nature's warnings. Ask a doctor to find out what's behind them. Do even better than that. Have a thorough physical checkup at least once a year. Because sometimes cancer strikes without symptoms, without pain, without warning. Remember this. Your own vigilance where cancer is concerned can save your life. Your vigilance puts you in the hands of a cancer team. The modern men of medicine and science who know how to use the weapons of surgery, x-ray and radium successfully. If you bring your cancer to them early enough. Yes, vigilance and the cancer team are the great hope today against cancer. For the living. Starring Edward G. Robinson and Herbert Rawlinson, For the Living was written and produced by Hugh Chain, with music by Jeff Alexander, conducted by Lynn Murray. It was presented by the American Cancer Society and your local cancer committee. Your cancer committee stands ready to give you more information on this disease, which took 180,000 American lives last year. The American Cancer Society and your local cancer team are the great hope today against cancer. The American Cancer Society and his mother and her mother. The American Cancer Society and her mother. How would you go about it? Suppose you knew that there was a murderer loose among us. A killer who might strike not at a few of us, but at millions of us. Men, women and children, at any day, at any hour. How could you go about tracking this killer now? Here's the answer to that question. An answer you have made possible. That great hope of the future. For the living. For the living. Starring Edward G. Robinson and Ray Collins. I spoke of a murderer among us just now. Let's give this killer a name. Cancer. Strictly speaking, this killer has no name yet. He's the killer. Great unknown cause. We know him only by the method he uses to kill. Spurring to wild, uncontrolled growth the basic building blocks of our bodies. The cells. Turning our own flesh against us. How he turns these microscopic cells which make up our flesh against us is the secret we search. We, the people, are making the search possible. Must go on making it possible through our contributions to the organization created to do this job. The American Cancer Society. The American Cancer Society. How's the search carried on? How's the search carried on? Here's a man of science who can tell us. Dr. Barclay. Dr. Barclay. Mr. Robinson. Suppose you were given the job of tracking down an unknown assailant who terrorized the entire population of the world. How would you go about finding him? I suppose I put as many trained investigators on the track as possible. Trained detectives. That simply is what we are doing. To find the cause and the cure for cancer. And this is the way we've organized to do it. In 1946, the American Cancer Society, representing the people, enlisted the aid of the National Academy of Sciences. The outstanding scientific body in the United States, isn't it? The brains that gave us the atom bomb. Exactly. Now, the Cancer Society has given the functioning branch of the Academy, the National Research Council, an even greater job to do in finding the cause of cancer. A greater job. But the atom bomb was a tremendous project. So it was. But these men had so much more to work with when they started on the atom bomb. To find the answer to cancer, they have to find basic knowledge comparable to what was already known about atomic fission. Well, it sounds like a superhuman job. It is. It seems certain that when at last we possess a clear and complete understanding of wild, uncontrolled cell growth, we will be very near the secret of life itself. The secret of life itself? That's a big order. Well, the search is like a long journey by way of a road with many branches. As you travel doggedly along, you come to signposts along the way. Signposts which lead you off in different directions. Any one of them might lead us to our destination. Would you like to see some of the signposts? Yes, indeed I would. Let's try to get a quick cross-section of the battle that's going on. The search. And what it has unearthed across the nation. A man and his wife travel a thousand miles with their little boy, bringing him to one of the great cancer hospitals in New York City. The child's bloated body is wracked with pain. Quickly, the doctors confirm the diagnosis made by the family doctor. Leukemia, cancer of the blood cells of the body. But Jimmy, Jimmy. Well, then it's true. He's going to die. Doctor, isn't there anything you can do? Anything? We've never been able to cure leukemia, but lately we have been experimenting in this hospital with various derivatives of the nitrogen mustard gases. Nitrogen mustard? Yes. You mean that burning gas they used in the First World War? Oh, no, George. Don't have no fear. It has no painful effects. Leukemia, as you know, is uncontrolled growth of the white cells in the blood. Nitrogen mustard seems to have a controlling effect on certain kinds of this growth. You mean maybe, Jimmy. It has never cured leukemia, but it can prolong life. Sometimes months, even years. We hope someday we'll find the answer to leukemia in nitrogen mustard or some related compound. In the meantime. Give it a turn. Give it to him. It's a shred of hope. It might help him. It might. Your money is making experimentation with nitrogen mustard possible. Another signpost. At Memorial Hospital in New York not long ago, tiny bits of normal and cancer tissue were being grown side by side in small glass dishes to watch their development. To watch their development. The medium in which the cultures were grown was placental blood received from recently delivered women at the nearby hospital. One day something strange happened in the laboratory at Memorial. But it's fantastic. We've never had this result before. And the fact remains that the placental blood from patient number eight has killed these cancer cells in culture. I know this case. We've been giving this woman various medications to correct the disease condition. It's possible that one of these... This is the best lead we've yet had. Let's track it down. Podophilin. We've definitely traced our cancer killer to podophilin discovered in the blood of patient number eight. So that's it. A drug so old it was used by the American Indians can kill cancer cells. Yeah, unfortunately. I know, doctor. Podophilin is a poison and can cause severe damage to the nerves of human beings. Used in sufficient quantities to kill cancer in human beings. Impossible, of course, but if we can find a non-toxic fraction of this, John, it's worth working. We can't let any possibility escape us. And the work goes on. Another line of research is built around the radioactive isotopes, byproducts of our atom bomb factory. Already radioactive isotopes of iodine are being used in the treatment of certain kinds of cancer of the thyroid. And we are trying to find quicker and more certain methods of diagnosing cancer. Finding it early, when we have a better chance of curing it. A young researcher at Lankanau Hospital in Philadelphia excitedly calls his colleagues together and points to an electrophoretic pattern. Look here. And here. Cancer cells. There's no question about it. He has found bone cancer through a blood test method. Another technician in Boston looks up from his microscope. It's positive, plenty positive. It's cancer of the stomach, definitely. He has found cancer cells in a sediment of fluid sucked up from a man's stomach. Found a tiny cancer before it could be found by any other means. Early enough, when it can be excised and the patient cured. At Cornell University, Dr. George Papanicolo discovered a method of diagnosis for uterine cancer through vaginal smears. A method so accurate and simple it is saving thousands of lives as a result of early diagnosis. New signposts along the road that will one day lead to the cure of man's greatest scourge, cancer. Cancer. Cancer. Cancer. Cancer. Well, Dr. Barkley, I'm beginning to have some idea of the scope of the research program and its complexity. But still, the criminal in the case seems to elude us. Haven't they found anything yet that's closer to the final goal? Perhaps. I'll let you judge for yourself on the basis of the facts. Do you know what the steroid hormones are? Yes, the sex hormones, aren't they? Exactly. We know from research work by Dr. Huggins that these sex hormones have an effect on cancer. At Sloan Kettering Institute in New York City, a great new instrument for research on cancer, Drs. Rhodes, Dobriner, and their large staff of scientific men and women have been searching for the answer to the question, why? Suppose we visit that laboratory right now and see what they've discovered. Mr. Robinson, to find out why the sex hormones seem linked to cancer in human beings, we are studying the steroids. And we start with what we know about them. What's that, Dr. Dobriner? A small amount of steroid hormones are contained in the urine of every human being. So we reason thus. We will collect the urine of patients with various types of cancer in different age groups over a long period of time. Do the same with similar group of apparently healthy people and extract the steroid and break down the steroids. You have seen this done in the laboratory. Mm-hmm. Now, here on this chart on the wall are the results of our work. These are the healthy people, these those with cancer. What do you see? Well, I see in the chart of the cancer patients a compound name that doesn't appear in the other chart. A new compound. We have given it the name Delta-9-Ethiocolonolone. Out of 25 individuals studied with various types of cancer, excepting breast cancer, 24 showed this compound in their hormone secretion. Of the healthy individuals, only two, both men over 70 years of age, showed the compound. Why? Why? We believe that this one compound must be caused by some faulty manufacturing process of the human body. And you think this compound may be the cause of cancer? Let us say it is significant, Mr. Robinson. Let us not forget the one cancer patient who had none of the compound in his hormone. Now, that poses a question we cannot answer at this time. Yes, but you think you're on the right track. We think so, for one important reason. Delta-9-Ethiocolonolone is very close in its chemical makeup to a known chemical. A chemical which we know can cause cancer in human beings. And there you have it, Mr. Robinson. A cross-section of an all-out research program that we are convinced will someday succeed in showing us how to wipe cancer from the face of the earth. Yes, and it is the money contributed by each of us as individual Americans which makes it possible. Which must go on making it possible, Mr. Robinson. Dr. Barclay, there must be some kind of organization, some guiding power, direction. There is. Let's compare this to the conduct of a war. What would you say should be at the top of the chain of command in the armed forces of any country? Well, I suppose a war department. Our war department is the American Cancer Society itself, responsible for the overall planning of the war. And under our war department comes... The general staff. In this case, the Committee on Growth of the National Research Council. Apportioning funds to three types of battle units. The first of these might be compared to... The regiment. We call this the institutional grant. Money given to hospitals, universities, laboratories, where trained, organized cancer fighters work on one or several aspects of the search for the cause and cure of cancer. The next unit in this army might be called... The Company. These are smaller groups of men under a company commander, top scientists and medical men. The money they receive to do the job is called grants in aid. But beyond that, because we know the battle will be a long one, we need a constant source of officer material. Thus... Our OCS, Officers' Candidate School, is the fellowship which are given to young scientists with brains and abilities. Men and women giving their every waking moment to the most pressing search in history. The cause and cure of cancer. And there you have it, Mr. Robertson. The secret of life itself. What I have shown you is only one small segment of the work that is being done throughout these United States. Fundamental research work, which would not be possible without the financial support of the people themselves. Through the campaigns of the American Cancer Society. Slowly the structure of knowledge is growing. And when someday the answer to cancer is found, every American who has contributed through all the years it takes to do the job can take satisfaction in the fact that he has helped wipe the killer cancer from the face of this earth. Now you know. Now you and I understand how the money we give to the American Cancer Society is used in research. As thrilling as any detective story. Research that will someday save our lives from mankind's most frightening disease. When you give your dollars, think about this. What you give today may save your life and the lives of thousands of other Americans tomorrow. The discovery of the cause of cancer is in our hands. It is the great hope for the living. For the living starring Edward G. Robinson and Ray Collins was written and produced by Hugh Chain with musical direction by Lynn Murray. The program is presented by the American Cancer Society to tell you what is being done in the fight against cancer and the part you have to play in the fight for the living. For the living. For the living. For the living. For the living. For the living. For the living. For the living.