This evening we continue the series of broadcasts dealing with the subject of civilian defense, and the discussion tonight will be on the subject of transportation in civilian defense. It is again our privilege to present Arthur W. Wallander, City Director of Civilian Defense, and Colonel Sidney H. Bingham, Chairman of the Board of Transportation of the City of New York, and Director of the Transportation Division Office of Civilian Defense. Commissioner Wallander speaks first. This evening we are going to discuss the transportation and civil defense. Colonel Sidney H. Bingham, the Chairman of the New York City Board of Transportation, and Director of Transportation Division Office of Civil Defense, is here with me to describe the work of his division to you. Colonel, we are depending on you to provide the wheels on which our civil defense forces will move. Tell us what progress you have made in preparing your division for an emergency. Commissioner, we have continued our organizing work with the transportation industries in New York, and this part of our task is nearly completed. We are now working along two lines. We are preparing plans for the automatic response of designated men and vehicles immediately after enemy attack on New York. And we are perfecting our organization and procedures for operation of transportation in the longer period of recovery and repair after the attack. The period immediately after an attack has been one of our greatest problems, Colonel, as you recognize. We must expect a great deal of confusion, disruption of normal communications, tremendous damage and casualties will result. Some time must inevitably elapse before our emergency headquarters begin to operate fully. How do you expect to cope with this, Colonel? We are trying to meet those needs that we can foresee now by issuing our instructions now. We are instructing the operators of designated vehicles in case of an enemy attack, you do thus and so on the all clear. Could you make that more specific, Colonel? Let us use the medical emergency services as an example. Now, they have one of the toughest and most important jobs. They plan to mobilize up to 400 emergency aid teams if we are attacked. Their teams are organized as far as possible with people who live within walking distance of a training and mobilization center. These people, who are doctors, nurses, helpers, litter bearers and others, are instructed to report to this center on the all clear. I refer to the mobilization center. Do they then have to call your transportation division headquarters for vehicles to take them to the disaster area? No, Commissioner. We have been working with Commissioner Kogel and his staff of the emergency division of the medical department to take care of this situation. They have given us the location of these centers. And together, we have decided that three buses and two trucks will be needed to carry these teams and their equipment to the place where they will set up their first aid and clearing station. The Board of Transportation is assigning two of its buses, convertible to ambulances, to each of these centers. And one other bus will be assigned, either by the city or one of the private bus companies. The United Parcel Service has agreed to assign two of its trucks to each center. We are now working on the specific details of these assignments so that on the all clear, these vehicles will have the shortest possible trip to report at the proper point without further instructions from any headquarters. Well, that sounds like a workable plan. Suppose the trucks are carrying a load. What will happen then? The medical emergency personnel have agreed to help unload the trucks and safeguard the load at their center. Have you made similar arrangements with other emergency divisions? Yes, we have. The police department has given us their mobilization points and the number of men to be carried from each point. The fire department has done the same, and so have the other emergency divisions, to the extent that they can foresee their immediate transportation requirements. Well, Colonel, how will you know whether the vehicles have arrived at their destinations? What's going to tell you that they're there? That's where our headquarters organization comes into the picture. The driver of each of these assigned vehicles will have to be instructed to report his arrival to the Borough Control Center. If no report is received within some prearranged time, other vehicles will be dispatched. Will you dispatch all vehicles from the Borough or City Control Center? No, Commissioner. That would be an unnecessary burden on the control centers. Vehicle dispatch and control will be handled by industry operating headquarters. The trucking industry, for example, will have an operating headquarters in each borough. All orders for trucks will be transmitted to these trucking centers. Knowing the job to be done, experienced trucking company operators will dispatch the proper vehicle to do it. Are you making any arrangements to supply emergency vehicles with gasoline? We are trying to do as little of that as possible. We consider ourselves primarily a division that will allocate an assigned vehicle, and we expect that the individual owners and operators of vehicles will provide fuel just as they provide tires. However, we know that gasoline supply for vehicles actively working in an emergency must be provided. We have therefore arranged with the oil companies to provide tank trucks to bring fuel in the field to equipment that cannot readily be moved, fire department pumpers and public works cranes and shovels, for example. The oil companies have also agreed to pool their supplies and equipment and give priority to deliveries to all essential locations as designated by us. We are also making provisions for emergency repairs to vehicles in service. Well, Colonel, you've been talking mostly about automotive vehicles. What about railroads and shipping? I mean, marine, are they in your picture too? Yes, Commissioner, they certainly are. Waterborne craft of all kinds are very definitely in our plans. They operate in a medium that will not be choked by rubble or traffic jams, and we are planning to use all kinds of ships and boats. For moving personnel and equipment, the railroads are also organized to aid. But I have been emphasizing our local transportation problems within the city. Although we are planning to use every means of transportation, land, water, and air, our most serious problem will be on the streets that we must use to get close to any disaster area. I think we will need the assistance of everyone in the city to keep streets clear of traffic and rubble. Well, you're absolutely right about that, Colonel. Well, we have been very much concerned about the removal of rubble and how it can best be done. While our Public Works Emergency Division has the job of clearing the streets, everyone will have to pitch in and help. In case of an atom bomb burst, there will be miles of streets at quite a distance from the center of the damage that will be full of glass and small pieces of rubble. Rubber tires would be chewed up on this stuff, and we would be immobile after one or two trips through it. Local householders along these streets must help us by cleaning this light stuff out of the way so that Public Works can concentrate on the heavy work. I would like also to suggest that whenever possible, car owners should not park on streets designated as primary and secondary civil defense roads and get their cars off as soon as possible after an alert or attack. It is impossible to overemphasize the importance of keeping these main arteries clear for essential traffic. Well, I'd like to add my advice to the colonel to impress upon everyone listening the importance in an emergency of keeping the streets open for essential vehicles. From what Colonel Bingham told us, I think you will agree with me that if vehicles can move through the streets, his transportation division will supply them and keep them rolling. Of course, they must be emergency vehicles. We will need the assistance of everyone in the city to keep the streets clean and clear. You can all assist us in three ways. First, by enrolling in one of our civil defense divisions. Second, if we are attacked, by clearing streets in your vicinity of light rubble and glass after the attack. Third, and most important, by keeping calm in an emergency, obeying instructions as issued by proper authorities, and keeping off the streets unless you have a specific job to do. Thank you, Colonel Bingham, for coming here this evening to describe some of the activities of the Transportation Division Office of Civil Defense. Arthur W. Wallander, Director of the Civilian Defense for New York City, in the interview with Colonel Sidney H. Bingham, Chairman of the Board of Transportation of the City of New York, discussed with you the transportation plans in civil defense in case of an emergency at any time. Join us each week for these broadcasts, which come to you direct from the Office of the Director of Civilian Defense, Arthur W. Wallander. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.