Ladies and gentlemen, Dennis Day. A salute to you and your Red Cross. A specially transcribed salute starring Dennis Day. The Dennis Day Show with Barbara Eiler, B. Menadera, Dink Trout, Charles Dant and the orchestra and yours truly, Vern Smith, is written by Frank Galen and stars our popular young singer in A Day in the Life of Dennis Day. Here's Dennis to sing You Were Meant For Me. You were meant for me. I was meant for you. Nature patterned you and when she was done You were all the sweet things rolled up in one You're like a faded melody That never let me breathe For I'm content The angels must have said you And they made you Just for me You were meant for me For I'm content The angels must have said you And they made you Just for me Friends, the Red Cross is more than an institution. It's the heart of America reaching out wherever trouble or disaster strikes. It is your sympathy, your understanding, your generosity for your neighbors across the street or across the nation. Think about that when you make your contributions. Now, here's Dennis. Gee, isn't this a lovely night, Dennis? Yeah, I'll say it is, Mildred. Just you and I all alone out here on the court swing. With the moon in all its glory and the heavens studded with a billion stars. Uh-huh. Doesn't it give you any ideas, Dennis? Yeah, I'd better get a can and oil this swing. I'm talking about us, silly. After all, we're going to be married, aren't we? Well, naturally. Do you think I'd let you hold my hand for two years for nothing? No. I'm not loose, you know. No. I'll say you're not. My goodness, since we've known each other, you've only kissed me three times. Well, yeah, I don't want to go stale on you. Stale? Sure, you don't want me all kissed out before the ceremony, do you? Oh, what's the use? I'm beginning to wonder now whether there'll ever be a ceremony. You mean you're not going to see me anymore? Mildred, I hope one day we'd have a house full of children. That wouldn't make it easy. Oh, it isn't that, Dennis. It just seems like something's always interfering with our plans. Now it's this property of Mother's they're offering off tomorrow for back taxes. Well, what's that got to do with us? Well, Mother's going to lose a lot of money on that property. She may feel she has to take in a boarder to make up for it. But, Mildred, I'm a boarder. Oh, you mean one that pays rent. Yes. Unless she gets a good price for that land, we may be separated, Dennis. But gosh, that land isn't worth a cent, Mildred. Why should anybody start bidding on it? Well, Mother told me a story once about her uncle down in Texas who had some property. Yeah? He, well, he, of course it wasn't very nice, but he, that is, and then when the, but I guess we wouldn't want to do anything like that, would we? I couldn't if I tried. Well, what he did was dump some oil on the property and then start a rumor that it was oil land. The price went sky high. Mildred, we couldn't do that. Everyone knows there's no oil around here. Well, I thought of that, but we could do it with buried treasure. Buried treasure? Sure. You know Miss Baker? Uh-huh. Well, she has hundreds and hundreds of old coins. Some of them go back as far as the American Revolution. Boy, she was smart to save her money when she was young. Well, if she'd lend you some, we could plant some on Mother's lot and start a rumor about a big treasure. Well, Mildred, I don't know if it sounds... Dennis, it really isn't being dishonest, because whoever buys the property will be trying to cheat us. Yeah, that's true, but couldn't you borrow the coins? You know how that Miss Baker acts when she sees me. Oh, she's got a harmless little crush on you, that's all. She happens to be a woman and you happen to be a man. Yeah, but if you all read your history, that's the combination that has always led to trouble. Nonsense. Now get going. Now we've got to be careful where we bury these gold coins, Dennis. We want to be sure you know where they are. Well, how about burying them right over there by that old for sale sign? No, I think alongside this old dead oak tree would be better. We want them near something permanent. Well, my guess is that the for sale sign has been here longer than the tree. No, you start digging a little hole by this oak tree and drop the coins in. Well, okay. That's it. Now the first thing in the morning you go to Mr. Courtney, the banker, and start the rumor about the buried treasure. Okay. You've got to get him out here somehow. Well, we're in luck, Pupsie. Not a soul around. Good. Have you got the shovel, Herbert? Sure thing, bubble girl. Wait. I have a better idea. This old dry well right here, it's only a couple of feet deep. We'll drop those silver dollars right into it. Just the spot an old miser would pick out for his forge. Okay. There. There we are. All we have to do is spread the rumor and get our first sucker out to this well. Yeah. What a fool he'll be falling for a gag like this. Yeah. Only an idiot would. I know, but luckily they're everywhere. Say, you know something? Huh? As long as we're out here, maybe we ought to look around. Maybe a miser really did live here once. Holy smoke, did that rumor spread fast? Well, I don't suppose it makes much difference where we start digging, eh? Oh, none whatsoever. So let's start by that old oak tree. Oh, one place is as good as another. Let's just pick one at random. You bet. Let's pick the old oak tree at random. Well, one place is just like the next. I suppose we'll have to waste some time anyway. Yeah. So for goodness sake, let's waste it around the oak tree. Well, personally, if I was hiding any money around here, I'd hide it in that old well over there. I think I'd like to have a look down there, think. Ha! Come on, come on. We can't lose anything. Say, sure has been years since there was any water in this hole, eh? Just look at the... Why... Why, what's this? What? Holy smoke, an old silver dollar. And here's another one. And another one. Boy, so help me. I'll never tell another lie again as long as I live without finding out if it's the truth first. Oh, the treasure story was on the level. Why, this whole property must be loaded with it. Dennis, you and I are gonna make some money. Me too? Yes. Now, listen. If they hear me bidding for the worthless piece of property at the auction tomorrow, they'll get suspicious. But if they hear you bidding for it, they'll just think that... Well, it's your Dennis Day. That's a pretty filthy thing to say. Oh, now, don't be silly. You'll be a rich man when we split that treasure 50-50. Thank you. I don't suppose it makes much difference where we start looking for this treasure, Mrs. Anderson. Oh, none at all, Mr. Taylor. So let's have a look down that well. Oh, I don't know. One place looks as good as another. Where's that shovel I brought? Leaning against the well. Personally, I'm much more than the soil around that oak tree over there. Let's have a look. Who knows what we'll find? I do. Acorns. Well, come along. We'll certainly have nothing to lose. Now, let's see. Right about here. Hey, what's this? Good heavens. Gold coins. Two. Three of them. Well, I'll be darned. There is buried treasure here. You told me the truth, Mrs. Anderson. I know. I'm going home right now and wash my mouth out with soap. Bill was a pretty contented sort of a guy as he walked down the street that night. His job was done and he was going home next day. Home to the wife and kids. There were seven of them in the little frame house he'd built and a married son close by. Yeah, life was good, Bill thought as he passed the blaring radio store. So good it took almost a second for the news to sink in. I don't know whether you've ever seen a tornado, but Bill went home to a house that was a rubble. His family scattered in three hospitals. A nightmare was the word for those first few days. And then came the staggering problem of housing and medical and hospital bills. Bill wondered where and how. But that's how he found out that people cared. Through the Red Cross, a new white frame house was built. Medical bills were paid. And funds set up for an operation for his wife. You see, as Bill put it, the Red Cross is just people. Neighbors who care, like you. Someone please start the bidding. $100. Thank you, madam. Now who will make it $200? $200. Dennis, are you bidding against me? I'm a citizen. I got a right to bid. $300. $500. Dennis, do you like your room at my house? Not particularly. I think I'll buy the place and have it condemned. Well, so that's your attitude, is it? $800. $1,000. $1,200. $1,500. I bid $1,500. Do I hear $2,000? $2,000. Dennis, the police give her a chance to bid in between. Oh, sorry. I got carried away. The last bid was $2,000. Do I hear any more? $2,500. $2,500. Pupsi, please, for heaven's sake. When you say things around here, they expect you to mean them. I have $2,500. $3,000. $3,000? Good heavens, for this stink... This glorious piece of... Come, madam. You're not going to let this bargain escape you. Please, Pupsi, on bended knee. Let it escape you. $3,500. $4,000. Oh, fight, you fools. I hate peas. You are absolutely mad. You know this land's completely worthless. Mildred, it might surprise you to learn that there really is a fortune buried on this property. Oh, you're crazy. Oh, no, I'm not. I've even found part of it, and half of the whole thing's going to be mine. Oh, yeah? $4,500. Uh, just a moment, just a moment here. Is this auction over? Why, Mr. Taylor. If it isn't, if it isn't, I'd like to bid $5,000 for this property. Sold! Oh, Mr. Taylor, you saved us. But there isn't any treasure buried here in spite of those coins we dug up. Oh, I know that. You see, when I came back here to investigate those coins, I noticed something about the soil. And by George, I was right. The soil? What about the soil? There's oil on this property. Barrels of it. Oil? Okay, Mrs. Anderson, go ahead and kick me. I deserve it. Yes, you do, Dennis. And I will. Right after you get through with me. Thank you. Today's Dennis Day show, a transcribed salute to you and your Red Cross, starred Dennis Day, with the music of Charles Dant in the orchestra, and announced by yours truly, Vern Smith. The program was made possible through the cooperation of the Hollywood Coordinating Committee, the American Federation of Radio Artists, the American Federation of Musicians, and the Radio Writers Guild. Theaker encaraomanattan Hammered夫's開 playoff. The American Federation of Kingston Wars Fair scientific takeaways and Mir heard soon, writes on the plan. The American Federation of Wikipedia, the American Federation of the Indianapolisους Marely, The American Federation of the Administration, operators to Next, the American album of familiar music. Presenting Donald Dame, Evelyn McGregor, Margaret Down, Gene Dickinson, and Gustav Henschen. In a transcribed salute to the American Red Cross. A salute to you across the street, across the nation. For you are the Red Cross. The American album of familiar music opens now on an enchanting world of romance and beauty. As Donald Dame sings, the night was made for love. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. The day has eyes for sweet girl in the charms. What night time sighs for strong and we arms. To lovingly hold you. While two lips on fire. Have ardently told you. Of sweet desire. For like caressing an empty glove. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. Without some love. Without some love. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. The night was made for love. Now we present Jean Dickinson, Nightingale of the Airways, in the delightful coloratura song, for a tour of song, Bien Diletto. their name straight to john garrison, phải chúng изменキーの transformative And one more I in y Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Chances are you make the mistake a lot of people do and think of the Red Cross as something apart from yourselves. Something to which you contribute and then forget until another year rolls around. And that's too bad because there isn't a single day out of the year that somebody isn't thanking you and you directly for a helping hand. You see, you don't give to the Red Cross. You give through the Red Cross to a lot of neighbors just like yourselves. Sometimes they're across the street and sometimes they're across the nation. But wherever they are, they're people whom disaster or unexpected trouble has suddenly hit. Maybe it's an explosion or a flood or a hurricane. Maybe it's just somebody sick or a home like your own leveled by a tornado. But if you'll imagine how you'd feel getting help at a time like that, then you'll know in full measure the gratitude that's yours for the help you give through your Red Cross. alzheimer alzheimer alzheimer alzheimer alzheimer alzheimer alzheimer Good night, good night, beloved. I come to watch o'er thee. To be near thee alone is peace for me. The American Album's musical salute to the American Red Cross continues now as Evelyn McGregor sings the tender and appealing Good night, good night, beloved. Good night, good night, beloved. I come to watch o'er thee. To be near thee. To be near thee. Alone is peace for me. Good night, good night, beloved. I come to watch o'er thee. To be near thee. To be near thee. Alone is peace for me. For me. For me. For me. For me. To be near thee. I come to watch o'er thee. I come to watch o'er thee. To be near thee. To be near thee. To be near thee. Thine eyes are stars of morning, thy lips are crimson flowers. Good night, good night, beloved, while I count the weary hours. Thine eyes are stars of morning, thy lips are crimson flowers. Good night, good night, beloved, while I count the weary hours. Good night, beloved, while I count the weary hours. Good night, beloved, while I count the weary hours. Love, you are my dream of bliss that lasts the whole day long. Now Donald Dame and Margaret Downe sing the glorious, Love, You Are My Music. Love, you are my music, my heart's magic song. Love, you are my dream of bliss that lasts the whole day long. Love, you are my love. Love, you are my fragrance. Love, you are my love. Love, you are my love. Love, you are my love. Love, you are my love. Love, you are my love. Love, you are my love. Friends, the Red Cross is more than an institution. It's the heart of America reaching out wherever trouble or disaster strikes. It is your sympathy, your understanding, your generosity for your neighbors across the street or across the nation. Think about that when you make your contribution. This performance of the American Album of Familiar Music was conducted by Gustav Henschen and produced by Frank Hummert. And presented as a special transcribed salute to you and your Red Cross. The program was made possible through the cooperation of the American Federation of Musicians, the American Federation of Radio Artists, and the Hollywood Coordinating Committee. Your announcer, Howard Planey. Let us meet the central enrollments of mr. Preslied época star we have laid off now. Our presenter seemed to beling and