Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable discusses, what do we know about tooth decay? Taking part in this program are Dr. H. Trendley Dean of the United States Public Health Service, C.A. L. Vahem, biochemist of the University of Wisconsin, Dr. Frank J. Orland and Dr. James R. Blaney, dental surgeons, both of the University of Chicago. And now by transcription, we present Dr. Blaney. Tooth decay is a disease of civilization. If we examine those people, now living in the remote areas of the globe, and under their native or natural conditions, we find many who are totally free from tooth decay, and some who have only a few cavities. When these same people are brought in contact with a white man and adopt his manner of living, tooth decay immediately begins to appear and progresses at a rapid rate. On the contrary, civilized man has approximately a 98% rate of tooth decay. The increase of the disease of the teeth is in marked contrast to the situation with relation to other diseases, where our science has been highly successful in controlling and preventing disease. Why is it that tooth decay is so prevalent in our society? What do we know about the cause of tooth decay, which would explain this increase? Today, we propose to discuss some of the recent work done on the problems of tooth decay, and to tell you what we do know about it. Dr. Dean, what is it in our mouths which makes our teeth so susceptible to tooth decay? Well, if nature had made our modern teeth with something more resistant to the acids of the mouth, and the type we now have, we probably would not suffer from near the amount of decay that we have. But since we have this acid action in the mouth, our hope is that somehow we can break down the tooth surface, or make a tooth surface more resistant to the action of the acid. The other possibility is that we could get rid of the bacteria in our mouth, which produces this acid. Is there evidence of success in this particular field, Dr. Orland? Our tooth surfaces, as you intimate, Dr. Dean, are teeming with bacteria. They are found everywhere in the mouth, but it is only when certain types of bacteria become concentrated at one point, on the tooth surface, that acids begin to accumulate, and these can harm the enamel. Of course, if the bacteria did not get any food, they could not live and could not produce acid. But Dr. Albion, we can't stop eating food in order to starve these bacteria. Bacteria are like every other living organism, Dr. Orland. They must have food to live. Unfortunately, the bacteria get this food by breaking down sugar into acids. Since we must also have food, and because we get most enjoyment from food by consuming it through the mouth, some of it obviously becomes available to the bacteria. Our problem, then, is to find a way to check decay in our modern society. You gentlemen have mentioned three points regarding the causes of tooth decay, which I like to use in discussing the situation with my patients. I'd describe it as a three-legged stool. With all of the three legs present, the stool is stable, but you remove any one of the legs, and the stool immediately topples over. I call these three legs a susceptible tooth, foods in the mouth which are constantly present, and bacteria. Let us now turn to this first problem, the tooth itself. Can we develop teeth which are resistant to decay? And what can we do to protect susceptible teeth? Is there any hope in this regard? I think we ought to start with children, Dr. Blaney, while teeth are first being formed. If our hope is with children, are we doing anything for our children, Dr. Dean? Yes, we sure are. In 60 cities in this country, fluorides are now being added to the public water system. We're doing this specifically for the purpose of reducing the amount of dental decay in the children's teeth. As Dr. Arlen has pointed out, we must start with children. In all of these cities where the fluoridation has gone on three or four years, a general reduction of dental decay in the younger children has been noted. In the cities using this procedure for about four years or more, reductions of 35 to 40 percent have already been observed. Is it safe? It is quite safe. And furthermore, we're not adding anything to public water supplies that we've been using for years in this country. Speaking of the element fluorine and chemical compound, a fluoride salt, which is the main object of our interest in this regard. That's quite right, Dr. Arlen, because fluorine itself is very rare. How extensively is it being used at the present time? There are about 60 cities where fluorine is being added artificially at present, with the very strong possibility that this will be considerably increased in the next year. Well, you do find fluorine occurring naturally in the water in certain communities, do you not, Dr. Dean? Yes, there are probably, as I said, a million to two million people using water with a par per million or more in this country. That is particularly located out through West Texas and Colorado and South Dakota and a few places in Illinois. The fact that it was from these higher fluoride areas that this natural phenomenon was first observed. And the marked difference in the amount of dental caries in these different populations. In fact, as we talk here in Chicago, there's no better illustration than several communities right here in the suburbs. The city of Aurora, for instance, which has one and two tenths parts of a million of fluorine naturally in its water and have used this water for 50 years, has only about a third amount of dental decay as the nearby city of Waukegan using the relatively free Lake Michigan water. And if we go downstate, we can see the same thing where Quincy using Mississippi River water has about over three times as much dental decay as Galesburg, which has about 1.8 fluorine in this water. Does this water come from deep wells? Generally speaking, it's from deep wells. All the stuff in Illinois here, and one of the few exceptions is Colorado Springs, which takes its water from the top of Pikes Peak. I see. How deep do they have to go to get well water containing chlorine? Have you any idea? Is there any regularity to it? That varies a great deal, Dr. Blaney, because of geological formation. Down in Galesburg, it's about 2,400 feet. I think over at Maywood and Aurora, it's about 1,200, 1,300 feet, and you can find high fluoride waters down what's an awful no deeper than 90 or 100 feet. Now when you artificially fluoridate water, is there any taste added? There's no taste at all, Dr. Arlen. And is that a very cheap method of controlling tooth decay? It's a very cheap method, and I think it's going to become even cheaper. The Grand Rapids study, which is used in sodium fluoride, is costing about 11 cents per person per year. With the use of sodium fluorosilicate, which in all probability will be used in preference of sodium fluoride, and I think Racine, Wisconsin is using it now, the cost will come down to about 4 cents per person per year. Dr. Dean, what are we going to do about those people who don't have access to a city water supply? Well, I'm glad you brought that question up, because when we talk about public water supplies, we're talking about only 63, 64% of the population. And the mass control through fluoridation of public water supply obviously would not apply to rural populations and very small communities. In these cases, we'll probably go to topical fluoride application or such other control measures that are effective. By topical application, of course, you mean the direct application of the fluoride to the tooth. The dentist paints on a 2% fluoride solution by 4 applications a week apart at 3, 7, 10, and 13 years of age. Although we seem to note the very striking results one gets in the reduction of tooth decay by this method, Dr. Dean, do we know how it works? No, we do not know how it works. But in the history of preventive medicine, there are a number of instances where a natural phenomenon has been observed, which curtail disease and a century or more may pass before they find out the method of action or how it works. And good examples of that, of course, are controlling smallpox with cowpox virus, malaria, scurvy, and so forth. What do you anticipate the effectiveness will be of the general use of fluorides, either in the communal water supply or topical application? I expect in the fluoridation of a public water supply, which is relatively free of fluorine, or one-tenth of a bar per million, that after the lapse of 12, 13, or 14 years, we should see about 60 to 65% reduction in the amount of dental decay in that population. Mm-hmm. Do you think it makes any difference in the amount of caries that children will have if their parents have lived in a fluoride-containing area prior to them? Is there any relationship there? Well, we have no evidence on that particular point. All of these studies were based upon children who continuously resided in the area studies. I see. You didn't know anything about their ancestry. And we didn't go back farther than that. Mm-hmm. Well, it is generally recognized that people have quite a variance in their susceptibility to tooth decay. Does heredity play any role in there, do you think? Well, that's a question that has been brought up a number of times. But I know of no sound, acceptable scientific evidence that indicates that heredity is a factor in human populations. Well, now we've discussed this first leg of the tripod. I think we might go on over into the second. That is, namely, the consideration of foods in the mouth. What do we know about nutrition which can be successfully applied to prevent tooth decay, Dr. Elgin? Well, first, before going into nutrition, I'd like to ask if there's any evidence of heredity. Now, Dr. Dean indicated a great decrease due to the use of fluorine, and yet there is considerable variation between individuals, even in the areas where the water contains fluorine. Do you know of any effect of heredity on dental caries? No, I do not, Dr. Elgin. That has come up a number of times. But there's no acceptable evidence that I know of in a human population. We do have some experience in the animal. We find that the offspring from different female rats show considerable variation in the development of caries. And by using these standardized rats, we've been able to establish a few fundamental facts, Dr. Blaney, about the relation of nutrition to dental caries. Would you tell us about them? We've used the typical purified ration that is now widely used in nutrition laboratories. And we find that if this ration is rather high in carbohydrate, especially in table sugar or cane sugar, we have an incidence of caries which is phenomenally high. We have as high as 30 lesions in the mouth of a single rat. Now I want to emphasize that this ration is complete in all nutritional respects. We can decrease this incidence by adding any of the known nutrients. We can, however, reduce the incidence by changing from so-called soluble sugars to starches. And by doing this, we can reduce the incidence down to about five lesions per rat. We can also do it by decreasing the amount of carbohydrate and increasing the amount of fat and protein. I think the most important finding that we have made recently in our laboratory is that if we feed these animals whole mineralized milk, they develop no caries whatsoever. Does that mean, Dr. Alvium, that milk has a protective factor? No, I don't believe it does. I think it's more likely to be due to the fluidity of the ration. That is, if we feed dried milk, we get a greater incidence of caries. I think this may have some practical significance. I don't think we can all eat a liquid or fluid diet, but we can tend to increase our water consumption, especially a glass of water, after a meal. Dr. Alvium, you said something about sugar in the diet. How much sugar is in the average American diet? Well, we've continued some of our studies attempting to stimulate a typical American diet by mixing together typical foods such as cereals, potatoes, dried meat, and dried vegetables. And in such a diet, it contains about 17% of sugar, which is rather typical of the American diet. Now, it's very interesting that even on this diet we have considerable incidence of caries. And even if we put in natural sugars rather than the so-called refined sugars, we don't seem to get much difference. But there is, I think, good evidence that in recent human studies that we can reduce caries by decreasing the consumption of sugar. How much sugar is really needed in our diet for adequate nutrition? That is a point that I have been very much interested in. You, as an authority on nutrition, I'd like to have you discuss that. Well, of course, the sugar can actually be reduced to very, very small amounts. It's unnecessary to add any sugar as far as nutrition is concerned. That brings us, of course, to our taste and whether we like sugar or not. But coming back to these human studies, I think the best evidence we have are the studies made by Toberud in Norway during World War II. Yeah. He studied around 600 to 700 preschool children and 8,000 to 9,000 school children. And he found that the number of caries affected teeth dropped 50 percent. And the number of caries affected tooth surfaces dropped as high as 80 percent during the time when the consumption of sugar was very low. During the war, the consumption of sweets and refined carbohydrates was greatly reduced. And there was an increase in high extraction flour, potatoes, vegetables, and fish. And you really believe that that is a study on the human which parallels your study on laboratory animals as to the role that an excessive amount of sweets play in the production of tooth decay? I think here there's good correlation. It's always difficult, of course, to say or to interpret animal experiments. But in this particular case, I think there's excellent correlation. And I might add that shortly after the war, when the consumption of sugar increased in these European countries, the incidence of caries also increased. Every day I'm asked by my patients what can they do to prevent tooth decay and what type of food should they consume? Would you mind giving us your idea of what a good general diet should be? Well, we've also found in our animal studies that the physical state of the diet is very important. And perhaps they may not destroy essential nutrients as much as to change the physical state of the food. And I think it has considerable effect on the development of allowing the bacteria to grow in the mouth, as Dr. Orland indicated a little earlier. Yes, Dr. Alvium. What is food for the individual person is also food for the countless number of bacteria living in his mouth. And even these tiny creatures, the bacteria around the teeth, though first observed some 260 years ago by Lee-Lynn Hoek, the Dutch lens grinder, but even so still we are not able to take complete senses of them today. It's been estimated though that the many bacteria living in a normal human mouth are as numerous as the people on the face of the earth. Does the kind of bacteria have any effect? The species, I should say? Yes, one might indicate of all these bacteria, most of them are purely harmless one-celled creatures living on the food left in and around the teeth. But research evidence available at the present time seems to indicate that some of these bacteria living in intimate contact with the teeth are able to split sugar molecules into acid. Most particularly a lactobacillus species, Dr. Orland? Very likely a lactobacillus species might be one of the causative factors, perhaps others which are considered to be streptococci. Nevertheless, the acid evidence indicates that it is completely capable of attacking the hard enamel of the tooth and tends to dissolve it. Dr. Orland, do you think that the frequency with which we place food in our mouth, that is the habit of eating in between meals, has any role on the amount of activity of the bacteria, that is the amount of acid that they may produce? I think so, Dr. Blaney. The evidence seems to be that it's the frequent eating which causes rapid acid production, and eating away at the tooth by this acid on repeated occasions, which is the prime evil in tooth decay. Dr. We've certainly found that to be true in the case of our experimental animals. Dr. That is those that you let feed frequently have more caries than those that are fed at stated intervals throughout the day. Dr. Yeah, restricted food intake, that's all. Dr. And then one of course can say that once the cavity reaches the softer dentine after going through the enamel, then other bacteria surely take part and the cavity gets bigger a great deal faster. Dr. Well now, it seems to me now is the time to let us analyze what is tooth decay. Dr. Orland, have you got an idea? We've been talking about food and bacteria producing an acid. What do we recognize as tooth decay? Dr. Well, I think, Dr. Blaney, from the bacterial standpoint, we might visualize each acid producing bacterial cell as a tiny factory on a hidden tooth surface. Dr. It turns out acid very rapidly and merely is a byproduct for energy whenever sugar is made available to these cells. Dr. Then the question, of course, arises, how can we stop these bacteria from doing this? Dr. Yeah, then on that basis, we can think of tooth decay as a dissolution of the mineral or the inorganic parts of the enamel of the tooth, enamel and dentine, primarily the result of acid production? Dr. I think from the best evidence available, that seems to be what people agree on, though there are few dissenters in that field. Dr. Yeah, of course, the general public think of tooth decay as a hole in a tooth or when the tooth becomes sensitive. Dr. But I think the well-trained dentist recognizes tooth decay long before it gets to the point of where there is a hole. The very early action of the acid on the enamel can be recognized by careful observation. Dr. That's certainly true, Dr. Blaney. Under the microscope, we can see, as bacteria progress, how the tooth actually falls apart, so to speak. Dr. Well, what can we do about neutralizing these acids, or what can we do to reduce the activity of bacteria in the mouth, Dr. Orland? Dr. Well, as Dr. Alvium stated earlier, we can certainly try to starve them, say, by not giving them their vitamins. But, unfortunately, the bacteria need the same vitamins as those needed by man himself. Perhaps we could deprive the bacteria of the mouth of something else that man does not need. Dr. And sugar has been stated when used in excessive amounts as being such a substance. Dr. Well, now, how about sugar and fruits? Does that do the same thing? What type of sugar are you thinking of there? Dr. Usually, it's the sugar that's served right on the table. Sucrose is the term for that sugar. Dr. Of course, the sugar in the fruits would also be available to these bacteria. Dr. And in this connection, of course, we hear a great deal these days about the various acids in fruit. It's having some effect on the enamel. What do you think of that, Dr. Blaney? Dr. Well, it certainly is true that people that take an excessive amount of fruits that contain a large amount of acid. Dr. Especially lemons? Dr. That's right. Lemons will produce a decalcification or a dissolution of the enamel in the anterior portion of the mouth. That work was reported some little time ago. It's quite effective. Dr. But that's entirely different from caries. Dr. It's quite different than acid production on the tooth surface that are glued to the tooth surface. The tooth must not be confused. Dr. And it's more like erosion than it does caries. Dr. That's right. It's a smooth, entirely different process. Dr. Yeah, loss of substance. Dr. Yeah. Dr. Well, harking back to the bacterial process on the tooth surface, I think we can also remove sugars that may be found around teeth by brushing and diluting them by rinsing with even plain water. Dr. Even more effective means are sometimes thought of, and that is to use certain chemical substances which will act as poisons preventing growth of bacteria or actually killing them. Dr. Again, using them in rinsing and brushing perhaps the area around the tooth. Dr. And certainly, Dr. Dean, in your expression on the use of fluorides, it has been well shown that that is a bacterial poison and highly potent one at that. Dr. Now, what about these ammoniated dentifuses affecting the bacterial activity, Dr. Orland? Do they kill the bacteria? Or just what is their action on the microorganisms? Dr. I think what we might know best there, Dr. Blaney, is that ammonia when it is in great concentrations will inhibit bacteria. And that can be demonstrated in test tubes. In the mouth, it's a little difficult to understand how ammonia can accumulate. That's right, Dr. Orland. Dr. To reduce the bacteria? Dr. It's a little bit of a question, and the clinical results that have been observed seem to show there's only a slight reduction of tooth decay by the use of some of these preparations, though it still is certainly worth using. Dr. With the present development of the antibiotics that's used so frequently now in controlling of other diseases, what about their effect upon the bacteria which cause caries, Dr. Orland? Dr. Orland, what do you think about the use of antibiotics for the control of tooth decay if they work? Dr. Well, certainly as they were first tested in the test tube, they were very effective in stopping bacteria from growing and even killing them. In the mouth, some of the studies with children now have also shown that they are very effective in limiting the amount of new cavities that are formed. Dr. However, with the use of such a potent antibiotic as penicillin, for example, one must be very cautious so that we do not run into other difficulties. Dr. How frequently do you have to apply these antibiotics? Every day or every other day or once a week? Is there any evidence on that? Dr. Well, in the experience of the group that studied this, they found they were using them as a tooth powder and were using them at least twice every day, brushing it right around the tooth surfaces where the bacteria, of course, are there. Dr. Dr. Orland, it's generally known that about one and a half to two percent of our population are totally free from tooth decay. What is it that exists in their mouth that keeps the bacteria from acting there? Do you find the type of bacteria in the mouth of these people that don't have tooth decay under any condition? What's your opinion on that? Dr. Well, that has been a very interesting problem for a good number of years now, Dr. Blaney, and certain neutralizing agents have been considered to be found in the saliva. They are not definitely known in all instances. It's also suspected that with the normal bacterial flora of the mouth, the normal forms that are usually found, if they are there in such numbers, some of these acid-producing forms might not be able to live in their presence, and hence we do not get the same picture in those mouths. Dr. Yeah, yeah. Could there be a natural antibiotic in these mouths? Dr. That's one of the agents that has been identified from time to time, but never in very great concentrations. Dr. Does it not appear also that certain types of bacteria are growing in the mouths of people that are free from tooth decay, and that the type of bacteria that is responsible for tooth decay don't get an opportunity to get a foothold to live in there? Do you think anything about that? Dr. That's a very great possibility, Dr. Blaney, but a great deal more must be known of the fundamental nature of much of the bacteria that are found around the mouth. Until we can evaluate that better, it's hard to make a definite statement in that point. Dr. Well, do we always have the same type of bacteria in our mouths, or does it change from time to time? Dr. No, it certainly changes. The infant, when it's first born, has a very sterile mouth, but bacteria soon begin to grow. As the teeth erupt, other types of bacteria come to live there, and again, in older people, when all their teeth are lost, perhaps, the bacteria again change their types. Dr. The influence of heredity is sometimes also raised as an explanation of why some people have little tooth decay. Heredity can hardly be an important influence, however, when 98% of our children have decayed teeth, even though most of their immediate ancestors did not. In fact, at the alarming rate of 33 million new cavities developing every year in our 6 to 18 year olds, the dental practitioner just cannot keep up with fillings and tooth extractions. Faced with a problem of this size, prevention is the only solution. To prevent this disease, we must know much more about the cause. Intensive research is underway at last. Well, what specific help can we give our listeners today? On the basis of our present knowledge, we can say, to prevent tooth decay, we must begin with the juvenile population. Adults are practically a lost cause. One effort that can be made is to refrain from eating excessively sweetened foods. Rinsing the mouth with water immediately after eating sweets helps dilute out the sugars trapped around the teeth. Brushing and using some medicated tooth powders or having the dentist paint sodium fluoride on the teeth tend to reduce the number of new cavities. For the long run, the artificial fluoridation of communal water supplies, that is the procedure of adding one part sodium fluoride to a million parts of drinking water, after more years of study, may prove to be the public health measure long needed for mass prevention of tooth decay. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on What Do We Know About Tooth Decay were Dr. H. Trendley Dean of the United States Public Health Service, C. A. L. Vahem, Biochemist of the University of Wisconsin, Dr. Frank J. Orland and Dr. James R. Blaney, Dental Surgeons, both of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion about tooth decay contains the full text of the discussion and publishes two special articles. Write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copies. Today's program came to you in part by transcription. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company.