This is W.N.Y.E. New York. Hello there. Let's speak American. Let's speak American with our neighbors, the Parade family. They're pretty new to our city, you know. Came here from a Spanish-speaking country not too long ago. And like all of our foreign-born neighbors, they're finding life in New York kind of different from their life back home. The surroundings are different, the customs are different, and the language, well, that's certainly different. But suppose we join the Parade family right now as they learn to become Americans by choice. It's early on a weekday evening. Dinner is over, the dishes are done, and Jose and Maria Parade are sitting in their living room, deep in conversation. You go too fast, John. This citizen business needs more time. Time. It is two years since we came to the United States. That is long. How do you know it is the best thing to do? I don't know. I only think it is best. That must be John Corwin. I asked him to come over this evening. Stay here, Maria. I'll open the door. Buenos noches, neighbor. Hello, Jose. How's Maria? She is well. Come in, come in. Buenos noches, John. Good evening, Maria. How are you? Oh, fine, fine. Thank you. Sit down. Jose and I were just talking. Si. We were having a discussion. And as always, good friend. You can help us. Oh, what's it about? Something important? Si. Si. Si. Si. Very important. Si, we got a letter from my family in Buenos Aires. They want me to go back. But I have other plans. Jose, he wants to stay here. Well, I'd say that's good news. I want to stay here, and I want to become a citizen of this country. What do you think of that? I think it's wonderful. It doesn't surprise me a bit, you know. I know. I know. But he should not think of it now. Why not now? It is because of the letter. Maria is worried about our family and friends. Si. What will Pedro think? And Isabella? And Juan? Jose does not have to become a citizen to live here. Does he, John? No, he doesn't. I don't have to. But I want to. I suppose you've thought about the whole thing seriously, Jose. Oh, yes. For a long time. I know that this is where I want to stay and work and live. But Jose, you are not happy. You have no job, no home. Yes, I have a job, a home, a good family. What I want... Then I do not understand you, Jose. Why must you become a citizen? Well, we have been in the United States almost two years. It is time we decided where we belong. Besides, there are many reasons why I want to be a citizen. Politics, for example. Politics? What has that to do with us? You know, Maria, I have always been interested in government, even at home. Hmm, si. I remember. Well, I want a voice in this government. But can I vote? No. Why? Because I am not a citizen. I live here. I talk about politics. But I cannot vote. Caramba! I am a fish. A fish? What do you mean, a fish? He means he's like a fish out of water. Don't you, Jose? Si. A fish out of water. But is it so important to vote? For me, it is important. It is the one way to make sure we keep this freedom here. The trouble is we sometimes forget that freedom cannot be taken for granted. Si. It is like a flower. It must be watched and cared for. Jose. Jose, you are always so sentimental. You know, Maria, there are a number of practical reasons why Jose should become a citizen. Oh, for example, Jose might have a much better job if he were a citizen. No. That is true, Jose. Si. The person who is a citizen gets the jobs first. This I did not know, Jose. We could use more money. We always need many things. And Alvira is growing. Yes. I know she is growing. I think of her, of her future. But, Jose, if you think of Alvira's future, think what this will do to her. Look at the Garcia family. They are citizens now. But do they speak Spanish? No. Do they children speak Spanish? No. Do they ever talk of Lima? Also no. But Alvira is not a Garcia. She will not forget her old country or her language. Maria, this country is made up of people from many different nations. All of them have made America richer by bringing their customs with them. You have something very precious to give this country. Alvira knows that already. What do you mean? Well, just look at her. After all, she hasn't been here too long, and she's already one of the most popular girls at school. Oh, si. And I am very proud of her. Part of her popularity is due to the fact that she has something of importance to give to others. Something the other students respect. I am happy they really like her. But maybe Alvira should be more in the kitchen. Always she is reading. Always her nose is in the book. Maria, we have spoken about this. There is time for the kitchen. Now Alvira must learn. All right, all right. But Jose, if you become a citizen, what will be our name? What are you talking about, a name? My name is Jose Francisco Tomas Perez. But you will have to change it. Is that true, John? No. I can't imagine where Maria got the idea. But it is the custom, no? Why, no. Of course not. It is true. Some people have changed their names, but not because they became citizens of this country. But look at Mrs. Sand, our neighbor. She told me that her name was, oh, I don't remember, but it was different. Very long. Her name was Sandomierska. She shortened it to Sand. She said it would be much simpler for everybody to call her Sand. Well, we do not have such trouble. Our name is short and not complicated. Anyway, today, very few people change their names, even if they're long ones. Perhaps you are right, John. But I am still worried about what our family and friends back home will think. What will they say when they find out Jose is a citizen of this country? I think they will be sorry that they are not in my... What is the expression? Not in my shoes? Yes, Jose, that's it. Maria, it may be hard for your people to understand how Jose can love two countries. But when they know why Jose wishes to become a citizen of the United States, well, I think they'll agree that it's a good thing. Si, Carida. Especially after I write a few letters to them, they will. But you will never see them again. Sacramento, of course, I will see them. I will visit them every few years, perhaps sooner. But Jose, it is difficult to become a citizen, no? I am not sure. But even if it is difficult, I will try. It isn't hard, but it can't be done overnight. Why do you say that? Well, one of the rules is that you must live in this country for at least five years before you can become a citizen. And we have lived here only two. That is true. Still, you can file the Declaration of Intention right now. You mean the first papers? Yes, that's another name for it. What do we have to do? Well, you have to get the form. You can get it at the clerk's office of almost any court. Sometimes teachers of English and citizenship have copies of this form. And then what? Then you have to fill it out. There are questions about when you arrived, where you last lived, whether or not you came to this country legally, and oh, the name of the ship which brought you here. Jose, do you remember? Do you know the name of the ship? Mm-hmm. Just a minute. I will remember. I... I do not remember. And I don't think I have it written down anywhere. It was something close to America. I know. The ship was the Columbus. No. No, Jose. I remember now. The ship was the Isabella. Isabella. Don't you remember? You always said it takes a woman to move ahead. That's right. I remember now, too. But, John, what else do we have to do? Well, it's really not very complicated, Jose. When you have all your papers in order, you sign your name before the clerk of the court and pay a small fee. How much? Oh, I think it's three dollars. That is a bargain. A bargain for freedom. Eh, Maria? And then what? Then you wait. It takes time before all the information is checked. Besides, don't forget, a person applying for second papers must have lived in the United States at least five years. It is a long time for me to wait. Well, in that time, you can learn more about this country. You know, before you become a citizen, you will be examined on your knowledge of American history and government and language. You'll also need two witnesses to go to court with you. But why do we need witnesses to go to court? We do nothing wrong. It's not that, Maria. The witnesses have to say that you are of good character. Oh. I am sure I will not have any trouble. But who do you think would be a witness for me? What a question, Jose. Jose. Anne and I will be glad to be your witnesses when the time comes. Oh, gracias, John. You are our good neighbor and friend. We all must try to help each other, Jose. John, in two years when I am a citizen of the United States, Elvira will be 17 years old. Oh, si. Just what of Elvira? Elvira, she will be a citizen too? Because of her age, it will be simple for Elvira to become a citizen. What do you mean? Well, once you are a citizen, Jose, Elvira will be able to apply immediately for her citizenship. I know she will want it. Even now, when she talks about America, she says, my country. Oh, there is so much to learn and to remember. It is difficult. But we can do it, I think. With a little help and a lot of study. Maria, what do you mean we can do it? What do you think? I should only sit and watch you? Then you will come to school with me? To school? I thought we were talking about becoming citizens of this country. Si, but I am going to go to school in the evening after work. I want to learn more about this government by the people. I want to know everything about American politics. Jose, Jose, soon you will tell me you want to become mayor of this city. Mayor? Why not? Perhaps even governor. Jose, what will you think of next? To tell you the truth, I think I am hungry, Maria. You know what they say, Maria. The way to a man's heart is through his stomach. Oh, that is true. So, I do my thinking now about citizenship in the kitchen. Yeah. laughter And so, our friends have had another experience as they adjust to a new life in New York. On our next program, the Parath family finds out about Classes for Adults in At My Age. So join us then, won't you? And let's speak American once again with our foreign-born neighbors. Today's script, American by Choice, was written by Maria Novyshelska and was transcribed by the WNYE players under the direction of Florence Monroe. This has been a Board of Education production. March, as you know, is the month of the Red Cross. And during this month, we are all asked to support the Red Cross ideal of service to mankind. Did you know, for instance, that the Red Cross provides school-made clothing and toys for needy children right here in New York City? And it provides thousands of children abroad with the only new shoes they've ever had. You can help the Red Cross continue these worthwhile services for children everywhere. You can help by giving all you can to the 1952 Red Cross campaign. And now, to find out how your Board of Education cooperates with community agencies to help serve all our children, stay tuned, for these are your schools. This is WNYE, New York. Thank you. Thank you.
