This is United Nations Radio calling the various networks and stations about to take the Ridgeway ceremonies today here at UN headquarters. I trust that you, ladies and gentlemen, are receiving this all right. I'll talk for a minute or two and make sure that you have all the information and tell you what we're going to feed to you and give you some of the details about it, the length and so on. There are two tapes today. This is UN radio calling those networks and stations carrying the ceremonies here at the United Nations headquarters in connection with General Ridgeway's visit to the UN. There are two tapes. In the first one, the ceremonies attended upon the receipt by General Ridgeway of the United Nations Korean Medal given to him by Mr. Lee. Now, on that first tape, you will first hear Mr. Lee. If you want the in cue, that is, General Ridgeway, Your Excellencies. General Ridgeway, Your Excellencies. That will be Mr. Lee speaking for about a minute and 55 seconds. Then Mr. Lee introduces Mr. Salem Sarper. He's the ambassador from Turkey and president of the Security Council for this month. Mr. Sarper then speaks for a minute and 45 seconds. Then Mr. Lee introduces Ambassador Warren Austin, and Ambassador Austin speaks for about 55 seconds. And then Mr. Lee introduces General Ridgeway, who speaks for about a minute and 20 seconds. Now, I'm talking about the first four speakers in connection with General Ridgeway's receipt of the United Nations Korean Medal. That takes place in the Security Council chamber. So you will have Mr. Lee first, Mr. Salem Sarper as ambassador of Turkey and president of the Security Council for this month, second, Ambassador Warren Austin third, and General Ridgeway fourth and last. The in cue on this particular tape will be General Ridgeway, Your Excellencies, and the out cue will be The Bottom of My Heart, at which time we'll cut fast. That's six minutes and 20 seconds for the entire ceremony. I might only mention that in General Ridgeway's statement, he refers to each of the individuals who've spoken before he has, and he refers to Ambassador Warren Austin as Ambassador Warren. You might just like to know about that. Then on the second tape, incidentally, we'll take a little pause between the first and second tape and warn you of what's coming up, but I'll give you a general overall picture now. On the second tape, Benjamin A. Cohen, as Assistant Secretary General in charge of the Department of Public Information, introduces General Ridgeway, and his in cue will be, Ladies and Gentlemen, then General Ridgeway makes a statement of approximately six minutes in duration, and then there are questions from the correspondents. Some one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine questions, I believe, and that goes on for about 14 minutes, ending up with General Ridgeway, and then Mr. Cohen thanks General Ridgeway, and the out cue will be kind presence here this morning. Now, we'll come back to that again after we have the little intermission between the two tapes. Once again, for those of you who may not have gotten it, in connection with Mr. Lee's presenting to General Ridgeway, the United Nations Korean Medal, the first ceremony that occurred here at UN headquarters today, you will have, first of all, Mr. Trigvili speaking for a minute and 55 seconds, introducing Mr. Salem Saper, the Ambassador from Turkey and President of the Security Council for this month. Mr. Saper will speak for a minute and 45 seconds. Then Mr. Lee will introduce Ambassador Warren Austin. Ambassador Austin will speak for 55 seconds. And then Mr. Lee will introduce General Ridgeway, and General Ridgeway will speak for a minute and 20 seconds. The in cue to the entire first tape will be General Ridgeway, Your Excellencies, and the out cue will be Bottom of My Heart. That first tape will take, in its entirety, six minutes and 20 seconds. I trust that we are all set on that, ladies and gentlemen. So let's start the first tape, in connection with the receipt by General Ridgeway of the United Nations Korean Medal. Let's start that tape in exactly 15 seconds, in exactly 15 seconds from now. General Ridgeway, Your Excellencies, as Secretary General of the United Nations, and with the agreement of the Unified Command, the United States Government, I have the great honor to bestow upon you the United Nations Korean Service Medal. I like just to read the words on the medal. For service in defense of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. General Ridgeway, we are today paying tribute to you as Commander-in-Chief of the United Nations Forces in Korea. And we are paying tribute to all those who were with you fighting the United Nations courts in Korea. We are proud to have you here. We are proud because you were one of ours before you went to Korea. And we are proud that some of your collaborators from the Military Staff Committee are together with you here today. In paying tribute, I'd just like to express the hope that all those who lost their lives in that battle for freedom, in that battle for peace, that they haven't lost their lives in vain. Today, I'd like to bring our plane tanks to all the officers and all the soldiers who have fought so brilliantly under your command in Korea. Thank you. Thank you. The President of the Security Council, the Turkish Ambassador, Mr. Sarpur. General Ridgeway, gentlemen, on behalf of my colleagues here present and as the representative of the Turkish people and government whose troops have fought in Korea under the able command of General Ridgeway to suppress aggression and thus lay the foundations of collective security. I am deeply pleased and honored to meet General Ridgeway and present him my wishes of success in the new responsibility he has assumed as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the countries of the North Atlantic Alliance, the first important regional arrangement established with a view to suppress aggression and secure peace and security in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations. The fact, gentlemen, that 12 of the 14 members of the NATO had troops fighting under the leadership of the General in Korea and that they have thus met under conditions of actual combat, trusting and respecting one another, is a most valuable guarantee of a future fruitful cooperation and success. Our men and our hearts are with you, General. God be with you. Thank you. The Ambassador of the United States of America, Mr. Austin. We of the United States Mission, who have been associated with General Ridgeway so closely in the past, are happy to have him with us here in the United Nations headquarters. The defeats that have been inflicted upon aggressive international communism in Korea may have saved the world from a global war. in paying tribute to General Ridgeway here today, we pay tribute also to all the men who have fought and those who are now struggling for that peace, freedom, and world brotherhood yet to be achieved. Thank you. Thank you. General Ridgeway. Secretary General Lee, Your Excellency, Ambassador Sharper, Your Excellency, Senator Warren, Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, I am deeply sensible, beyond words, of this very great honor. but I am much more deeply sensible of the significance of what the Secretary General has said here today in his gracious, simple, sincere manner, that this tribute goes not to me, very little of that, but it goes to the borders of Korea where the members of those gallant commands have shared service with each other and in that service on the battlefield have developed in a manner unparalleled in history a mutual respect, a mutual understanding, and a mutual confidence which indeed bids well for the future of the United Nations and of the free world. I thank you from the bottom of my heart. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, that is the end of the first tape. That's the first tape in connection with General Ridgway's receipt of the United Nations Korean Medal. I trust that you got that all right. I'll be talking with you about that just a little bit later. Now we go on to the second ceremony, and this was in connection with General Ridgway's press... press conference. Now the first voice you will hear on this particular tape will be Mr. Benjamin A. Cohen, Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations in charge of the Department of Public Information. And Mr. Cohen's first words will be, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Cohen then will introduce General Ridgway, who will make a preliminary statement of approximately five and a half minutes or so in duration. Then there will be the correspondence questions about ten or eleven questions. You may not hear the questions too well because some of the gentlemen spoke off microphone or stood up, and there were no standing microphones for them. But you'll get most of the questions anyway, and many of them were on microphone. And the out cue after General Ridgway finishes, you'll have Mr. Cohen coming back and thanking him. The out cue will be kind presence here this morning. The out cue of the entire tape will be kind presence here this morning. The whole tape will take just a little over fourteen minutes. So first you'll have Mr. Benjamin Cohen, Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations in charge of public information. His in cue will be, ladies and gentlemen. then you will have General Ridgway's preliminary statement, the questions by the correspondence and General Ridgway's answers to them, and then Mr. Cohen thanking General Ridgway and ending with kind presence here this morning. And the whole tape will take about fourteen minutes or so in duration. I'll be speaking to you again after the end of this tape. Now let's start this next tape. This is the press conference in exactly fifteen seconds fifteen seconds from now. Ladies and gentlemen of the United Nations Correspondent, I don't think I have to introduce General Ridgway, but just to say that we're very glad to have him here today. I will ask him whether he would like to make a general statement before submitting to the usual questions and answers. I would like to ask the correspondents to kindly raise their hands before they speak so that we can connect the microphone to have everybody properly heard. General Ridgway. Mr. Secretary-General, Ben, I am delighted to make a few preliminary remarks if I may, in no sense in the nature of a prepared statement. I don't have anything prepared. I am going to speak from the heart as I always do. I am somewhat overcome by a style to which I am distinctly unaccustomed here, and so I am simply gathering my thoughts for the moment. but it gives me the very greatest pleasure to be back here in the atmosphere of the United Nations where I had some of the most fruitful service of my career. Rich in memory, rich in friendly associations, and I am happy to say that I have already seen so many of the faces which represent those friendships in the few brief minutes I have been in here today. now it is a particular privilege to me to be here to pay my own simple tribute as a soldier to those thousands and thousands of men and women with whom I shared service in Korea in an effort to carry out the missions assigned by this great organization. gallantry, fortitude, resolution have been displayed over there in a manner which can make each of you exceedingly proud of the members of the contingent which represented you and your people. There has developed there, I have said it again and again in the past, I can never say it too frequently, something which is exceedingly precious to the world, I think, and that is a mutual respect born of a mutual understanding which has generated a mutual confidence in turn born in battle. And when you have that, ladies and gentlemen, when you have that mutual confidence in each other and those on either side and behind you that no matter what the stress, they're right there fully supporting you, never letting you down, you have something enduring. And the best part of it is that as rotation occurs and these members of these contingents go back to their own homelands, they take that back with them. They deploy that unparalleled feeling of common purpose, of common objective, and of mutual confidence back to the people in their own homes in a way which no printed word, however eloquent, can ever convey. to be here today in this great building which I saw for the first time and which figuratively and literally symbolizes to me that men of conscience have resolved to build by collective effort strength sufficient to safeguard their liberty and the truth against the senator secret designs of other men who would destroy that liberty and who do deny the truth every day that we live. I fail to see how anyone can any longer perceive the design of those men nor fail to add his own resolution to that of other courageous free peoples earnestly hoping and resolved on peace but equally earnestly and unshakably determined that aggression against their liberty and against the truth shall not be permitted to succeed. Thank you. now I am fresh from the Far East I have been absorbed almost continuously practically until yesterday afternoon with reporting to my superiors on matters exclusively relating to the Far East I have just begun to have a moment to seek to grasp the many perplexing major problems which lie on the eastern horizon I am shortly to take up the trail blazed by a very great man General of the Army Dwight D. Eisenhower I can only assure you ladies and gentlemen that I shall give my utmost to broaden to improve that trail to carry it one step further toward the objective which is dearest to all our hearts and that is honorable world peace and now sir if you'd like me I'd be glad to submit myself to such questions and try to make such answers as my knowledge and circumstances permit Mr. Fry the light general take out the light now general I should like wait a minute we must have the light out we must see the correspondence the light yes get through yeah let me just get our side picking so we can see the faces thank you general I should like to ask if you give us your views as to what is holding up the peace in Panjong I mean your own impressions of what what are the communist objectives in dragging out these talks I wouldn't presume to look into the minds of the men who make the decisions therefore I wouldn't venture to predict what the outcome will be nor when unquestionably I believe the status of one of the three remaining unresolved major issues and that relates to the communist demand that all prisoners of war be exchanged forcibly if necessary is at the root of the whole problem whether that be the sole cause I would not be in a position to predict general Ridgeway the armistice seem to have been buttoned up except for the prisoner of war issue before you left Korea would you say that some purpose might be served by transferring the remaining negotiations and the ones that follow after it back to the here to the United Nations well first may I make a an amendment to what you have said there are two other issues all involved in the package proposal which the United Nations command delegation now has before the communist delegation those other two issues relate to the construction and rehabilitation of airfields and to the proposal that the Soviet Union be a member of the neutral nations supervisory commission none of those three issues have been agreed to so far between the two delegations now as to whether it should be referred back to the United Nations that gentleman I conceived to be a purely political issue which is beyond my terms of reference entirely yes general Ridgway do you know of any honorable way to end this stalemate war in Korea without attacking the communist bases in Manchuria deal that's a very broad question because there are so many aspects to it one honorable way to end the hostilities there is the one we've been pursuing since July of 1951 so far unsuccessfully that is by the terms of a military armistice an honorable armistice agreeable to both side Mr. Fagg to what extent general is Soviet Russia directly participating in its own men in the Korean war I believe we have no evidence none known to me of any direct military participation by units of the armed forces of the Soviet Union yes sir you are taking a very important new post the objective we believe is to keep peace in Europe and North Africa have you given any thought as to how you will reconcile the national aspirations of the North African people I'm sorry that I'm not in a position to answer your question for the perfectly sincere reason I gave a moment ago I did not turn over command of my Far East responsibilities I did not relinquish them rather until just four hours before takeoff and most of the time since then was spent flying with very little leisure and from the moment I reached Washington I have really been subjected to pressure on Far East and affairs and I just have not had time do any deep thinking back to the Korean situation for a moment do you feel that the trouble in the prison camps in Koji and Pusan have any influence whatever on the negotiations or will have any influence on those negotiations I think they can and doubtless will have a great influence on the negotiations could you would you mind elaborating a little bit on that well it's very hard to elaborate because it all depends on the determination and intention of the communists whether this was a deliberately designed technique for the purpose of influencing those negotiations and if so to what extent and how and when we have yet to learn but that it will affect the negotiations certainly in the propaganda field has already been made manifest just one question more would you comment briefly on the changes that have taken place in the safeguards that were originally set up in the negotiations zone I am referring to the shrinkage of the 20 mile limit and the preparations for air cover and that sort of thing is there anything ominous in the way those things have shrunk well the principle of inspection is still in there as doubtless you know the width of the demilitarized zone was by mutual agreement considerably narrowed of the 20 mile limit and the preparations for necessary so I can still possibly should easily I can mais I Thank you. Thank you. I would like to reiterate with all the emphasis at my command that no element under United Nations control has at any time, in any way, shape, manner or form, anywhere employed germ or gas warfare. We only have time for one more question. Ms. Weill, as I was first place. Mr. Evelin said you haven't started your European mission yet. Could you get to comment on the signing of the agreement in Bonn today? Mr. Evelin said you haven't started your European mission yet. I wouldn't thank you. The only thing that counts in this world, particularly in the military field, is performance. All I can do now is to talk. I can talk with some assurance on things in which I had a personal participation, which are now fact. But when you get into the future, and particularly the future, not known to the individual concerned, I think the less talking he does, the better. Thank you very much, General Ridgway. Correspondents expressed an appreciation through me for your kind presence here this morning. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the end of our second tape. Now, I trust that you received all the information and got the tapes okay. But just in case there was any slip-up and you want anything repeated, we'll wait here for about five minutes. And why don't you give us a call at Plaza 4, 1234, extension 3426. That's Plaza 4, 1234, extension 3426. If there's any material you would like us to repeat, we'll wait about five minutes for your call. Thank you. Thank you.