Your city station now offers by transcription a salute to the Block of the Week, a tribute to those sections of New York City where tenants have pitched in with their own efforts to make their blocks neater to look at and live in. This morning, your city station spotlights a block in the East Bronx. So join us as we take a walk around the block and find out just why. This is your city station's Block of the Week. Your block today is in the Bronx, the Lower East Bronx, and it's really just a wedge of land bounded by the tenements and billboards along Jackson, Forest, and Westchester Avenues. Even in the warm early autumn weather, you feel pretty cool on the Westchester Avenue side because the gaunt L structure overhead blocks out most of the direct rays of the sun. Walking south on Westchester Avenue, you pass a neat little dress shop, a busy radio repair place, a jewelry store, a restaurant specializing in Spanish foods. It's a busy street, and maybe it's a bit noisier because of the L, but otherwise it's probably no different from hundreds of other streets in the city. You swing off Westchester Avenue onto Jackson. Well, naturally, it's quieter here. This is a residential street consisting mainly of two family red brick homes. You walk up Jackson, up the slight hill past the cigar store, the electrician shop, the row of billboards advertising a wide range of products. You move past a grocery, then a dark abandoned looking building with some kind of light factory work is going on, but it's impossible to tell what it is. You walk past the factory, and then you come to the lot. And here, right here, is where the story begins. You see a group of kids, the Lucky Knights so-called, all members of the Police Athletic League, and they're playing a game of baseball on the lot. And the thing that strikes your eye immediately is that they play pretty well. And what's more, they have a mighty good place to play, too. The lot is nice and flat and clear. And here's the real professional touch. Back of center field, there's a low terracotta wall, and the kids use the area behind that as a bullpen. Yes, it's a darn nice setup. And the nicest thing about it is that these boys are responsible for it themselves. Yes, boys like the smiling young fellow over there who's doing the catching. Well, you want to know the full story, so you go up and talk to him. Hi there. Hi. You one of the Lucky Knights, are you? Yes. And I take it you're the catcher for the team? You're right. What's your name? Frank Rivero. Hi, Frank. It's real nice to know you. Tell me, Frank, is this lot here that you fellas are playing ball on always been this nice? No. It hasn't? No. You mean it used to be a little bit rougher to play on than it is now? Well, not rough. It was like a mess. Most of the time we had to play in fear of getting hurt. Well, why was that? Well, you see, before we would, as a team, we would try and keep the field clean, but it wasn't the same as keeping the field clean, because the people wouldn't cooperate with us. Well, wait a minute. How long has this been going on, Frank? Well, we only cleared this yard about a few days ago, and it wasn't like this before. And before, by before you mean about, what, a year, two years, or what? About two years. About two years, huh? Yeah. And I take it, what you mean is that you used to clean it up, sort of, and then the next day you'd come back and it'd be kind of messy again. No, the people would throw the things back, you see? Well, what kind of things, Frank? Well, they would throw cans, garbage, food, dead cats, dogs, anything they could find in their house that was available. And still you came out and played ball. That's how much you wanted to play ball, huh? Well, that's why we have a baseball team. Well, in other words, it was sort of a choice of playing on a messy lot or playing on the streets, and you felt you could do a lot better playing ball on the lot. Is that it? That's about it. Well, what was it? Before this, you had just your infield, or both the infield and outfield were messy. What was the... Tell me a little bit more about the condition of the lot before you got to it. Well, before we got to it, you see, the infield was all rocky and cans, garbage, everything you could think of on the infield. Yeah. When we cleared it out, the first thing we did was clear out the infield. When we got to the outfield, a big problem was out there because we had to clear out our bullpen. You mean right back of the wall here? That's right. Uh-huh. What was back there? Well, there was what you couldn't pick up with the hands. You needed tools. Rakes and shovels? Rakes, shovels. I think you could even use a steam shovel over there, too. It was that bad, huh? It was worse than bad. Did it affect your ground rules at all? Did you have to sort of make special ground rules to fit the condition of the field? We had to make all different kinds of rules because it wasn't just the same as fielding the ball in a clear field. When a person would come up to bat and he hit a ball into it over the wall, over this wall over here, we had to call that a double because if you jump in after that ball, you could have easily broken a leg, got cut, or you could have easily been injured. Did anybody ever get injured seriously around here? Some boys injured pretty badly. How about yourself? Well, I was hurt myself in trying to make a catch out in center field. I tripped over a rock and got cut. And my mother, from that day on, she didn't want me to play baseball anymore in this lot, but that didn't stop me. I told her, we just like to play baseball. It was natural. We didn't like to stick around and leave our lot clean like that. You know, we had to clean it up. It was all messed up with all these people who didn't cooperate with us. After we told them time after time not to throw things, they would just ignore us and throw it again. And so there was always a possibility that either you or some of the other guys on the team were going to get hurt again. That's why when I changed from the outfield, after that day I got cut, I changed from the outfield to a catcher. I was catching in the bullpen because we had another catcher that had more experience than me. So I was a bullpen catcher. When I was catching one day, the pitcher threw a ball in the floor and rocks, it hit a rock and the rock hit a glass and it flew and hit me in the head. Were you cut that time too? No, I was just, you know, scratch like that. A little bit dazed by it. Yeah, yeah. And when I would return the ball to the pitcher, the pitcher couldn't grab the ball firmly because he was unbalanced on account of if he would step on level ground, there wasn't any. So he had to step, he had one foot on a rock and the other feet on the floor. In other words, what you fellas sort of had to do was play ball as best you could under the conditions, which weren't any good. Not good. You couldn't play there, baseball at all. I think before we got, before we started to work on that yard, we, I think you didn't even feel the ground ball there. And then even after you worked at it, everybody else in the neighborhood kept littering all the junk into the yard, so you'd have to start all over from the beginning. Well, there's a case of a boy that was playing the outfield, a Negro boy. He was playing his team one day. He was chasing a fly ball where our ground rule section is. Mm-hmm. He tripped over this wall over and fell in glass. He cut himself, his hand pretty badly. About three inches, he had to have a couple of stitches taken. He went, we took him to the scoutmaster's house across the street. He fixed him up and he brought him to the hospital. We continued our game. Due to the fact that we had so many rocks and glass and all this, we had football scores like, the score would come out to be 40, 50, scores like that. I mean, it just wasn't really baseball. You were doing the best you could, but it still wasn't the real game. You, you, you would count anything ahead and there. I myself was playing third base one day and I play all positions. You see, I, I could even pitch, but I mean, I don't try for that. We was playing this position. I was playing third base. A ball was hit, a line that was hit right back to shortstop. And there's a rock in the shortstop section. It bounced off the rock and hit me in the head. Well, about this time, I imagine after getting hit in the head so many times, Frank, you started to figure that, uh, it was time that something, uh, definite and concrete be done about this whole cleanup situation. Not yet, you see. When, but when I saw my little brother got hurt. You see, I have a little brother. He was playing baseball and there was men. You see, the men would usually, you know, they would say, our, we're the biggest, we wait for them to clean it up. After we cleaned off the field, they would come up and play. And if we wouldn't got off the field, they'd start hitting the ball hard so we could get off the field by force. After we finished our yard, they would come in and take over, like, so my little brother didn't want to get off the field this day, so they hit him in line drive in the, in the face. He had to go home. My mother, you know, he didn't want to excite my mother, so he said he fell. And, because my mother gets excited if you tell her something, like, you got hit by a baseball, by the way she starts going for a doctor or something like that. Yeah, sure, that's kind of natural. Oh. So, all our mothers are worried, I think, when we go out to play baseball in this yard. Mm-hmm. None of the cards, because it's a safe place to play in. It would be a safe place, a place if ever, where the lot had been all cleaned up at that time. Well, now, there's another fellow standing right here alongside of Frank that I want to talk to, because we've heard that he had a lot to do with the organization of this, this whole cleanup thing here, and so we decided to talk to him. His name is Jocom Rivera. Hi there, Jo. Hi. Yeah. What position do you play here with the Lucky Knights? I play showstop. And do you want to tell me something about what happened after all these cuts and getting hit in the head with rocks and everything else and the mess that the lot was in? I take it all you fellows of the Lucky Knights decided to get together then and really clean it up once and for all. How did that come about? Do you want to tell me something about it? Well, we used to clean it up before we really cleaned it up. We used to clean little by little, but we only used to have broom, and with a broom you can't, you know, sweep. Not that you didn't have the proper tools to do it with. Sweep bricks. So we joined the PAL and we started to go to the center, and we didn't care so much about the yard because we used to play in the PAL. By the way, wasn't your team the champions? Oh yeah. We joined the baseball tournament and we won the championship. But after we won the championship, then Mr. Allison got news about some contest that the Harry Tribune is holding. So then he told us to our meeting, and our meeting he told us about this contest, and we right away told them about the lot because we figured that we might win the contest, maybe. But if we don't win, we could clean up the lot. In other words, no matter what happened, whether you won the contest or not, you were going to come out on the winning side. Yeah, we had most of the good luck and most of the percentage points on our side. They were all on your side, huh? Yeah. So I gather that every one of the fellows on your ball club were all set to really pitch in and work together with the PAL and the Herald Tribune and do something about this lot. Is that it? Yeah. We got a lot of rakes and shovels, and then we went to the lot this day, I think, around one o'clock, and we started work. So I picked three boys. Their name was Tony Negron, Mario Camacho, and Joseph Martinez. We picked them. I picked them, and they put them on the line. Then I sent a little boy named Cherokee. He's a brother. He's a brother of one of our boys that played in the team. Was he sort of the mascot of the team? Yeah. I sent him to get boxes, so he brung the boxes. He brung about ten, and we started filling the boxes with glass, rocks, cans, and we started passing it to this, you know, like a line. One passed to the other one, the other one to this. Sort of the old-fashioned bucket brigade, only this time, instead of water, you were passing all the junk and trash from the lot out where you could get rid of it and clean the place up. Yeah. In other words, all the boys decided to do something about this lot themselves. Well, it's a pretty interesting story, so you decide to follow it along. You go up to speak to the umpire of the baseball game, a young man who's the assistant director of the Lynch PAL Center on East 156th Street, which organized the boys for this job. The man's name is Nick Allison. Hi, Nick. How do you do? Do you want to take over where Frank and Joe left off here and tell us some more about this, the organization of the baseball team for the cleaning up of this lot and how the Herald Tribune figured into it? I certainly will. Well, we had gotten word that the Herald Tribune was sponsoring a clean up campaign. They had notified us, and immediately I thought of the lucky knights who had just recently won the baseball championship. Called them in at their scheduled meeting time and spoke of this cleanup campaign. Almost wholeheartedly, they mentioned their Jackson Stadium. This is Jackson Stadium where I'm now. This is Jackson Stadium. They named it Jackson Stadium. In other words, they figured this was their big chance to finally do something about this entire lot here. That's right. Then they immediately said, well, Mr. Allison, why not come on over? Instead of sending somebody else over to the umpire of the game, why don't you come over yourself and look at the condition of our field? Well, this was the first chance you had to look at it, and when you got there, you saw a pretty messy outfit. Is that it? That is correct. And then from that point on, the PAL, together with the Green Knights, got together. You supplied the tools. You want to tell us about that? Yes. Well, we got together with the Lucky Knights, and through our maintenance department, we were able to get them some shovels, rakes, spades, and walk over to the field that afternoon with them. This afternoon with them. And, well, I just got the boys together and instructed them as how to clean up the place. The boys did the bulk of the work. Very, very dirty place. Very dirty. Quite a bit of litter all over this bullpen. Very dangerous for the youngsters to play in. Surprised me very, very much that they were able to play at all. Surprisingly enough, we also attracted a good number of adults in the immediate... They started to get interested in this project finally. It was very surprising. They did come by, and one or two very diligent souls come up to offer help to the youngsters who were working very diligently and perspiring very profusely. Well, I immediately spoke to one or two of them on the side and said, well, the best way you could help people would be to perhaps relay this fact onto your community here. Help these youngsters by not throwing this litter by night or day. Give the youngsters an opportunity to play ball, and at the same time, not endanger their lives. In other words, finally, what you were all striving for was not only just a lot to play on, but a clean, safe lot to play on. That is correct. We also wanted to help the immediate community by keeping it a very clean and healthy lot for them. Which is what it is now, the way they cleaned it up. It certainly is. It certainly was. Quite a change. Quite a change after the work they have done. Well, Nick, working with all these kids and seeing what's been done here must leave you with some sort of a personal reaction to a project of this type. It does. It makes you feel very good to think that the work that you're doing back in the center has some carryover value. The very things that you're trying to inculcate to the youngsters are actually taking shape. You see it right before your very eyes, and it certainly does bring that warm feeling within you. The youngsters' harmony, the understandability of trying to keep the ball field clean, at the same time, trying to educate the community, more or less, to help them keep this ball field clean. And it gives you this feeling of satisfaction, a job well done. Well, there it is. The short and sweet story of a group of boys who live on and near the block in the East Bronx, bounded by Jackson, Forest, and Westchester Avenues, who showed the cooperative attitude that New York expects of its citizens by pitching in to make their neighborhood a better one. And it's because of boys like this and their friends who helped in this lot cleanup that your city station pays tribute to them by signalizing their block as the block of the week. By the end, it says, by globalty, uncontrollable, local, local, local... By the end there's a fresh rhythm take on their Caleb's' captured, and Ét Need Delfton lubdrick. tentar See And I Did Mexico Speaking May Odyssey You
