At least up to a degree. One of the things that's in my mind is that Asian listeners would say, are you yet thinking about us at all? Are you trying to fit an American policy into the context of what is going on in Asia today? Aren't there things other than what we have been talking about that ought to be considered? Well, Talbot, I think we Americans have to reach our decisions in the light of what we know. And what we know and understand are American conditions and American interests. I don't believe our people are well informed about the conditions that exist in China or in Indochina or in India. I don't believe they understand those conditions well enough to make decisions for the Chinese or the Indochinese or the Indians. I think we should be content to permit them to express their own opinions in the institutions of the United Nations which have been established for that purpose. And we should be content to try to define a policy reflecting the interests of our own people, the only interests which we clearly understand and are competent to promote. But we have to have a policy which understands both our own position and that of our opponents. If we don't understand our opponents, then we can't possibly work out a policy that takes them into a... Now, is this a matter of understanding our opponents or understanding our possible associates? Well, both. I was coming to that in a moment. Very good. You have to understand all these peoples in Asia in their own terms as well as from our point of view. And this lack of American understanding that Mr. Holcomb's mentioned is, of course, one of our great evils and difficulties. When the Asian looks at the problem and looks at what America is doing and what he thinks America ought to do, he is conscious particularly of the fact that politics as they have operated in Asia over the last ten years have had political factors, have had military factors, but they have also had a great many other factors. Some of them have to do with the growth of population and the difficulty of productivity, some of the things you mentioned earlier. A very important element that we have not yet mentioned is one of nationalism, a psychological response to a situation which I think, whether we're informed or not, must be recognized if our programs in the areas not immediately involved in war now are to be at all satisfactory. Well, Talbot, we don't know. We Americans don't know. And we can't know how nationalistic the different peoples of Asia ought to be at this particular stage in their development. All we know is that we set up, after World War II, institutions through which they could speak for themselves. They should be encouraged to do so. At least they should be permitted to do so. And we should pursue our interests in the same forum. They do do so. And I agree that we should pursue our interests. And I think our interests come a little closer to understanding what is important to them. Because I think that those things in themselves are important to us as well. May I point out what I regard as the great hazard in the outlook which Dr. Holcomb has expressed. He has spoken continuously of looking at the Asian situation in American interests. That sounds very good from the point of view of the American public. But is this a matter of American military interests? Or is it a matter of America's long-time interest in permanent security? Now, if it is looking at Asian terms of American military interests, the Asian peoples resent that attitude greatly. In fact, their great criticism of American leadership in the Far East has been that it is looked at the Asian people from the point of view of American military interests only. And conceiving that that was the American attitude, they have reacted negatively to it. If the Asian people were to be made to feel by American action that the American people through its government was taking account of these long-term factors of low productivity, malnutrition, bad housing, other bad social conditions, their attitude and outlook on American policy would be much more understanding and sympathetic than it is at the present time. But as long as we leave the statement of American position simply in terms of general interest and then act as if the interest we were considering was mainly military, we shall have a negative reaction among the Asian people. Turner, there's another angle on that, namely that the Asian peoples have their needs and aspirations. The Asian governments sometimes have to think a little more like governments. And if we think only of these Asian governments as representing all these interests of the Asian peoples, they may be quite inadequate. Now let's get down to cases. Take the Philippines, for example. There's a government which we're trying to help, and we have to help it by pushing it a bit. We are giving it all kinds of assistance on condition that it do certain things. If it doesn't do those things, as far as we can see, it will go the way of other governments, like the nationalists in China, it will have popular feeling against them. That's certainly very true, Fairbanks. And that poses what is perhaps the most difficult problem of the whole Asian policy. In other words, how can the American government conduct its operations in Asia so as, at the same time, to avoid the hazards that arise out of the undemocratic governments that prevail in most of these countries, and at the same time reach the basic needs of the people? Well, I suggest there's one answer on that, that you can't leave this all up to governments, even to the American government. There's no reason why we should put this whole thing in the lap of the American government. It ought to be up to the American people. And there are lots of ways that the American people can act in Asia, if they only will, not just through the government. Because when they go through the government, they get into the hands of the government at the other end. If the government at the other end in Asia, in any country, is on the defensive, of course it can't do a lot of things that private American individuals and private Asian individuals might like to do. But Fairbanks, we can't disregard the governments that happen to be established in a particular part of the world. I certainly wouldn't disregard them, but I would add another kind of contact to our governmental contact. We must greatly increase our personal, individual, private enterprise, private agency, corporation, and foundation contact with Asia. I agree with that position. My experience with the Asian peoples in the year that I spent between Manila and Cairo certainly confirmed everything that you've said, Mr. Fairbanks, as regards the effectiveness of private activity, as long as that private activity was not initiated by what the Asians had been taught to believe were essentially the Wall Street corporations. One advantage of this kind of private activity is that then we develop a body of Americans who have some direct contact and some feelings and some emotional understanding of what Asians are thinking about, what they have in their minds. When we do this all through Congress, from a great distance, masterminding, even through ECA, through an agency, it has to be in a rather abstract, impersonal, and sometimes dehumanized manner. It sometimes is our habit, I think, to talk as if everything were wrong with American policy and as if there are a lot of things which we ought to do that we haven't do. I might just put on the record that since the war in Asia, the United States has proceeded with such affairs as the Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction in China, whereby Americans working in combination with Chinese have faced up to agrarian reform plans, to animal husbandry, to improve seed, and to other programs which are of material benefit to the ordinary people of the country. I think that the Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, the Carnegie Foundation, American universities can go a long way toward supporting this kind of program and toward increasing the effectiveness of any American foreign policy in Asia. The thing that's needed to my mind is to have American communities that actually get going, get into contact with Asian communities, all sorts of community organizations, universities and colleges and schools and parent-teachers associations and everything else. That's what happens in our contact with Europe. That's why we have an Atlantic community. That's why we're close to the European peoples, because we have this personal level of very close contact and understanding. On the basis of that, we can have an Atlantic pact. You must remember that back of that kind of thing is the fact that we have received about 80 million European immigrants over the past century, which constitute a large part of the American community and form, therefore, the basis for such contact. We haven't that basis for contact with the Asian peoples. Well, gentlemen, of course I go along with you, that we Americans should proceed as far as we can in accordance with our free enterprise system. But we have to recognize that in other parts of the world, particularly in Asia, they're not in a position to operate as we are under that system. They have to depend upon their governments. Now, we profess to believe in democracy. We should act in accordance with that belief, and we should respect the arrangements that the peoples of Asia have made for attacking their own problems. And we should be content to accept those arrangements and to deal with the organizations which must generally be political. The Chinese, the Indochinese, the Indians, they have no Rockefeller foundations. They have no Ford foundations. With great difficulty, they have set up governments. We should recognize them and deal with them. Well, then, for example, Mr. Holcomb, we take Indochina. Do we recognize the French? Of course we do. Do we deal only with the French? Do we deal only with Ba Dai? Do we try to deal with independent people in Vietnam and An-Am? What do we do in particular? Fairbank, you certainly raise a difficult question. Obviously, it's going to be hard to know what to do in Indochina until we've made up our mind what we're going to do in Korea. But this much is clear. The French in Indochina are out of line with the British in India and the Dutch in Indonesia and with ourselves in the Philippines. And we need to rethink some of these policies of ours, which have put us into a position in Asia where we seem to be inconsistent with what we ourselves are doing in other parts of Asia. Would you, therefore, have the American government support the move that has been made in Indochina to broaden the Ba Dai cabinet by the inclusion of Vietnamese of independent political view? Turner, we certainly better get that government broadened or we will presently find that it has failed us. And we have gotten into a position as embarrassing and as unsatisfactory to ourselves as that in which we have fallen in China. We're not able to just accept any government which appears. We have to sympathize with its problems and go to work with it and also try to have contact with the people which it represents. May I say in this connection, it seems to me that in discussing these various local positions throughout the Asian world, we have not always kept in mind the larger global considerations which necessarily have the ultimate control over American policy. As a historian, I too am seriously worried about America's present and future policy for the Far East. At no time in our history have we been faced by such bewildering problems about which we have so little precise information. Our lack of preparation for coping with Far Eastern problems is reflected in the heat of our discussions and in our inability to shape a policy. While our discussions wax hot, as indeed they should in a democratic society, let us not forget that involved problems are rarely solved overnight. First, we must cease name-calling at home. Republicans and Democrats alike hurl charges at each other in the name of our Far Eastern policy. These have almost no connection with it. Some people talk about the mysterious East and the inscrutable characteristics of the Chinese. They are almost always persons who substitute mystery for a lack of information. Like Fairbank, I believe we must establish closer contacts, official and unofficial, wherever we can in Asia. We must be convinced at the same time, however, of our own need to learn about practices, ideas, and customs which are different from our own, but which are not necessarily mysterious or hostile. Too long have we approached the Far East with the outlook only of the trader and the missionary. To combat communism effectively, we have to treat Asiatics as serious equals and work with them on an equal basis. As for myself, for the time being, I feel that we should continue to fight a limited war in Korea in the hope that China will eventually be forced by internal pressures to negotiate on our terms. To extend our operations directly to the Chinese homeland would, in my opinion, run the risk of provoking the outbreak of World War III. To lay down hard and fast objectives in a situation so complex and fluid is neither possible nor desirable at this time. To solve what has so far been insoluble requires time and the combined efforts of the best minds in this nation. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on what is the basis of our policy in the Far East, where Arthur N. Holcomb, Department of Government, John K. Fairbank, historian, both of Harvard University, Ralph E. Turner, historian, Yale University, Phillips Talbert of the... Donald F. Locke, historian of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and publishes special supplementary materials. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year's subscription costs $3. This is NBC, the national broadcasting company. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .