The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Are we losing our good neighbors to communism? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, Are we losing our good neighbors in Latin America? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the problem of inter-American relations, of the prevailing attitudes toward the United States, and of means of improving these relations. Now our moderator, Kenneth G. Hance, Assistant Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Hance. Communists are making inroads in U.S. backyard. If things get worse, U.S. may have few good neighbors left. These words appeared just a few days ago as a headline in a national magazine. And only last week, the editorial page of a Chicago newspaper was devoted to the subject, Reds in Latin America Pose Problem for Future. Is this problem as grave as the editors would have us believe? Are the Communists really on the march in Latin America? Today the Reviewing Stand is pleased to welcome to its microphone three men who are eminently qualified to discuss this problem. Dr. George Blankston, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, student of Latin America, and author of books on Ecuador and Argentina. Dr. J. Fred Rippey, Professor of American History at the University of Chicago, and author of several books on Latin America, including historical evolution of Hispanic America and the Caribbean Danger Zones. And finally, Mr. Felix Stunovicius, Consul for Uruguay. Let me start, Blankston, by asking you the broad question, are we losing out to Communism in Latin America? I think it is no doubt true that there are, in some of the Latin American states, strong sentiments of hostility toward the United States. But this feeling is not synonymous with Communism, and I think we would make an error if we assume that anybody in Latin America who does not like the United States is thereby, by definition, a Communist. Mr. Rippey, what do you think of Blankston's reply? I agree with Blankston in general. I think the situation varies with the countries and with groups within the countries. Mr. Stunovicius, what do you think of what these gentlemen say? Well, if inter-American relations are human relations, then this should be a two-way street. It is just as conceivable that some Latin Americans may reverse the very same question and ask you, are we losing our good neighbors of the United States to Communism? I think most people would answer that this seems to be absurd. A constructive approach to the problem and the real heart of the issue could perhaps be summarized in an overall question. Are we losing the goodwill of Latin America? And the natural counterpart of the same issue would be, is Latin America losing the goodwill of the United States? The broad problem, it seems to me, is then what is happening in inter-American relations? If there are any creases or trouble spots, what is their source? Isn't the threat of any extremism just a symptom and not a cause? Do the Latin Americans really believe that the United States is neglecting them, that we are turning our backs on the other peoples of the Americas? I don't know, but I am rather inclined to think that they don't, because after all, they must know that we are giving them a good deal of aid in one way or another. But what about some of these trouble spots we hear about? What about Guatemala and Argentina? Well, in the case of Argentina, I suppose we ought to point out that President Per贸n himself said in a foreign policy statement, and I'd like to quote him, we all know that there exists the potential danger of other conflicts after World War II, and if the world powers should unhappily be unable to avoid them, in case they materialize, Argentina will be with the United States and the other American nations. Another trouble spot in Latin America at the present moment is Guatemala. The trouble centers about the attitude of labor groups toward the United Fruit Company and toward the international railways of Central America. I don't think this attitude toward our investment, toward our business interests is wholly communistic, but I think the communists do all they can to stir up animosities toward these companies and toward the United States. What about Cuba? Is that a trouble spot? Well, in the sense that Batista's recent return to power in Cuba would tend, within the context of the international relations of the Caribbean area, to neutralize or to contain the Guatemalan situation, perhaps Cuba is not so great a problem for us today, as some of our editorial writers have said. Would you say, then, that there are several trouble spots in South America? How really serious is this problem? Well, I think there are not quite as many as this article you mentioned referred to, but there are some trouble spots. Brazil, for instance, is in difficulties with high inflation, with a good many communists, with a new government underway, and there may be some other spots, but I think we've mentioned the main ones. Are they anti-United States spots or pro-communist spots, Langston? Well, in the case of Argentina, the situation is somewhat complex. I've already quoted to you President Per贸n's statement that in the event of a third war, he would side with the United States, but we ought also to notice that in recent years, Per贸n has advanced a foreign policy which he calls the third position. In the third position, Per贸n is trying to assume an attitude which stands halfway between the United States and the Soviet Union. He has been reluctant to identify his cause with either camp, and insofar as he clings to the third position, of course, this is a potential source of trouble for us. I think it's only human nature that some of the Latin American countries should try to assume a position of neutrality because this problem of containing Russia is a very serious problem which costs a lot of money and may cost many lives in the end we don't know and it's just human nature for these countries to try to get out from under as much of the burden of it as they can. Furthermore, it is a traditional foreign policy of a number of Latin American states to endeavor to maintain a position of neutrality with respect to what they regard as other people's wars. I think in the long run, we shall see that the attitude of Latin American nations is that of cooperation with the United States on matters involving the interests of the Western Hemisphere as a whole. I think that behind these political issues, there are economic causes which we should consider. What briefly are some of these economic causes? How serious are conditions in Latin American countries? Well, it goes back to the period of the recent war. We had price controls and they sold their commodities to us at fixed prices. They couldn't obtain at that time all the manufactured products they needed. Then immediately after the war, we took off all price controls and that absorbed their savings a little bit too rapidly. And that's a problem that has lingered with them, the high price for what they have to import. That is the immediate problem, but there are basic needs such as food, shelter, clothing, health and sanitation, and education. Those are some of the problems of economic distress of undeveloped and underdeveloped nations. Do the Latin Americans all assume that it is the responsibility of the United States to satisfy these economic difficulties which you've mentioned? Well, one of the fundamental features of hemispheric cooperation is the expansion of capital investment in the underdeveloped areas of Latin America. It would take very slow, it would be a very slow process for Latin America to increase its productivity without foreign aid. Joint private investment is quite essential and this need has been frequently recognized by private business and such hemispheric groups as the Inter-American Council of Commerce and Production and even the Organization of American States. I should like to ask Mr. Stunivicious if these Latin Americans prefer money from the United States government or private investment from the United States capitalists. On the whole, sound business is carried out on a private basis. In other words, private investment is always preferable to government investment. But in the areas where private investment is not available, areas which are essential for the national development of the underdeveloped nations, government has had to step in. What would be the result in Latin America if this capital were not forthcoming from the United States, either from the government or from private sources? This is a period of almost jet-propelled progress in Latin America. Some observers believe that in a decade, a century's progress has been made in many developments. They have been exploring the mineral wealth, building transportation systems, setting up industries and mechanizing agriculture. At the same time, there has been a drive throughout Latin America to create a new social structure to pull large masses of people up from the depths of poverty, hunger, disease and depression. And if there were no such aid, it would be impossible to carry out such programs. Well, if the Latin Americans are aware of that problem, are they creating an atmosphere that will attract private capital from the United States? Or are they placing too many controls upon capital so that they may prevent it from coming in? Well, it is well known that to attract capital, there should be a climate favorable for private enterprise. There should be a more basic understanding of the institutional structure of U.S. capitalism and such an understanding is being developed. We know that in the United States, some of the basis for the development here has been free enterprise and the use of corporate form in doing business, economic competition. Whereas Latin America has such concepts as freedom of contract, private property, the price system, the profit motive, and the freedom of labor to organize into associations. But it all implies the existence and operation of a strong banking and monetary system, a system of modern commercial law, and a system of free markets. And we have to add to that modern technology. Those are the elements that must be introduced to make that picture success. Don't the Latin Americans, in a sense, have a different kind of approach to capitalism than we do in the United States? Don't they have, for example, a different concept of the role of land in an economy than we tend to in general in this country? And you're suggesting that that may not be the most favorable climate for American investment. Is that right? In other words, the Latin American attitude toward property and toward capitalism might hinder the solution of these very problems you've been mentioning. And not necessarily. The economic world, just like any other world, is a world of ideas. What has made economic success in this country? Well, we find the existence of corporations employing tens and hundreds of thousands of people depends upon certain ideas or concepts, which are the concepts of money, credit, prices, collective bargaining, scientific management, and large-scale production. Those are the things that Latin America wishes to interpret. I wonder if we could say this in regard to their attitude, that they are determined that capital shall be used in the way that they think it should be used so as to develop a balanced national economy and avoid a lopsided economy. There's more tendency now to control capital than formerly. Would you say then, Mr. Stunovicius, that the Latin American feeling that the United States is neglecting them, might be the same thing as a different Latin American view of the role of capitalism and its nature than the view that is held in this country? I would not say that the United States is neglecting Latin America. I would say that the interest of the United States should be on a more popular and more general basis. At this time, the leadership is in the hands of governmental and of private business leaders who have taken an interest in Latin American affairs and have recognized the needs and the opportunities there. But it should have the broad support of public opinion, and that is where we must be better known. I suggest perhaps we take these generalizations for a moment and apply them to one or two trouble spies. What about Guatemala? Well, in Guatemala, we have had an illustration of United States capital at work. The United Fruit Company and some other North American organizations have for some time played leading and important roles. Constructive or not? Well, this is a question I should like to address to Mr. Stunovicius. Would he regard the role of certain United States companies in a country like Guatemala as illustrative of what United States capital should do in assisting the Latin Americans with their economic problems? On the whole, we have found that where progressive industry has entered underdeveloped areas, it has introduced higher standards of operation and higher standards of living. However, we must consider the influence of any one organization and when the national interest seems to be affected as is interpreted by the owners of the country, should we say, the citizens, then the issue arises as to interpretation of the limitations of influence of companies. I think that the overall problem is that of mass markets. Latin America, particularly smaller countries, have small markets. And if there were a possibility of developing a unity of markets, a larger market throughout the hemisphere for all of the production of these smaller countries, then those problems would disappear. I'm wondering whether the Guatemalans have a clear conception of the extent of the profits made by a company like the United Fruit Company, the International Railways of Central America, or the electric utilities. It may be that they exaggerate, they have an exaggerated notion of the profits made by these companies. Some of them do siphon out profits, but others don't. Then there's another problem. If they raise their wages too rapidly and too high, they arouse resentment among other employees of labor, so they have to be a little bit cautious in that respect. I think the same question that you brought out was that of developing a lopsided economy. These countries must be able to import goods from abroad, say machinery, from the United States. If earnings in those countries are siphoned out and not allowed to remain to grow in the country, the question arises whether those countries have benefited from those earnings. Are you saying then, Mr. Stunovicius, that it is the job of the United States to do the economic planning of Latin America for the Latin Americans? We do not believe that planning as such or planification is a way of handling the problem. We believe that private enterprise at conference tables, through meetings, and also through individual experience, will develop an atmosphere of economic progress, and that is what we're seeking. In other words, what you seem to be seeing is this, that our businessmen need to be fully conscious of the problem, they need to exercise moderation intact, and they need to confer with the Latin Americans in regard to plans that affect the complete national economy. Actually, we should not overlook the fact that this is a partnership, that we're all parts of the Western Hemisphere with equal shares in it. And if that is the case, we should proceed in a partnership basis, consulting each other, particularly on the interests that affect the individual countries. And that partnership should include capitalists from the United States, capitalists from Latin America, the government of the United States, the government of Latin America, and the labor groups in Latin America also. I think that we are finding that great progress has been made in Latin America in the last 10 years on technological developments, programs of health and sanitation through the little 0.4 program of the Western Hemisphere. These programs are developed in cooperation by the various governments, and they are supplemented by support from private business. I hear a lot of talk from Latin Americans that they resent what they call the intervention of the United States in their own domestic affairs. Do not these various programs that you've been mentioning here in the economic field, if all followed out by the United States, don't they constitute a form of our intervention and domination of affairs in Latin America? Those precisely are the dangers, if you wish to call them so, but we should not overlook the fact that the United States has assumed a position of world leadership and a position of leadership in the affairs of the Western Hemisphere. Its major contribution is in the field of technological development and economic development, which is the far-crying need of the Western Hemisphere nations. Once upon a time, there was a United States diplomat in Latin America who said that the size and the position of the United States was overwhelming in the Western Hemisphere, that whatever the United States did or failed to do in Latin America constituted intervention by the United States in the affairs of Latin America. That man was named Sproul Braden. I take it that in recent years Sproul Braden has been outvoted in the Western Hemisphere and that a lot of the Latin Americans did the voting. How can you reconcile this with what you've been telling us here? My interpretation would be that in the last 25 years, our hemisphere has reached a position where we can vote together and can discuss and bring up our problems at a common conference. At the Organization of American States, for instance, there are 21 American nations with equal rights and equal powers to express their views. And they're exercising those rights and powers in a democratic process. That is the way in which we can achieve real hemispheric cooperation. Do the Latin Americans feel that they're being fully consulted by the United States government, both in reference to Pan-American policies and in reference to world policies before such policies are adopted? What you're suggesting is this, that in addition to some economic factors, there may be so-called political factors. Is that it, Mr. Rubin? Exactly. What about this unilateral, bilateral association in the Americas? The United States, of course, for many years engaged in practices in the Western Hemisphere which were essentially unilateral. We did it alone, in other words. Yes. You can find all sorts of illustrations of practices by the United States, especially in the Central American and the Caribbean region. Since the introduction of the good neighbor policy, we've been trying to avoid that kind of action in the Western Hemisphere. I think it's true that the general pattern of our action in Latin America today is not characterized by the unilateral attempts which were so common in the earlier days. What, therefore, should we avoid doing in this realm and conversely try to do? I think that we should be careful to consult the Latin Americans beforehand with reference to Pan-American policy and with reference to world policy so that it won't be a question of announcing a policy and then saying, come along, but of getting their attachment to the policy, their consent before we announce it. I agree with Mr. Rippey that we should continue to consult the Latin Americans with respect to Hemisphere policy, but suppose we do that with respect to world policy. I assume that this proposal means that the Latin American states should then assume a special status with respect to the United States in the world. I wonder if that status would not be essentially a satellite status. Some Latin Americans feel that they are in effect satellites of the United States, but wouldn't the carrying out of your proposal merely formalize and constitutionalize the satellite status of the Latin American republics? We are of the opinion that we can work this out on a partnership status. If a relationship of more powerful nations to smaller and lesser developed nations is one of satellite and master, it should be realized that in this hemisphere we have a very deep conscience of individual freedom and of individual national sovereignty. It is within that framework that we have been able to work out our relationship. We should also be fair in realizing that we must pursue a policy of large-scale development of our resources to better the standards of living of our peoples in order to be sure that this cooperation will be a lasting one. In other words, what you're saying is that by and large the United States and Latin America are devoted to the same ideals of personal liberty and of national sovereignty, that the Latin Americans are reasonable people and that if our policy is right, they'll go along with us, give us their consent and their enthusiastic support. We in the United States are usually proud of our own record in doing things in a legal way in pursuing our various problems in an orderly and in a constitutional way. The Latin Americans, many of them, have an interesting record in the way many of their governments come into power by non-constitutional and non-legal means. I wonder if what has just been said doesn't seem to give us a curious pattern of the Latin Americans desiring to do with respect to the international situation following these peaceful ways what they somehow are not able or are not willing to do in their domestic situations. I wonder if you could explain this curious paradox to us, Mr. Stunovicius. There are 20 different individual independent nations in Latin America. Each follows the pattern of its own economic development and of its political processes based on different idiosyncrasies and different origins. It is that pattern that is being developed. At the same time, they have had the problem of indigenous population, the problem of education, and the problem of being able to develop their resources. It would allow a more cogent expression of these political values which the Latin Americans hold very highly. Well, they differ then domestically. They are all at one with respect to the international picture then? When you say all at one, I would say that there are common principles that guide the relationship and the manifestations which are based on individualism. One of the hopeful things with reference to their dictatorial and illegal governance is this. None of them say that this form of government is the best on earth. They say it's a transitional stage. Our final goal is democracy. And that to me indicates that that's their fundamental ideal. You gentlemen are suggesting that there are both economic factors at work and also political factors at work. You suggested certain new courses of action in each of those areas. Blankston, I'd like to ask you briefly, if you will, to sum this up from your point of view. Where do we stand in this problem? Well, if the problem is whether or not the United States is losing its good neighbors to communism, I think that basically the answer is no. It is true, of course, that there are some danger spots in Latin America and that they will continue to bear watching. But I think that the communist danger in Latin America is not a very real or a very great one. That if there should be a third world war, the United States would probably have less difficulty with the Latin Americans than we did during the last war. My summary would be in this form. We ought to furnish Latin America as good market as we can for its exports. We ought to furnish Latin America all the technical aid that we can afford. And our private investors ought to act with moderation and tact. And finally, we ought to have our voice of America explaining to the Latin Americans the evils of communism, the deceptions of communism, and also explaining to the Latin Americans what we are actually doing for them in dozens of ways. What about this bilateral action, Mr. Riffey? Would you suggest that? I would suggest that we consult them insofar as possible in regard to all of our policies, whether Pan-American or world policies. Before announcing decisions? Before announcing decisions. Would you go ahead and announce a decision anyway after the Latin Americans vote no on it? Well, I would hope that they'd vote yes, and I believe they will because of things that we've already said in regard to their fundamental ideals and their reasonableness. In the field of ideas, publications such as the Spanish-language Vision magazine and multilingual broadcasts by radio are an integral and essential part of hemispheric communication ideas. But there should be a two-way street and we should know each other. I think we find that this is our America. Our forefathers called us the new world. Let's turn our shoulder to the wheel. Let us keep it free. In a real test, if we examine together our strengths and weaknesses, we shall find that not all of the vices or virtues can be claimed to be all on any one side. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Are We Losing Our Good Neighbors to Communism? We want to thank our guests today, George Langston, Assistant Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, J. Fred Rippey, Professor of American History at the University of Chicago, and Felix Dunavishius, Counsel for Uruguay. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, Kenneth G. Hance, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will present a special program for Easter, as we ask, why are more people turning to the church? Our guests will be Charles Albers, member of the Board of National Missions, Presbyterian Church, United States of America. The Reverend Eugene Bartlett, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Evanston, Illinois. The Reverend Kenneth Hildebrand, pastor of the Central Church of Chicago, and chairman of the Committee on Radio and Television for the Church Federation of Greater Chicago, and the Reverend James McLeod, chaplain at Northwestern University. We hope you will be with us next week as we ask, why are more people turning to the church? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.