Would you like me to tell you about these concerts we're going to give? They will be two concerts, and they're both in the Museum of Modern Art in New York here. And what I would like to do is to do for music what this museum has done so wonderfully for painting and for sculpture. Anybody can go to that museum and see on those walls well lit the paintings of all talented young American painters and from painters all over the world as well. Also sculpture. In music, we'd like to do that same kind of thing. So the first two concerts, we are planning many concerts, but the first two concerts will be in the Museum of Modern Art. October 26th, that's the Sunday, and then the following Tuesday, October the 28th. The program will be exclusively of young, talented, and so far not very well-known American composers. We are not including the American composers who are well-known because they are having many performances all the time. But these younger men, less known, have little performances and sometimes none at all. I think it's very important that they should hear their own music because they write it on paper first. But music is not paper. Music is sound. They must hear it sounding. And then not only the composer, he will hear it sounding and see if he's done what he wanted to do when he wrote it down, whether he's realized his dream of that music. Then also that those in the public who are interested in that kind of music, in the modern American symphonic, so-called serious music, that that public should also have opportunity to hear it. Everybody, in fact, is giving their services for this except the actual artists who are playing the music. Naturally, they should be and will be paid for their services. But the whole idea is still farther than that, to make such concerts eventually all over the United States. Because here, in this vast land of ours, we have three great publics. Sometimes we speak of the public likes this and they don't like that. But we must remember that there are many publics. In fact, every person who listens to music, who is interested in music, has a different reaction to music. Because all our personalities and our heritage from our parents and ancestors, it's all different. And that all goes into our personalities and into the way we listen and react to music. But the three main huge masses of listeners interested in music, naturally the greatest, is that public which is interested in the popular music of America, which is, in a sense, the expression of our life of humor and rhythm for dancing. And it's the folk music of America. That has many kinds, of course. But there are millions who are interested in that kind of music. But a smaller public is interested in the great classical music of the 18th and 19th in the first half of the 20th centuries of the great European masters. This music is wonderfully played by our splendid symphony orchestras all over the country. Now there's a third public, and it's a very small public, but in my opinion a very important one. And that is the public that's interested in the modern American classical symphonic music. It might be music of a great symphony for a large orchestra of about 100 players, or it could be music for a chamber orchestra with players of 20 or 22, 24 players. Or it could be chamber music, playing three or four or five artists, playing the chamber music, a very intimate kind of music. This public is small, but it's very important, it's very intelligent, it's progressive-minded, it's open to new ideas, it's willing to make the effort to try to understand what our talented young composers are creating in music. These are really the pioneer minds of those listeners who are interested in this modern music. And we want to hope, we hope, we shall increase that number of those persons who listen. All over the country. We're starting in New York, but we hope it will be in all the great cultural centers of this country. One of them, for example, is Riga, Wallingford Riga. I think a very important American composer. Quite a long time ago, I conducted some music of his called Study in Sonorities for Ten Violins. I did that when I was conducting the Philadelphia Orchestra in New York here, and in Philadelphia. And this music was greeted with intense hissings from the public. They disliked it very much. Now we're going to play that music again in the Museum of Modern Art next, on the Sunday concert. And I shall be very interested to see what will be the reaction of the audience. I think it will be favorable, because there has been a great development in the understanding of the idiom of modern American symphonic music since I first conducted that music. But what we need are players and singers who understand this new idiom of the American composer, because the idiom is different, quite different from that of the European composer. And that is why it is difficult to find artists who understand that idiom. But I believe we have found those for these two concerts. In fact, I know we have. All over the United States now are colleges, conservatories of music, universities, all kinds of educational institutions where young, talented American musicians of every kind are being trained. And the sad part is that when they come out from those educational institutions, very often they cannot find a scope for the outlet of their talents and of their training. But those institutions are building up for the future in America a very great cultural life, in my opinion. So it is not too difficult to find young players who have good training and who naturally lean toward and understand the modern American idiom in music. In New York, you have, what, 7 million people here in greater New York, or even more than 7 million, I believe now. There is, I believe, an audience of several hundreds who are deeply interested in this kind of modern music. And it's to that audience, those progressive-minded people, we wish to appeal. And I believe that in time, that audience will grow and become larger and larger and more and more enthusiastic and more and more understanding of this new kind of music. We hope to record the music that's on these two programs. That is not definitely arranged yet, but we hope to arrange it with one of the recording companies. For example, about, I think it was last spring, before I went to Europe for my tour there, I played some American music up at Columbia University. And one of them, one of the compositions, was a symphony by a young and very talented American composer. I managed to persuade one of the recording companies to record that symphony a few days after that performance. And those recordings will be made available to the public quite soon. But the sad part of that story is, for me, the sad part is that that young composer is really on the verge of starvation, he and his family. So that he has now to work, to do some other kind of work, not connected with music at all, which is not sympathetic to him. It's, he doesn't have talent for, he has great talent for music, he doesn't have talent for this other kind of music, but he must do that other kind of work in order to live, to support his family, so that that young man, with all his talents, can only think of music and compose on Saturday afternoon on Sunday, and all day Sunday, but the rest of the week he has to do another kind of work. It seems to me that, that it's very strange that in, in America, the richest country that history has ever seen in this world, that that young man cannot somehow devote all his time to music, because that is his talent. Thank you. Thank you.