Please tell me the truth. Is there a Santa Claus? Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus. In times almost as troubled as today, dawned the Christmas of 40 years ago. The United States was in the grip of a great panic. We were on the eve of entering the Spanish-American War. The Reich Ministry had fallen in Berlin. In the end, President McKinley's mother had just died, and Washington was in mourning. And in this time of distress, a little girl, Virginia O'Hanlon, eight-year-old daughter of a New York physician, wanted to know if there was a Santa Claus. She wrote to the editor of one of the largest metropolitan dailies. Dear editor, I am eight years old. Some of my little friends say there is no Santa Claus. Papa says, if you see it in the sun, it's so. Please tell me the truth. Is there a Santa Claus? And so, the editor took time out to write an editorial reassuring little Virginia. This editorial, as well as the letter, is reprinted each Yule season in the paper. It has also been translated into almost every known language, appearing in every quarter of the globe. Today, Mrs. Edward M. Douglas, who 40 years ago was eight-year-old Virginia O'Hanlon, the little girl who won unexpected fame by inquiring for Santa Claus, is the assistant principal in charge of New York's public school number 31. And this evening, she's in the studio here with us and has kindly consented to answer a few questions that we feel sure will be of interest to our listening audience. Good evening, Mrs. Douglas. We feel greatly honored in having you with us. And first, we'd like to know your own reactions when your letter in the answering editorial appeared in the paper in 1897. I took the editorial very literally, but found it overwhelmingly convincing. Would you tell us something about your Christmas in 1897? Was it particularly happy? All my Christmases were so very happy, yet I think the reinforcement of my belief must have made that of 1897 particularly so. Did Santa Claus bring you lots of presents? Do you remember what they were and which you enjoyed most? I remember receiving everything I asked for always, things I only dreamed of, too. Books and dolls were my greatest favorites. And do you still believe in Santa Claus? I've had much reason to. Have you written any other letters to Metropolitan Dailies, Mrs. Douglas? And if so, would you mind telling us what they were about? No, I've never written any. I've resisted that temptation. Well, it seems to us, Mrs. Douglas, that that famous letter of yours puts you in the class with two other remarkable little girls. We refer, of course, to the late Mrs. Reginald Gervis Hargraves, for whom Lewis Carroll wrote Alice in Wonderland, and Mrs. W. Burke Cochran, who was N. H. Eyde, born on Christmas Day, and thus done out of a birthday, but for whom Robert Louis Stevenson ceded his own birthday, which would default to the President of the United States whenever she fails to celebrate it. Have you ever been compared to these little girls, Mrs. Douglas? Not that I know of, but it sounds very flattering. Just now I'm feeling a little like Alice. Do you remember any of the outstanding happenings of that year, 1897, Mrs. Douglas? 1898, the war year, seems to have dwarfed my recollection of 1897. Uh, what were your reactions as to the children of today in comparison with your skeptical little friends who prompted you to write the editor of one of our greatest newspapers for reassurance? The children I know, they seem to have a directness, a simplicity, and a charm that I don't recall my generation having. Thank you, Mrs. Douglas. We feel sure that your reactions to the modern child are especially interesting in view of your position as the assistant principal in charge of public school 31. Do you mind telling us how long you've been connected with our public school here in New York? For more than 20 years, continuously, before my marriage, I had taught for a little more than a year. There's another item that we're tremendously curious about, Mrs. Douglas. The item is the weather. We're always hearing of the wonderful white Christmases of other days. Do you think that the generally accepted theory that our winters are no longer so severe is due to our modern equipment, our marvelous snow shovels, and the increased facilities for keeping our metropolitan streets cleared? May I answer that question both ways and say I think the winters are less severe, but that the modern facilities have moderated winter severity? Well done, Mrs. Douglas. By the way, do you have any children of your own? Yes, one daughter. One daughter. And what's her name? Most fortunately, I could name her for both of her grandmothers and still give her my full name, Laura Virginia. My gosh, that's splendid. By the way, in school, do you teach to believe in Santa Claus? Oh, yes. We try to. And by the way, your daughter, Laura Virginia, how old was she, Mrs. Douglas, before she became skeptical about the existence of a real Santa Claus? And did you answer her doubts? She was quite young when the inconsistencies of the modern world led her to draw her own conclusions with great finality. By the way, has she ever written letters to an editor? No. I'm sure that she feels that as a family, we have had more than our share of editorial courtesy. You've been so kind in permitting us to pry into your innermost thoughts, Mrs. Douglas, but one must pay the penalty for being famous, I suppose. May we ask you just one more question? Of course. Do you look forward as eagerly to the coming holidays as you did in 1897? Even more eagerly. I'm still in school. Well, we more than appreciate having had you with us this afternoon, Mrs. Douglas, and we feel sure that our listening audience joins us in wishing you one of the happiest Christmases you've ever had. and we sincerely hope that you'll visit us here in the studios again very, very soon. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to an interview with Mrs. Edward M. Douglas, who years ago gripped the imagination of the world. Mrs. Douglas, as eight-year-old Virginia O'Hanlon, won fame for her naive letter to the editor of a leading New York paper inquiring as to the existence of Santa Claus. There were two other little girls who became favorites of the world, Mrs. W. Burke Cochran, to whom Robert Louis Stevenson bequeathed his birthday because she had been born on Christmas Day, and Mrs. Reginald Gervis Hargraves, for whom Lewis Carroll wrote his immortal Alice in Wonderland. And now we feel sure that you will enjoy hearing again the letter little Virginia O'Hanlon wrote and the editorial that a busy editor found time to answer. First, the letter. Dear editor, I am eight years old. Some of my little friends say there is no Santa Claus. Papa says, if you see it in the sun, it's so. Please tell me the truth. Is there a Santa Claus? And now one of the most beautiful editorials we think ever composed. Virginia, the other two friends are wrong. They have been affected by the skepticism of a skeptical age. They do not believe except they see. They think that nothing can be which is not comprehensible by their little minds. All minds, Virginia, whether they be men's or children's, are little. In this great universe of ours, man is a mere insect, an ant in his intellect, as compared to the boundless world about him, as measured by the intelligence capable of grasping the whole of truth and knowledge. Yes, Virginia, there is a Santa Claus. He exists as certainly as love and generosity and devotion exist. And you know that they abound and give to your life its highest beauty and joy. Alas, how dreary would be the world if there were no Santa Claus. It would be as dreary as if there were no Virginia. There would be no childlike faith then, no poetry, no romance, to make a tolerable existence. We should have no enjoyment except in sense and sight. The eternal light with which childhood fills the world would be extinguished. Not believe in Santa Claus? You might as well not believe in fairies. You might get your papa to hire men to watch in all the chimneys on Christmas Eve to catch Santa Claus. But even if they did not see Santa Claus coming down, what would that prove? Nobody sees Santa Claus. But that is no sign that there is no Santa Claus. The most real things in the world are those that neither children nor men can see. Did you ever see fairies dancing on the lawn? Of course not. But that's no proof that there aren't any. Nobody can conceive or imagine all the wonders there are unseen and unseeable in the world. You tear apart the baby's rattle and see what makes the noise inside. But there is a veil covering the unseen world which not the strongest man nor even the united strength of all the strongest men that ever lived could tear apart. Only faith, fancy, poetry, love, romance can push aside that curtain and view and picture the supernal beauty and glory beyond. Is it all real? Ah, Virginia, in all this world there is nothing else real and abiding. No Santa Claus? Thank God he lives and he lives forever. A thousand years from now, Virginia, nay, ten times ten thousand years from now, he will continue to make glad the hearts of childhood. Lord. Ladies and gentlemen, you've just listened to the famous editorial answering the question, Is there a Santa Claus? And if you would care for a copy of this famous editorial, address your letters and postcards and care of the station to which you are listening. The part of Virginia at the age of eight was read by Miss Yvette Gordon, the editor by Mr. Bernard Morse. Seymour Segal speaking. We return now to our New York studios.
