Today is Columbus Day and it is only another contribution which the great nation of Italy has brought to the great city of New York with her art and her beauty and her history and all the other factors. Columbus was a brave man, he discovered a continent that was unknown to the European nations and New York loves to honor those who accomplish and we have the privilege at this time in presenting the Honorable John J. Rooney, Congressman Rooney who will pay a tribute to the memory and the deeds of Christopher Columbus. Congressman Rooney. Mr. Cowan, ladies and gentlemen of the radio audience, in the name of the Long Island chapter of the Knights of Columbus and on behalf of upwards of 25,000 members of the councils comprising that chapter for whom I have the distinct privilege and honor to speak this morning, I thank the director and staff of station WNYC for their courtesy in making this broadcast possible. Today we commemorate the greatest event in modern history, the discovery of America and we honor the memory of the greatest discoverer, Christopher Columbus, the patron of our international order and the first Catholic night in America. Although we Catholics can take an honorable pride in the knowledge that this great continent was discovered by a faithful son of the Church and that it was an humble priest who first gave him aid and encouragement and that it was the substantial assistance of a pious Catholic queen which made his discovery possible, the name and fame and beneficent achievement of Columbus belonged to the whole world and Protestants and Jews today vie with Catholics in honoring his exalted character, his courage, fortitude and magnificent accomplishment for mankind. In the year 1492 most of the peoples of Western Europe felt exceedingly gloomy about their future. Christian civilization appeared to be shrinking in area and dividing into hostile units as its sphere contracted. Islam, the religion of Mohammed, was expanding at the expense of Christianity. Ottoman Turks had overrun what is today Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, Albania and Yugoslavia and were hammering at the gates of Vienna. England had witnessed the War of the Roses. Only in Spain and in Portugal were there signs of life. Throughout Europe the people were not united and the general feeling was one of deep disillusion, cynical pessimism and black despair. In the light of the prevailing mood of the times and the maelstrom which engulfed Europe in 1492, the discovery of America was not only opportune but justifies faith in the belief that it was a design of providence and that God inspired, guided and protected Columbus. Well, otherwise, where then would Columbus have drawn the constancy and strength of soul to withstand what he was obliged in the end to submit to and endure? As we all know, his discovery marked the dawn of the modern world. This continent became the haven of the oppressed and persecuted peoples of Europe and the founders and pioneers of our country established a form of government which has as its keystone civil and religious liberty, equality, justice and all other God-given prerogatives necessary for the dignity and welfare of mankind. Because of these rights, America has enjoyed progress and liberty and the world at large has benefited therefrom. The American people have not been selfish about their blessings and have from time to time not only sought to extend them to others throughout the world but at great cost and with the shedding of much blood have striven earnestly to threaten any threatened enslavement of mankind. We have fought to bring peace, justice and freedom to the Europe from whence Columbus sailed and ironically today in many parts thereof, there is no religion, no faith, no freedom, no justice, no peace, no humanity, no shame and no truth. Christian civilization again is shrinking in the area and dividing into hostile units. Instead of Islam, red fascist communism is expanding at the expense of Christianity. It has overrun the Balkan Peninsula as did the Turks of old and is now hammering at the gates of other countries not yet within its orbit. And presently, from this part of the world for which we made such sacrifice, there is directed against us who sought to help and save humanity, insolence and malevolence such as that Columbus had to endure. In 1492, Europe needed as never before an America. And 458 years later, Europe, yea the world, needs as never before a Columbus. We, the American people, having enjoyed the benefits of his monumental deeds and being his heirs, should gladly assume that responsibility and go forth as he did and extend to the four quarters of the earth the principles and benefits of American democracy and of Christian charity. Obstacles will be placed in our paths and we will be repulsed and scorned and scoffed at. But if we are genuinely inspired and manifest the same courage, faith, determination and zeal, which were a distinctive part of Columbus, we cannot fail in our mission. And we will secure to all peoples the joys and benefits and blessings which come with freedom. The best and most effective way to achieve that objective is for us, Protestants, Jews and Catholics, Americans all, to stand united and to safeguard zealously our sacred rights. To be alerted to the presence in our midst of those who hold allegiance to the Kremlin and seek to foster and promote ideologies which are destructive of our American way of life. To expose and combat their vicious propaganda to the end that the United States shall remain a true and strong democracy. Freedom will always triumph over slavery. Communism may today attempt to envelop the world, but as long as there is one free country like America, that free country will inspire the peoples of the red fascist police states to cast off their oppressors' chains. May God direct, guide and protect the heirs of Columbus on their mission. We have had the privilege of presenting Congressman John J. Rooney, who brought to you today the Columbus message, honoring the great explorer who with infinite courage and fortitude set out from the port in Spain there and discovered this continent of America. The founding fathers discovered a great thing too, life, liberty and the right to pursue your happiness according to your own ideals. And you assert that right through voting. We're going to ask you to register early because it's very important that you register because if you do not register you cannot vote. Now today is a holiday for a great many of you. You are no doubt near a polling place. And get down there and register today. Don't leave it till the last day and crowd up the election boards. Register today in order that you may vote and express your right and opinion to be part of your great government. For a great great government, you have been LORD. I refuse to register for your guests and miejsce jako waveboy, and it's beenπεred to your transgressions where you live in a prayer of Oslo altogether. Thank you.