All right, suppose the bomb does fall. Suppose I do survive the flash and the blast, but my home has been destroyed. I'm hungry, I'm frightened, and I don't know where the rest of my family is. What happens then? This is the seventh in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. This is the network from which you will get your official information and news in the event of an emergency anywhere in New York State or nearby areas. To bring you essential information and instruction to tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of atomic attack and what you can do to help, each week at this time we present officials and specialists who speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now, here's Bill Leonard. This week our topic is welfare, the specialized type of welfare that you and your family would need or be expected to give immediately after an atomic attack. Many of you have sent us questions on this subject. I've asked Robert T. Lansdale, Commissioner of Social Welfare of the state of New York, to come in and answer some of them. And after that, local stations will be given an opportunity to talk about welfare in respect to their individual communities. Commissioner Lansdale hears a letter from a lady in Syracuse and she says, my son and his family live in New York City. If that city were bombed, how could I find out quickly what had happened to them? It would be impossible to find out quickly. Telephone lines must not be cluttered up with personal calls, blocking vital emergency communications. This lady would not be able to get news about her son and his family for at least a few days after the disaster. This question is from a listener in Albany. Suppose I'm at work, he asks, and a bomb falls nearby. How do I find out afterwards about my wife and children and how do they find out about me? Mr. Leonard, I can answer that question and a lot of others like it by telling you briefly what the state plans are for handling this situation. If any disaster, we all know that one, in any disaster, we all know that one of the most vital services is information. Information about members of your family, relatives, friends, and neighbors. We know how anxious an individual can get under such circumstances, not knowing whether a child or parent or dear friend is missing, injured, or killed. Multiply that by the thousands, and you will understand the problem the civil defense welfare people will have on their hands. And what are your plans for coping with such a situation, Mr. Lansdale? Local communities will immediately set up registration bureaus where the people of a bombed city will be able to get information about the dead and injured, the homeless, and the missing. All this information will be channeled from welfare centers and hospitals into these registration bureaus, and thus friends and families brought together as quickly as possible. A man from Rochester writes, suppose a bomb were to drop on this city. My home is destroyed, but my family and I are uninjured. Where would we live? If a community has followed out the directive sent to them by the New York State Civil Defense Commission, here's what would happen. This man's family would be taken to a large and suitable building in his community, one of the many which are already been designated as welfare centers. Here they would receive immediate emergency care, food, clothing, and a place to sleep. As soon as possible, a more permanent plan would be worked out. They might be able to go to the home of a friend or a relative. If necessary, they would be moved along to an outlying area where they would be given further assistance, and temporary rehousing would be arranged for them. I noticed, Mr. Lansdale, that you said, this man's family. What about the man himself? If he's able-bodied, Mr. Leonard, he would be assigned immediately to help clear debris, fight fires, and assist in other rescue work. If he is a worker in a vital industry, he would be expected to continue in his job. A White Plains listener writes in to ask, I know I must have a first aid kit in my home, but what about some sort of emergency food kit, too? Should I store certain basic foods for use in emergencies? We expect to be able to handle the food supply problem without great difficulty. However, if each householder had a two- or three-day supply of basic foods, it would certainly ease the situation. In any food list, it would be well to include a number of items which can be eaten without cooking in case the gas supply is cut off. Food should be in cans or well-wrapped packages. Commissioner Lansdale, I'd like to put a question in right here. No one knows whether the bomb will fall during the day or night or winter or summer. Is anything being done to provide emergency clothing to meet any possible conditions? Civil defense welfare centers will supply clothing. Some of these garments will be contributed by people who we know will be eager to help their neighbors who are in trouble. Some of it will be clothing we will have to buy. Incidentally, there's no need at this time for individuals to offer gifts of clothing for civil defense purposes. We'll call for it when we need it. Here's a letter from an ex-GI in Kingston, and he says, I was stationed in England during the last war, and I saw how the English had to double up and share their homes with bombed-out families. Is that likely to happen here? Yes, in case of attack, probably the same thing would happen. Naturally, in times of crisis, those fortunate ones whose homes escape destruction would be willing to share their quarters with their less fortunate neighbors. You might be interested to know that thousands of families in towns near so-called primary target areas have already agreed to share their homes with bombed-out families for as long as may be necessary. Mr. Lansdale, everyone knows what a splendid job the American Red Cross does in times of emergency. Are they part of your plans? I'm happy to say, Mr. Leonard, that our welfare program will have the benefit of the experience, the personnel, and the equipment and supplies of the American Red Cross. Offers have also come pouring in from many other groups as well. The Salvation Army offers all of its experience in emergency relief, including its supply of clothing. The Boy Scouts of America and other youth organizations have made available their camp facilities as well as their personnel. We shall use the church buildings offered by religious groups of all denominations and the volunteer workers who come from the various racial and nationality groups and the labor unions. Business organizations, great and small, have come to our aid. The Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, for example, and the International Business Machine Company are helping us develop our registration and information plan. But aside from all this, the welfare of any community in time of emergency will depend most of all on the training and willingness to help of individuals in local civil defense units. Thank you, Robert T. Lansdale, Commissioner of Social Welfare of the State of New York, for answering those questions about welfare. We'll have more information about civil defense in a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. Since New York City is generally assumed to be a primary target area, it's only natural that many of you who live and work in this city should ask questions about welfare in time of emergency. And here with me to answer some of them is Raymond Hilliard, Commissioner of Welfare of the City of New York. Our first question, Commissioner, is from a lady who lives in Manhattan. And she says, I understand the Board of Education is going to issue identification tags to all school children, but my two boys are of preschool age. What about them? Well, the Board of Education is contemplating the manufacture of at least two and one-half million identification tags. Distribution will be made to preschool children as well as students attending public, private, and parochial schools. Eventually, it's the intention of the Board of Education to provide an identification tag for every child in New York. A man in Stuyvesantown wants to know, Mr. Hilliard, if the welfare department is prepared to shelter the thousands of families who would be left homeless if a large apartment house area were damaged by a bomb. Bill, let me first answer that listener personally. If he will begin now to think about where he and his family may go, with what relatives, or with what friends located in different areas in the city, he will have made the very best plans for himself that can be made. We urge that every family begin right now to think in terms of alternative, temporary arrangements that can be made with friends or relatives located in places other than their own neighborhoods. That does not mean, however, that in the event of disaster, anyone should leave his home unless it's rendered completely uninhabitable. Another way of putting it would be, if you have a roof over your head, stay where you are. But we are prepared to meet the needs of all persons who will be rendered homeless in the event of an incident. Our entire basis of planning for this emergency has been predicated on the need for sheltering and feeding, if necessary, many thousands of persons that may be affected. As Commissioner Lansdale indicated we should, we are setting up congregate shelters, which will be used specifically to care for persons requiring shelter and food on a temporary basis. If certain areas in New York City should become uninhabitable for a period of time, consideration is being given to the removal of these persons to places of a more permanent nature on the outer fringe of New York City. We know that it's a big job to perform, yet we have had experience in smaller disasters and have drawn upon our knowledge, our own knowledge, that is, to guide us in our plans to meet any disaster on a larger scale. A Brooklyn listener asks this question, since New York City is completely dependent on the outside for the tons and tons of food it needs daily, and these supplies come in by rail and truck, how could you possibly feed a city this size if a bomb destroyed tunnels and bridges and railway terminals? Well, the warehouses in New York City have a vast amount of food in storage, and it's reasonable to assume that a considerable portion will remain intact even if there is a severe bombing. This food can be supplemented by fresh supplies trucked into this city on established, controlled routes that do not use tunnels or bridges. These controlled routes were set up in anticipation of the destruction of bridges and tunnels. Now, if necessary, food can also be brought in by boat and by plane. Our Air Force did it in Berlin, and we feel confident that they can do it for New York, should the need arise. A food authority working under our Department of Welfare has already made the necessary arrangements to obtain all the food that this department will require to care for the civilian population in the event of any enemy attack. A Bronx man wants to know, Commissioner Hilliard, have you considered the use of the parks in the five boroughs as temporary emergency areas for the homeless? No, no, we haven't. We are concentrating our efforts on indoor temporary housing. This temporary housing will be in our congregate shelters. These have all the facilities necessary for proper housing and feeding. Commissioner Hilliard, from what you and Commissioner Lansdale have told us, I gather that your blueprints for coping with atomic attack are quite complete. Yes, Mr. Leonard, but those blueprints, like any others, are plans for action. They don't mean a thing without manpower and womanpower. If disaster should strike, we need, we shall instantly need, here in New York City, 40,000 volunteers in all categories, to mention a few, social workers, typists, stenographers, clerks, cooks, kitchen helpers, and so forth. You know, Mr. Leonard, in discussing welfare, I find that most people are concerned about what others would do for them in the event of a disaster. I'd like it if more people were thinking about what they could do for others. Remember, if disaster strikes, your neighbors may be depending on you for intelligent help and guidance. I hope you're ready to give it. Thank you, Raymond Hilliard, Commissioner of Welfare of the City of New York, for answering some of our questions about welfare. Next week, our topic will be shelter. Our speakers will be Captain Edgar R. McClung, U.S. Navy retired, technical specialist of the New York State Civil Defense Commission, and Bernard J. Gilroy, Commissioner of the Department of Housing and Buildings of New York City. This is Bill Leonard reminding you again that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the seventh in a series of programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer more questions you listeners have sent us, specifically those about shelter in time of atomic attack. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at the same time next week when we'll discuss shelter. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network.