The 1951 March of Dimes is on the air. Straighten up and fly right. Straighten up and fly right. Straighten up and fly right. Cool down, popper, don't you blow your top. And that famous theme song could mean no one else but Nat King Cole and his trio. Let's hear some more of that theme, Nat. Ah, wonderful, that's the music that's made in Nat King Cole and his trio famous from one end of the land to the other. Give us another sample of the smooth rhythmic style. I was walking along, minding my business, when out of an orange colored sky. Flash, bell, bell the cassette. Wonderful you came by. I was humming it too, drinking in sunshine, when out of that orange colored view. Flash, bell, bell the cassette. I got a look at you. One looking eye, yell timber. Watch out for flying glass. Color seal fell in, the bottle fell out. I went into a spin, the started shot. I been hit. This is it, this is it. I did it. I was walking along, minding my business, when love came and hit me in the eye. Flash, bell, alakazam. Out of an orange colored purple stripe, a pretty green polka dot sky. Flash, bell, alakazam and goodbye. That was orange colored skies played by Nat King Cole on his trail. You know, that's the kind of rhythm that automatically sets our toes to tapping. But folks, stop to think a minute. Toes, tapping, an effortless movement for most of us. Your child has done it since he first heard music. Ah, but there are thousands of other little children who can't tap their toes. They have to think hard about each faltering footstep they take. These children are the victims of infantile paralysis, who are learning to walk again. Your national foundation for infantile paralysis is helping all who need it. But now, after the second greatest epidemic in our history, there is no more money left. Won't you lend a hand? For the sake of your child who might be in their shoes tomorrow, fight infantile paralysis today. Join the 1951 March of Dimes. And now, let's hear Nat King Cole's fine arrangement of Almost Like Being in Love. What a day this has been What a rare mood I'm in Why it's almost like being in love There's a smile on my face For the whole human race Why it's almost like being in love All the music of life seems to be Like a bell that is ringing for me And from the way that I feel When that bell starts to peel I would swear I was falling Swear I was falling Why it's almost like being in love That was as if I need to tell you Nat King Cole and his trio In Almost Like Being in Love Played especially for the 1951 March of Dimes Friends, don't say no to the thousands of little children Who are looking to you to lend them a hand Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters Fight infantile paralysis You've been listening to the music of Nat King Cole and his trio Brought to you by the 1951 March of Dimes and this station This is Tom Shirley saying Help the crippled victims of infantile paralysis Straighten up and fly right By joining the March of Dimes Straighten up and fly right Straighten up and fly right Straighten up and fly right Cool down, papa, don't you blow your top Nat King Cole and his trio With music for the 1951 March of Dimes You know Nat, that theme of yours Straighten up and fly right Really hits the spot in a March of Dimes program I keep thinking about a certain kid I know Who's giving a different kind of performance Every day he plugs away at the tough job Of making his arms do what he tells them to There's no joke about his trying to straighten up and fly right He's got infantile paralysis But you know, this plucky kid wouldn't have a look in If it weren't for the March of Dimes He's getting treatment and care Like thousands of other kids with polio Because you personally Are lending him a hand with your dimes and dollars That you give to the March of Dimes Now, home with Nat King Cole and his trio When shadows fall And trees whisper days and days My thoughts are ever-ending home When crick is called My heart is forever yearning Once more To be returning home When the hills Conceal the setting sun Stars Stars Stars Stars Stars Began Peeping One by one Night Night Covers All And though Fortune may forsake me Sweet dreams Will ever take me home Me home Sweet dreams Will ever take Me home Me home That was as if I need to tell you Nat King Cole and his trio In Home Played especially for the 1951 March of Dimes Last year Infantile paralysis hit America right where it hurt The second greatest epidemic in our history You can lend a hand in the fight against infantile paralysis By sending your dimes and dollars To your local March of Dimes headquarters March with a March of Dimes in 1951 You've been listening to the music of Nat King Cole and his trio Brought to you by the 1951 March of Dimes and this station This is Tom Shirley saying Help the crippled victims of infantile paralysis Straighten up and fly right By joining the March of Dimes Here is Peggy Lee folks with Dave Barber and his orchestra Peggy singing and Dave playing for the March of Dimes Life is so peculiar A fork belongs with a knife Corned beef is lost without cabbage A husband should have a wife Life is so peculiar but as everybody says that's life Everybody says that's life In no peculiar but as everybody says that's life Oh ladies, gentlemen Everybody says that's life That was beautiful Peggy Thank you I'm only too glad to lend my voice to every other voice That's speaking out for the March of Dimes this year And so is Dave Right I don't believe there's anyone in the country nowadays Who doesn't know of a child Who's been put out of the running by infantile paralysis Yes, so many have been hit by the epidemics of the last two years The two greatest infantile paralysis epidemics in America's history No wonder that the March of Dimes funds are again right down to rock bottom There are more children as well as men and women Now depending on the March of Dimes for help than ever before in history Bills are going to start piling up on your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis Unless your dimes and dollars start rolling in fast Let's lend a hand to help every victim, every child And to them I dedicate my next number Where Are You? Oh where are you? Oh where Where are you? Where have you gone without me? I thought you cared about me Where are you? Where Where's my heart? Where's the dream we started? I can't believe we've parted Where are you? Where are you? When we said goodbye What did I give you my love When I gave you my love Was it bad when All life through. Must I go on pretending? Where is that happy ending? Where are you? Thank you, Peggy Lee and Dave Barber. And I'm sure every youngster throughout the land who's a victim of infantile paralysis thanks you. But the day everyone in the country will give thanks will be the day we can say goodbye polio. The day it's announced a cure or preventive against infantile paralysis has been found. And we'll live to see that day. Your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis now feels and has felt for some time that the scientists are in sight of the wonderful goal. Send in more dimes and dollars than ever before to your local March of Dimes headquarters. Please help fight your child's enemy. Fight infantile paralysis. Join the 1951 March of Dimes. This is Peggy Lee saying goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Goodbye. Hello, everybody. This is Burl Ives. And I'm here to strum a couple of songs for the 1951 March of Dimes. So pull up that big easy chair and relax for a few minutes while we wander through some songs that I hope will please you. and all those little kids with infantile paralysis who I'm singing them for. And now for the small fry. Cock-a-doodle-doo, my dame has lost her shoe. My master's lost his fiddling stick and doesn't know what to do and doesn't know what to do. My master's lost his fiddling stick and doesn't know what to do. Cock-a-doodle-doo, what is my dame to do? Till master's found his fiddling stick she'll dance without her shoe. She'll dance without her shoe. Till master's found his fiddling stick she'll dance without her shoe. Hi-diddle-diddle, the cat and the fiddle, the cow jumped over the moon. The little dog laughed to see such sport and the dish ran away with the spoon. You know, all the songs that I sang are ballads from all over the country, folklore that's the heart of America. But the heartbeat of America is the kids who are growing up in it. Out where I hail from, they grow them strong. Except for some, the ones hit by infantile paralysis. Why it chooses mostly little kids to cripple is something no one knows yet. But we're going to find out. And we're going to prevent it. I say we, because it is we, who are the march of dimes. It's our dimes and quarters and dollars that are the weapons in this big fight against the crippler. It's our dollars that pay for the research that's going to someday free American kids from ever again struggling along on crutches. And it's our dollars that are right now paying for the care of all the little ones who have been cheated out of their right to walk. Keep that help coming, folks. Get those dimes and dollars on the march to put cripple kids in the running. How do you think I begin in the world? I got me a sow and several other things. The sow took the measles and she died in the spring. What do you think I made of her hide? The very best saddle that she ever did ride. Saddle or braddle or any such thing. The sow took the measles and she died in the spring. What do you think I made of her nose? The very best thimble that ever sewed clothes. Thimble or thread or any such thing. The sow took the measles and she died in the spring. What do you think I made of her tail? The very best whoop that ever sought sale. Whoop or whoop socket any such thing. The sow took the measles and she died in the spring. What do you think I made of her feet? The very best pickles that she ever did eat. Pickles or glue or any such thing. The sow took the measles and she died in the spring. That's about it, folks. But before I move on, I want to remind you again of the kids lying helpless in hospitals in every corner of this big land. Can you turn a deaf ear to them when all they ask is to be able to walk? No, because that heart of yours is big. Open it up wide when you send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. This is Burl Eyes asking you to please join the 1951 March of Dimes. Jimmy Crack Corn and I don't care. Jimmy Crack Corn and I don't care. Jimmy Crack Corn and I don't care. My master's gone away. Hello, everybody. This is Burl Ives. I'm here to sing you a few songs and talk a little about the 1951 March of Dimes, one of the greatest neighborly efforts ever known. You know, in the olden days, a fellow with the wanderlust couldn't get around from place to place like you can today. You can see more, too, nowadays. Kind of get a panorama of what's going on. But this fall, I saw something that I'd just as soon missed. A person has to face facts in this world, though. And the fact I'm talking about is the terrible epidemic of infantile paralysis that we had last year. To me, this is a lot more than cold statistics. I went from hospital to hospital and saw the results of that epidemic. A little boy in an iron lung. Another one getting hot pack treatments. A girl so tiny that it'd break your heart to see, trying stiffly to learn how to walk again in her miniature metal braces. She'd only learned the first time a few months ago. I found out something else, though. These children, thousands of them, are getting wonderful care and wonderful treatment through March of Dimes money. That means through your generosity. You, their neighbor. This year, so many more need your help. Don't let them down. Don't let any helpless child go without care because you forgot to give to the March of Dimes. Join today. How about it? Americans have always been able to solve their problems, and I think we can solve this infantile paralysis problem. Well, way back in 1773, they had a problem in Boston. Something about tea. I, Slum, I am a Yankee lad, and I guess I'll sing a ditty. And if you do not relish it, the more it will be the pity. You know I think I should have been a plague-y sight, more primish man if I'd been born in Boston town. But I weren't cause I'm a country man. Fall-dee-roldy-ray, fall-dee-roldy-ray, but I weren't cause I'm a country man. Oh, tether day. The Yankee folks were mad about the taxes, and so we went like engines dressed to split the chest with axes. It was the year of 73, It was the year of 73, and we felt really gritty. The mayor would have led the gang, but Boston made a city. Fall-dee-roldy-ray, fall-dee-roldy-ray, but Boston made a city. And so aboard the ships, we went our vengeance to administer. We didn't care a tarnal bit for any king or minister. We made a plague-y mess of tea in one of the biggest dishes. I mean, we steeped it in the sea and treated all the fishes. Fall-dee-roldy-ray, fall-dee-roldy-ray, and treated all the fishes. Well, about now, it's time for me to be moving along. In my travels, wherever I go, I know I'm going to see those March of Dimes canisters full and overflowing with your dimes and dollars, your generous way of helping the polio victims of this country get the care and treatment that they must have. Friends, every time you see that little boy on the poster with his arms outstretched, you know he represents thousands of polio victims. So lend him a hand in his fight against infantile paralysis. This is Burl Ives asking you to join the 1951 March of Dimes. Jimmy Crackorn and I don't care Jimmy Crackorn and I don't care Jimmy Crackorn and I don't care if my master's gone away. Jimmy Crackorn and I don't care if my master's gone away. Noisé... No'... Noába Noába Noába Noába Noába Noába When you wish Upon a star Makes no difference Who you are Anything your heart desires Will come to you And if your heart is in your dream No request is too extreme When you wish upon a star As all the dreamers do Fate is kind She brings to those who love Their sweet fulfillment of Their secret love And like a boat out of the blue Fate steps in and sees you through When you wish upon a star All of your dreams come true Like a boat out of the blue Comes in view When you wish upon a star All your dreams come true Hello, I'm Jiminy Cricket I'm the little guy who's always right beside you I'm your conscience, everybody's conscience You know, I was just thinking The nicest thing you could ever say I gave up Lala a helping hand today I shared some fortune that I could spare I feel so good I'm walking on air The nicest little picture The nicest little picture anyone can see Is happy little children singing Marilyn There are many little children who cannot run and play For those little polio victims Heed what your conscience has to say This year we just passed through The year of 1950 Saw the second worst polio epidemic In all our nation's history It exhausted every penny The March of Dimes Fund had in store That is why this year we ask Won't you please give a little more We never know when this terror strikes Or how Or when Or where So in order to help those kids along Keep in mind This little song Give yourself a cross examination Are you just about to make a great mistake Well here's a way to save this situation So learn it now for heaven's sake And give some others a little break My name is Jiminy Cricket And I'm your conscience too So pay a little attention Pay a little attention The March of Dimes is underway And it's really up to you So pay a little attention While I mention Certainly you can spare a dime Or two or three or four If through you a child can walk again Could you ask for anything more? There are ever so many who Are much worse off than you So give a little dime A dollar and a dime Huh? And always let your conscience be your guide We'll give our dimes We'll give our dough And we will never slide We'll lick this guy called polio And let our conscience guide Here's my dollar Here's my jack You can't say that we are slack Here's a dime that I can spare That's the spirit Do your share And always let your conscience be your guide Never mind Life Usuallynu Then Bliled Or And always let me Don't k Give Mmm