Welcome to the 1952 March of Dimes. Here on the steps of New York City Hall, the 1952 March of Dimes is officially open. In a few minutes, a squadron of marine fighter planes, two Coast Guard helicopters, a New York City police helicopter, and three from Teterboro Airport will pass over City Hall on their way to release thousands of March of Dimes cards which will drop by parachute over New York City. Other members of the armed forces are with us today, too. On my left, the 581st Air Force Band and Color Guard from Mitchell Field, conducted by Chief Warrant Officer Adam B. Schaefer, Jr. On my right is the First Army Honor Guard, led by Captain Elmer R. Lever and Color Guard from Governor's Island. During the coming hour, you'll be entertained by some of the biggest names in the entertainment field, stars of the stage, radio, opera, and television. Paul Winchell and Terry Mahoney, Earl Wrightson, Henry Morgan, Xavier Cugat, Abby Lane, Helen Hayes, Sam Levinson, Lanny Ross, Jan Murray, Sid Caesar, Imogene Coca, the 1952 March of Dimes poster boy, and his honor, the mayor of New York City, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere. All gathered here for one purpose, to help make our children safe from polio. Let's get underway right now with our national anthem. Earl Wrightson, the famous radio and television baritone, singing the Star-Spangled Banner, with the 581st Air Force Band, conducted by Chief Warrant Officer Adam B. Schaefer, Jr. Sing along with us, won't you? Thank you. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming, O'er the land of the free, And the home of the brave? And right now, it's my very great pleasure indeed to introduce the two gentlemen who will be your emcees today. As you all know, they've brought laughter and fun to millions of Americans. Paul Winchell and his friend Jerry Mahoney, stars of their own popular NBC TV show. Mr. Winchell, Mr. Mahoney. Thank you very, very much indeed, ladies and gentlemen. I'd just like to say that it's sincerely a great pleasure to be here at the official opening of the annual March of Dimes campaign. And I would also like to add that when I was first asked to come down and act as master of ceremonies, I was very, very honored. It's a great pleasure and a privilege to be here. And being a past victim of polio myself, I'm really doubly thrilled at being asked to participate in this occasion. We have a host of very, very famous celebrities who are here today to aid this wonderful cause. And I feel sure that you're going to be thrilled at meeting each and every one of them. Hey, wait a second. What are you gabbin' so much for, huh? All the time, yatta-ta, yatta-ta, yatta-ta. What do you mean? I want to say something, too. Well, I was going to tell you right after I got through. Well, never mind. I want to talk now. Well, I'm talking right now. Do you mind? Oh, you make me so mad. I'm so aggravated I can scream. I think I will. Jerry, stop it. You're stupid. Well, I'm a dummy. What's your excuse? Now, look, you better behave yourself. Do you understand? Well, listen, if you're going to be master of ceremonies... Yeah? ...can I be master of ceremonies, too? Well, what do you mean? Well, if you're going to introduce some of these celebrities, I was wondering if I could introduce a couple of them myself. Well, certainly. It'd be a pleasure. Okay, who are we going to have coming up here first to say hello? Well, you know, Jerry, many of us complain a lot about the fare that we receive on television today. Yeah? Yeah? But, you know, there are quite a few bright spots. Now, one of these bright spots happens to be quite a switch from a schoolteacher to a star television performer. Wait a second. You're not going to talk about Sam Levinson, are you? That's exactly who I'm going to talk about. Well, I'm very, very friendly with the guy myself. Oh, you know Mr. Levinson? No. Well, when I went to school, he was my schoolteacher. He was? Sure. And I used to get 100% in all my subjects. Oh, gosh, you must have something on the ball. Oh, better than that, I had something on Levinson. Oh, good. No, no kidding. He was a great teacher. All year, he used to put my head in a pencil sharpener. Well, what did he do that for? So it would fit a lot neater into the dunce cap. Stop it. Well, he's come down today. He's a great friend of the March of Dimes. I'd like to have a nice round of applause for a very good dear friend of ours. Here he is, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Sam Levinson. Hey, Sam. Hey, there he is. How are you? Thanks, Jerry. It's nice of you to come out on a little dreary day, but we're all here to make life a little more full of sunshine for a lot of kids. I guess most of you folks know my story. They're all variations on the theme of a boy brought up in this big city. I played on these streets hereabouts, but not exactly here. They didn't let me on this ground when I was a little boy. Now they invited me. There's a difference. Now, I'm thinking in terms of getting these kids who can't run around, to get them good and healthy so that they can get into trouble the way we used to on the streets. Remember playing? Are the cops listening? We used to torture them. Remember playing baseball on the streets of New York with the cops chasing you? We were what were called the wanted men. We were wanted by every cop on the block. And some of you remember why. We didn't like a softball. That was too easy. We had to play with a hard baseball on the streets of New York. There was always some woman coming from market with two baskets under her arms. Invariably, she'd get hit with a baseball, pass out cold on the street. And while the women were reviving her by throwing water in her face, we were sifting the onions and tomatoes looking for the baseball. You remember those things? Huh? Remember the games we used to play? Athletics on the streets of New York. High jump. Remember? Two kids hold a rope. This kid steps back, takes a flying leap over the rope, into the cellar, never came out. He didn't come out. I guess he doesn't want to play. Next! See? This went on all day long. Any of you fellas out there remember, sitting on these city streets here? I spent all my life here. In the summertime, you sat on the sidewalk with your feet in the gutter and used to take a peach pit, remember? And put it in your hand and rub it on the sidewalk like this for ten weeks. I'm going to make a ring. Used to sit like an idiot and work all summer long on this thing. At the end of the summer, you made a ring, you'd split, you got plenty of time, you started for the next summer. This went on. Do you remember what the girls used to do? The girls used to take a little spool, remember? With three little bridges and no cotton on it, nothing, and they used to sit there pulling a little rope through like this for ten weeks. And something used to grow from the bottom. Nobody knew what it was. It took about ten months to make this much. But the girls are going to make for mama a rug ninety by ninety. Remember? Remember Johnny on a Pony? How many guys here broke their backs playing Johnny on a Pony? Four-year-old kid on the bottom. Piled up on him a married man with children. And everybody else, Johnny on a Pony, one, two, three. If he drops dead on two, who is he? Nobody. Remember this? We went through this. Oh yeah, I'd like to see the boy in this crowd in this audience who didn't pull this if he were brought up in this big city. We couldn't afford a baseball. That was for the people, rich people, Riverside Drive. So we used to make our own baseballs. Remember how you did it? You took rubber bands and used to sit there all summer long weaving one rubber band into the next rubber band until you got a nice big hard rubber band ball. Remember? Then came D-Day, the test. And you went out and bounced this thing once on the street. It went over the roof. You never saw the ball anymore. This went on for ten weeks. Any of you ever get involved in something like this? Looking for trouble? Teasing the neighbors. Thirty tenements on a block who used to make our own sports. Remember tying a string onto a purse? Filling it up? Remember? Whenever a woman passed, bang! Slip away the purse. A woman thought she had found a gold mine. We sent one poor guy. Well, he had to recuperate for ten weeks. Any of you ever pull this? We used to take a sack, an ordinary potato sack, and pull it over the pump, what they call the hydrant. And we used to tie a rope around it. And then we put some innocent looking kid there and he'd stop the first nice man who was walking by and say, Mister, would you help me take this upstairs? It's a sack of potatoes and I can't carry it. When the man came out of the hospital, there was nobody there anymore. Of course, we're not talking, I'm not encouraging this thing, but you remember skipping rope? Now we're talking to some of the girls. The girls were the great specialists at rope skipping. Fellas wouldn't do it. That was sissy stuff. They used to have a girl and another girl or a girl and a telephone pole if they couldn't get another girl. Used to tie the rope around the telephone pole or skip. The only kid who was permitted to skip rope at the hold end was a kid who had a cold. He was known as a steady ender. Remember? These are put him there. Remember some of the rhymes? This is as much the folklore of New York City as anything. Any of you remember On the mountain stands a lady? Remember that one? On the mountain stands a lady. Who she is, I do not know. Remember? Then there's one that came later. Rosie, Rosie, the American beauty. Oh, policeman, policeman, do your duty. Here comes Rosie, the American beauty. Remember? She can wiggle, she can waggle, she can do as she pleases, but she can't raise her dress above her kneeses. Remember that? You should. You should. We used to play cops and robbers. I'm doing this to tease the cops around here. Huh? We used to play cops and robbers. We didn't have guns, we had two clothespins, one stuck over the other. Remember? That was a poor man's gun. Today these kids are a year and a half old. You ever see them? Two guns dragging him down. He can't walk, the weight is killing him. You see? Today the kids are all cowboys with ammunition. I saw my kid, this happened in the house, I love the true stories. My little boy was sitting there in front of the television set with his armor, with the ammunition, and he sneezed. I said, why didn't you use your handkerchief? He says, I was too slow on the drawer. Cowboy talk. The other day my kid came out without his cowboy suit. No guns. I said, what's the matter? He says, I ain't expecting no trouble today. That's the new generation. We used to play cops and robbers on the street. If it wasn't exciting enough we used to go down the alley. If that wasn't exciting enough we used to go through the supermarkets, then to Woolworths. The next thing we knew we were playing with real cops. They used to be chasing. How much time do I have? Is this my show or is there more going to happen to you? We keep talking? Anything else we remember from the streets of New York? Remember Mumblety Peg? Remember the game? Now we're back to the boys. The game with the knife? The cops are smiling. They'll remember this. Huh? You're supposed to take a knife, an open pocket knife, a Boy Scout knife and you threw it. You see? If it's stuck in the ground you got one point. If it's stuck in a kid you got two points. Huh? Remember? And you didn't just throw this. Anybody could throw a knife. This you had to do off the head, you know. These techniques, huh? Off the arm, you know, specialty. Came summertime. Oh, then we really lived. Off the docks in the east side, off the docks on the west side. We used to play How Close You Could Come to a Truck Without Getting Killed. There was always one kid who lost. Huh? Remember that? You should. Summertime, my mother, of course, my mother's life was shortened. Can you imagine ten weeks of summer, the schools are closed and it's raining outside. Those are the days my mother used to say to my father, I'll go to work. You stay home with the mob. We were referred to as them. They didn't talk to us, just appointed us. I remember one October morning, something like this, nice and cold. Nobody went to school. Mama got up, she got gray when she saw all these kids lying in their beds. She says, what's the matter? She woke me. I said, it's a holiday. She says, what kind of a holiday? I say, it's Columbus Day. Mama says, what does he want? I said, he discovered America. He says, on a Tuesday? Couldn't he discover it on a Sunday when Papa's home? You see? Remember what Mama used to do to get rid of the kids? Used to get us all dressed and send us to the neighbors, go play. We used to go to the neighbors and bring all their kids back to our house. 32 kids, entertain us. What should we do? Today, your kids got toys. We didn't go in for that toy stuff much. We couldn't afford that. I got a pair of skates as a present. In the old days, you know what a present was? If somebody moved out and forgot a pair of skates, you got them as a present. If you found anything in an empty apartment like a sled, that was your present. We had a pair of skates and my brother and myself got the pair of skates. But you know how brothers are, Cain and Abel. He wouldn't let me ride on the two skates, I wouldn't let him ride on the two skates. So I took the left skate, he took the right skate. And to this day, I can only skate on my left foot. I never got a chance. Another thing that I got, am I all right? Am I running over? You cut in any time you like it. I'll wind up on this. I owe a lot to this city. I was educated here, I lived here, I taught for the city. This was my bosses over here. I didn't make a living, but it looked very impressive. Any civil service workers out here? Raise your hand. Give out sandwiches. You want to sign petitions? I'll take it right into the mayor. This is my last engagement. Anyhow, I might as well get this over. I went into the entertainment business the day, you see, I started doing entertaining while I was still teaching school. And I found out I was making a better living outside. In fact, my principal asked me to quit because I tipped him one day at lunch. So, so he thought he'd had enough of me. And I went into this business. Ready? Ready. Ladies and gentlemen, there's much more to come. There are a lot of wonderful entertainers. The cause is obvious. The cause is great. You're very kind to come out. Spread the word. We have to help these kids to get back on the streets, on the farms, out into the sunshine, living, and getting into the mischief that kids are supposed to get into in a nice, healthy way. Thank you very, very much. Sam Levinson, ladies and gentlemen. Sam, thank you very, very much indeed. It's really a pleasure to have you here. You're very, very warm and very, very friendly and really a good friend of the March of Dimes. Boy, I wish you all I can say is all of this solitude is akin down here. That's really wonderful, ain't it? It certainly is. Who's coming out now to entertain, huh? Well, now, Jerry, we have a very, very good friend of ours who's going to come out now. Yeah, who is it? Well, you know Lanny Ross, of course, don't you? Oh, sir, Lanny? Uh-huh. Why, he's a good talent of mine. Yeah? Sure. He's a wonderful singer, too. As a matter of fact, my uncle was a singer. Really? Sure, and he had women tearing their hair out to go out with him, but he didn't like it. Why not? Who likes to go out with bald-headed women? Oh, stop. Now, when I was a kid, I used to go to school, too. What do you mean? Music school. Music school? Sure. You're a singer, too? Certainly I am. Oh, how do you sing? Do you use pear-shaped tones like Mr. Ross? Do I use what? Pear-shaped tones. I don't understand you, Winchell. Oh, look, when you sing, the tones must come out of your mouth in the shape of a pear. Which end first? No, never mind. Look, I think you can take over the master's ceremonies portion now if you want and introduce Mr. Ross, huh? All right. Ladies and gentlemen, I now like you to meet a very dear friend of mine and a wonderful entertainer and a terrific singer, Mr. Lanny Ross. Here he is. Lanny, can I talk to you for just a second? Want to talk to Lanny? Hello, Jerry, and hello, Paul. Lanny, I just want to tell you that it's really a great pleasure for you to come over today because Winchell and I, we know how interested and sympathetic you are with children and it's really nice of you to come. And we couldn't have got a better guy to help launch the March of Dimes drive. It's a great pleasure to be here, Jerry. You know, this cause is so worthwhile that every artist's heart goes out to it. All these wonderful people here are standing here in what looks like threatening weather. I know they're all here, too, in order to see this program start off and make it a great, successful March of Dimes campaign in New York City. Well, you know what I wish? I wish that our audience could hear some of your songs for children from the album that takes us all around the world. But since that's impossible today, what would you sing for us? Well, I've got some songs from some bigger children, some sort of grown-up children. A song like All My Love and Because of You. Would you like to hear that? Oh, wonderful. I'd love to hear it, Randy. All right. You're going to, Jerry. All my love, I give you all my love. The stars may fall, my love, but I will still be true. All my sighs will disappear at last. Now that you're here at last, My heart belongs to you. Because of you, there's a song in my heart. Because of you, my romance had its start. Because of you, the sun will shine, the stars and moon will say you're mine, forever and never to part. I only live for your love and your kiss. It's paradise It's paradise to be near you like this. Because of you, my life is now worthwhile and I can smile Because of you, because of you. All my love, I give you all my love. Stars may fall, my love, but I will still be true. All my sighs will disappear at last. Now that you're here at last, I give you all my love. Thank you very much, everybody. Jerry? Jerry, Paul? It's about time now to come back. Jerry's not catching a cold, is he out here? No, sir. I'm the only one that ain't wearing a coat out here today. Well, here, here's a hangership in case... Oh, thank you. May I blow my nose? Thank you. Don't do it so hard. You rubbed the paint right off my kisser. That's not faint. That's sunburn, is it, Jerry? Well, no, it isn't really sunburn. But, Mr. Ross, we were standing back there listening to your song and, boy, I've got to tell you, your voice is better than it ever was. Well, Jerry, that's very, very nice. And you're getting younger than you ever were, too. You're wonderful. Well, with me, it's just a repaint job. That's all it is. Would you do us the honor of singing another song, for us? Another song? What would you like to hear, Jerry? We have a song called Ritorno a Sorrento. Sorrento? Oh, yes. We have also the Tennessee Waltz. Well, I think I'd rather hear Sorrento. You'd like to hear Sorrento. Yeah, that Tennessee Waltz. I don't know. It's just a little, you know, it ain't made for dummies. I know what I mean. Now that you're down here at City Hall, your Italian blood is coming out because the mayor's Italian and you just have a little Italian music. All right. Say that again, boy. Here we have Sorrento. Nice little Sorrento. Sorrento? Guarda al mare come bello Spira tanto sentimento come il tuo soave accento che mi desto fa sognare. Senti come lieve sale dai giardini or d'or d'aranci un profumo non vaicuale per chi palpitare per chi palpita d'amore e tu dici io parto addio ta lontani dal mio core questa terra dell'amore hai la forza di lasciar ma non mi fuggir non fami più tormento torna a sorrento non fami morir non mi fuggir non mi fuggir non mi fuggir grazie a tutti grazie a tutti i'll stand by now and see how the rest of the show goes ok fine lani thank you very very much indeed and now ladies and gentlemen it's my pleasure and privilege and a great thrill to introduce to you at this time the mayor of New York City the honorable Vincent R. Impelitari Mr. Winchell distinguished guests ladies and gentlemen first of all I want to thank Lenny Ross for singing my favorite song Sorrento it is a great pleasure for me to participate again this year in this opening rally of the 1952 March of Dimes campaign as mayor of this great city of New York I am deeply concerned with the health of all of our citizens from the smallest child to the oldest man and woman and for that reason the March of Dimes assumes a great importance to me the March of Dimes is the result of all the people of our own city and all the people of our great nation banding together to fight a dreadful disease infantile paralysis and the March of Dimes is for all of the people everyone in this land so many unfortunate victims of the visible crippling infantile paralysis have felt his blow this past year in fact for the fourth consecutive year polio has struck with unparalleled force across our entire land we have witnessed the four greatest infantile paralysis epidemics in our nation's history in the past four years fortunately our city of New York was spared the great devastation which other cities and towns in other parts of the country experienced last year here in New York we had what is called a light polio year and yet can we call it light when more than 500 people most of them children felt the cruel crippling blow of infantile paralysis some have lived inside those huge breath giving machines called iron lungs others experienced only the dreadful pain that comes with polio many recovered completely many are still being cared for some will wear ugly iron braces and crutches for the rest of their lives others others will escape any crippling after effects completely the extensive and expensive care and treatment of polio costs money much money in fact four out of every five victims of infantile paralysis not alone in New York City but throughout the nation must have help to pay the mounting bills that come with polio it is the march of dimes without dimes quarters and dollars that pays those bills it is we who set up this trust fund so that everyone without regard to age race color or creed may receive the care and treatment needed regardless of ability to pay the full cost and the full cost of taking care of an average polio case is staggering it's bad enough for a child with wealthy parents it'd be absolutely impossible for a poor boy or girl without your help it is impossible of course to predict polio accurately but this we do know money is desperately needed to help the victims already stricken who need continued care money is needed to take care of the emergencies which may arise this year and so in the name particularly of the children of the city of New York in the name of your own child I urge you give generously double your gift when you join the 1952 March of Dimes thank you very much thank you very very much sir it's a privilege to hear you speak and a pleasure and an honor to be on the same podium with you and now ladies and gentlemen our next guest is no surprise a little while ago you heard him sing the Star Spangled Banner but right now we would like to formally introduce him to you and to those of you with television sets he's probably already a good friend as the star of his own program just as Mr. Earl Wrightson is a good friend of the March of Dimes ladies and gentlemen Mr. Earl Wrightson singing without a song with a song in my heart I behold your adorable face just a song at the start but it soon is a hymn to your grace when the music swells I'm touching your hand it tells me you're standing near and at the sound of your voice heaven opens its portals to me can I help but rejoice that a song such as ours came to be what I always knew I would live life through with a song in my heart for you I'd like to introduce this time one of the foremost comics of stage television your favorite and mine Jan Murray thank you Earl thank you guy wore the same coat how do you like that couldn't have wore the blue today well it's nice the first time I ever saw an audience like this they're all like you know you don't know if you're getting laughs or not everybody's frozen here good afternoon ladies this is a little early for me I hope you'll excuse it takes me till about four in the afternoon before I could swallow you know is this on the air I'll have to change my whole routine I uh gee I'm so glad I was able to get here though because I you know you want to hear the bit don't you nobody let me in you see the wonderful people who are running the march of dimes no pictures while I'm on oh I thought you were taking pictures of me well you better get some ready and uh who do you think is taking pictures of me backstage there's a guy snapping all the while I was waiting to go on you know and I'm turning blue you know it's nice out here so I said here see there's my boy huh see all these fellas that's from newspapers he's gonna look to sell me a picture after the show I thought the planes or birds anyway you wanna hear the darnest thing I almost didn't get here that's the truth you know the people the wonderful people who are running the march of dimes send automobiles for everybody you know they drove them down here with chauffeurs and everything but I just had a new automobile I just bought one and I wanted to drive down myself you know put some mileage on it I got the 52 model it comes with the fenders already smashed beautiful car's got the license plates on the bottom that's case you knock somebody down has got something to read till the ambulance comes to pick him up so we're riding along you know everybody buys a car no trouble I have trouble cost me $62,000 they sent it from Detroit FOB some dope in a factory sent it airmail I don't know how they got it in the envelopes making a lot of noise here fellas I'm getting yucks and is that a cigar inhale take a little in your own lungs pal don't give it all to me I got enough trouble up here somebody has got chasing sandborn in there pipe too hello hiya nice to see you who's that anyway so I was telling you so I'm driving down there's a guy on a motorcycle coming down the west side highway oh this happened yesterday it's a cute thing I'm riding along the west side highway and there's a guy alongside me on a motorcycle and he's got his friend seated in the side car and the friend screaming for heaven's sake slow down I'm freezing to death out here please slow down fellas stop the motorcycle what are you shouting at boys I don't hear a word you're saying he's trying to slow down I'm freezing out here he said why don't you use your head you fool put your coat on backwards then you'll be protected from your chin down I say that's pretty clever never thought of that jumped down the side car put his coat on backwards buttoned it down the back back in the side car off they took 70-80 miles an hour he's bucking the wind he doesn't feel a thing he's got his coat on backwards 90-100 miles an hour crash into a tree five minutes later a hundred people gather around the accident a policeman walks over he says what happened what happened here the fella said officer I saw the entire accident motorcycle was going 100 miles an hour crash right into the tree the driver was killed instantly the other guy he was alright till we straightened his head out see his head was alright the coat was on backwards and they thought his head was twisted when they tried to straighten it out they broke his neck no pal you gotta concentrate his head was alright the buttons were in the back what's this this we've arranged to break up your routine thanks a lot yes those planes that are over there they'll be dropping parachutes in just about a moment they're not there by accident they're a squadron of marine fighter planes two coast guard helicopters one New York City police helicopter one helicopter from Teterboro airport in Teterboro New Jersey and they're saluting a donation made by the Air Force buddies of Chief Warren Officer James W. Gross our poster boy's father who is stationed in Germany the money was collected at air bases in this country and abroad and later on in the rally will be presented to Larry Jim who in turn will present it to the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis now the parachutes that will be dropped by the helicopters all have March of Dimes pledges attached to them and it's their way of asking you New Yorkers to get behind the campaign if you happen to find one send it in with your contribution won't you Jan is he back here yet well then we're going to hear from the band right now the band who are The End The End The End The End The End And once again our very good friends who launched the launching of The Drive have come back to entertain us. Your own emcees, Paul Winchell and Jerry Mahoney. Well, Jerry's not here, ladies and gentlemen, because at this time I have a great honor to welcome to the March of Dimes rally the gracious First Lady of the Theatre, Miss Helen Hayes, who has given everyone so much pleasure in her many Broadway roles. As we all know, Miss Hayes is also a star of radio and television, but in spite of her very busy life, she still finds time to actively help the March of Dimes as chairman of the National Women's Activities Division of the March of Dimes. Ladies and gentlemen, here she is, Miss Helen Hayes. Thank you, Jerry. Thank you. Larry Jim is seven years old today. Larry Jim has been fighting polio since he was 16 months old. After years of operations and treatments and therapy, he's won. He's on his feet again. And in a little while, he'll be able to do without crutches and braces altogether. This seven-year-old is very grateful to your March of Dimes. Without it, his story might have ended tragically. And he'd like to be sure that all youngsters with polio get the same chance to walk again. I'm sure you feel, as I do, that children should not learn that gratitude... They shouldn't learn about it through suffering. But only a few years ago, these children, these victims of polio, suffered much more. And usually they remain seriously crippled for life. Think of it. Today, 75% of all polio victims, most of them youngsters like Larry Jim, are restored to normal activity because of the work of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. You, you people listening, have done this wonderful thing by supporting the March of Dimes, which paid for all the treatment and research. Have you ever noticed that it's always the generous people who are asked to be more generous? This year, the March of Dimes has reached a financial crisis. We have to face it. That's the truth. 45,000 polio patients still need care. And we must be prepared for thousands of new cases this year. The 1952 March of Dimes campaign will call on your generosity all this month, twice as long as usual, to help all the Larry Jims who need you. I hope you'll stay with us all month. And now, before you meet the star of today's performance, a shy little star, I must say, I'd like to tell you why there's a soldier in the background of the March of Dimes posters this year. You see, Larry Jim's father is a member of our armed forces, the Air Force, stationed in Germany at present. And he's here with Mrs. Gross for the March of Dimes campaign. Larry Jim has literally spent most of his young life with the Army. And wherever he's gone, March of Dimes aid has gone with him. So the soldier is both a symbol of our fight against polio, and Larry's wonderful spirit, and a very realistic picture of our little hero's background. Hello, Larry Jim. I want everybody to join the March of Dimes. Thank you. Just a moment. And now, Miss Hayes, before you go, a little while ago, some planes and helicopters were flying over the city, dropping parachutes with March of Dimes pledges. Well, the money that I told you about, which was contributed by Air Force buddies of Larry Jim's father, and of the Coast Guard, well, it's here. And now it's going to be presented by the Honor Guard of the First Army to Larry Jim Gross for the 1952 March of Dimes. Here it comes right now. Good morning, birthday present. There you are, Larry. That's all the money that's been contributed. Well, Larry, this is the contribution that's been received, all the money that's been collected, and we're presenting it to you. Yeah, and there's one more thing, Larry. I wonder how many people know that today is a special day for you for another reason. Yes, Larry is seven years old today. Aren't you, Larry? Yeah, that's right, everyone. Today is Larry Jim's seventh birthday. So how about every one of us getting together now and joining with the orchestra as we all sing a very happy birthday to Larry, huh? Come on now, everyone join together. Ready? Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, dear Larry. Hey, look at this cake coming out. Look at your cake, Larry. Come on, everyone, let's join in this time and wish them a happy birthday, huh? Come on, once more. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday, Larry Jim Ross. Happy birthday to you. Happy birthday to you. Well, Larry, it's a lovely cake, isn't it? Yeah, how do you feel today that it's your seventh birthday? Right into the microphone. Come on, let's hear it. Just make... Pretty good. Pretty good? Oh, that's swell, Larry. Get a load of it. Isn't that a good-looking cake? Well, you want to... Huh? Pretty good, he said. You want to sit down now and have a big feast with it? Huh? Think you can eat it all? Huh? I can't eat it all. You can't eat it all? Well, go ahead. Take the cake in the back. That's it. Take the cake back there. And, Larry, you go back there and you enjoy some of the cake, huh? Atta boy. Say, thank you, Larry. Bye. You're very, very welcome, Larry. Very welcome. And now, ladies and gentlemen, Jerry, would you do me a favor right now? Well, sure, I'd be delighted. What can I do for it? Say, could we have a chair for just a second? What do you want a chair for? Well, I can't sit in the air. It feels much... Oh. Thanks a lot, Lynch. I sure appreciate that. Well, look. Would you do me a favor right now? Well, certainly I will. Well, you've been acting as master of ceremonies and you haven't done anything yet to entertain these people and I wonder if you would do me a favor. Well, sure. What is it, kid? Well, I think maybe they'd get a kick out of it if you were to sneeze. If I was to what? If you were to sneeze. You didn't just sneeze like that? Yeah. Are you slipping your lid? Do you feel okay? Certainly I do. Well, then how can I just sneeze if I don't gotta sneeze? Well, I don't understand you now. Well, look. Maybe I can do what you want me to do if you could just give me a little hand. You want me to help you out? Uh-huh. Well, certainly I'd be delighted. What can I do? Well, I'll tell you what you do. If you tickle my nose, I'll sneeze. Do what? You tickle my nose and I'll sneeze just like that. Tickle your nose? Uh-huh. I don't know what you mean. Oh, come on. We've done this before. Don't act like a square, will you? You mean just tickle your nose? Sure, go ahead. It's gonna work. All right. God, just give it a tickle. Okay. How's that? Use the little finger, please. Where are they? The parachutes are coming down now? Yeah, yeah. There's the helicopter up there. Ladies and gentlemen, right up in the sky right now, the planes are coming overhead. Yeah, there's the helicopters up there, and there's the other airplanes. Are they dropping the parachutes now? Yeah, I think so. As a matter of fact, there they go. There they go. Just came out of the helicopter, all the parachutes. You see them up there in the air? And ladies and gentlemen, if you happen to find any of these parachutes in the street with the March of Dimes tag on it, please send them in with your contribution. We'll sincerely appreciate it. Boy, look at these parachutes coming down. I wish I was up there and they'd drop me. Oh, yeah. Now, about the sneeze, you are tickling my nose. Yes, I know, but the planes came over. Well, look, you started this nonsense. Now, I really got to sneeze. Now, just give me a tickle and I'll get it over with. Okay. Now, let's do it quickly now, though, huh? You're not using the little finger. Is it that important? Well, certainly it's that important. Use the little... That's the kid. That's it. Is that the right way to do it? Oh, yes, sir. That's the right way to do it. I'll sneeze in just a minute. Okay. Come on. Just a second. Come on. Just a second. Come on. Come on. Just a second. Well, come on. Just a second. What's the matter with you? What do you mean the matter with me? What's the matter with you? You're much too rough on me today. You made me a boo-boo on my nose already. Oh, that's too bad. What do you mean too bad? Now, you got to do it or you don't do it at all. Well, what do you mean I don't do it at all? Well, I don't need you to tickle my nose. I have a very good friend of mine over here who would be very glad to help me out. Well, who's your friend? Marvin Cohen. Don't you know him? No. Oh, come on. You know this kid. I'm going to ask him to do the job. All right. Go ahead if you want to. You mind? I don't mind at all. Go ahead. Mr. Cohen? Would you... What is he, a wise guy? Go on. Go on now. He's your friend. Mr. Cohen? Mr. Cohen? Who's working your head? Now, look. Don't... You don't have to be so fresh, you know. The man was a gentleman to come up here and help you out. Now, you act like a gentleman yourself. Oh, okay. Mr. Cohen? Oh, he's giving me the routine again. Get a load. Mr. Cohen? Try this one. Now, come on. Will you... Now, look. Will you stop this nonsense? If you don't ask him nicely, I'm going to. Okay. Don't get excited. I'll ask him. All right. Mr. Cohen? May I take a look at your single fleas? Is that okay? Absolutely. Yeah! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Down, boy. Down, down, down. Jerry? Now, wait a minute. Look, will you stop this nonsense? What is that thing? That's a finger. Get out of here. No, really. Get out of here. That's a finger? Sure. I don't like the looks of it. Can I see the little finger, please? I... Mon Dieu. What's a finger? Yeah! Well, is that good or bad? Oh, that's terrific. All right. Well, try that. Look, Marv, will you tickle his nose? Go ahead. Just tickle it up and down. There's good news tonight. I'll take a dozen of the little sizes, please. Now, come on. Come on. Will you stop it? Now, look. Let's have one sneeze. Now, you started this nonsense. Go ahead and do it. Okay. I'm going to do it quick. That's it. I'm going to... That's a boy. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. What's the matter? He's got a hangnail. Oh, no. He... No, he doesn't. How do you know? He ain't tickling your snoot. All right. Come on, now. We'll do a good one. Not so fast. You'll make a fire. Come on. Will you stop it? Hey, look at the expression on this guy's kisser, will you? What's the matter? Look at the way he's looking at me. Hey, Winch. You got a wristwatch? Yeah. You want to see what time it is? Uh-uh. Hello, Pat. This is Tracy. This is crew ball here. Get the squad cut. Come on. Stop it. Now, look. Everybody's waiting. One good sneeze and get it over with. Okay. Here I go. That's it. He's there. Atta boy. He's there. Come on, now. He's there. He's there. He's there. What'd you stop for? Oh, that's you. I done it. That's you. Atta boy. You did it. Sure, I did it. Now, my head is clear, and I would like to introduce a very, very great surprise, ladies and gentlemen. Right now, there's a very funny man that we have all watched on television while he hunted for a lost collar button. Yes, or even while he was waiting to be interviewed by his draft board. Or even when he stood by and watched his wife select a pair of binoculars. Ladies and gentlemen, it's my sincere privilege now to introduce that great mimic and pantomimist, that great star of show of shows, Mr. Sid Caesar. Hey, Sid. Thank you. First time I told an officer off. Hold your time now. And now I want to introduce you to Miss Imogene Copeland. I want to make a little apology. Imogene here has a slight case of laryngitis, and she'll prove it to you. Say something, dear. We have to go back to rehearsal, but I'll do something. What are you going to do? Did you ever go into your local movie theater, and immediately after the feature presentation, they show you the coming attractions for next week. Happened to see one of these coming attractions a few weeks ago. It's about a gangster picture. There's one fellow. He is in every gangster picture. If he weren't in the picture, I wouldn't know it was a gangster picture. It's a good-looking fellow. Oh, he's tall, handsome. It's one little thing. He's got a little scar. It starts here. It goes down around the side. It goes back around. Down there. Well, this is the way this coming attraction of a gangster picture looked to me. Start it out. Coming next week. The killer's revenge. Sensational, says the star. Beautiful, says the bugle. Wonderful, says the walla-walla bus terminal news. The New York Times says... It's nice. Hey, buddy. Your name, Pete Stack? You sure, huh? Hello, baby. How come you're so good-looking? You don't know me, huh? Well, I don't know you either. I don't know your name, and you don't know mine. Let's keep it like that. Hey, bartender. Pull me a shot. Now, look. I'm going to ask you little questions. Understand? Why don't you give me a direct answer? I don't want any ifs, ands, or buts. And if you're lying to me, I'll drill you. Now, give it to me straight. Where's the men's room? Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! Vroom! It's long distance, you know. Hello. Hello. Hello, killer. This is Murderer. Hey, look. I found out the name of the guy who squealed. Yeah. His name is... The name of the guy... The name of the guy... This fella's name... Look, I gotta hang up now. It's too noisy in here. My boy. Thank you very, very, very much. Thank you very, very much, Sid. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank you very, very much for coming down here this afternoon. And sincerely, it's been our great pleasure and privilege to appear here as Master of Ceremonies. I'd like to say that you've been a wonderful audience. Yeah, me too. I want to wish you a happy new year now. And thanks very much, and God bless you. And don't forget, ladies and gentlemen, to please contribute to the March of Dimes. Thank you very, very much. Goodbye. You've been listening to the rally which officially opened the 1952 March of Dimes campaign on the steps of the City Hall in New York City. Before we say goodbye, just one reminder. Now, while you think about it, send your dimes and quarters and dollars to the local March of Dimes headquarters. Heard on our program today were Paul Winchell and Jerry Mahoney, Earl Wrightson, and Helen Hayes, Sam Levinson, Lanny Ross, Jan Murray, Sid Caesar, and Imogene Coca, the 1952 March of Dimes poster boy, and his honor, the mayor of New York City, the honorable Vincent R. Impelletary. Once again, remember to give to the 1952 March of Dimes. Join the March of Dimes wholeheartedly. This was a public service presentation of the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. We'll be right back.
