October 12 is Columbus Day in New York City, and the weatherman has proved to be a good Colombian because we have a beautiful day here on Fifth Avenue in the most magnificent parade with every agency of New York City turning out to honor the great Italian Christopher Columbus. And no city knows how to express those who have achieved better than New York City. And now to the reviewing stand where Mr. Fortune Pope will act as chairman. Now just a moment and we'll give you the program. There he is. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We're speaking to you from the reviewing stand of this magnificent Columbus Day parade commemorating the 459th anniversary of the Discovery of America by Christopher Columbus. And from this point we're going to bring you the notables who are seated here in the reviewing stand with the Grand Marshal of this grand spectacle. And first it is our pleasure to present the Grand Marshal personally, the President of the Columbus Citizens Committee, and the gentleman who led off this tremendous parade, the greatest in the history of the Columbus Citizens Committee. And here he is, your Grand Marshal, Mr. Fortune Pope. It is a great honor for me to greet you as the Grand Marshal of this beautiful American spectacle. This parade and last night's dinner, both of which are sponsored by the Columbus Citizens Committee, are dedicated to the spirit of Americans all because the birthday of Christopher Columbus is truly an all-American holiday. I want to extend special greetings to our radio audience. I am sorry that you cannot be here with us to join the thousands of spectators who have come to cheer those who are marching. However, we know that you are with us in spirit to help us celebrate this great day. Thank you very, very much, Mr. Pope. You've heard comments from Mr. Fortune Pope, the Grand Marshal of this Columbus Day parade. And now, friends, we want to present to you the Ambassador to the United States from the Republic of Italy, officially representing the Italian government at this spectacle. Ladies and gentlemen, His Excellency Alberto Tarchiani. I am very happy to be here again, present to this wonderful parade that show once more, and more wonderfully than ever, the fraternity and the full comprehension and understanding of the Italian-American people. And now, ladies and gentlemen, representing the Governor of the State of New York and the State of New York itself, the Comptroller of the State, the Honorable J. Raymond McGovern. Ladies and gentlemen of the television and radio audience, may I just say that we're delighted to be here in this glorious demonstration in tribute to the memory of Christopher Columbus. We've had a very, very beautiful parade and beautiful weather down here. And we're all very, very happy to join in this beautiful and elaborate celebration. Thank you so much. Thank you very much, Mr. McGovern. Our next guest is the Federal Security Administrator of the United States, who is present in the reviewing stand, watching this magnificent spectacle. Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Oscar Ewing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a wonderful spectacle here this afternoon. One cannot but be thrilled to think that these people were celebrating the discovery of America. These young people thrilling with life as they march up here. And they've given us a great show and something we can be proud of. Thank you very, very much. Oscar Ewing, Federal Security Administrator. Our next guest is one of New York State's most popular citizens. A gentleman whose name I know is familiar to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, it's the James A. Farley. This is a very delightful occasion. And I know of no time in the history of New York when Columbus Day was being celebrated under more auspicious circumstances. The parade is an excellent one. Mr. Pope has been very fortunate in his committee and the fact that he has been able to direct such a fine display upon the part of New Yorkers celebrating a great day in the life of America. Thank you very, very much, Mr. Farley. We have been speaking to you from the reviewing stand at the Columbus Day Parade coming along Fifth Avenue on a beautiful, sunlit, crisp and cool day in mid-October. We have the pleasure of bringing you a message from the Grand Marshal of this parade, Mr. Fortune Pope. You heard from the Italian Ambassador Alberto Tarcani, from the Honorable J. Raymond McGovern, Comptroller of the New York State, as well as from Federal Security Administrator Oscar Ewing and James A. Farley. We return you now to our microphones for a description of the parade. We brought you the speeches in connection with the Columbus Day Parade here on Fifth Avenue, this glorious avenue that expresses in all its dimensions the city of New York. Below 59th, everything is the superb commerce and industry of the city. Above it is the splendid residences that have taken place, the great apartment houses, in fact, that have taken place now practically all the residences. And nothing is more indicative of the progress of New York City than the change in these neighborhoods. Because of the great value of the property, it is impossible to keep a private residence on it. So what happens? The great area is spread out so that many people can occupy the same space and the city of New York rises ever upward and onward. And Fifth Avenue is the great indication of that progress in its very epitomization. And here on this avenue itself, the various groups expressing the progress and those who contributed to the progress of the city express their honor and respect for those great personages as Christopher Columbus is being honored here today on Fifth Avenue in this great Columbus Day turnout. Now that is about all we can give you from Fifth Avenue at the present time. Here we have the good council Academy convention. I heard here... No, that's all. That's all I guess for radio. Thank you from 64th Street and Fifth Avenue. We return you now to the studios and the program in progress. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
