Ladies and gentlemen, for the past 171 years, every legislator in this country has been elected in a district where he resided by the people who resided in that particular district. The one who had the largest number of votes was the successful candidate. This is true of congressmen as well as senators and assemblymen. In 1937, a change was made in the election system of members of the local legislative body. An invention called PR was put into effect. This consisted of a long paper ballot upon which people marked numbers indicating their first, second, third, and so on choices. The reasons for this change, advanced by the advocates, was that the Democrats had too large a majority in the Board of Aldermen. The reason assigned by them was that on one occasion there were 64 Democrats in the Board of Aldermen and only one Republican. The answer to that is simply this, that the people in 64 aldermanic districts decided that they wanted representation by a Democrat rather than a Republican. And the Democrat receiving the larger number of votes was declared elected. To frustrate that purpose is to frustrate democracy. It must be remembered that during the late 20s and early 30s, the voters of New York City, because of the humanitarian legislation advocated by Smith, Roosevelt, and Lehman, felt that they owed their loyalty to the Democratic Party. There's certainly no more reason for changing the method of election because it results in 64 Democrats being elected out of 65 than there would be if 64 Republicans were elected out of 65. History reveals that in 1917 the Board of Aldermen consisted of 45 Democrats, 15 Republicans, and 7 Socialists. In 1919 there were 37 Democrats, 26 Republicans, and 4 Socialists. In 1933 there were 49 Democrats and 16 Republicans elected to the Board of Aldermen. So it is seen that the will of the people is expressed in favor of different parties at different times. These figures refute the claim that a PR is abolished and councilmen are elected from senatorial districts, that there will always be 25 Democrats elected from the 25 senatorial districts. At the present time the Democrats have only a slight majority of the state senators elected in New York City. But even if the majority of the people in each of the senatorial districts voted for and elected 25 Democratic councilmen, there would be the same expression of preference by these people as if they elected 25 Democratic congressmen or 25 Democratic state senators from the same districts. To argue that it is unfair to have a predominant majority in a legislative body is to ignore the fact that the only way that that majority can be obtained is by the votes of a majority or at least a plurality of the voters in each district. Under the old system, which has been enforced for 171 years, the people voted in the district for a man who lived in the district knowing his qualifications or lack of qualifications and knowing the same facts concerning his opponent. A further argument advanced by the advocates of PR is that the election of councilmen from senatorial districts will strengthen the power of district leaders. That argument is pure unadulterated bunk. In the first place, district leaders are elected by the people in primaries. Their leadership can be challenged and they can be unseated by a majority vote of the people. The first time I ran for office, I entered the Republican and Democratic primaries and won both the Republican and Democratic nomination for alderman. Every two years thereafter, for 12 years, I was renominated by the Democratic Party. Had my leader refused to renominate me, I could have fought in the primaries for the Democratic nomination. But in 1937, when PR was inflicted upon the people and my leader refused to endorse my candidacy, there was nothing I could do about it. Because under PR, the direct primaries hadn't been abolished and no one could challenge the power of the leader. It is true that I could have run independently without the word Democrat, but experience has shown that such an attempt would be futile. The way these fellows speak about leaders, you'd be led to believe that the only party that had leaders is a Democratic Party. I'm going to let you in on a secret. The Republican Party has leaders. It's true they may not be as efficient or as capable or as considerate of the interests of the people as the Democratic leaders, but you'll find the Republican leaders at their clubhouses the same as you'll find the Democratic leaders. And believe it or not, the Communist Party has leaders. Of course, it's true you won't find them at clubhouses in the city of New York. They're 5,000 miles away. But there's no one can dispute the fact that their power over their officeholders is far greater than the power of any Democratic or Republican leader. From the time of the establishment of this great republic, these leaders of the Democratic and Republican Party have nominated the men who have made America great. And while it is true that some have betrayed their trust, the percentage of those who have betrayed their trust in politics or political life is no greater than the percentage of those who have betrayed their trust in business generally. Another argument advanced by the advocates of PR is that the members of the Board of Aldermen were individuals unqualified to hold public office, lacking in education and character. As a former member of the Board of Aldermen, I resent this statement. I resent it for two reasons. First, it's untrue. And secondly, because I had the power personally to observe both the Aldermen and the Councilman, and certainly the former do not have to suffer by a comparison. In the Board of Aldermen, there were such distinguished citizens as Honorable Francis D. McGarry, the President, Surrogate of Kings County, the Honorable William T. Collins, Surrogate of New York County, former Chief Magistrate Henry H. Curran, Secretary of State Thomas Curran, former Congressman Ruth Pratt, former Congressman Joseph Clark Baldwin III, the Honorable Nouveau-Bowell Morris, Supreme Court Justice Stephen Callahan, and Supreme Court Justice Arnon Squires. Also among them were men who have risen to high position in public life, too numerous to numerate. Now let's take a look at the better type that has been elected to the Council under PR. Benjamin Davis and Caccione, both communists, who publicly declared that Roosevelt was a warmonger, and denounced British imperialism, but who after Russia had been invaded became extremely patriotic. In fact, they rebuke us because of the fact that we would not open up a second front and come to Russia's aid quickly enough to suit their purposes. Do these boys take their orders from the leaders of their party? Is it preferable to have members of the Council dictated to by Moscow, rather than by citizens of the United States who occupy the positions of leaders of their party as a result of election by the people to their respective districts? The other members of the minority under PR and in the Council are Louis P. Goldberg, a former socialist, Eugene P. Connolly, a protege of Marc Antonio, who cast a vote against extending the conscription law immediately prior to our entry into World War II, Mike Quill, against whom the Communist Party nominates no one in the Bronx, but whom the Daily Waker supports in each campaign. The proponents of PR point out that some of the members of the Board of Orlemen speak with a brogue or an accent. That's true. Those members of the Board of Orlemen were elected by people who spoke with brogues and accents. That's democracy. From Tennessee, they elect congressmen who can't read nor write. Do you know who elects them? People who can't read nor write. That's democracy. A fellow like Stanley Isaacs couldn't take his five-better-kappa key over the green point and get ten votes against Pete McGinnis, nor could he take it over to the east side and get to first base against a fellow like Morris Grobard. People in the respective districts want people who understand their needs to represent them in public office, and a college degree is not a necessary prerequisite to a sense of understanding. I do not know what the word proportional nor even the word representation signifies. Every proportion presupposes a ratio, and I'm going to give you one part of the proportion and ask Colonel McCaffrey to supply the remainder. For instance, if you say two is to four or six is to twelve, you mean two is half of four and six is half of twelve. In PR, something should be to something as something else is to something else. So let Colonel McCaffrey fill out these blanks. Under PR, the number of representatives to be elected to the council is to blank as blank is to blank. In Brooklyn, in three elections, not a single Republican was elected. But Brooklyn elected one Communist Council in each of these elections under PR. Does anybody in his right mind say that there are more Communists in Brooklyn than Republicans? In the 1945 election under PR, two Communists were elected and only three Republicans elected throughout the entire city. Are there two-thirds as many Communists in New York City as there are Republicans? Where does the proportion come in? And who is to be represented and on what basis? Under this system, Moscow, in addition to its representatives in the United Nations, has two representatives in the city council. PR brought about the rise of Hitler and Mussolini. After the PR election in Italy in 1919, no party received a majority. And one premier after another abdicated because he couldn't form a government. And in the midst of the confusion, Mussolini, with 8,000 ragamuffins, marched into Rome and seized control of the government. In Germany, after the PR election in 1932, no party likewise received a majority. And Hitler and von Papen formed an alliance, the result of which Hitler became the chancellor and von Papen the vice chancellor. As further evidence of the wholesome type of men elected under PR, I might add, they were elected in Germany, Gables, Streicher, the pervert Rome, and practically every one of the individuals who have since been adjudged war criminals. The issue before the voters is this. Are we satisfied with the majority system which has resulted in the development of the greatest country on God's earth, or do we want to adhere to a system which directly brought about World War II? Without PR, we wouldn't have Hitler, we wouldn't have Mussolini. Without Hitler or Mussolini, there would have been no World War II. I ask you to go to the polls on election day and vote yes to repeal PR. For anyone to argue that PR is necessary in the election of councilmen because a Seabury investigation showed that some Democratic officials were crooked is as nonsensical as an argument that because of scandals in the Harding administration, members of Congress should be elected by PR. The fact of the matter is that not a single alderman was named in the entire Seabury investigation. The Colonel argues that because the leaders of the Democratic Party nominated O'Dwyer for mayor, Joseph for controller, and Impelletari for president of the city council, that thereby racial and religious voting was encouraged. As a matter of fact, the contrary is true. In every Jewish section, O'Dwyer, an Irish Catholic, Impelletari, an American of Italian descent, and Joseph's a Hebrew, each received substantially the same number of votes, evidencing the fact that the people did not vote along racial or religious lines but voted as Democrats. The same was true in the non-Jewish districts where Joseph's polled the same number of votes as O'Dwyer and Impelletari. Under PR, however, a considerable percentage of the ballots indicate that the voters cast their ballot not according to their political beliefs but according to their religious beliefs or racial antecedents. As a former corporal, I do not want to be disrespectful to a colonel, but it really is difficult to understand why, in view of his state of animosity toward communists and communism, he advocates a system of election which has resulted in two communists being elected to the city council. PR is the only system under which communists have ever been able to be elected to public office anywhere in the United States. In spite of his detestation of communism, the colonel is working hand in hand with the Daily Worker and the Communist Party, both of which are advocating the retention of PR. But at no time have either the Daily Worker or the Communist Party advocated PR or any other form of election for candidates for the Kremlin. Of course, PR is not needed in Russia because only one party is permitted to nominate candidates, that is, the Communist Party. How a colonel can even argue with a corporal that the system under which every president, including Jefferson, Lincoln, Wilson and Roosevelt was elected, is undemocratic, I cannot understand. And I might add that the men who were delegates to the convention that nominated these presidents were selected by the leaders of their parties who in turn were selected by the people. I urge you, therefore, to keep the system that has made America great. Vote yes to abolish PR when you go to the polls next Tuesday. Thank you. Ooo