George Keane, who is to do the narrating on this special tabloid version of Brigadoon, is conferring with Franz Ahlers now as to just what the routine is to be. Some late arrivals in the orchestra are just setting up now. It is not the complete orchestra, of course, but they have a simulated pit just below the stage. Franz Ahlers is all ready to go as is being announced by Bert Lytow. ...show business, take it over. All of a sudden there оруi, round of dassel morning Yeah, Ok, Kouni. Yay, Wonderful! Top 2 Hooray! Ooh, hoay! Bäckle bäckle bäckle bäckle bäckle bäckle bäckle Contektivгр All oakत fékk好吃 is to suit his family. As our story begins, we find two young Americans, Tommy and Jeff, who are lost in the lonely Scottish Highlands. It's an early morning in May. The two men look at their map to try to find out where they are, but as far as they can tell, there are no towns for miles around them. They decide to sit and wait for the sun to come up. And suddenly, from far off, they hear the sound of voices in the distance. They look off into the valley, and through the clearing mist, they see a village emerging. The voices are coming from that village. The voices are coming from that village. Free the moon, free the moon, free the moon. Soon we got the earth's laid old time. Free the moon, free the moon. There my heart forever lies. Let the moon, free the moon. Here's my body. There's peace now. The two Americans, Tommy and Jeff, walk a mile or two toward the valley and come upon a quaint town, which they are told is called Brigadoon. They arrive at the town square. They arrive at the town square, McConnachie Square. And there they see odd booths and carts that speckle the clearing. And they discover that a fair is in progress. The two Americans sense something strange about the place. They mention that there is no place called Brigadoon on the map, but the villagers seem to be aware of this and think nothing of it. The townspeople are dressed in a fashion that is not of this century, and they have a strange sort of simplicity that is unlike the nervous racing quality of Americans and American life. Among the townsfolk is a last name, Jean McLaren, who is getting married this evening. With Jean is her older sister, Fiona. Fiona McLaren is a bright, beautiful, and gracious girl who, as Tommy and Jeff arrive at the square, is explaining to her friends why she, Fiona, is not yet married. Then your lost, as everyone knows, will try to be married before twenty-five. So she'll agree to most any proposal, all he will be is a man and a man. I hold a dream and there's no complison. I know there's one certain laddie for me One day he'll come walking on the horizon And should he not that an old maid I'll be To least he may stay To least I will stay Waiting for my dearie And happy am I To hold my heart till he comes rolling by When he comes, my dearie What look can I know That he's the dearie I've been once gone Though I live forty lives Till the day he arrives I'll not ever, ever grieve For my hopes will be high Till you come rolling by For you see, I believe There's a laddie weary On one bourbon tree Who's waiting for his leaving What do you do when you're waiting around for your lad to come your way Well, when no one is looking, you kneel on the ground And you cry and cry and cry and cry But when I'm not going, you cry and cry and cry and cry But when my sea's didn't have no men Oh, how long he took them by But I fear the night is longer And the night's not right Waiting for my dearie Waiting for my dearie And we know for me That moment anybody has on me Dreaming of my dearie And I live the day That's how I am That's how I am And how I'll ever stay Though I live forty lives Till the day he arrives And I'll never, ever grieve For my hope will be mine That you come soon and find For you see, I believe That there's a laddie weary And wandering tree Who's waiting for his weary Me Me Please stand in Merrill Dwyatt Says he doesn't think it's fair To the musicians and the cast of Brigadoon To ask them to stay here and sing in the rain And so we're going to ask you to excuse them this afternoon Did it stop? They say they want to sing. What about an orchestra? Come on Come on Come on Come on Come on George Keane says they want to go on for a while That's trooping This is real singing in the rain I think, ladies and gentlemen, if you're willing We are, unless it gets so bad that we have to swim up and down the steps here This is still Brigadoon, it is not the rain's king From the picture of the same man You ready, Mr. Olley? Now, ladies and gentlemen, to continue with our story The boy that Fiona's sister is marrying is called Charles McPherson Dalrymple And Charlie has just returned from school in Annborough a few days ago And now he's ready to settle down, get married, and found a new plan He tells the folk at the square about it And then they all join in a Highland dance that fills the square with swirling kilts and flags Now Charlie McPherson Dalrymple sings I'll go home with Bonnie Jean I'll go home with Bonnie Jean I used to be a rovin' lad A rovin' and wandered in life I had on Annie Lossite Brown Who would try to tie me down But then one day I saw a maid Who held out her hand and I stayed and stayed And now across the green I'll go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home, go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home I'll go home with Bonnie Jean I used to have a hundred friends But when we are wedded the friendship ends They never come to call So farewell to one and all Farewell to all the lads I knew I'll see them again when they're married too For soon across the green I'll go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home, go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home I'll go home with Bonnie Jean In Edsonborough I used to know A lot with an heir and her name was Joe And every night at ten I would meet her in the Glen But now I'll not see her again Especially not in the Glen at ten But soon across the green I'll go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home, go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home, go home I'll go home with Bonnie Jean A lot of two married men I've known I'll soon have a wife and leave yours alone A Bonnie wife indeed And she's all I'll ever need With Bonnie Jean With Bonnie Jean my days will fly And love her I will Till the day I die That's why across the green I'll go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home, go home Go home with Bonnie Jean I'll go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home, go home Go home, go home Go home, go home I'll go home with Bonnie Jean I'll go home with Bonnie Jean Go home, go home, go home Go home, go home Go home, go home I'll go home with Bonnie Jean I'll go home with Bonnie Jean I'll go home with Bonnie Jean And now the music of the Highland Dance of the Town Folk And now the music of the Highland Dance of the Town Folk Is having часов and beer Sex is open when還是 I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. The clouds are holding still So take my hand and let's go roaming Through the heather on the hill The morning dew is clinking yonder There's lazy music in the rear And all I want to do is wander Through the heather on the hill There may be other days as rich and rare There may be other springs as full and fair But they won't be the same They'll come and go for this I know that when the mist is in the glowing And all the clouds are holding still If you're not there I won't go roaming Through the heather on the hill The heather on the hill The mist is a-baking the gloom-ing And all the clouds are holding still So take my hand and let's go roaming Through the heather on the hill The morning dew is clinking yonder There's lazy music in the rear And it's a lovely time to wander Through the heather on the hill There may be other days as rich and rare There may be other streams as full and fair But they won't be the same They'll come and go for this I know that when the mist is in the glowing And all the clouds are holding still If I'm here I won't go roaming Through the heather on the hill The heather on the hill The other American has a girlfriend too We found the girl in the village And she's a little different From the sweet and conservative class you've just seen She is Meg Brockie, a great bouncing blonde girl Who is very anxious to get married She is very interested, so interested in marriage That she's always talking about it And in the show she sings about another wedding day Her mother And now Meg Brockie comes out and sings Me mother weddin' day Weddin' day was just a wee a miss Then I will tell you about a wedding Former Dotsonist The lad and bowed her no puppy No ulcer but my pa And by the strangest bit aluck The woman was my ma Ma Gregor, MacKennan, MacCowen, MacCrawen, MacCrawen McBitty, McNeil and MacCray I all of the folk in the village Were there on my master's wedding day For pa had asked his friends with me And Mac had come to his name, Mickey And they invited 93 to my mother's wedding day Then up the road came Ed McKee With half the town of Aberdeen I am the one for the mountain And the one for the five of me At what the five everybody was there A-waitin' around in the room McVecker, McGoogle, MacGuffin, McCoy Everybody popped the groom And as the hours took full by The men got feelin' kind of dry And thought they'd take a nip a ride While a-waitin' for the groom And while the men were dippin' in The ladies started on the gin And all of a sudden the liquor was gone The gin and the whiskey and all And all of a sudden the wedding affair Had become a bonnie pall For Pete McGraw and Joe McVeigh Began to fight for May McGee While May McGee and Sam McKean Were a-who-in' in the hall The coven steps was John McVeigh They used it for a sartan's clay The coven steps was John McVeigh They used it for a sartan's clay The lonesome's a-dime The lonesome's a-dime McDuffin, McViddy, would playin' a game And usin' the toys for the ball McKenna was eatin' with bribe a boucan McNeil hung on the wall Then finally my father came His eyes were red, his nose a-flame He didn't even know his name He was drunk as stuff from all The people were lyin' all over the room A-lookin' as if they were dead Then mother uncovered the minister Quick and she called him go ahead Then Pa kneeled down and Bill McRae And mother kneeled and jocked McVeigh The preacher stored undone McVeigh And that's how my mother said It was a sight beyond compare I ought to know cause I was there Another teen And toi He makes up his mind and talks to the girl about it, to Fiona, and sings the charming song, There But For You Go I. And saw the very reason why I saw a man with his head bowed low, his heart had no place to go. I looked and I thought to myself with a sigh, there But for you go I. I saw a man walking by the sea, alone with a tightness knee. I looked and I thought as I watched him go by, there But for you go I. Lonely men around me, crying not to cry, till the day you found me. Where above you was I, I saw a man who had never known, The love that was all his own. I thought as I sang, all the stars in the sky, They fought for you, my. Everyone knows the age old superstition that the bride and groom did not see each other before the wedding. Though on the afternoon of the wedding, Charlie, our Scottish bride's groom, got caught in that superstition. And while his bride stayed locked up in her room behind closed doors, Charlie sang a love song to her from the parlor, Come to me, bend to me. Kiss me, good day, darling. I can't be home, I can't be home, I can't be home, I can't be home, In wedding music starts flowing. With my longing, there's nothing wrong in me standing out here and saying, Come to me, bend to me. Come to me, bend to me. Kiss me, good day, darling. My darling, is all I can say. Just come to me, bend to me. Kiss me, good day, give me your name. And don't shake them down. Come to you're in near me, so ye can hear me. I've got to whisper this laughing. For though I'm burning, to shout my yearning, And the words come to fall in your ear. Oh, come to me, bend to me. Kiss me, good day, darling. My darling, is all I can say. Just come to me, bend to me. Just come to me, bend to me. Kiss me, good day, give me your name. And don't shake them away. Kiss me, good day, give me your name. And don't shake them away. Kiss me, good day, give me your name. And don't shake them away. Kiss me, good day, give me your name. Kiss me, good day, give me your name. This about finagest isn't much of the story we can tell this afternoon. We've skipped around a great deal and discussed slender telling of the story. Actually, we've only given that background for the songs that we sang for you this afternoon. To complete our story, however, we want to jump back to the afternoon before the wedding, when Tommy, having come from the walk with his newfound girl, tells his friend Jeff what it is like to spend the day with your best and beautiful girl. And so Tommy sings now, and is later joined by his girl Fiona, it's almost like being in love. Thank you. Almost like being in love. There's a smile on my face for the whole human race. Quiet. Almost like being in love. All the music of life seems to be like a bell that is ringing for me. And from the way that I feel, when that bell starts to feel, I could swear I was falling. I would swear I was falling. It's almost like being in love. It's almost like being in love. When we walked in love. Not a word can we say. It was almost like being in love. But your heart licked in mine. Made the world's eyes for the whole human race. It was almost like being in love. It was almost like being in love. All the music of life seems to be like a bell that is ringing for me. And from the way that I feel, when that bell starts to feel, I could swear I was falling. I would swear I was falling. I would swear I was falling, and I would swear I was falling. In love. It's almost like being in love. It's almost like being in love. Thank you. Thank you, Dave. Thank you, David Brooks, Marion Bell, George King, the boys and girls of the chorus, Mr. Ellis, Lee Sullivan, Pamela Britton. Let's give them all a great big, big hand again. And now, Canon Fox will pronounce the benediction. Almighty God, under whose guidance it was brought forth 170 years ago a new nation dedicated to liberty and freedom. We give thee hearty thanks for all thy many mercies vouchsafed to us, both as a people and as a nation, alike in times of adversity and in times of prosperity. Do thou look for thy special blessing upon the many people of this land, sprung them every race and nation of the world who have come here to seek righteousness, justice, liberty, and fair dealing for all? Amen. Amen. Amen. Thank you. nen entre