Northwestern University presents the reviewing stand, a national forum in its 15th year on the mutual network. Today the reviewing stand discusses farm prices and subsidies. Should the federal government support farm prices? Can you peg farm prices without controlling farm production? How will this affect food prices? These are the issues. We invite you to listen. Our moderator James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our first speaker today is the Honorable Clinton P. Anderson, United States Senator from New Mexico, member of the Senate Committee on Agriculture and former Secretary of Agriculture. Following Senator Anderson's transcribed remarks, you will hear a give-and-take discussion of the issues by Pat Greathouse, director of Region 4 of the United Auto Workers of the CIO, and D. Gail Johnson, professor of economics at the University of Chicago. Senator Anderson. I answer the question, should the government support farm prices, with an emphatic yes. I think it is important to the farmer that he knows the government will have a support price program for his basic commodities. In this time of high national debt and high annual budgets, I think we require as well high national income, and we don't have it when the farmer is in trouble. Last spring, when Story's facilities for winter wheat were inadequate, and a great crop of wheat rolled into the market, many farmers took 50 cents a bushel below the support price because they had to sell. Imagine what it would be like if the marketing of every crop the farmers had to bring his terrific supplies into the marketplace and take whatever was offered. He would get a rather low figure most of the time, and these same supplies would eventually move back into trade at prices reflecting substantial profits to somebody, but not the farmer. The government support price program permits the farmer who receives an adequate bid for his product to hold it off the market until the glut has passed and prices are stabilized. The support program contributes to the orderly marketing of crops, and it prevents sales made under duress. The American farmer can afford to sit back and tell the prospective purchaser that he is going to wait until he meets at least the government's support for his product. But I think that support prices are of resistance as well in the long run to the consumer. Without a program of supports, many crops would be insufficient for our needs, and the price we pay for scarcity is usually pretty high. I had some experience with insufficient quantities of food while in the Department of Agriculture. And I think I found out how quickly food prices respond to the pressure of anxious purchasers. Meat and milk and eggs can quickly move to extreme and unusual heights if there is no reserve supply and there is no control upon price levels. We are having some relief right now in pork prices. The consumer knows that the price of pork is determined not alone by the size of the pig crop this year, but by the size of the corn crop last year. If that crop was tremendous, as it has been, and as it promises to be again this year, the farmers plan the production of more pigs in order to consume their corn. It is abundant production of pigs that leads to a satisfactory supply of pork in the markets. And that in turn takes the pressure off pork prices and lets them come back more nearly to the levels we regard as normal. Pork has always been the poor man's meat. And right now in current markets, we are seeing an example of what the Farm Support Price Program does in the way of providing abundance of corn, which in turn produces large supplies of pork and more reasonable prices. So I say, yes, the government should support farm prices, should make it possible for the farmer to have good income, and thereby contribute his share toward a high national income, suited to the present needs of our national budget. Senator Anderson has replied with an emphatic yes to the question, should the government support farm prices? How do you men answer this question? Johnson? Well, I believe the government should support farm prices under at least two different circumstances. First, under conditions of depression. When the economy has gone into a tailspin, I believe the farmer does need protection against the downward movement of his prices. I also feel that farm support prices have a role to play in bringing the farmer reasonable prices for exceptionally large crops. But by and large, I do not think that the support prices should be at a very high level. What's your position, Great House? I think that a farm support program is a necessity if we're going to maintain the economy of America. I disagree with Johnson when he says that you maintain support prices only when prices have gone into a tailspin, you're in the midst of depression. That's the old boom and bust theory. That's the theory that you wait until you get into a depression to do something about it. The farmers of America provide a $30 billion a year market for industry. This market is going to have to be maintained. This market is going to have to be guaranteed to the farmers of America if we're going to be able to maintain the economy which we have in the high level of production, the high level of a whole economic program. Well, now before we explore the positions which you may have just stated, let's take a look at Senator Anderson's arguments. What do you think about them, Johnson? Well, Senator Anderson was not entirely clear about the really important issue here as I see it, namely the level at which farm prices should be supported. However, his own presentation before Congress does indicate that he is asking for a rather reasonable level to be in the effect most of the time. And that Anderson bill we'll want to discuss a little later. Do you have a reaction to Anderson's argument? Well, I don't want to discuss Anderson's position definitely as far as his personal position or his bill is concerned, but I agree with his position. As I said, that we must have farm price support. We must have it for a number of reasons, one of them being the fact that it will help prevent depression by stabilizing purchasing power, help the farmers build firmer markets for industrial production, thus secure regular employment for other people, encourage abundant production. Today, when you have a bountiful harvest, it's a tragedy because many of the products go to waste. Aide conservation by encouraging farmers to shift from soil depleting crops, wheat, corn, and cotton to grassland and livestock, to eggs, poultry, meats, and other things. You're going to have to have a real conservation program if you're going to maintain a supply for international emergencies, and you're going to strengthen the communities, the backbone of our whole life. Well, I'd like to say at least two things to what Mr. Greathouse has said. First of all, that as far as conservation is concerned, the connection between a farm price support program and achieving conservation is more indirect than it is direct. There are direct tools such as the soil conservation service and payment to farmers for undertaking soil conservation. That would be more effective than a high level support price program. Secondly, that the, if you want to benefit the, that part of the American farm population that produces more than their own share of the children, you aren't going to do it through a support price program. These are by and large the low income people in agriculture and they do simply do not sell enough products that a 10 or 15% increase in their prices will help them appreciably. Well, a guaranteed income program or a price support program which is really effective will help the basic farmers which you talk about. It's true that these farmers are the people who really need helping. It's true that last year while they had 100% parity price income that the average income for the farmer was only $909 as compared with $1,569 for the industrial worker. It's true also that unless they have a something is done for these farmers as something is done for these farmers as it just said that they are going to be driven out of the farms completely and that already in the south they are saying to the farmers, mechanize or die. You're going to have to help them. This kind of a program will help these small farmers proportionately in two ways. It will help them on the things which they buy and it will help them on the things which they have to sell and which they produce. Yes, but a farmer that has a gross cash income of $10,000 a year will get 10 times as much mini program of this sort as will a farmer with $1,000. And it seems to me that in terms of anything we know about equity, it's the low income farmer, the farmer who gets say $1,000 a year cash income that needs the help. This does not apply to the big corporation farmers or at least part of the program does not apply. The program of the Brannon plan which we're going to get into the discussion does not apply to the corporation farmers, 2% of which produce over 25% of all the goods produced. The main thing about this program and the main thing about this program and the main thing about this program is that it will include and it will really help the family size farmer. And that's the people that are going to have to get the support in the farm support program. Well, it's clear we're not going to get very far here until we begin to spell out what we mean by a farm price, farm support program. You've referred to this Brannon plan. Earlier, you referred to Senator Anderson's plan. Now, before we compare the relative merits of those two programs for helping a farmer, let me ask this question. It would seem that any support program would be premised on the assumption that we can determine what a fair price is. How do you go about that? Well, I can say what we've done in the law of the land at the moment. In these various farm laws, it has been stated that the parity price for a particular product is that price which will give the farmer the same purchasing power as he had in a base period of 1910 to 1914. By that they mean that the commodity, say wheat, will have a price high enough to permit the farmer to buy the same things he could have earlier. Now, there have been some modifications to that concept, but by and large, most of the proposals that have been made have not changed it very much. And the same thing is true of what Secretary Brannon has advocated. Do you have anything to add to that? I think there's a difference in that. Now, the Brannon plan, or the suggestion which Secretary of Agriculture Brannon has made in his plan, is that a base period of 10 years for an average national income goal for farmers be established. And this would be used in the determination of a fair income for the farmers. Under the parity program, it is determined by the average production or the average purchasing power of what the farmer is expected to buy. And in many cases, it has varied up and down and changed appreciably over and above what the farmer actually buys. And I don't think it has been a true program of price support. Well, now let's get these price support programs before us. What is the Anderson plan, as you understand it, Johnson? Well, Senator Anderson has advocated that the level of farm price supports for what he calls the basic commodities, which are largely the storables, durables, such as wheat, cotton, tobacco, corn, and so on, should vary from about 75 to 90 percent of parity. When the crops are smaller, the support price would be higher. When the crops are larger, the support price would be lower. He also has certain other ideas about the level of support prices when production controls and so on are in effect. But that basically is his idea, that farm price support should be at a level of about 75 to 90 percent of parity. I think that you should add to that, while Anderson has not advocated this on all products, that other people who go along with his thinking, as a matter of fact, amendment was introduced to include not only the few items which Anderson said should be controlled under this, but also a large number of items, including certain perishable goods. So I think when you talk about the Anderson plan versus the Brannan plan, you have to talk about the plan as advanced by Anderson and later modified by other people in all of its perspectives. Yes, it might be said here that the attempt was made recently in the Senate to sweeten the program up by including honey as one of the products to be supported. Well, now, how would Senator Anderson hope to maintain this 75 to 90 percent parity? He would do it by acting in the marketplace, by offering the farmers loans or buying the commodity as would... Would the government go out and buy some of these commodities? Either would buy them or offer the farmer a loan so that he could hold them himself. He would, in other words, the market price would be maintained at this level by action taken either directly or indirectly by the government. And this, of course, differs from certain aspects of the Brannan proposal. It is true. Under the Anderson plan, the government would then become a competitor to the private citizen and for the purchasing of the supplies, the purchasing of commodities which were raised. Now, you seem to be the spokesman here for the Brannan plan, Great House. Tell us what it is. The Brannan plan is the plan, as we said, which was advocated by Secretary of Culture Brannan, whereby the income of the farmer would be maintained rather than the price of the product. Based on an average 10-year national income goal for farmers, it would be set up a guaranteed income for farmers. It would be on basic commodities. It would be products which could be stored or fixed products. The government would lend money on them and store them or buy them and store them. On perishable commodities, the farmer would sell them himself on the open market, and the government would pay him the cash difference between the average price and the support price. I think that's very important because there the perishable goods are allowed to seek their own price, their own level on the supply and demand market. Only the amount of production of a family-sized farm would be supported. And all farmers to get subsidy would have to conserve soil, they would have to take part in marketing programs, and they would have to work to agree not to market over a certain amount of produce. The farmers' consumer subsidies would have to come out of increased taxes, principally taxes on corporations. Well, I should say here that when you say that the ideas or the benefits from the Brannan proposal would be largely restricted to the family-sized farm, that as Secretary Brannan has advocated it originally, the family-sized farm has gotten to be fairly large. It includes a farmer who would have a net income of $12,000 to $15,000 a year. And by and large, I don't see that there's too much, again, on the grounds of equity for giving an individual in this position an income, guarantee for his life of that amount. You do not have the man an income guarantee of his life for that. You do not have the man an income guarantee of his life for that. You're only saying that the income is guaranteed based upon the produce which he produces. You are not anywhere guaranteeing the farmer that he is going to produce a certain amount of goods when he plants his crops in the fall, or when he raises his cattle, or whatever he does. You're only guaranteeing him income based upon the goods which he produces. You are not anywhere guaranteeing the farmer that he is going to produce a certain amount of goods when he plants his crops in the fall, or when he raises his cattle, or whatever he does. You're only guaranteeing him income based upon the goods which he produces. Well, now, there are several aspects of this Brannan plan as you have described it, which I think we ought to explore. Do I understand you to say that the Brannan plan would give the farmer 100% of parity? It would guarantee him his income based on an average 10-year period for the products which were raised. Then, in the event the market price that these perishables bring doesn't approximate the guaranteed price, the government's going to make up that difference to the farmer out of taxes? The government makes up the difference based on the average price. He will not make up the difference to the individual, thereby allowing for the incentive of growing more than average products, or getting better than an average price by selling it on the market in the best place that he can sell it. The incentive is maintained for the farmer. He gets the difference between the average price. Now, one more question, if I may. Is the government, under this scheme, going to attempt to tell the farmer how many acres he should plant in potatoes? How many acres he should plant in corn? A farmer who participates in the program, just as in the old farm program which was in effect, would participate on an overall program of conservation, of crop rotation, and of other things which would go to working out the overall production. They talk about controls of marketing, production and marketing controls would only be applied after a vote of two-thirds of the people participating in the plan. It could not be applied automatically. Well, the supporters of the Brandon proposal have all along argued that these controls are in the old proposals. But I think that that is making a point that's not valid. The extent to which controls would have to be used would be much greater under the Brandon proposal because you're guaranteeing the farmer more. You're guaranteeing him relationship to parity almost twice as high as anything was tried in the thirties. In the thirties, support price programs ran from about fifty to seventy percent of parity, whereas the Brandon proposal is running at a hundred percent. And it is quite likely that the times in which you would have to have controls would be much more frequent, and the rigidity of the controls would be much more frequent under the Brandon proposal. Well, I don't think that that's true because you are protected under the Brandon proposal because of the fact that it covers only the family-type farms or the family-type produce. I think that's important, and again we must remember that less than two percent of the corporation farmers raise over twenty-five percent of all of the farm produce. They would not be affected, would not receive these payments. Well, no, that's not quite valid. They would receive payments up to this eighteen hundred units, and you would apply the same controls to the family farmers you would apply to the corporation farmer. It simply would not be legal to try to do otherwise. But the thing that you're saying in guaranteeing a hundred percent income, you do not guarantee the hundred percent income to the large corporation farmer, and they are the people who have been going out and trying to glut the markets, and therefore the controls would not be necessary in many cases. Well, this question suggests itself, Johnson, how much is this kind of a program going to cost us? If we're going to pay the difference between a market price and a price determined, as Great House has explained it, and the taxpayer is going to pay the bill, how much is that going to cost us? Well, I think here one thing should be said in favor of Secretary Brandon's position. Opponents of the plan have, I think, made some rather extravagant claims as to the total possible cost of the Brandon proposal. The figures as high as ten billion dollars in a year. I think it would be, one can say, that if the national income is maintained at high levels, in other words, if you have full employment, that this proposal would not cost that much. It might, perhaps, cost as much as three or four billion dollars in a year. But under those conditions, that seems to be the outside. Of course, if we get into a depression, and farm prices would otherwise fall very low, then more would be expended. But that would be a time in which we would want to pay subsidies to farmers anyway. I think the cost is high, but not as high as has been argued by others. What are your essential objections to this Brandon plan? Well, my objections are mainly that it sets the support prices too high. That there's no reason why farmers should have so specific and so high a guarantee of their prices under conditions of high levels of national income and employment. That this is more or less setting the farmers off as a special group. This is something very different than a minimum wage, for example. Under a minimum wage, you establish that, but you don't guarantee that a person will get a job. But here, you set a minimum price and guarantee that the farmer will get it. Because of these high price supports to continue, it also means that we rely upon production and marketing controls much more frequently than it seems to me to be desirable. You don't guarantee that a farmer will raise a crop any more than you guarantee that a man will get a job. Now, under this program, you talk about the cost of the program. I'd say the cost of the program under normal times or if the prices stay at the 10-year average would not be anything to the government. It's only when prices start into this tailspin, we start to get into the old boom and bust position that this costs money, and then it's a much cheaper price to have a stabilized farm income than it is to get millions of people on relief and have to pay for their keep. Well, when you say that this program won't cost the government anything, you're assuming that farm prices will average as high as they did during 10 years in which now at least 7 of them were during war and a post-war boom, depending largely upon export markets for the demand for farm products. And I see there's simply say there's no foundation for the assumption that farm prices will stay as high over the next 4 or 5 years, even under conditions of full employment as they have over the past 10. Well, there's because we are living in an expanding economy. For the past 10 years, our economy has grown rapidly. It's increased. It's more than tripled the income of our country. This being based on the past 10-year record only guarantees the man the average of those 10 years and will not guarantee him the increasing economy and we're going to have to increase if we're going to keep from this tailspin. Well, by an increasing economy, we usually mean increasing production. And of course, farm output has kept up with the, certainly the increased needs that people have for food. And so I would say on that score, farmers are participating and contributing to this increased production. Let me ask you this, Great House. You're here as a representative of the CIO, Organized Labor. Why does labor support the Brannan Plan? Labor supports the Brannan Plan for a number of reasons. One of the reasons being the fact that hundreds of thousands of our members are themselves people who live on farms, whose families live on farms, who were born and raised on farms. But secondly, and more important, is that the farmers provide the biggest single market for the products which we manufacture. The automobiles, the tractors, the farm implements, the refrigerators, all the things which the workers of our union manufacture. The biggest purchasers are the farmers. A farm program is necessary. For example, a farmer in Defiance, Ohio ordered a tractor in 1948 when soybeans were $3.47 a bushel and corn $2. The tractor was $1,550. When it came, the price had risen to $1,950. But soybeans had gone down to $2.18 and corn to $1.23. He canceled the tractor order. Now those are things all over the country. The farmers must have a high level of income if they are going to purchase the things we manufacture. We must have full employment if we are going to purchase the things which the farmers raise. Well now, you seem to take the plight of the farmer for granted here. How poor is the farmer anyway, Justin? Well, I would argue that under the presumptions underlying the Brannon Plan, that the farmers that would get 80 or 90 percent of any subsidy that were paid out under the Brannon Plan, have incomes as higher, higher than say the members of Mr. Greathouse's union, who is members of one of the better paid working positions among manufacturing workers in this country. And that it doesn't seem to me to be too reasonable to ask the members of his union through taxes to pay money to support farmers who are as well off or better off than they are. Well, the only thing that members of our union or any other members who are going to pay taxes to support this kind of a program would be paying, they would be paying the taxes because they themselves were getting lower foodstuff costs. And the members of our union, the members of organized labor, all of the working class of America, spend a large percentage of their income for food. And this kind of a plan, as the Brannon Plan, which allows the perishable goods to seek their own level on an open market, and they only pay the difference to guarantee the farmer his income, guarantees that in times of big production of foodstuffs, workers can get these foods that they would not otherwise get and get them at a price they can afford to pay. But if you actually worked strongly, though I do know that this is true of your union and it has worked strongly, for the proposition that the basic job in our economy is to work for a general program to maintain income and employment at high levels, rather than these particular programs which would, say, just maintain the income of farmers, that you would also have food just as cheap under that situation, and you wouldn't have to be paying the subsidies to the farmers. In other words, what I'm arguing here is that actually we are trying to tackle the general problem of maintaining expanding markets by doing particular things by higher prices for farmers, which would bring with them production controls and so on, rather than going about it in a general fashion, in a fashion which would not benefit one group at the expense of another. Well now, Johnson, you sound a little like a college professor there. Can't you do both of these things? Yes, I say you can do both, but the liabilities of doing the things under the Brannon Plan seem to me to be so great that it should not be really adopted as a part of the program. In other words, you're afraid that the costs under the Brannon Plan are such as to preclude some of these measures which you think to be sounder. Well, if I am speaking more particularly about doing certain things within agriculture, such as aiding the really low-income farmer, I think that's true. If Congress has to appropriate two or three billion dollars every once in a while for the Brannon Plan, they're not going to be interested in an expanded farm security program or a program to help the low-income farmers get out of agriculture. I think that you should help other people, as was pointed out, but I think that one of the basic things, one of the things which you have to start on is foodstuffs itself. And any kind of a program which guarantees an income for our farmer doesn't make him gamble with the market price, doesn't make him gamble with the supply and demand. I think that he has gambled enough when he gambles on whether or not he's going to raise a crop. A charge has been made here, Great House, you know, that there's some political expediency involved in this Brannon Plan, that it's a glorious scheme to unite the farmer and labor at the cost of the taxpayer. Well, if the very thing, as you said a while ago about the matter of why is labor supporting this, if the matter of uniting the working people and the farmers who are the low-income groups, who are the purchasing people who purchase food goods and who should have a guaranteed income, if that is the scheme of uniting the vast majority of the American people at the expense of somebody else, then I think that someone is looking for booby traps. I say that any program which unites the vast majority of the American people is a good program. And if anyone wants to disregard that or anyone wants to object to that, that's up to them. Well, I, of course, would agree with the general statement there that any program that would unite the vast majority of the people would be all right. But really what I'm arguing here is that if we do get labor and agriculture united on this program, that to a very real sense they'll be united against themselves. That this, the Brannon Program, as contrasted some of the other proposals, will not over the longer poll really result in cheaper food because of the necessity of controlling production to keep the cost of the plan down. Well, now, gentlemen, in conclusion, our speakers, Senator Anderson included, seem to agree that the government should support farm prices, but differ considerably, as you have heard, on the reasons for such support and the methods of accomplishing it. While Mr. Greathouse of the CIO asked for all-out price supports aimed at security for the farmer based upon forward pricing and guaranteed incomes, as he puts it, Anderson and Johnson prefer a more flexible program of supports geared to the current needs of the farmer and the consumer. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Should the Government Support Farm Prices? This is only one of many questions vital to our nation's welfare which has been analyzed on this program. In the past few weeks, the Reviewing Stand has discussed labor, management, and the law. How should we educate for business and industry? And our 81st Congress. Why not send now for printed copies of these broadcasts with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were the Honorable Clinton P. Anderson, Senator from New Mexico, member of the Senate Agriculture Committee, and former Secretary of Agriculture. Pat Greathouse, Director, Region 4, United Auto Workers, CIO, and D. Gail Johnson, Associate Professor of Economics, University of Chicago. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will look at the general price picture. Our question, should prices go down now? Our guests will be Yale Brosen, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. James L. Donnelly, Executive Vice President of the Illinois Manufacturers Association. And Kenneth E. Miller, Manager of the Commercial Research Department of Armor & Company. We invite you to listen next week, should prices go down now. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.측PJKI
