Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent, affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable has cancelled its previously announced program to bring you a special discussion of what America should do about the Chinese intervention in Korea. Should America use the atomic bomb on the Chinese? Should America and the United Nations continue to fight to put down aggression in Korea? Is American security at stake? What should we do now? Taking part in today's Roundtable discussion are Paul H. Douglas, United States Senator from Illinois, Herman Feiner, political scientist, and Walter Johnson, historian, both of the University of Chicago. And now to begin today's program, Mr. Johnson. On Thursday of this past week, President Truman said, We are fighting in Korea for our own national security and our survival. Senator Douglas, what is your position on this statement? Well, I think it is substantially correct. Were we to be defeated in Korea, or rather were the forces of the United Nations to be defeated, or if we were to withdraw, fearing that we would be defeated, the result, of course, inevitably would be that the Communists would take Korea, and they would immediately start to move on Indochina and the Malay Peninsula. Under these circumstances, India would quickly fall, and all of Asia would pass under Communist control. Furthermore, our allies in Europe would lose heart, would begin drifting over to the Communists, and at least the continent of Europe would go under Communist control. We would be isolated, with the possible exception of Great Britain, whose ability to hold out is somewhat dubious, and in effect the world would be marshaled against us. Therefore, in order to check aggression at its source, it seems to me highly important that we should defeat, with the aid of other nations, the Chinese aggression in Korea. Feiner, what is your position on this statement? Well, I hold to the idea that national security and survival are questions of time and place. You can apply the clear and immediate danger to this particular proposition of national security. A defeat in one part of the world does not necessarily have a chain reaction of consequences, which brings home the war to one's own hemisphere. And I would prefer to gain time by ceding, as the people in Korea today are, by ceding space. This reminds me very much of the speech which Chamberlain made in 1938, when he referred to Czechoslovakia as a little far-off country about which we know nothing, and when at Munich he surrendered Czechoslovakia to Hitler. If England and the rest of the nations of the world had resisted Hitler in 1938, instead of waiting to a later time, it would have been much easier to have defeated him, and the costs of the war would not have been as great. Yes, but the analogy, I think, is inapplicable. In the first place, nobody has said that they know nothing about Korea. Mr. Chamberlain said he knew nothing about Czechoslovakia quite well, but I mean, we do know about Korea. We are in Korea. We did not act as we acted at Munich, namely to surrender our principle. We have asserted our principle, and in pursuance of it, we have sent our men, the United Nations, into Korea. The problem now is not an issue of principle. It is, at the moment, one of the measurement of military success or difficulty. It is even more serious than Munich, because we have committed ourselves to defending innocent people against aggression. And if in the face of aggression not merely by the North Koreans, but now by the Chinese Communists, if we abandon them, then we can be pretty certain that the wave of aggression will sweep all over Asia, the people will drift into the Communist camp, and that we will be left alone. Yes, but gentlemen, the whole question in Korea today has been altered somewhat by the movement of the Chinese into the situation. It has made it worse. It has made it worse. Which raises the whole problem. Are we not faced with a land war with China, and is a land war with China an aspect of the national security of the United States? I am not saying that we should go north of the Yalu River. That, at the moment, is not a military question. Our problem is to maintain a line in Korea. I am simply saying that we should not allow ourselves to be pushed out by the brutal and unprovoked use of force on the part of the Chinese Communists, and that we should resist the death if that be necessary. Yes, well, the question is, supposing you lose all your men, to whom our hearts go out now in Korea, would you call it a day, or are you going to try to re-enter Korea? You can't re-enter once you've been pushed out. The present casualties have been something like in the nature of one in four of the total, over 30,000 to 120,000. Well, Mr. Feiner, I think I feel the plight of the men in Korea, because it so happens that my old division, the first Marine Division, is one of the divisions which is cut off, and I know a large portion of the officers and a considerable number of the men. And I have their fate very closely at my heart. But I can only say this, that I think a true soldier would much rather die in defence of principles than to yield to force, and to yield to injustice. That is the function of a soldier, if necessary, to die for what he believes to be right. Quite. And I am quite confident that the men in our armed forces would wish to have us do just that. Yes, but the problem is whether we, as the governors of this country, shall take the responsibility of letting our men die in a situation in which there is nothing militarily, or maybe nothing militarily, to be gained. You see, it can always be argued that a position is indefensible and that you should retreat. But in war, as in private life, if you seize emergencies with courage, you frequently find that the situation is by no means as black as it is painted. We have a strong air force, and we have in reserve to use against military formations, if absolutely necessary, the atomic bomb. Now, I am not in favour of using the atomic bomb against civilians, except if gravely provoked. But I would use the atomic bomb to protect the security of our troops against attacks by uniformed Chinese communists who have violated the rules of the United Nations. Well, Senator Douglas, I would like to introduce a quotation here from the Chicago Tribune on this question of the atomic bomb since it has been raised in our discussion. Said the Tribune just two days ago, what will the bomb accomplish? How can the bomb stop vast and dispersed armies? How will it distinguish between friend and foe when they are locked together in battle? Far from winning the war at a single stroke, the bomb in Korea would much more probably put America in a world war. When our defences are at their weakest, the whole communist world would turn on us, and the enemy would be handed the great moral advantage of saying that it is America, not communism, that has bathed the human race in atomic death. That is the Tribune article. Well, may I say that it is, I do not say that we must necessarily use the atomic bomb. I merely mean to say that we are not stripped of ultimate weapons. And while I recognise that the atomic bomb is better adapted to a concentrated industrial target, where unfortunately you have civilians mixed up as well. Nevertheless, though it is not a perfect weapon against armies in the field, it is a better weapon than nothing at all. And that we can use it at a considerable distance in front of our lines to weaken the support of the Chinese communists without going into Manchuria at all. That is, we can use it in that strip of northern Korea, which furnish the supply approaches to the Chinese communist armies. Now, gentlemen, doesn't this potential weapon, the atomic bomb to be used in Korea, offer an important aspect over which the United States could negotiate with the Chinese communists via the British or the Indians in terms of trying to bring about a stabilised situation in Korea so that we will not be involved in a great land war in the Far East? Well, now, Walter, may I say, that sounds fine. But the Chinese communists have said that what they want is to have the withdrawal of American troops from Korea. I am very much afraid if you start in a negotiation on the basis of weakness, the result will be that we would be forced to give up Korea, we would abandon Formosa, we would admit communist China to the United Nations, and in that event all of Asia would go, and all of continental Europe, and possibly the British Isles too. So you must realize that this is appeasement. Let us recognize this fact, that the Chinese communists have taken the aggressive, they have violated the provisions of the United Nations, they are making war upon a United Nations army, they are assailing the peace of the world. Now, why deal with them as responsible moral beings? They must be defeated in the field first, no matter how great the odds, then we'll negotiate. Let the Chinese communists get out of Korea. That would be their contribution to international peace. Well, Senator Douglas, I gather then that you accept the belief that the word negotiation is synonymous with appeasement. I don't accept that in diplomacy. I will not negotiate, I will not negotiate with people who are making war in violation of all principles of international law and ethics. The one weapon which they have taken the sword, let them perish by the sword. Yes, but if you do take that position, you're not in a negotiable position. The possibility of the use of the atomic bomb becomes more in the foreground. If you hold that there's a regular connection between Korea and Asia, between Asia and Europe, between Europe and the United States, then you're practically, it seems to me, committed to push your use of the atomic bomb up into the foreground. Now, we've just... All depends on the military situation. Well, the military situation, I think, if we have negotiation in mind, could be settled perhaps in this way. We could say that we do not intend to have our 100,000 men or more submitted to a kind of massacred Dunkirk, but we intend to have a protective cordon around them. Now, wait. If the protective cordon is violated, then we shall use the atomic bomb in order to help them to make a secure getaway. If you did that, then... That means, you see, what you're advocating now is ultimate withdrawal from Korea, merely to preserve their physical safety, but to abandon Korea. I put that forward as a possibility. Well, I reject it as an honourable possibility. Well... That would be a dishonourable act, and I hope we do not do it. But if you're faced with military disaster, you may have to... Disaster can be turned into victory by courage and determination. The civilians behind the lines are much more fearful on these things than the soldiers and marines who take part. There is such a thing as courage in the world. And this talk about disaster and destruction of our armies and so forth is undermining. Why, when you're in a fight, bear yourself worthily. I don't want to quote Shakespeare, but I remember the advice of Polonius, who in many respects was an ass, but who said something which was very good on this point. Beware of entrance into a quarrel, but being in it, bear it, that the opposed may beware. In other words, don't flinch once you're in a struggle. Push on. At this particular point, Polonius' advice is modified by a subsequent phrase, costly thy habit as thy purse can bear, but it cannot be more costly than she can bear. The military cloth surely has to be... That was a disconnected aphorism which had no connection with the preceding one. I know that. And besides, we should decide this on the basis of common sense and not of Polonius. I apologize. Very well, we all withdraw Polonius. All right, that's it. But nevertheless, I will not withdraw a thought which, Polonius or not, is an important one here. Isn't it a fact that your military cloth ought to be cut according to your possibilities? Your military coat should be cut. Are you a military expert, Finer? No, I'm not a military expert. Well, I don't regard myself as a military expert either. And I'm not going to say that the situation is desperate in Korea. If there's absolutely no chance of winning, well, I suppose even the sturdiest fighter as a general will withdraw his troops. But I'm not ready to admit that. I think it is very bad for that sort of talk to circulate in the homeland because it distinctly undermines the will to resist of the soldiers. It's a telepathic means of communication on this business. Yes, but still, but still, a nation lives in the long run. And we have to consider the question of whether a continual flow. Now, the 100,000 men may not be sufficient to maintain themselves. You'll have to have 200,000 men. There would have to be replacements. Now, there would be replacements with also dangers going on in the Middle Eastern Europe. Is it wise? We are all on the ground of honor. We were all, I think, I take it, in favor of the entrance into Korea. We are all in favor of the maintenance of United Nations principles. The question is, are our means sufficient to do this everywhere in the world? Well, no, I won't say that I think we should get some help from Great Britain and France on these points. We cannot obviously bear the whole burden ourselves, but if Great Britain and France and the other nations of the world who are ultimately threatened by the police state of Russian communism would pitch in, then we would have enough. We are coming rapidly to a decision on these points. If Great Britain and France will not support us adequately in Asia, should we take upon ourselves the military liability of defending the continent of Europe? But if the national security of America is threatened from a place as far off as Korea, isn't it A40 or A far more threatened by the conquest of Europe? What I'm saying is that we're in the beginning stages of an avalanche. If we can check this avalanche in its early stages, it will not sweep over Asia, will not sweep over Europe. But if Asia goes and the full weight of a billion and a half people or a billion, 800 million people are thrown, then I'm not certain that you can make a case that Europe is any more tenable than Korea. I think we should consider very seriously a case whether if Europe, if England and France do not come to our assistance, whether we should not say, well, we'll retreat within our own shores, let England and France demonstrate. I agree with you that they should have done more than they've done. I think that they should have been asked to do more than they've done. We asked them, but they didn't come forward. Well, I would like to know that. Oh, yes, certainly. They should have been pressed. And they should have been pressed with sanctions. Now, that would have been regarded as coercing an ally. Well, that has to be done sometimes. Now, Senator Douglas, since you've introduced the question of British aid and European aid in the Far East, it seems to me most important to watch the news stories coming out of Europe at the present moment on this crisis in the Far East. I don't like that. The New York Times Dispatch, for instance, for December 1, headed the story out of Britain by saying, a mood of grave disquiet and distrust of United States policy is rising in Britain. And you'll recall that on the floor of the House of Commons, Winston Churchill said that the Western hopes lie in an Anglo-American understanding, and that it is in Europe that the world course will be decided. Well, may I say this? Naturally, I appreciate the sentiments of the British and the French who are between the United States and Russia. And they are getting a little bit frightened, and a good many of them are tending to want peace at any price. My only point is this. We cannot defend people who will not defend themselves. We cannot defend people who will not join with us in the defense of the peace of the world. Freedom can only be won by free men who are willing to die, if necessary, in defense of that freedom. Now, so far as America is concerned, I believe America is ready to pledge its full resources to defeating communist aggression. But if we are not supported by England and France in Korea, if they quarrel with us and insist on our getting out, then I think we should seriously consider the question whether we should commit ourselves to their defense in Europe. Sure. And whether we should not then... But surely this question is not a question of retaliation. It's not retaliation, but it's our security. Yes. The point is I think that at the moment Europe is no more defensible than Korea, and that a communist victory in Korea will unleash Russian aggression all over the world, which will in all probability sweep over Europe. And I am not in favor of landing large groups of men to be caught in Europe. Senator Douglas, assuming now that it's going to be difficult to defend Europe, as you have stated, wouldn't it be wiser in view of the problem of American national security in the large area, the long-range problem, to concentrate our attention on Europe and make sure that their security is protected? The hostility is breaking out, not in Europe at the moment, but in Asia. My point is that if you... Yes, but if we get involved in Asia, we can do nothing for Europe. Well, I am not in favor of invading Manchuria, but I do not want to see us pushed out of Korea. As a matter of fact, the Germans began to, and the French, began moving into the Russian camps when we had military reverses in the summer in Korea. After the Incheon landings, in which we gained militarily, then that increased pro-United Nations sentiment in Western Europe. A lot of those people want to be on the side of a winner. If communist Russia seems to be the winner, then you'll find the time service going over to them. Yes, at last you've raised what is basic to this whole problem, isn't it? The question of the Soviet Union. If we are involved in a land war with China and in Korea, the Soviet Union then is free to carry on its acts of aggression all over the world. We are tied down. They are committing acts of aggression now. The invasion of Korea by the communists is really a Russian invasion. Let's not kid ourselves. Yes, but the Soviet Union doesn't have to commit its troops. That is the point. That's quite right. I would say that we have thus far been extremely forbearing. A good many nations would have recognized the attack by the North Koreans on the South Koreans and on the peace of the world as an attack by Russia, and have used the atom bomb in reprisal. We did not do so. Certainly, when the Chinese communists moved into North Korea, that was a clear indication of Russian aggression, because the Russians controlled the foreign policy of China. We have not used the atom bomb on Russia. But I would say that our patience is not unlimited. It is not unlimited. And that the next act of aggression by a satellite against the peace of the world, then we should strike at the heart of the octopus that is trying to control the world. Yes, but you are still up against the question of the number of your commitments and the relative importance of them at any one time. Of course, the Europeans want to have us use our sole strength to defend Europe. No, I don't think so. No, that's the position of England and France. They want American troops to defend them. But they will not join with us thus far adequately in defending the peace of the world. Now, I say the South Korean is just as much a person as the Englishman or the Frenchman. I agree. And that we should defend them against aggression. And that all the nations should join them. But what we find is that the Europeans want the Americans to defend them. But they do not want us to take any risks in defending others. Now, we say peace is indivisible. Peace is indivisible. Well, certainly peace is indivisible. But isn't your question still a question of the relationship of your present commitments to your total capacity? Well, what I'm... The United States is not at the moment thoroughly... Well, you see, what you're arguing without saying so, what you're arguing without saying so, is giving up to the Chinese communists in Korea and withdrawing our troops. You don't quite say it, but that's the full implication. No, not necessarily. No. Now, if we withdraw our divisions, those divisions will not be capable of fighting in Europe for a long, long time. Oh, I don't know. To be reformed and re-equipped will take a long time. Now, look, I know something about the inside of a division because I was the adjutant of a combat division. And it takes a long time for a beaten division to be transported to some other place, as well as the morale factor. Well, how long would it take? Three months? So I say no event... But you don't expect a European months? Six months. Well, the Russians may move. You don't expect a European war in six months. They may move very fast. In that case, we should switch straight away. Oh, you see, you're saying that the only thing to be defending is yours. Gentlemen, I think we now have the total position of Senator Douglas on this point quite clear. Let's hear from Feiner at some length on his position as to whether we should withdraw from Korea, what our world problem is in this situation. Well, to begin with, I think that Russia is behind this. Whether Mao Tse Tung has an independent communist view from that of the Russians or not, I think for the moment is an unimportant one. I think the Russian hand is behind it. In the end, you will come back to the Russian situation. The position as I see it now is, A, whether militarily you can stand on the narrow waistline of Korea and, by a threat of the use of the atomic bomb to safeguard your troops if necessary, bring the Chinese to a position of negotiation. You know what that is. I do not call that appeasement. Excuse me. And at any rate, the United States Senate is an instrument of appeasement. You yourself have said so. You don't have your own way. New York Times Magazine. No, quite. No, I didn't say appeasement. I said it's a reason. Compromise. Well, I'm... It's a very different thing to make compromise between Americans who have the interest, basically, of their country at heart on minor matters of legislation than to yield to an aggressor who is using military force to impose his will upon another people. Well, my point would be that... Now, that's ridiculous for a professor of political science. You may be able to negotiate your situation in such a way that the South Korea and part of North Korea will come under some condominium of the different countries under the aegis of the United Nations. And that, I think, would satisfy the morality of the situation. Your other course is to subject the United States and the manpower of other countries in the world to a permanent commitment to a permanent drain, unless you have in mind to use the atomic bomb in Manchuria and the mainland of China to bring the war to an end in that way. I say, if necessary, we should consider that. It can be... But I prefer to use it against military formations in advance of our troops and military formations which are committing active aggression. It is perfectly clear by the manpower available to the United States, if you consider that alone today, and the armaments that the United States is not prepared to take on a global equipment. Why commit itself? Well, now, wait a minute. Why commit itself? We have potential allies if they will join us. Great Britain still has 45 million people if they will pitch in. The Dominions have 20 million if they will join. France has 45 million. Italy has 45 million. West Germany has 45 million. I'm waiting. Are you going to suggest now that we should use the troops of Chiang Kai-shek and Formosa in Korea? If necessary, why not? If necessary. Well, that raises the whole question about the United States and Chiang Kai-shek and the question of what are we doing in Formosa? Should we get out of Formosa in this picture? Certainly not get out of Formosa. Why allow a bunch of brigands and cutthroats to push you around? I mean, brave men do not do that. Only fearful men do that. Well, do you think there's enough manpower in this country and other countries to handle all the enemies and brigands you're prepared to take on? That's the question at one time. Well, I would say we've got to do it. And if the other countries will pitch in and do their share, we'll do it. If they will not do it, then I favor retreating to this hemisphere and defending it here. But first, I'm ready to give the British a chance and the French a chance to defend their freedom and the Koreans too. Senator Douglas, I would like to introduce into this conversation a column that Walter Lippmann wrote last January when the whole question was up whether the United States should aid Chiang in keeping Formosa. Walter Lippmann wrote that the United States, still entangled with Chiang, is alas identified with everything that the great mass of the Chinese people have turned against. So the longer France can be kept embroiled in Indochina and the United States entangled with Chiang and Formosa, the longer will Moscow have a free hand in China. The Russians have played their game very cleverly. Yeah, on that I would like to say the avalanche is not a Korean or an Eastern avalanche. It's 200 million people in the center of Europe, that is to say in Russia, that could move over to the West and eventually threaten the United States more than she could be threatened from the East. Yielding in Korea does not prevent the Russians from moving West, on the contrary, it will inflame them and cause them to move more quickly and more effectively. Well, my position is that the root of the world's unrest is the ferocious and wrongful fanaticism of the ideology and the belief in the use of force as the midwife of a new society held by the rulers of the Soviet Union. This present trouble is the essence of our tribulations today. You've got a sick, infectious policy which may force the rest of the world to perform a surgical operation on it. What I should like to see is that we keep our powder and men dry until the time when we have all the instruments we want and all the manpower that we want so that we can enter into the real operating room and not into the waiting room. Well, I'm very glad Mr. Feiner has stated that the Russian desire for aggression and the imposition of the police state over the world is the fundamental cause of the present difficulties everywhere. I agree with that. It's my belief that it should be checked wherever it manifests itself. If we allow it to gain an easy victory or a relatively easy victory in Korea, it will certainly not be deterred from operating elsewhere. The rulers of Russia, I'm afraid now, know only one thing, and there's only one thing which deters them, and that is force. If you can defeat them militarily, if you can convince them that this nation and the other nations are determined to resist to preserve their freedom, possibly they will back down. Well, my position is that while we are trying to work out our Far Eastern problems, we should remember that in spite of what is happening in Asia, the United States will stand or fall on what happens in Europe. If we lose Europe, though we hold Asia, then the United States will be in grave danger from the standpoint of its own national security. If we lose Asia, we lose Europe. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on What Should America Do About the Chinese Intervention were Paul H. Douglas, United States Senator from Illinois, Herman Feiner, political scientist, and Walter Johnson, historian, both of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion of What Should America Do About the Chinese Intervention contains the full text of the discussion and publishes special materials and readings on the crisis in China and the Far East. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. A year's subscription to the Roundtable makes an unusual Christmas gift for your friends. Address the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the Roundtable discusses Stress and Disease, the program originally scheduled for today. Be sure to hear this discussion of a new theory of medicine, which may explain the miracle action of ACTH and cortisone. May we invite you to join the new Roundtable home study courses in Human Rights, World Politics, and Economics in the Modern World. These courses are open to all, and two of them are college credit courses. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, for the brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register. Each month, three 24-volume sets of the Encyclopedia Britannica are awarded to the students in the three home study courses most successfully completing the course in that month. Today's program originated from the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The Roundtable is directed by Georgie Probst and is a public service presentation of the National Broadcasting Company. Your announcer is Charles Mountain. This is NBC, the National Broadcasting Company.