The Honorable Grover Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee on Reception, has just asked the luncheon guests here in the Hotel Commodore to stand and drink a toast to the President of the United States. And now he has introduced President Aleman. We're rushing because we're behind schedule on account of the fact that President Aleman is due at Columbia University. Mr. Aleman just returned the toast to him with a toast to the President of the United States. And now Mr. Whelan. I have an announcement to make before any of the addresses are made that the General Assembly will not meet this afternoon. It has been adjourned until 11 o'clock tomorrow morning when the General Assembly of the United Nations will receive President Aleman so that our distinguished guests who are here from the United Nations will need not worry about getting back to Flushing Meadows. the President. The President. The President. The President. We are, all of us are so thrilled with what has happened today that I'm going to leave it to the man responsible for the city turning over every one of its facilities in order to prepare an adequate and proper welcome for our distinguished guests from Mexico. It's a great pleasure for me. And I, before I present this distinguished speaker, I hope that he will say a word or two in Spanish because he's been doing very well coming up here from the City Hall. Therefore, I give you his honor, the mayor. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whelan. Your Excellency, President Aleman. Your Grace, Cannon West. Thank you. The distinguished guests who are here, one of whom I would like to mention because of his great generosity, his patriotism, and the great loyalty of not only himself but of his children, who have done so much for our city, Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And to the ladies and gentlemen who have assembled here to contribute, your enthusiasm to this occasion, to add it to that which has been given to our distinguished visitor since he arrived at Pennsylvania Station this morning at 8 o'clock. Well, frankly, as a politician, I'm glad that his stay is not going to be too long. Because what he has done to this city in four hours is something that most of us who have been trying to do it for years haven't been able to scratch. We are deeply grateful, ladies and gentlemen, to Grover Whalen for everything that he has done to complete and perfect the arrangements for today. And I give him that buildup because I'm sure he rates a wrap on the knuckles for the kind of weather he provided for the parade. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, this afternoon at City Hall, I had the honor on behalf of the city, behalf of the people of the city, to present an official welcome to our distinguished visitor. And I shall not repeat that. It was intended for exactly that. The heartfelt, warm, friendly message of welcome to one who was well received by us and to the people that he represents below the border. The happiness that we have in New York City of having this opportunity to say to the President of the Republic of Mexico that here in New York and throughout the entire United States, the people of Mexico can depend upon our friendship and our loyalty, just as we depended on the loyalty of the people of Mexico during the recent war when they sent their soldiers side by side with the children of our own country and gave up their lives in defense of universal liberty the liberation of the Philippines. We would like His Excellency to know that we look with great pride and joy at the fine accomplishments of the government of Mexico in the handling of their affairs, the attention that is given to the health and the welfare of their people. I have recently come from there, and it's a joy to see the job that is being done. And this, together with that splendid personality, that energy, that brilliance, which is the measure of our distinguished visitor, is the answer to the question of how long will it be until that great, great, rich, romantic country has come into the most powerful of positions in the nations that meet in New York City. We welcome the President, and we hope he will remain. We hope he will enjoy his visit as much as we enjoy having him come. And when he leaves, he brings with him the best wishes of our city, of our state, and our nation. Thank you. There is a great family in this city and country. One of the younger generation will speak for it, as well as speaking as a former official of the State Department, as Assistant Secretary of State and Coordinator of Inter-American Affairs, whose distinguished service to the nation and to the city, no words of mine could emphasize or paint. It gives me great pleasure to present the Honorable Nelson Rockefeller. Mr. President, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, there's deep significance in this visit of Miguel Aleman, President of our great sister Republic. In a sense, it marks a turning point in the history of Mexican-American relations. Never before has a President of Mexico visited New York. In fact, never before has a President of Mexico more than set foot across the border in the United States. There is no need to review the unfortunate historical background which for so many years caused misunderstandings between the peoples of our two countries. The important thing is that today, the President of Mexico, with the full and enthusiastic support of his people, is here in New York as a friend and a neighbor, as an ally in time of war, as a partner in peace. It is a rare privilege to join all of you here in stretching out to him and through him to his people a hand of welcome. Now, during the past few years, great changes have been taking place in Mexico. New trends have set in. A new era of progress and development. The growth of democratic forces. Mexico is moving forward as a great nation, economically, socially and politically. It is building on the rich heritage of its past. And on the precepts of freedom and justice. Respect for the dignity of human beings. And the right of equal opportunity. Miguel Aleman is today the symbol of this new era. He is the focal point of its development. The rare combination of his drive and energy, his ability and vision, have inspired the trust and confidence of the people as they start down this new road. A road the direction of which he so brilliantly and fearlessly outlined in his inaugural address last December. A road which leads to rising standards of living. And greater opportunity for the people of Mexico. Opportunity through the development of transportation. Power and irrigation. Of agriculture and industry. While this evolution was gaining momentum in Mexico. The foundations of a new era of friendship and understanding between our two countries. Were laid by President Roosevelt's good neighbor policy. With the outbreak of the war. He and President Avila Camacho. Gave joint direction to the common war effort of our two nations. Our pilots flew side by side in the South Pacific. Our workers toiled together in the fields. On the railroads and in the factories. These new bonds of friendship and understanding. Which thus developed between the peoples of our two countries. Were sealed and consummated. By the now historic incident which took place last March in Mexico City. President Truman during his visit there. Paused with simple humility. To lay a wreath on the monument to the young heroes. Of the battle of Chapultepec. The fifteen year old cadets. Who sacrificed their lives to preserve a principle. In the face of the gunfire of American soldiers. As President Truman walked slowly back to his car. With head bowed. The tears started. The tears started. The tears started. The tears started. The cheeks of the Mexican soldiers. Who stood at attention. In silent lines on either side. Seldom in the history of the people. Of any nation. Have they more clearly understood. The significance. Of a gesture of true friendship. The hearts of the people of Mexico. Reached out. To the people of the United States. Today. President Ali Mann. Is among us. Not as a stranger. Visiting in a foreign land. But as a fellow American. At home. With his neighbors. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Ladies and gentlemen. I give you. Our guest of honor. President Miguel Alamon. President of the Republic of Mexico. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Applause. Gracias. Señor Alcalde. Señoras. Y señores. Señoras. Señoras. Y señores. En esta mañana. En esta mañana. Pudimos constatar. Dos hechos. Para nosotros. Inolvidables. Lo que ha podido hacer. El esfuerzo del hombre. Levantando. En esta hermosa ciudad de Nueva York. Edificios. En esta hermosa ciudad de Nueva York. Edificios. Que parecen escalar el cielo. En esta hermosa ciudad de Nueva York. Edificios. Que parecen escalar el cielo. ¿También? Un gran estimado. Denmark. Un gran estimado. Shakespeare. Un gran 있다고. Te llegan vos. Te llegan vos. Te llegan vos. Es un gran estimado. Un gran factor. Te llegan vos. Muy gran valor. Guerm上面. و. Un gran spark. Es un gran Oscar. Un gran alimentación. Un espíritu de un pueblo que tiene como base fundamental de su vida los principios de la democracia y puede expresar sin ningún límite sus sentimientos o sus ideas. Bueno, hace poco, recientemente, nos visitó en la Ciudad de México el presidente de los Estados Unidos Americanos. Con una gran sencillez nos llevó un mensaje de amistad. Y ahora, captó los sentimientos de un pueblo que siente y quiere la amistad como el pueblo de los Estados Unidos. Bueno, ahora estoy aquí para corresponder a esa visita inolvidable para nosotros y he recibido una manifestación que agradezco sinceramente a los habitantes de esta gran ciudad, expresión de la fuerza democrática de un pueblo. Al terminar la guerra, ha habido inquietud en los espíritus de los hombres y hemos creído que la amistad, la amistad de los hombres de este continente, debe ser la fuerza básica para unir a los hombres y a los pueblos. La experiencia de la guerra no debe ser olvidada por nosotros. Ella debe servirnos como antecedente para en estos días de paz y por nosotros, forjemos mejores condiciones de vida para el hombre y mejores condiciones de vida para los pueblos. Y en estas circunstancias hay un gran deber para el pueblo de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica, para los pueblos del continente americano que están viviendo una etapa de porvenir y de esperanza que debe ser ejemplo para el mundo entero para salvar a nuestra civilización. Señor alcalde, señoras y señores, deseo para ustedes el bienestar más amplio. Reciban el agradecimiento de un país por las distinciones de que hemos sido objeto en este día. En todos los actos en que hemos participado desde que llegamos a estas magníficas tierras, reciban señores y señoras, el cordial afecto de un vecino que estima al pueblo de los Estados Unidos de Norteamérica. Gracias. Gracias. Ladies and gentlemen, the official interpreter for the president of Mexico will give you the interpretation. Alberto Sein. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we witnessed two events that for us shall remain unforgettable. We witnessed first manifestations of the great effort of man as shown here in this great and beautiful city of New York. man's ability to raise buildings that go high into our skies. we have also witnessed the manifestations of the spirit of a people, a people that has for the basis of its life democracy and that enjoys and that enjoys and that enjoys the right of free expression without limits for its ideas and the ideals that it cherishes. recently, President Truman visited our country. there in our land as he dwelt among us for a few days, he showed with great simplicity a living message of friendship and interpreted for us the genuine feeling of friendliness shared by all his people whose representative and bearer of that precious message he was among us. It is now my turn to be here among you to correspond to his significant call. I am grateful for all the manifestations of welcome that I receive. my gratitude springs from my heart and the more expressions come that show gratitude and friendship I am moved at heart by such friendship and also by the democratic spirit that breathes through it. At the end of the war we witness that there is unrest among men we believe ladies and gentlemen that in connection with this unrest it is fundamental that understanding be built among the peoples. We believe that the understanding between the peoples of this continent is basic in order to unite men. We can't forget the experiences of the war. We cannot dismiss them indeed we must learn from those experiences and we must look onward and forge better conditions for the peoples of all our countries. And in this in these circumstances of our world at this moment there is a great duty for the United States and its people and also a great duty for the people of all the American countries. A great duty that springs from the fact that here on this part of this world there is hope hope that here men shall do that which is adequate to save civilization. Mr. Mayor ladies and gentlemen to all of you I wish the very best of well-being and kindly receive this expression of my gratitude for your multiple kindness and the many expressions of it that I have enjoyed since my arrival on this country. receive then that cordiality and that friendship that springs from the heart of a neighbor among you who has high regard for the people of the United States. You have just heard the interpretation by of Mayor President Ali Muns Mr. Whelan is making an announcement. Mr. Whelan has just adjourned the luncheon here at the Hotel Commodore and the radio has brought you the speeches in connection with the Mayor's Luncheon to President Ali Muns of Mexico. We brought you the reception facilities from City Hall as well and immediately followed to the Commodore Hotel where the luncheon was tendered by the Mayor and his committee headed by the Honorable Grover A. Whelan. And now that is all from the Commodore. We return you to our studios. Instead of becoming we wrap up in the mill for not- the country I'm going to have aurgie which is every久 of tries ad