Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, what is the significance of Canada to the United States? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around political and economic relations and the vast new developments of iron ore, petroleum and uranium in Canada. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Arthur F. Broadbridge, Canadian Consul in Chicago, Kenneth Hare, Chairman of the Department of Geography at McGill University in Montreal, and Malcolm J. Proudfoot, Professor of Political Geography at Northwestern University. Now, Proudfoot, tell us, what has been the history of our political relations with Canada? Well, it's been a long history, but one should want to remind oneself that it has only been since 1867, with the British North America Act, that it's really been our relations with Canada. Prior to that, it was our relations with Great Britain. It's also a fact that it wasn't until 1931, under the Statute of Westminster, that Canada really acquired absolutely full sovereignty. Our relations with Canada have been, in the early times, fought with a certain amount of difficulty, but they've become increasingly and steadily more and more friendly with the passage of years. This is probably epitomized best by this long, unfortified boundary, which everybody talks about, some 5,400 miles long. And probably also, the way in which we, in a very friendly manner, use the Great Lakes as a most vital transportational artery for both countries. Do you have something to add to that, Broadbridge? Yes. What is significant, I think, however, is that during this past 136 years, we have kept the peace in spite of differences. Well, anyone can keep the peace when there's nothing to quarrel about, but we have kept the peace, and we have had numerous problems between the two countries. For example, what are... Well, offhand, I can think of one or two. There was the 54-40 or fight episode of 1844, which ended in neither a fight nor in 54-40. There were the Fenian raids of 1866, and there were the boundary disputes like the Alaska one of 1903, and the Maine-New Brunswick dispute of 1843. There was the disputes over the fisheries in the period after the lapse of the Reciprocity Treaty in 1866. How do we handle those difficulties? Well, most disputes have been handled. In fact, it's been the general practice to handle them by arbitration, and we have an example of that set up later in the International Joint Commission. Well, the International Joint Commission was formed around 1909, and was a special body created to deal with boundary waters on the long frontier between Canada and the United States. Well, this is very definitely, isn't it, Broadbridge, the end of rather a long story. I mean, we now have this very amicable and very proper arrangement in the International Joint Commission, but we had a long history with regard to this 5,400 miles of boundary, and we have in our National Archives, for example, in Washington, 15 yards of publications and papers and whatnot, covering the treaties and conventions and protocols. I gather also that there are 60 large map drawers full of maps showing in great detail all the various parts of this boundary. This boundary is a unique thing. It mainly goes through water, of course, but we have, for instance, if one is interested in such things, for 950 miles, it represents a 20- or 30-foot cut right straight through forest. And the rest of it, of course, is through rather difficult mountainous terrain. Now, here, we haven't heard from you yet. Do you find anything to quarrel about with this impressive evidence of the cordiality between our two countries? No, I find nothing. I think it should be stressed that the border is not, in fact, a visible one. It is there. And we do maintain, of course, immigration and customs services upon it, because immigration and fiscal policies of the two countries are not identical. More should be said very definitely about this International Joint Commission, this body which began to operate in about 1909. This International Joint Commission is a body to which both Canada and the United States, under their treaties, have delegated their sovereignty, so to speak. And an individual can come before this commission, and the commission adjudicates the case and makes a decision. And most of their decisions have been unanimous ones. And it's been an excellent device for handling the problems, mainly the problems of water pollution and the use of waters, because we have so many streams which either start out on the American side of the boundary and end up in Canada. The notable example, of course, is the Gold Great Lakes system, which drains out by way of the St. Lawrence. But there are a number of other streams along the way which we make use of and over which some kind of a joint decision must be made. I think in part this reflects the fact that the international boundary between the two countries is an exceedingly artificial one from a geographical point of view. It runs through water bodies that we have to use in common. It runs across the natural geographical boundaries of the continent. And this alone would compel cooperation upon the two countries. This very much highlights our amicable relations with Canada, because such a boundary could be fraught with difficulty all the time. The fact that it works as well as it does is a good evidence of the good spirit on both sides of the line. How do you explain that kind of relationship, Rod Ridge? Well, we have a common heritage, both, for example, of our countries, both counties in the United States. We're at one time in British colonies lying on or near the Atlantic seaboard. We both had a vast hinterland to the west. We pushed forward into this territory and added it to our own respective domains. And over the period of years, we've both developed independent democratic systems of government. And we're both more or less in favour of or we show the same respect for life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, as I may borrow from your own declaration. I think it was Bernard Shaw who once said that the United States and England were two countries separated by the same language. In the case of Canada and the United States, I think it works the other way around. The fact is that we speak so exactly the same language that we can fully understand one another even where we differ. Of course, we do have two languages up there in Canada, don't we? Oh, yes. It's a bicultural country. And, of course, we as a country are dedicated to the proposition that those two cultures shall exist side by side. I should like to add, of course, to that another thing which helps so much is the tremendous movement of people north and south. Americans coming to Canada and Canada, Canadians going to the United States. And very nearly everywhere you go, you'll find relatives of Canadians in this country and also relatives of Americans in Canada. But how do we get along on these major international issues here? Well, I think we get along very well. We get along because there is a long tradition of cooperation and consultation between the two countries. Or is it because we have common interests? Well, undoubtedly, it's because we have common interests. Obviously, we have the interest in defence, for example. Quite apart from the interest in defence, there are also the vital economic issues that we share and that compel cooperation upon us. But it should be noted that though we agree on fundamentals, and especially the basic fundamentals of our common defence, that we don't adhere slavishly to any kind of complete arrangement of every aspect of our foreign policy, the United States foreign policy is adhered to by the Canadians. The way this is best summarised, I should suppose, is the fact that World War II, when it started, the Canadians declared war on Germany and sided with the British back in 1939. But nothing happened with regard to the United States until Pearl Harbor, at which time, of course, we were at war with the Japanese. And in a matter of just hours, Canada had joined up with us. So that we act very much in concert with regard to our foreign problems, but we don't follow slavishly any particular set of patterns. I think, as a matter of fact, that the, perhaps I can say this more easily than Broadbridge can, since he's a member of the Canadian Foreign Service, but one of the conspicuous things about the recent history of Canada has been the emergence of a strong diplomatic corps, made up of men of outstanding ability, who have tended to take a considerable lead in international affairs, for example, in the United Nations, Mr. Lester Pearson, for example, and in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and this, I think, has been a very distinct contribution that the Canadians have made, and it's quite a recent one. The Canadians also are fighting in Korea, and the Canadians, in a very real sense, have their Marshall Plan as well. I gather that upwards of two billion dollars has been spent by the Canadians in various forms of post-war rehabilitation work in Britain and on the continent, and in that sense, they're very much like us in their foreign policy. Well, we seem not to have complete agreement or concert on this St. Lawrence Seaway, though. What about political cooperation on that project, Herr? I think there's been plenty of cooperation, but perhaps not quite enough. The two countries have, well, all is said and done, negotiated two successful treaties, which, however, did not receive gratification in the United States, because they were opposed by groups within the United States that are politically vigorous and express themselves with great force and effectively. The same sort of opposition exists within Canada, but it is much less effective politically, and most Canadians seem to be pretty thoroughly dedicated to the proposition that the seaway should be built soon. It's perfectly obvious with regard to the seaway that there would be certain interests that might not be very anxious. For example, this represents rather a step forward in transportation, cheap transportation, and it's water transportation. It's just conceivable that various railroad interests might not wish to have this seaway. It's also conceivable that the improvement that this will represent in the St. Lawrence River outlet, the ports of Montreal and Quebec might be something which would divert some trade in that direction away from New York. But actually what happens is that such projects are rather apt to stimulate the total amount of trade in a very happy way. Quite apart from that, the seaway is wrapped up with the development of power. And in Eastern Canada at the present moment, the whole history of this tremendous recent boom has been linked with the expansion in power facilities. And it so happens that the construction of the seaway would produce an extra, shall we say, 3 million horsepower of power precisely at the point where it's most needed, and precisely at the time when it's most needed. Well, now, is it needed by Canada or is it needed by the United States? It's needed by Canada, of course. It's also needed, I think, by New York State and by the United States as a whole. Do you view this seaway as a practical economic development? Most decidedly. It's a costly development, but the Canadian economy is in a state at the present moment to go ahead and build it entirely with Canadian resources, although we should still welcome cooperation from American sources. Well, this electricity that you expect to generate in connection with the seaway, that's within good transmission range, isn't it, of a substantial amount of a United States population, would you say, Herr? Yes, that is true, but I should point out that in respect of the part of this power developed within Canada, it has been Canadian policy to restrict exports of power to the United States in order to encourage the flow of industry into Canada. Well, Herr, will there be more power generated if the United States goes in with Canada fully on this? And won't there be power developed which will be utilized American money and expect to market this power in the United States, or won't this be so possible? I don't think I can answer that question precisely because I think the form of the ultimate agreement that has reached between Canada and the United States will determine the engineering works, and I can't give a precise answer to the question. Well, I have the impression, based somewhat on what you may have been saying here today, and a host of articles on Canada in American journals, that Canada is experiencing a sort of economic renaissance. Would that be the case, Council? Yes, except that I wouldn't call it a renaissance at all, because renaissance means a rebirth. And actually, this development in manufacturing and in the mining industries has been going on for some time, especially after the First Great War. The last 20 years have been, have shown tremendous increases. But since the, since World War II, it's snowballed, because of special developments like the iron ore and the aluminum and the oil. That has made a tremendous difference. Now, for instance, Canada's gross national production for 1952 was approximately 23 billion, which was a boost in the value of all goods by about one and a half billion over 1951. But what is more significant is that it was over double what it was in 1938. In this regard, it's significant to the United States because of the tremendous investments. In the total at the end of 1951, for example, of United States investments in Canada was about 7.2 billion, which represented about 50% of the inventory of all investments at that date. That, of course, is the flow of American capital into Canada is continuing and at least partially accounts for the very strong character of the Canadian dollar at the present moment. However, one of the striking results of the boom has been the fact that Canada has begun to dominate her own investment market. During the last 12 months, I believe that domestic investment has amounted to 86% of the total. In other words, all but 14% of the new investment has come from Canadian sources and the rest, of course, primarily from the United States. But the fact that some seven and a half or roughly that billion dollars of American money, United States money, has been invested in Canada highlights the significance of Canada to the United States. I mean, it's an excellent area in which American dollars can go to be invested for a profit. And the business arrangements, the political cooperation is almost perfect. In other words, there's all the assurances that American money has when it's invested in the United States. It has all of the advantages, the same advantages, on the Canadian side of the line. Well, now, did I detect some pride in your voice, Mr. Hare, when you said that the Canadian money was being invested in Canada to a much larger extent, fewer American dollars coming in, etc.? Yes, sir, you did detect the note of pride in my voice. I am proud of the fact, and I think all Canadians are. But that doesn't mean to say that we don't welcome the flow of American capital into Canada. It plays, in fact, at the present moment, a vital role in our development because it is willing to take chances. It is characteristic of this investment that it is going out to the economic frontier and that it's taking place in regions where the possibility of immediate profit is quite questionable. It's going into regions of exploration and of new development. And Canadian capital, though it is freely available, has been markedly conservative in the things that it chooses to do with its investment. You mean especially that iron ore developed over it? Yes, quite. Yes, it's significant too, I think, that over 2,500 to 3,000 branch plants of American origin are in Canada. And this accounts for about one-third of the total manufacturing. Now, that is another field of investment. And we welcome branch plants in Canada. We're very proud of the branch plants that you have brought up to our country. What kind of branch plants? Well, they cover all fields in the motor industry, of course, as you all know, and in practically every form of manufacturing I would not want to specify. But that's, it's a very general type of branch planting. What are the areas here in which these great economic developments are coming? You've referred to iron ore. I take it that's one of them. Yes, that's certainly one. That is mainly a story now of the great Labrador Peninsula, Quebec and Newfoundland provinces. How far north is that? It's about 350 miles north of the north shore of the Gulf of St. Lawrence, in the remotest wilderness, which has hitherto been completely empty, trackless country. And within it, Canadian interests, Canadian mining interests, have located something like 400 million at the southern end of the highest grade of iron ore, of the kind that one finds, for example, in the Mozambic country. And similarly, other developments, a little less rich, but in great quantity, have been found further north in the same territory. Now, this, I might say, has been, as I said, developed primarily by Canadian exploration companies. But the production, which is planned to begin almost immediately, is intended primarily for the American market and is being backed by a large number of American steel companies, including some in the Chicago district. How does this compare in size and potentialities with the Mosabe range up in Minnesota? Well, the inventory of located ores is much smaller than the amount that has already been taken out of the Mozambic country. But I should point out that prospecting has hardly begun. They have restricted themselves, the company concerned, to proving enough ore for 20 or 30 years of operation at full rate. And it's undoubtedly, it will be the case that much further exploration will go forward in the same area. Of course, this is something which many people in the United States don't realize, the degree to which we gouged our national resource in the Mosabe range during the war. We used it very heavily indeed. And though it isn't completely used up, it's most important that the United States develop alternate sources of iron ore, rich iron ore. And many of these, the best ones, the best prospects we have are Canadian prospects. Quite apart from the economic desirability, I think, of using these Labrador ores, which I imagine will be competitive from a price point of view, there is the fact that they are on our own continent. And many of the sources that are being tapped at the moment by the large American steel companies are overseas. And accordingly, from a strategic point of view, somewhat more vulnerable. Is it, how easy is it to mine this ore up there so far north? Don't you run into a lot of snow and ice and problems of that sort? Yes, the problems are very formidable. They can only mine for about five months in the year. They will have to stockpile. The climate is very difficult. Even more so than in the comparable fields in Sweden, which are in a very similar site. But even so, difficult though the conditions are, it will be perfectly possible to extract 10 or 20 million tons of ore and to bring it out over the new railway, which is pretty well completed by now. And where will that railroad take it? To Seven Islands. And that raises a problem. Seven Islands is a port upon the St. Lawrence, and it is cut off from the Great Lakes system at the moment by the shallow, inadequate canals on the St. Lawrence. Hence your interest in the seaway. Hence our interest in the seaway. How about petroleum oil developments up there in Canada, Broadbree? Well, the centre of that is in the province of Alberta, and it's moving eastward into Saskatchewan. On this I'd like to say that Canada is the largest oil producer in the Commonwealth, and outside of the United States and Venezuela is the busiest oil exploration area in the world. Well, the area to be explored, and which looks to be oil-bearing, is larger than the Texas area. Now, apropos this, in 1950, an oil pipeline was completed running approximately 1,200 miles from Edmonton to Superior, in Wisconsin, where lake tankers take it to Sarnia in Ontario for refining. Here's another case of American-Canadian cooperation. Well, now hold on. This pipeline runs down to Superior, Wisconsin. Does that mean that we get some of that oil? No, it's not necessarily. No, it's then taken by lake tankers across the lakes to Sarnia in Ontario for refining. We have not yet reached the point where we can supply our own domestic requirements. But in the process of time, we hope to be able to do more than that. And speaking of this again, this pipeline, there are other projects for additional oil and gas pipelines running east and west from Edmonton. There's a new one now, the Trans Mountain Pipeline, which is being built to the Pacific coast. We're spreading out in all directions with our lines. I should point out, perhaps, that the oil development is aimed at the present moment at satisfying something like 60% of Canada's domestic needs. But I think that's only a beginning. Yes. And a point that ought to be made, I think, is that a very large part of the work of exploration in Alberta has been carried out in the past and is being carried out at the present moment by companies that are subsidiaries of American oil companies. And the American interest in this field has been a paramount one. Yes. What are the potentialities in uranium? Well, we have tremendous potentialities because the Northwest Territories and northern Saskatchewan, we have a known dependable source there, which will be available to Canada and to this country. And in this respect, I should like to point out that in the field of atomic energy, the Canadian government has done its chief research in the field of industry and in medicine. We have not been involved in the military application so much. And I think that wherever possible, there's an exchange of ideas between this country and yours. I don't think nearly enough has been said here by you gentlemen with regard to the importance of this hydroelectric development. Mr. Hare mentioned some 3 million horsepower that would be developed in connection to the seaway. But Canada has a number of rivers as well as this seaway development and its potentialities. And there are a number of sites and places where large quantities of hydroelectric energy are going to be developed, which will find invaluable use in the development of uranium and atomic research, and also that most important metal called aluminum. And I would add one other, titanium, in which eastern Canada appears to be the world's richest source. What is titanium, may I ask? Titanium is a metal having properties comparable with those of aluminum, a light metal, of very high metallurgical importance. It has so far been impossible to smelt it in large quantities for industrial use, but it seems very likely that that obstacle will be overcome in the near future. And it so happens that an American company has recently developed what is undoubtedly the world's largest deposit of this material in eastern Canada. And power, as in so many other industries, is fundamental to it. And I would agree with Proudfoot that the most extraordinary thing, the key to the whole business in Canada, has been this exploitation of hydro. Now, is that hydroelectric power available to American industry? It is, as long as they locate their plant in Canada. The amount of exploitation... In other words, you don't pipe it across the line. We do a little. For example, we pipe power to Messina, New York. But generally speaking, the policy of the federal and of the provincial government is to attract business to locate in and near the source of power. And Canada has a large amount of unallocated block amounts of hydro still awaiting industrial development. And in that, she is, I won't say unique, but at least is the most fortunate of the world's countries. There seems also to be a very continuing boom in the production of paper and paper pulp. And in this connection, of course, you need a great deal of hydroelectric energy as well. And I should suppose that in that connection, the United States is certainly a tremendous market for Canadian paper and Canadian wood pulp. Yes, I would like to mention something that we have so far, I think, left out. And that is, when Proudfoot speaks of pulp and paper, I'd like to mention the trade point of view. For instance, there's more reciprocal trade between Canada and the United States than any other two countries in the world. And, for example, the United States ships as much in goods to Canada as she does to the Latin American countries combined, which I think is tremendously significant. Well, how do you explain these new economic developments in Canada? Why haven't these resources been tapped earlier? Well, I think there are several reasons for that, but I'll just start off with one and let it run around the table. But one thing that occurs to me offhand is that there's a greater need for minerals at the present moment now, at least since the last war. The need is there, and we have had to supply that need. Of course, the need for uranium certainly is here. Yes. In connection with all this atomic development. Exactly, yes. Let me ask you, men, do you have really substantial deposits of uranium in Canada? Will that be the principal source? We believe there are tremendous potentials, yes. Do we have deposits of uranium in this country? Well, as far as I know, we don't talk about them, so I guess they must be meagre to negligible. I don't think we have any. I think the point, the technical point, that has held back Canadian development has been simply that Canada is, in the words of Bruce Hutchison, an unknown country. The fact is that we simply haven't known what was in the Canadian North. The Labrador Peninsula, for example, Quebec and Newfoundland Territory, although it is in the same latitude as southern Scandinavia and the British Isles, has been almost entirely unexplored. And I would say that the exploration of these regions has been the key to our new development, and that that exploration has depended on two or three things. First, the use of the aircraft, which has only very recently become a feasible proposition. Secondly, the use of devices like the aerial photograph, of airborne methods of prospecting. It's only this that makes it possible for Canada, which is one of the world's largest extents of almost empty spaces, to be prospective. We've only just reached the technical point where it was possible. Yes, I think that's quite true. There's one phase of this Canadian boom, and it's very significant indeed, has been the rather substantial increase in the total population of the country. Some two and a half million people more in the last ten years, to a total of over 14 million today. This, in very substantial measure, is a matter of just natural increase, more children born. We have a million and a half increase in these ten years, just from the standpoint of natural increase alone, which means that the Canadians have been increasing at the rate of a percent to a percent and a half a year. And in addition to that, there have been 550,000 or more immigrants from various parts of Europe, and a substantial number of British people come in since the war. This hasn't supplied them with enough labor, but it's been a great help in this boom. How would you compare the people of our two countries, Proudfoot? Are we essentially alike, you think, in interests and social orientation? Oh, I think we act and think alike and have so many interests in common that the differences are, what should I say, interesting, almost amusing rather than significant. I'm very sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What is the significance of Canada to the United States? We want to thank our guests for today. Arthur F. Broadbridge, Canadian Council in Chicago. F. Kenneth Hare, Chairman of the Department of Geography at McGill University, Montreal. And Malcolm J. Proudfoot, Associate Professor of Political Geography at Northwestern University. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will ask, what should be our national labor policy? Our guests will be Thomas E. Harris, Associate General Counsel with the CIO. Theodore Iserman, Attorney for the Chrysler Corporation. Barnabas F. Sears, Employers Attorney in Aurora in Chicago. And L. N. D. Wells, Jr., Attorney for the Texas State Federation of Labor and other AFL unions. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion, what should be our national labor policy? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, John Mallow, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System. It should be the national or SSLC 6000 system. Thank you for hosting, Matt. Supposedly, we'll ask, what is the Governor of does? People,cuts, I think a minority of Lights Pens,