Dear listeners in the United States, the Cooperative for American Remittances to Europe, best known as CARE, has started a magnificent and most praiseworthy action on behalf of Finnish children. It is a matter of deep gratitude for us Finns that this relief action, which is done in cooperation with the Save the Children Federation, is undertaken. Save the Children, what a profoundly beautiful thought there is in those words. Thought, what a disheartening, tragic reason was needed to bring forth this idea and this organization. Save the Children, the International Union of the National Federations were brought into being as a result of the wars under which our century has labelled. Save the Children, organized like a candle in the dark night. It gives light and warmth. It is a token of the fact that there are, somewhere, kind people whose hearts go out to others who suffer. We Finns, during these past few years, have had in such manifold ways the experience that we have friends in numerous countries, friends who under the slogan Save the Children have desired to aid our children. given us, such as the help of the national organizations such as the Finland Relief, the Finnish Red Cross or the Manahem League and still others. These organizations have duly distributed these gifts to those regions and homes where the need has been most bitter. The utterly practical manner in which care has fulfilled its aim, as I might say, a friendly medleman has caused much favorable comment. The last groups of people in need of aid, such as war widows, displaced people, or disabled and their families have all been remembered. Without the aid from abroad, where the American long slards, we should hardly have been able to get over all those difficulties which resulted from the war. The feeding program of children, child health work, and the clothing of our young generation have depended in the same way and still largely depend on the support given from international carters, such as UNICEF, Save the Children and Care. The Finnish nation has in many ways attempted to support by mutual aid those who have suffered most. One of the new methods of grouping our own people together to this end is the annual celebration of Children's Day all over the country. One of the features of this day are the sales and loteries of goods sent as gifts from abroad. The proceeds are used for relief purposes among children. We have got out of our hardest difficulties, although a vast piece of work still remains to be done, before the future of the children who lost their fathers in the war. The life of the children is safeguarded before the life of the children who lost their homes or their health in the tribulations is again secure. Therefore, we are deeply grateful for the action now undertaken by care. May I put this sincere gratitude of the Finnish homes in the words? I should like to say, that in the midst of suffering humanity, save the children and care act as exponents of human love to aid the smallest and the weakest among us. Anyway, it's a gift from the African- uprising music. Let's try to fill out ouria TV and stay safe. This event also will sparkrit to the second reopening of the Remarkable Freedom-Jay apology button.ák reasoning and worketh be kingdomed. The first friendly way of Christ, see if the children are these medicines, they know families of the new people who lost and billions.
