Thank you. I didn't figure that out. Actually, the law was sired by many and damned by many. But I think some of the products are very good. It would be a very great pleasure to me to be able to be here at this fifth anniversary of this infant who is growing up and becoming very powerful. And I'm very gratified, too, that it is the realization of an old dream of mine that goes back to the days when I was district attorney. In those days, I was increasingly grieved, as were the members of my staff, because most of us were new to the business of the tragic grist that runs through the routine of a city prosecutor's office. Some of us had been federal prosecutors. Some of us had been in the racket investigation. Few of us had come face to face with the grief of the daily mass arrests for minor offenses and the tragedy of the youngsters ground through the courts and then sent to the correctional institution. Most of them were children who'd missed something in life that they needed most and were entitled to, the love of good parents or a decent home or sound religious guidance. They'd usually been defrauded of the natural rights that you and I think belonged to our children by chance or by evil or by neglect or sickness or some other circumstance entirely beyond their control. To start some kind of a machinery, because we didn't know anything better to do, we set up in the office of district attorney of New York County a youth council bureau, which I am very happy to say has been carried on and greatly improved and increased in scope and services by my most distinguished successor, Mr. Frank Hogan. We started it originally with just some money we could scrounge up from private individuals and beg from the charitable organizations of the three faiths and then we got it established and it did a lot of good work and after I became governor and Frank Hogan was district attorney, he got Mayor LaGuardia to squeeze out the money of a city budget and it's still being carried on by Mayor Impeletary and I understand from the district attorney that it is better than ever. The difficulty is that no single committee in one county or even all the counties as such without the facilities to reach into the broad social conditions of the community could do much more than ameliorate the tragedy to individuals who are already in trouble. As has already been pointed out, the challenge is to try to reach children before they get into trouble. So far as I know, this has never been tried before or as far as I know really yet elsewhere in any state in the Union on an organized basis or even by any community. Of course, in theory, it shouldn't be necessary. After all, in theory, the normal influences of good homes and good schools and good religious surroundings should make it entirely unnecessary. But seemingly, in this industrial society of ours, we have followed our very special gifts to create a spectacularly high living standard without a corresponding increase in a sense of individual responsibility. We know how to make more automobiles and more refrigerators, more food per capita, more of everything than any other three nations on earth. We haven't yet discovered how to increase a sense of parental or community or neighbor responsibility among ourselves and for our children to a sufficient degree. There's altogether too many youngsters with idle hands. Partly because of this great prosperity, they don't have to work. Partly because of irresponsible parents or both. And they have been the victims of the very perfections and creative achievements of the society that our other skills has built. So, when I went to Albany nearly ten years ago in 1943, I wasn't at all shocked to find the juvenile delinquency in the state had increased 35% between 1938 and 1943. I also found plenty of evidence, as is available to all of us, that the Constitution of the state expresses great interest in the welfare of children and places its responsibility on every unit of government. But I found very little evidence that that concern had ever been expressed in united and effective action. And the state budget revealed that millions of dollars have been appropriated every year to maintain our correctional institutions, but never a penny for the prevention of juvenile delinquency and crime that led to their overpopulation. To meet that growing problem, we could have created one of those six-letter agencies after the federal pattern with a large appropriation and a new army of employees on the public payroll. As a matter of fact, I think it would have been a worthless effort. Moreover, it seemed to me to be complete folly. Instead, first, because we didn't know what to do, I appointed a committee of the people in the state government who knew most about the subject. We didn't create a fancy commission. We just went to the commissioners whose departments were most closely affected and brought them into a group with my assistant counsel to sit down and work. And after a year of study, they reported what seemed to me to be the only sound approach. They said that the state could best encourage the prevention of juvenile delinquency by stimulating a new effort and a new approach right in the locality. In other words, that we should not try to transfer the responsibility to Albany or to Washington or to some other central headquarters or regional headquarters, but that it should be done at home where the children live, which seemed to me to make remarkable good sense. They said also, and this idea most important of all, that our job was to meet the problems before they became acute rather than adopt the usual governmental approach of handling them after they become personal disasters. We wanted to reach the children who were headed for trouble and save them first rather than to patch up the wreckage afterward. The idea was that the state should give leadership, guidance, and financial help to the locality to set up such programs. We were determined that the state would not take over local responsibilities and deprive communities of home rule. Just parenthetically, my own feeling is that to every extent that a community gives up total responsibility, it gives up that portion of the freedom of its own people. And wherever home rule is weakened, so too is the essence of free government weakened. As a result, we added one other concept. We decided that we should not attempt to dictate to the localities what they ought to do. Nor did we allow any acceptance of the communist concept that children are the property of the state. The basic approach was to be through the homes, the churches, schools, police, veterans, labor, fraternal organizations, service clubs, and public and private social agencies. Instead of setting up a new agency of government then to do this job, we created the temporary youth commission made up of the heads of seven state agencies who were closest to the problem, the very same people who had been on the committee. The interdepartmental committee was that new device that has been rarely used, but I recommend it as an instrument of government generally. It doesn't cost a lot of money. It uses the existing brains. It doesn't create more duplication and it keeps the solutions to problems close to the people and close to those who know most about them. In this function that we are celebrating tonight, the work has been directed by these seven men in the state government all these seven years since its creation. Those are the commissioners of correction, education, health, labor, mental hygiene, social welfare, and the chairman of the board of parole and I believe all of them are either here personally or represented tonight. It was a sort of a trial and error thing. We gave it great flexibility with the state providing some supervision and financial aid. After all, we didn't want the communities to go haywire just because somebody in Oswego or horse heads decided he wanted to create a project that nobody else thought was any good. But beyond that, we left all the responsibility to the locality to create a program best suited to its people and had the most extraordinary result. More than 860 communities which never had such a program in history have now responded with the most varied types of programs including recreation, youth counseling, child guidance, psychiatric care, visiting teachers, social workers, baseball teams. Speaking of Bill Stern, I remember one community upstate, they wanted no part of any of these things. All they wanted was a baseball league. And I saw the other day that one of the counselors on the state payroll made a violent speech against baseball for youngsters. I haven't caught up with that one yet, but I'm going to. But this, actually, when I heard about it, I thought they were a little bit nuts too. But the commission went along. They wanted a baseball league. It's a community of about 10,000. And they'd had a lot of juvenile delinquency and a lot of youngsters in trouble. And they set it up. And they got all the religious groups in on a voluntary basis. They didn't hire anybody. That'll be anathema to some people. They got it all done free. And they got up a baseball league for the summer and a basketball league for the winter. And they wouldn't have anything to do with all the rest of these things that you and I are very good most places. But from the day they formed the baseball league to this moment, there has not been one boy arrested for juvenile delinquency in that community. And that's six years. The only point of that is and the only thing it proves is that often there are smarter people in the communities who are not experts than those of us who think we're experts. Anyway, it worked. As a matter of fact, today nearly 5,000 citizens of this state have been enlisted and are actively working in advisory and operating capacities. The private agencies have responded handsomely and this has not become a new government colossus. It's a cooperative effort in the name of the children of the state to provide help where help is most needed. It seems to me that this is in the best American tradition. I believe that's the view of the people of the state because these 860 municipalities that have taken on the program include 90% of the population of the state of New York and that is practically all of the people of the state of New York who live in any community of more than 300 people. The result is that it apparently has been a great success and it hasn't been a handout program because everybody had to match it 50%. It wasn't one of those things you spend to get. It was spend to do. It seems to me that the commission has had practical and not theoretical measures and has borne in mind that the ultimate solution as always is in the home, the school, the church, and the community atmosphere. The commission has given guidance and leadership and financial assistance. It's developed all the things that you and I know ought to be developed like supervised leisure time activities, analysis of on-the-record trends of juvenile delinquency, positive efforts towards strengthening family life, the unifying of local efforts, and the coordination of all the various possible agencies that can be of help. And it's been amazed how in some communities, the smaller places in the state, where everybody had a sort of routine job before, when they get drawn into this, everybody gets interested in it and everybody makes a contribution and I assume that that's what's happened here in many directions. Aside from all these studies, it seems to me that the most important thing is the conclusion that was reached by an editorial printed the other day in the Albany Times Union. They said, juvenile delinquency in any state has a direct relationship to world affairs, especially to economic depressions and wars and preparations for war. You will hear all about the world affairs shortly from my distinguished friend on my right, who will do it with great eloquence, good humor, and skill, and he will be the frosting on the cake of the evening. The editorial continued, New York is demonstrating that there is practical economy in spending funds to keep youngsters out of trouble. Part of the reason we've seen a drop of nearly 3,000 juvenile delinquency cases in the past year, as compared with the high peak of 1945 is that New York through its Youth Commission has spent four and a third million dollars for youth recreation projects, 2,620,000 in social and psychological youth services, and 679,000 in setting up administrative youth bureaus at various points of the state. That is a brief summary in one paragraph of the work we're celebrating on a statewide basis. I'm happy that other states are now beginning to follow New York and I notice that the Children's Bureau of the Federal Security Agency is calling a conference on the subject. I just hope they leave us alone. I am greatly pleased, I want you to know, with the progress in New York City. It got started considerably late, which is no fault of anybody in the room. I want to make it very clear. The program was authorized by the legislature in the spring of 1945. Nothing happened in New York for a year, so I called a conference in Albany. We had much conversation and I thought stimulation, and still nothing happened until July 1947, when, and I believe it was under the influence of the present mayor of New York, the city was goaded two years late into taking action, and I compliment him here publicly for his leadership in it. I really think that in New York a model agency has been created. It certainly is one of the finest prevention programs in the country. I suppose none of us would pretend that there's enough money for it, there isn't enough money in all the world for what we want to do, and I'm sure that there are many more areas we'd like to work in intensively. But the extraordinary thing about it is the great progress that's been made in the 11 selected most difficult areas of highest delinquency under a benevolent and well-rounded attack which included both the private and the public agencies. As I had hoped, the Youth Board membership includes the heads of all city departments dealing with children, the superintendent of schools, commissioners of health and welfare, police and parks, as well as the residing justice of the domestic relations court. That has tied together and utilized the services of the departments and it can initiate effective action in delinquency prevention. The board includes in addition, and this I also like, six citizen members, every one of them with long and first-hand experience in the field. that assures that the board's program will utilize the private agency resources as well as those available through public departments. I go through this whole philosophy because it seems to me that it is exceedingly significant as a new development in the field of social service in which we do not create a new government colossus, in which we do not risk a burden of taxation so great that citizens will rebel and condemn all social services by reason of it, in which we have that intangible, glorious contribution of the voluntary effort. And I have a very strong feeling that the affairs of our children in this city are in good hands. It gives those of us who are working with you every reason to believe that in the difficult years ahead, the people of New York will intensify their efforts which will be beneficial both to the city, the state, and the nation. These two or three fundamentals involved in the program I think should be mentioned. If the entry of the city into this field had in any sense diminished local responsibility or home rule, I mean by that if the entry of the state into this field had diminished city or local responsibility, I should have regarded the whole program as a danger and a failure. If it had advanced as by so much as an inch the totalitarian approach to children, I should be against it. Moreover, if it had diminished the need for voluntary agencies, I should be against it. I hold to the very firm belief that citizen effort and private agencies and public agencies should complement each other and never that one should supplement or supplant or should supplant the other. Should any public program hinder this indefinable exchange which occurs when people voluntarily share their time and their money and their efforts to help children, it's time for the public agency to get out of the business because then it has killed that spark of human charity without which people are dead or are slaves. It is the personal concern, the personal service that counts in community affairs and nothing is comparable either in charity or in government or in hospitals or in any other field. I may say that I wish other local agencies particularly those dealing with public welfare were as well administered as this program. I wish they had as much citizen participation. I wish they had as clear an appreciation of local responsibility for doing the good job. You know, the worst thing in the world that can happen to us is to say let somebody else do it. Let George do it. Because when that time comes then we are no longer citizens of a free country. We are passengers on somebody else's ship. In the whole field of welfare we have made unprecedented advances in the last ten years in acceptance of social responsibility. City, county, state, and nation. They are better standards than ever before. In the state we are paying out a great deal more money than ever before although we have the highest prosperity in history. I don't know whether I should apologize for that or boast of it. Very close question. But in 1945 the state of New York contributed 23 million dollars toward local welfare costs in this city. This year the state will contribute 85 million dollars nearly four times as much as in 1945. Some people have lost sight of that in recent public releases. the increase in New York City's share of the cost of its local welfare program has been only 44 percent during that time. In other words the state's increase to the city's welfare programs is 270 percent. The city's increase 44. Have I made myself very clear? I think I can say without fear of contradiction that in these ten years we have assumed a larger share of local responsibility than in any previous 40 years in the history of the United States. I don't know whether that's good or not. I am not boasting. I am simply reporting. In other words we lifted very large financial burdens from the city and as I say some people think we lifted too much. Last year for example the state paid out 142 million dollars for all local welfare programs in the state of New York and New York City got 100 million of that dough. New York City got 70 percent of all the local welfare money in the state of New York. 100 million dollars is still a lot of money in this country whether you know it or not. that is one tenth of the entire budget of the state of New York just for this one service in one community. I think that the youth program ought to be studied as a model of effective administration of local needs. I think the way it has worked is perhaps the best demonstrated by this magnificent gathering here tonight. Everybody who is here tonight is here because they're interested in the youth program. There are very few other governmental programs where you can get so many free people to come voluntarily to a dinner unless you blackjack them or shake them down to come in honor of a politician. But I rather suspect and am quite sure that the people who are here tonight came because they wanted to come. And the reason they wanted to come is that every one of them has a piece of this program. You've got a share of the responsibility and therefore you're making it better than it could ever be in any other form. I think the success of the program might well be a guide for better administration of other services, not only in the city but in the state government, possibly even in Washington, I wouldn't know. the use of widespread responsible citizen participation is one of the insignia of the good job. The job of all of us is to try to learn to work better with the existing structures of government and to improve them. Government, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, is the most difficult science in the world. The politician is engaged in the most complex science in the world because, quite obviously, the perfect government has not yet been achieved. I think surgeons have performed the perfect appendectomy and something which might well be called an almost perfect automobile or airplane or washing machine has been created, but nobody has ever accused any government yet even of being within a mile of perfection. So, we've got to realize that while government impinges closely upon the lives of all the people in one way or another, we have a whale of a job ahead of us. Our task is to study to improve its quality while we endeavor to make it serve the people better and rule the people less. The youth services whose anniversary we celebrate tonight are a new and pioneering effort. They're only five years old, but I think they're a very sturdy baby. They've achieved a degree of local responsibility, of citizen participation and effectiveness, and of genuine democracy in its finest sense that is quite novel in the field of human and social relations. I'm proud of the progress that's been made under the state youth program, and I should like personally to salute every one of you who has taken part of it here in our great city, from the mayor who led the way for its creation, to all of the magnificent army of people who have made it a success. The statistics prove success, but much more importantly... is far-reaching insignificance because it is really an outline of the mayor. His honor, the mayor, ladies and gentlemen, and friends. I'm somewhat embarrassed tonight to come here in white tie, tail, from everybody here of the days, it's the black tie. Which reminds me, I think about a year ago, in this same place, I addressed the National Association of Manufacturers, and the same thing happened. And it is because I happened to be then the father of a 22-year-old boy. And I have a tuxedo, too, but that night he happened to have his prom. So when I arrived in my home, my tuxedo was gone. Tonight, however, I have a different story. I am a married man, and my wife preferred to go to the opening of the Metropolitan Opera tonight, and I have to fetch her after the performance. I congratulate your Excellency Governor Dewey for the great job that we as outsiders have seen is being done for your juveniles in New York. The enlightening speech that the Governor delivered tonight is far reaching insignificance because it is really an outline of what a democracy can do to serve the people and yet rule it less. us. When we speak of children, I who come from the United Nations can tell you that that is also our major concern. The United Nations is for the youth. we of this generation have failed twice. Two wars within our generation have taken place. in the United Nations we are trying to avoid a third world war. And we can only do that by preparing our youth properly. I wish to take you back to the days after the signing of the Treaty of Versailles. When the victorious nations then so immersed in their passions, in their vindictiveness, forgot the youth of the defeated countries. And the result was that say for example in Germany the German youth wanted leadership and there was no leadership that could be given to them. So they hung on to a maniac and that maniac taught them to goose a step and goose a stepping they were led into their country's destruction and to the first and to the second world war. so it is important for us to take care of our children especially these days when we have delinquent nations dangerous nations whose ideology is antithetical to that of democracy and these children who has been very well said here tonight are growing up in an age where an ideology is fighting everything that is decent in the dignity of the human soul. the youth of the world must be properly prepared to face that. And I was really inspired tonight to know that in your youth board are represented the three faiths three faiths and that religion is playing an important part in this work for you youths. We must not forget that the present struggle is really a struggle between those who do not believe in faith because they have no faith and those of us who believe in faith because we have faith. And that religion should play an important part in the molding of the youth here and in this great work so beautifully outlined by Governor Dewey and Mayor Impiliteri and Mr. Whalen here tonight is a lesson for all the world to see the world because there is no greater tragedy than the blindness of those whose eyes are open but are in the dark. One can be blind but blindness of men who are in the dark is the greatest tragedy in the world and those who have no faith have their eyes open but they are in the dark. It is for us to throw the spotlight of faith in the remotest corners of the world where there is darkness so that those who cannot see may see the truth the light a light eternal and that is what you are doing for your youth here when you have religion playing an important part in this great work. Ladies and gentlemen I thank you for the privilege of having been here tonight to listen to these great addresses and to see the great work that is being done for your youth by your government in cooperation with the citizenry of New York City. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen we have a treat for you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
