Mr. Qualen, Cardinal Spellman, Mayor Impulmateri, Governor Dewey, Secretary Atchison, General Romulo, President Antizam, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, you may perhaps have some idea of my emotions when I tell you that at six o'clock I was asked to pinch hit for Ambassador Austin. I am a new hand at the United Nations and I have had to pull my thoughts together rather hurriedly. By way of introduction, let me say that I happen to belong to the same party to which Governor Dewey adheres, which is at the moment the minority party, and that my presence here and my presence as a member of the United States delegation is, I think, a tangible illustration of the fact that in approaching matters of foreign policy, there is to be no thought of political or partisan advantage at all. And I am glad to say that before all these distinguished people from all over the world so that they will have no doubt whatever as to the American unity of purpose. We are happily met here tonight to honor, first of all, two brilliant representatives of that new and vigorous generation of leaders which is rising in Asia. They are symbolic of the determination of the free countries of Asia to maintain their independence and freedom within the framework of the United Nations. I refer, of course, to General Romuald, the outgoing President of the United Nations General Assembly, and to his successor, Mr. Antizam of Iran. Perhaps I may be so bold as to try to speak for all our friends, whether they be in Europe or the Americas or the Near East or Africa, when I say that these men are world figures. Both have been intimately associated with the growth of the United Nations in influence and authority. They are members of that distinguished group of statesmen, administrators, and diplomatists, which include such figures as Pandit Nehru of India, Liyaquat Ali Khan of Pakistan, and President Sukarno of the Republic of Indonesia. In that great area that extends from the Philippines across the southern half of the continent of Asia to the Mediterranean, there has taken place one of the most significant and, I think, dramatic developments of our modern time, and that is the gradual disappearance of the old imperialistic and colonial relationships, and the rise of vigorous new and independent nations in their place. And let it be emphasized and not forgotten, because it's of great credit to all concerned, that this change has been brought about on the whole through voluntary agreement. And that's a vitally important fact. And it's a fact which should be appreciated by, particularly by those who hold to the totalitarian theory, that Western society as we know it cannot exist except on the basis of imperialism and exploitation. Of course, the truth is that Western society advances on the principle that what helps one helps all. The keynote of a sound foreign policy, it seems to me, is that we want our neighbors to be successful, because if they're successful, then we're going to be successful. Nevertheless, in spite of that truth, we hear a constant effort to convince the peoples of Asia that the great change in relationship which has been taking place is just imperialism by some other name. We know that these young nations are endeavoring to meet a whole set of complex economic and political problems arising both out of the war and their own independence. Some of us would like to help these nations to raise their living standards, without, of course, in any way infringing on their complete freedom and independence. But what Secretary Acheson so well described yesterday as the new imperialism hovers close by in the hopeful expectation that these young nations will founder, that they will fail in a morass of difficulties, and then be ripe for the plucking by totalitarian groups. I think, however, that if they will only look at what has happened in Korea, they will see that the new imperialism has met its match. As a matter of fact, it has always retreated before the United Nations, whenever the United Nations has, in fact, been united and has made a unified stand. We can readily understand, and I personally very much appreciate, the feelings which Mr. Antizam, as an Iranian, put into his first words as President of the Fifth General Assembly. It was gratifying, he said, and I think I'm quoting him accurately, that the Security Council had lived up to its responsibilities in the Korean case. We thank you for that, sir. And General Romolo must be proud of the fact that troops from the Philippine Republic have just arrived in Korea to join the United Nations forces. Fifty-three members of the United Nations today endorsed the action in Korea. Some have sent physical assistance. From the firm attitude which so many countries have demonstrated toward the invasion of Korea, we can draw one obvious conclusion. The United Nations must continue to be the defender of liberty, of independence, and of free institutions. We must hope that the action which has taken place in Korea has set the pattern for future United Nations actions, should any other crisis arise. The peoples of Asia are engaged in a major revolution, which can accurately be described as a freedom revolution. We hope it will peacefully evolve, increasing the sum of human happiness. And in conclusion, let me leave this thought with you. While it is painfully clear that we face great dangers, and that the perils of the present time are all too obvious, I cannot but feel that this is, in truth, the time for courage, and that therefore it is the time for optimism. Because we know that if we, the peace and freedom-loving nations, get strong enough, quick enough, we can prevent World War III. Righteousness backed by strength cannot fail. We who are gathered here tonight, as delegates to the United Nations, can play a big part in preventing that catastrophe. Surely no greater challenge ever faced a group of human beings than that which confronts us. And with God's help, we will succeed. Thank you, Senator Lodge. No presiding officer need have any prepared speech in presenting the next speaker. He came, he saw, he conquered New York. Brigadier General Romano, retiring president of the fourth session of the United Nations General Assembly. Do you need to select? I don't know. Stand over. Mr. Chairman, Your Excellencies, Your Honor, Mr. Mayor, my fellow delegates, ladies and gentlemen. As the retiring president tonight, I should be retiring. Seen and not heard. The spotlight should be focused on the new president. Not only because he is a handsome bachelor, and therefore very negotiable. But also because the General Assembly could not have chosen a more able, a more tactful, and a more brilliant presiding officer. I feel relieved tonight. I enjoyed my dinner, which I did not last year, at this same time. And now that all the barbs, all the points of order, all the attacks will be fired at the new president, I am reminded of the story of the soldier who was caught by his officer running away from the battlefield. And the officer said to him, John, where are you going? John said, home. John said, John said, And the officer to bolster his courage said, John said, But John, Don't you know, That all the bullets coming from the enemy are marked? For Charles, For Peter, For John, For Bob, And if your name is not on the bullet, You need not worry. And the soldier scratched his head, And he said, But what worries me, boss, Is the bullet marked to whom it may concern. I know as I take my seat as a delegate, Watching President and Tizam on the rostrum, That all the bullets are marked to whom it may concern, And they are to him. Your Honor, Mr. Mayor, And Your Excellency, Governor Dewey, I know I bespeak the sentiments of all the delegates of the General Assembly When I express to you both, Our heartfelt gratitude, For the hospitality, Generous hospitality, That has been accorded us, By the great Empire State of New York, And by this Baghdad on the subway known as New York. It is said, That a man's life, Is divided into three chapters. The first chapter which is known, As anticipation. The second chapter which is known as realization. And the third, Which is known as recollection. Those of us, Who did not know New York before we came here, Lived in anticipation. And often times, Anticipation is far more satisfying than realization. It was not so with your great city, Your Honor. Realization has far exceeded our anticipation. And I know, That when we reach the third stage, Which is recollection, We will look back at these happy days, That we enjoyed here in your great city. And we'll be like those pilgrims, Who are looking for that city of Camelot. You remember. And they did not really know whether there was such a city. And so they asked Merlin, the magician. Whether there was really such a city as Camelot. And Merlin, the magician answered, Yes. There is such a city, But it is a city built to music, Therefore, Not built at all. And therefore, It will endure forever. And so they asked Merlin, the magician. What a city. And the magician answered, Yes. There is such a city. But it is a city, Built to music. Therefore, Not built at all. And therefore, It will endure forever. And the world, We present Fiorello LaGuardia, a few sketches from a turbulent career. City desk. Yeah, okay. Hey, son. Yeah? Going in to see the editor? Yep. I'd advise you to let it ride until tomorrow. He's not feeling any too friendly about anything. Oh, this can't wait. Okay, you're a few. Well?