With the approach of the Christmas holiday season, the people of our city look forward to a period filled with happiness, joyful reunions, and goodwill towards others. Unfortunately, your fire department realizes some of this expected happiness will be turned into sorrow and tragedy. Fire, with all of its destructiveness, has no holiday and will continue to cause death, injuries, and property damage. From our records, the majority of these holiday fires are caused by indifference and a complete disregard for the principles of fire prevention. Knowledge combined with the application of common sense will eliminate a large percentage of such fires and result in tragedy. To prevent or reduce the number of fires during the holiday season, added precautions should be observed by all persons in homes, business occupancies, and places of public assembly. A large increase in congestion and activity, with some confusion, can be expected in many parts of the city. Such conditions add to the possibilities of fire and a greater hazard to life and property. With the knowledge of these potential dangers, advantage should be taken of a few simple rules to prevent fires. To our business people, both the employer and the worker, develop the spirit of cooperation in your place of business to lessen the dangers of fire. Eliminate or reduce to a minimum the accumulation of waste packing materials. Observe no smoking regulations where required and use care in the disposal of matches, cigars, and cigarettes. Inspect apparatus, machinery, and other devices that may cause fire. Exercise all necessary precautions in the storage and use of flammable liquids. To the owners and tenants of residential buildings, realize the importance of fire prevention and observe the following. Remove rubbish accumulation from your cellars and attics. Use added caution in your smoking habits. Prevent children from obtaining matches or playing near heaters, stoves, and furnaces. Be extremely careful in the storage of oils and the use of portable heaters. Use safe electric Christmas tree decorations and avoid the overloading of circuits. Be watchful of Christmas trees. Remove them from your homes when they become dried out and unsafe. Congestion, activity, and confusion have been discussed. In New York City during the holiday season, these conditions reach the extreme. To the shoppers, patrons of theaters, nightclubs, and restaurants, exercise the utmost precaution in smoking habits. Although these recommendations are simple and will lessen the dangers of fire, it is difficult to understand the attitude of some people. The City of New York has a fire department unequaled in the extinguishment of fire. However, it is of equal importance to prevent fires. To effect this, your fire department requires the cooperation of all the people in our city. Lack of thought and indifference to the importance of fire prevention is dangerous and presents a serious problem to the entire city. Remember, fire prevention has no holiday, neither has the tragedies and destruction of fire. Fire prevention is not seasonable, nor is it the problem of some people. Fire prevention is everybody's job, every day throughout the year. Cooperate with your fire department and help reduce the causes and destruction of fire.