I'd request Mr. Winant to read a message that he has got from the Honourable President of the United States. I ask Mr. Winant to be able to read the message that he is in the hands of the President of the United States. As a representative of the United States on the Economic and Social Conference, under whose auspices this conference has been called, it is my privilege to welcome you and to read to you a message from the President of the United States. Gentlemen, it is of great significance that the first international conference to meet at the core of the Economic and Social Conference should have a great audience for the improvement of health, for this indicates the intention of the Council to grapple immediately with basic problems whose solution is essential to the welfare of the happiness of mankind. The health problems that we face did not originate with a war, but the war has aggravated them tremendously. Over many years, nations have been building up defenses against disease through protective foods, nursing services, clinics, hospitalization, and mental, medical, and surgical care. For many years of patients, these protections have been disorganized and destroyed. They must be restored and expanded. Furthermore, modern transportation has made it impossible for a nation to protect itself against the introduction of disease by quarantine. This makes it necessary to develop strong health services in every country, which must be coordinated through international action. The new health organization will serve in this field. Just as international cooperation in science play the most important part in winning the war, so will such cooperation win the battle against disease and malnutrition. The right to adequate medical care and the opportunity to achieve and enjoy good health should be available to all people. For this objective, I can assure you the interest and the support of the United States. The last one, the last two years, signed, signed by Harry S. Truman. May I add a personal weight? It is not necessary to emphasize clearly the seriousness or the importance of your task. We are glad that this conference is being held on United States soil. In ending, I would like to remind you of the statement President Roswell made in 1939. The health of the people is a public concern. Ill health is a major cause of suffering, economic loss and dependency. Good health is essential to security and progress. May your work in England further unite us as we move forward in the broad fields of peace. Thank you. The President of the United States. The President of the United States. As a representative of the United States, the European Union and Social Council, under the hospice of which this conference has been reunified, it is my privilege to wish you the welcome and to read a message from the President of the United States. Citation. Messieurs. C'est une grande signification que le fait que la première conférence internationale à se réunir sous les auspices du Conseil économique et social ait pour objet l'amélioration de la santé, car c'est là une indication du désir du Conseil d'en venir immédiatement à attaquer les problèmes de base which is essential for the good and good health of the world. The problems of the health care that we have to face have not been born in the war, but the war has been aggravated in a huge way. During numerous years, nations have built a defense against the disease thanks to the protection of the health care, the services of the infirmary, the clinics, the hospitalization, and the health care, the medical and chirurgical care. For many millions of people, these protections have been disorganized and destroyed. They must be put on foot and agranded. In addition, the transports of the world have made it impossible for a nation to protect themselves from the fact that the disease is being introduced by the quarantine. This is necessary to develop a health care service very strong in all countries which must be coordinated by international actions. The new organization of health care will serve in this domain. The same thing that for the international cooperation has played a very important role in the science in the fact of winning the war, that a cooperation will also gain the battle against the disease and the bad nutrition. The right to medical care and order and opportunity to be able to get Bonnement now is required to be made are waisted as Molly days and all the people of the earth. And it is in this way that I can assure you the interests and the aid that will take the United States. Signed Harry S. Truman. I added a personal word. It is not necessary to emphasize the importance of our task. We are happy that this conference will be held on the United States. In the end, I would like to remind you a statement made by the President Roosevelt in 1939. The health of the people is a question that falls in the public domain. The bad health is a major cause of suffering and economic loss. The good health is essential to the security and progress. I hope that your efforts will be united as a step forward in the large domain of the peace. I now request the Secretary-General to welcome this conference. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, as Secretary-General, it is my privilege and pleasure to welcome you all here today. On behalf of the Secretariat, I should like to address a very particular welcome to representatives of the 16 nations, which are not members of the United Nations at this time. The Economic and Social Council, Hesse, on behalf of the United Nations, invited these governments to participate because of its desire to make the greatest possible success of this all-important conference. Disease and poor health, no boundaries. Epidemics carry no passports. The health of one country affects the health of neighbouring countries and of the whole world at large. In our efforts to raise the general standards of health all over the world, it is our duty and our privilege to call upon the experience and the skill of scientists and experts from all countries with which we can cooperate. It is also our good fortune to have with us at this conference representatives of several of the specialised agencies and other organisations which are linked to the cause of public health. The cooperation of these agencies is urgently needed and it is good to know that we can depend upon it. They can be of great assistance in constitutional and administrative matters. By being present at our deliberations, they can also help to ensure permanent collaboration and to prevent overlapping in those fields where the health organisations and the other specialised agencies have common problems. their joint efforts are required in dealing with many fundamental matters. It is clear, for example, that social security and health go hand in hand and that health cannot be maintained without adequate social conditions. Thus there is an obvious need for cooperation between the health organisation and the international labour organisation. Nutrition is closely linked to health and any success in improving and maintaining health standards will require a steady production and a proper distribution of food throughout the world. Thus the health organisation and the food and agriculture organisation will be natural allies. One mosquito carried by an aeroplane from Africa to South America could cause a catastrophic plague of yellow fever, so even the civil aviation organisation come into the picture. The help of the specialised agencies is of the most vital importance. I also want to take this occasion to welcome the many distinguished representatives of the American medical and public health professions who are present here today. The contribution of the United States to the science of public health has been of great importance to the entire world. We are confident that this great contribution in the past will be equaled and excelled by further contributions to the great work of our health. Sir Ramaswamy Mudalyar, the well-known and eminent President of the Economic and Social Council, will tell you what part the Council has played in arranging the present conference. I will only point out that the health organisation will be the first specialised agency established under the San Francisco Charter by decision of the Economic and Social Council. Its establishment will be one of the first concrete, constructive steps in the broad and vital programme which the United Nations is undertaking on behalf of all mankind. Your success in establishing an efficient, smooth-working and practical organisation will be a success for us all, and it will be a success for all humanity. Here in this field, there are a thousand things that can be done, a thousand things that must be done. We have it in our power to save millions of lives and to make tens of millions of lives more livable. Here there can be no question of cooperation between nations, large or small. I am sure that we shall have the full cooperation of every nation. What the nations will expect of this conference, and what they will expect of the health organisation, is a clear definition of the problems and a clear lead in dealing with them. I am sure that I express a very common sentiment when I voice the hope that not too much time shall be spent on discussion, and that all of the discussions shall be to the point. The people will not excuse us, and they should not excuse us, if we waste our breath. The importance of this job before us does not allow any waste of time or energy in useless or aimless debate. On behalf of the Secretariat, I want to assure you that the staff of the United Nations will do everything possible to make your work easy. The International Health Conference is meeting in New York during the most difficult period of organisation of the United Nations. While the Health Conference is in progress, we shall also be having continual meetings of the Security Council, the Economic and the Economic and the Economic and the Economic and the Economic and the Economic and the Economic and the Economic and the Economic Commission. It may therefore easily happen that the technical apparatus will not function so satisfactorily as at previous international conferences attended by the present delegates. There may be difficulties with hotel accommodation, transportation and other technical assistance, but we shall do our best, and we hope that the delegates will accept the situation in the spirit of understanding. Again, let me wish you all a hearty welcome and every possible success. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in my quality of Secretaire General, I have the honor and the pleasure of you to wish the welcome today and to declare open this conference whose purpose is to create the Organization of the Health of the United Nations. In the name of the Secretaire General, I would like to address a special greeting to representatives of the United Nations who are not members of the United Nations. The Council of the Economic and Social has invited its governments to participate, and given their desire to ensure that this conference, of an important major importance, rencontre tout le succès possible. La maladie, le manque de santé ne connaissent pas de frontières, et les épidémies n'ont pas de passeport. La santé de chaque pays affect la santé des pays voisins et du monde en général. Dans nos efforts pour élever le niveau général de la santé au monde entier, il est de notre devoir, et ce sera notre honneur, de faire appel à l'expérience de tous les savants et des experts des pays avec lesquels nous pouvons collaborer. Nous avons également la bonne fortune d'avoir avec nous à cette conférence des représentants de plusieurs des organismes spécialisés et d'autres organismes dont le travail est apparenté à la cause de la santé publique. La collaboration de ces organismes est extrêmement urgente, et il est bon de savoir que nous pouvons compter sur elles. Ils peuvent être d'un grand secours dans des questions qui touchent à la Constitution ou aux questions administratives. En assistant à nos délibérations, ils peuvent également nous rendre possible une collaboration permanente et empêcher que ne se doublent les efforts dans les domaines où l'organisation de la santé et d'autres agences, d'autres organismes spécialisés peuvent avoir des problèmes communs. Leurs efforts joints sont nécessaires pour pouvoir nous occuper utilement des questions fondamentales. Il est clair, par exemple, que la sécurité sociale et la santé vont la main dans la main et que la santé ne peut pas être maintenue sans qu'il n'existe pas en même temps des conditions sociales adéquates. Il y a également un besoin évident de coopération entre l'Organisation de la santé et le Bureau international du travail. Les questions de nutrition sont étroitement liées à celles de la santé et tout ce qui comportera une amélioration ou un maintien du niveau de la santé demandera une production constante et une distribution appropriée des vivres à travers le monde tout entier. Ainsi, l'Organisation de la santé et l'Organisation des vivres et de l'agriculture sont des alliés naturels. Un seul moustique qu'un avion emporté d'Afrique ou d'Amérique du Sud pourrait entraîner une épidémie catastrophique de fièvre jaune. Ainsi, l'Organisation de l'Aviation civile, elle aussi, entre dans le tableau. Le secours et la coopération des organismes spécialisés est donc d'une importance vitale. Je voudrais également saisir cette occasion pour saluer la présence parmi nous de bien des représentants distingués de la science médicale et des professions de la santé publique américaine qui sont aujourd'hui parmi nous. La contribution des États-Unis à la science de la santé publique a été d'une importance capitale pour le monde entier. Nous avons toutes confiants que cette contribution importante telle qu'elle existait dans le passé sera égalée, sinon dépassée, par les contributions qu'elle pourra apporter maintenant à la grande œuvre de l'Organisation de la santé. Sœur Ramazwam Imoud Aliya, le président éminent du Conseil économique et social, vous dira quel rôle le Conseil a joué dans les préparatifs pour cette conférence. Je voudrais simplement indiquer que l'Organisation de la santé sera le premier des organismes spécialisés établis dans le cadre de la Charte San Francisco par une décision du Conseil économique et social. Son établissement se constituera la première mesure concrète et constructive dans le programme si vaste et si vital que les Nations unies entreprennent au nom et pour le bienfait de l'humanité tout entière. Notre succès, si nous réussissons à établir une organisation efficace qui travaillera bien et d'une façon pratique, sera un succès pour tous, sera en un mot le succès de l'humanité tout entière. Là, il est un domaine où des milliers de choses peuvent être faites et le Conseil pense qu'elles doivent être faites. Il est dans notre pouvoir de sauver des millions de vies et de faire que des dizaines de millions de vies vaillent mieux la peine d'être vécues. Ici, il ne peut pas être question de collaboration entre les nations, petites ou grandes. Je suis sûr que nous aurons la pleine coopération de toutes les nations. Ce que les nations attendent de cette conférence, ce qu'elles attendront de l'organisation de la santé, c'est une définition précise des problèmes et une indication précise de la façon dont il s'agit de les résoudre. Je suis sûr que j'exprime un sentiment très commun quand j'exprime l'espoir que nous ne perdrons pas tant de temps à des discussions et que toutes les discussions seront d'ordre pratique. Personne ne nous pardonnerait et personne ne devrait nous pardonner si nous gaspillons notre souffle. L'importance du travail qui est devant nous ne permet pas de perdre du temps ni même de mettre trop d'énergie à des débats qui seraient sans utilité immédiate et sans but précis. Au nom du secrétariat, je voudrais vous assurer que le personnel des Nations Unies fera tout ce qui est possible dans ses moyens pour rendre votre travail facile. La Conférence internationale de la santé se réunit à New York dans cette période très difficile de l'organisation des Nations Unies. Alors que la Conférence tiendra ses séances, nous aurons des réunions constantes du Conseil de sécurité, du Conseil économique et social, de la Commission de l'énergie atomique et bien d'autres commissions siégeront également. Il peut par conséquent assez facilement arriver que l'appareil technique ne fonctionne point à la satisfaction aussi totale que celle que l'on a pu constater au cours de conférences internationales dans le passé. Peut-il y avoir des difficultés en ce qui concerne les hôtels, les transports et d'autres aides de caractère technique ? Mais nous ferons de notre mieux et nous espérons que les délégués acceptent la situation dans un esprit de compréhension. Une fois encore, permettez-moi de vous souhaiter à tous la bienvenue et tout le succès possible. Merci. Les délicates de l'International Health Conference, Mesdames et Messieurs, Laissez-moi, comme le président de l'Economie et Sociale Council, sur mon propre nom et de mes collègues de l'Economie, à vous, je vous présente un bonheur de votre présence ici pour cette Health Conference. Je suis sûr que vous vous souhaitez aussi me direz à vous direz à mon appréciation et à mon appréciation et à mon appréciation et à mon appréciation, pour le kind message que le président de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité qui a été très bon et assez de l'unité de nous sende à cette occasion par mon ami collègue sur l'Economie et Sociale Council, qui est à mon appréciation. Je suis sûr que vous considèreziez-vous, et votre privilège, pour un message de grâce à lui, par le président de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité. C'est la première internationale conférence qui a été sponsorisé sous l'uspice de l'Unité de l'Unité. Et c'est bon que la conférence a la première de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité probablement de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité. Le importance de l'Unité de l'Unité de l'Unité est réalisé à la première étape dans les deliberations de San Francisco qui led à l'unité et à la place de l'Unité et à la fin du-jeu de l'Unité de l'Unité. When the Economic and Social Council was first proposed in the organization of the United Nations, when it was established as one of the main organs of the United Nations, its purposes were said to be to deal with economic and social matters. But the delegates who were gathered at San Francisco were not satisfied with the interpretation that social matters included also matters relating to health. They felt that health matters were so primarily of importance that they constituted a major item for consideration of the United Nations by itself. That they put in the word that the Economic and Social Council shall deal with economic, social, educational and health matters. And therefore, from the very start, the importance that was attached to problems of health, to the United Nations dealing with world health problems was realized and is apparent. At that conference in San Francisco, after having laid down the general principles which should guide the activities of the United Nations in general and of the Economic and Social Council in particular, two delegations came forward with a special resolution. The delegation from Brazil and China, a special resolution which suggested that the member states who are present at San Francisco should confer among themselves and as soon as possible and possibly before the end of the year 1945 convene a conference of representatives of the various members of the United Nations. The resolution or declaration was adopted at what was called the Technical Preparatory Conference of the Economic Committee and later it was ratified by the General Assembly. Before any attempt could be made to call the conference by the end of the year 1945, it was apparent to those who were in charge of these matters that the deliberations in London for the establishment of a proper United Nations organization was going so rapidly and so fast that the organization itself could come into being early in January of 1946. The proposal therefore for convening such a conference at the instance of one or other of the state governments was dropped and the idea was fostered that when the United Nations organization itself came into being as early as January 1946, one of its first tasks should be to address itself to the question of when, how, under what circumstances an international health conference should be convened. As many of you may be aware, the General Assembly was constituted on the General Assembly. As many of you may be aware, the General Assembly was constituted on the 10th of January 1946 and a week later the Economic and Social Council, one of the main organs of the United Nations, was elected and came into being. The Economic and Social Council took as one of its first tasks as a question of implementing the declaration which was adopted at the instance of the delegates of Brazil and China to convene an international health conference. It passed a resolution that such a conference should be called under the auspices of the Economic and Social Conference and of the United Nations. Therefore, I venture to state again that this is a historic occasion because it is the first of such conferences that have been called. I do not by any means suggest, nor would it be proper, that my words should be understood in that sense, that the convening of an international conference of any kind on any subject is an end in itself and satisfies what the Economic and Social Council is expected to do by way of discharging its duties, its responsibilities and its obligations. That is the first step. The mere convening of conferences will not take us very far. Even the adoption of resolutions at such conferences would not make much progress. The manner in which the rapidity with which states ratify conventions adopted at such conferences and even more, the manner in which that ratification is given effect to each individual state organization, by each member state of the United Nations, and as we hope of other nations which will come into the United Nations or at any rate partake in the deliberation of such specialized agencies as may be established. These are the tests by which our work will be judged. These are the results by which our work will be appraised by the world at large. I was telling you of the circumstances under which the Economic and Social Council resolved to convene an international health conference at a very early date. But preparatory work had to be done if the conference were to meet under proper auspices, with a proper agenda, knowing exactly the scope of the work that lay before it. And therefore the Council in its resolution appointed a small preparatory committee of 18 member states whose main task was to prepare the agenda and the necessary documentation to be placed before the conference which has met here today. The committee was asked to meet in Paris on the 15th of March and it is a matter of supreme gratification to the Economic and Social Council that that committee finished its work in record time within less than three weeks and by the 5th of April the report of the preparatory committee was ready to be distributed to the various member nations. I have to state again what I stated as President of the Economic and Social Council at the meeting of that Council. I have to state again how much the Council has appreciated the very careful and detailed work which the preparatory committee has done and how much it has valued the great contribution that that preparatory committee has made to the progress of this health conference. You will have before you now the preparatory committee's report and the various conclusions that have been drawn, the recommendations that have been made by the preparatory health conference. As the resolution of the Economic and Social Council suggested, the recommendations of the preparatory committee came up for consideration before the Economic and Social Council. The Economic and Social Council has made certain recommendations which it wishes this conference to consider. Various individual members of the Economic and Social Council have also made suggestions and the Council has passed down those suggestions for your consideration. There are one or two points on which I should like to lay some emphasis. The Economic and Social Council, in considering the report of the preparatory committee, paid special attention to two important recommendations of that committee. The one was the recommendation relating to the constitution of a World Health Organization, or as some members of my Council would prefer to call it, so as to give uniformity of nomenclature to solve such organizations, a United Nations Health Organization. How this United Nations Health Organization will come into existence, whether at the present time the delegates who are gathered here should have plenty of power to sign the charter that would emerge out of your deliberation, the constitution that would be framed as a result of your discussions, was a point which the Economic and Social Council seriously considered. All the members of the Council were unanimous in the view that as soon as possible this health organization should come into existence. But they were not quite certain whether they should make the recommendation that ratification or signatures should be made now, or whether that is one of the points on which, with, as we hope, the credentials that you have got and the authorizations that you have received from your various governments, you will be in a better position to resolve on the manner in which, as soon as possible and as expeditiously as possible, the United Nations Health Organization would come into existence. Another matter on which the economic and the economic and the economic and social council made certain recommendations, or rather a matter which was considered very broadly and very generally by the economic and social council related to a recommendation that your preparatory committee made on the subject of regional organizations. Honourable delegates who are present here would remember that in the report there are two alternatives, alternative A and alternative B suggested, the committee was not able to come to any unanimous conclusion on the subject, how to fit in regional organizations into a world health organization. Honourable delegates who are present, the economic and social council, the economic and social council, in its resolution, starts by saying that the health organization should be one world health organization, an international health organization. Honourable delegates who are present, the problem of fitting in regional organizations into a health organization, is naturally one of some complexity, one of some difficulty, one on which certainly there can be a variety of opinions. Honourable delegates. Honourable delegates, but it is hoped by all, that whatever view is ultimately taken, the integral nature of the United Nations Health Organization will be kept in view. Honourable delegates, how regional organizations may be made of how the regional organizations may be fitted into that international health organization, what the scope of the functions of the regional organizations should be, and whether they should be connected in such a way as to form one complete organized, integrated body or whether in any other manner the independence of the regional organization could be categorized. regional organizations could be kept up, consistently with the overriding supervisory and other powers necessary for an international health organization, these are matters which you will consider in the course of your deliberations. The views of some of the members of the Economic and Social Council on one side or the other are conveyed in the resolution which they have adopted. But generally the feeling was that you as experts, you who know better than any layman can, how these organizations can be developed, what part they can play and how independence of regional organizations may affect or react adversely or favorably as the case may be, the work of the International Health Organization itself, you must be the judges and you must be the recommending authorities of how ultimately the spitting up of these various organizations into one complete unified texture can be brought about. With having if necessary both the principles in view of independence to some extent of regional organizations and of the worldwide character and responsibility of the International Health Organization on the other. Gentlemen, I do not wish to make any further comments on the resolutions which were adopted by my council or on their interpretation. They are before due to be interpreted by you in the course of your discussions. I would only like to say one final last word. The United Nations Organization has been formed mainly with a view to promoting peace and prosperity, to better the standard of living, to see to it that man is happier, to see to it that man as far as we by organizations can make him so, will have a fuller life, a richer life, a freer life, free so far as physical liberty is concerned, free so far as the entanglement from tyrannies are concerned, free so far as health can assure him that freedom above all. You belong to a profession of whom I need not, regarding which I need not dilate at any great length. Yours is a profession which has long ago ceased to discriminate man or woman. Discrimination based on race, on religion, on sex, these are taboo so far as the medical profession is concerned. There is not one medical man who has not, in the course of his duties, disregarded any convention based on discrimination, either of race or of religion or of sex. And yours is therefore properly the profession which can bring about that universality which humanity is praying for, which can assure for men and women equal status. And this is the beginning of that equal status and of universal freedom, health and prosperity which the United Nations is trying to secure through long travail, through long debate, through dispensations, good and bad, through, and through, with varied success. You will need success. But yours, I am certain, will meet with success. Because your whole profession, through all these ages, has been attuned to work of that character. I welcome you once more on behalf of the Economic and Social Council to this conference and wish the deliberations of this conference all success. I am sure that I will be the one of the one of the ones of the two of the members of the Economic and Social Council. Mr. President, in my quality of President of the Economic and Social Council, and in the name of all my colleagues in this conference, I would like to you to wish the welcome. I am sure that I would like to be the one of the ones of the United States. I would like to ask my distinguished colleague to my right, who has a good opportunity to transmit the message of Mr. President of the United States. If I express your opinion, if I ask your opinion, when I ask the President that you are in place, that I am currently in place, that I am currently in the office of the United States, to address Mr. President of the United States a message of thanks to the one that would like. Mr. President, we are joined today, ladies and gentlemen, we are joined in an historic occasion. Mr. President, we are joined in the first conference of the United Nations Unies. The question of the public health care has been very avant of our concerns since the deliberations that led to the signature of the Pact of the Charta of San Francisco. Mr. President, we have seen that in the moment that it was a question of establishing the economic and social council, Mr. President, we have seen that it was not possible to include in the word social, for vaste that is the meaning of the term, Mr. President, we have seen that in the word social, vaste that is the meaning of the term, Mr. President, we have seen that in the United States, two delegations were presented then, , which of course of the following the websites of the economic and social cake, Mr. President, they were Kryta told us the wholewipe of energy and给我 side. Mr. President, we were then fighting that port ofronome yankees, thenic yap труд, Mr. President, when we realize the coffee and social media is princes, We were now joined at the end of the year 1945 at London and from the work of the preparatory commission which has repris the line of driving established in San Francisco, it is apparent that we could be much more quickly arrive at a goal than we had before expected. It is so that we have let the first suggestion that consisted of a call to the diligence of one of the states members of the United Nations, but that we would leave the Council economic and social, which was planned to be planned to be a brief échéance, the soin to reunite this conference. The things have in effect worked as we wanted. Convoqués le 10 janvier 1946 à Londres, l'Assemblée des Nations Unies procédait sans désemparer à la nomination de ces conseils. Le 17 janvier, le Conseil économique et social pouvait entrer en fonctionnement et c'est à lui que fut confié le soin de réunir cette première conférence. Cependant, messieurs, un tel travail ne peut pas se faire sans une préparation minutieuse. Aussi bien, par la suite d'une décision prise par le Conseil lui-même lors de ses séances à Londres, une commission préparatoire de 18 pays fut convoquée à Paris. Elle s'est réunie à Paris le 15 mars dernier et elle a travaillé avec acharnement et avec un succès complet, puisque dans un temps record, dans trois semaines à peine, elle pouvait le 5 avril dernier mettre fin à ses travaux et communiquer au Conseil économique et social l'ensemble des résolutions à laquelle elle s'était arrêtée. Les résolutions qu'avait prises la conférence préparatoire de Paris ont été soumises au Conseil économique et social lorsque ce dernier s'est réuni ici. Ici, messieurs, je voudrais vous faire comprendre que ce qui importe avant tout pour important que soit la réunion d'une conférence internationale dans le genre de celle que nous organisons en ce moment, ce ne sont pas les discussions au sein même de cette conférence, quelles que puissent être leurs valeurs techniques ou scientifiques, ce ne sont pas les résolutions auxquelles nous arrivons au cours de nos débats. Ce qui importe avant tout, c'est la nécessité d'arriver à une ratification rapide des termes d'une convention internationale sur lesquelles on aurait pu réunir une unanimité. Ce qui est plus encore, c'est point simplement, la ratification, c'est la mise en application même des décisions auxquelles vous serez arrivés. C'est le but ultime, c'est exactement la pierre de touche grâce à laquelle le public jugera la valeur réelle de notre travail. Le Conseil économique et social s'est donc penché sur l'ensemble des résolutions que l'on lui a soumis et que vous trouverez dans le rapport de la commission préparatoire. Il a mis un certain nombre de vœux et d'autres membres individuels du Conseil économique et social ont joint leur propre vue au travail global que le Conseil a fait. Je voudrais simplement attirer votre attention plus particulièrement sur deux points essentiels. Que la constitution de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé, c'est le terme auquel la conférence préparatoire de Paris s'est arrêtée, désireux de donner à l'ensemble de nouveaux organismes un cadre plus élargi encore que le cadre traditionnel des organisations internationales, ou devra-t-il s'agir avec, comme nous l'espérons peut-être, de l'Organisation de la santé des Nations unies. Je crois que nous nous sommes tous tombés d'accord sur le fait de savoir que ce qui importait, c'est d'arriver à mettre debout une convention internationale qui soit étudiée dans ces détails. Une question se posait, c'est celle de savoir s'il était possible d'arriver au cours même de cette conférence à une ratification de la dite convention. Le Conseil n'a pas entendu sur ce point se prononcer d'une façon définitive. Il a jugé en effet que la question ne pouvait être résolue qu'à la lumière des faits dont il n'avait pas connaissance, à savoir quels étaient vos pleins pouvoirs, quelle était la possibilité dans laquelle vous trouviez de pouvoir procéder dès maintenant, au nom de votre gouvernement, à une ratification valable de l'instrument. Il vous laisse bien entendu le soin de procéder à cet examen et d'arriver au résultat auquel vous croirez devoir aboutir. Le deuxième point qui lui aussi est d'une importance essentielle a été souligné par le rapport même de la commission préparatoire de Paris. Il s'agit de la possibilité d'organiser dans le cadre même de l'organisation globale des agences ou des organisations régionales. Le comité de Paris a étudié, le comité en Paris a étudié avec beaucoup de soin ce problème et n'a pu se mettre d'accord sur une solution acceptable par tous. Il vous a proposé deux alternatives que vous trouverez dans le rapport qui vous est soumis. Nous tiendrions tout simplement à vous faire observer au nom du Conseil que ce qu'il ne faut pas perdre de vue, c'est le caractère essentiellement technique de l'organisation que vous allez créer. Que vous jugiez utile de réunir tous les organismes dans un seul, de façon à n'avoir qu'un cadre qui engloberait tout, ou qu'au contraire vous jugez possible de laisser à certaines des organismes régionaux une liberté relative, se bornant à donner à l'organisation mondiale ce pouvoir de surveillance et de direction générale qui est nécessaire pour mener à bonne fin l'œuvre que vous entreprenez. Ce n'est là encore la question que des techniciens tels que vous êtes pourraient résoudre et devront en fait résoudre. C'est entre vos mains que repose la solution. Messieurs, je vous dois ajouter un seul mot. Ce que nous visons avant tout dans l'organisation de la santé, c'est d'apporter notre pierre au bâtiment général de la paix et de la prospérité. Par une liberté reconquise, liberté physique, liberté politique, liberté qui est due à un meilleur état de santé, à une possibilité de mieux déployer toutes les activités. C'est en un mot le but que nous recherchons tous dans l'organisation des Nations Unies. Mais alors que nous rencontrons sur notre route des difficultés majeures, et que peu à peu, nous arrivons à nous approcher pas à pas seulement du but que nous visons, vous appartenez, vous messieurs, à une profession. Pour lesquelles ces données sont aujourd'hui familières, vous n'avez jamais connu de distinction entre la race, le sexe, les religions. Pour vous, les hommes sont des hommes. Vous vous penchez par tradition sur des problèmes dont la solution doit comporter pour tous une amélioration des conditions de vie, une plénitude plus complète de la joie de vivre. C'est une profession qui ne connaît pas de discrimination. Vous avez la chance de pouvoir, dans le cadre qui est le vôtre, arriver dès maintenant au résultat vers lequel nous nous bornons de tendre. Je vous souhaite, messieurs, et pour vos travaux, la meilleure des réussites. Mesdames et Messieurs, M'ont narrower, aniandez, etc. to go to another meeting elsewhere at Hunter's College. And therefore, if you will permit me, I will now vacate the chair. And I would request my colleague, the Vice President of the Economic and Social Council, who is with us here, Dr. Stamper, to step up to the platform and take the chair. Dr. Stamper. Member of Conference, may I ask Professor Henri Logier to deliver his speech? Mr. President, Mesdames, Messieurs, the task that you have to accomplish is a task capital for the future of humanity. For the first time, the Human Human Community, reunite here, is proposed to assemble these efforts, to order and multiply them in a fight worldwide against the suffering, against the disease, against the death. I will not be able to talk about a long speech the moment where you are, with all your heart, with all your heart, to the heart of your health, to you to work. I am simply, and with all heart, to the wish of welcome you were addressed, but, having my part of responsibility in the success of your work, I want to just attire your attention on two points precisely that I think importants. The first is the following. Your conference has a precise objective, and a single. This objective is to establish the constitution, the status, the structure, the mode of functioning of an organization of public health of the Nations Unies. You are all passionate about some technical problems of the cancer, others by tuberculosis, others by rheumatism, by the medical diseases, by the cerebral chirurgical chirurgical, by the epidemiology, by the pharmacology, by psychiatry, or some other specialities. One day, in the next conference, you will have to treat these technical problems with all your science and all the development that you carry in the medical disciplines which are the vues. But today, I ask you to ask you to have present, to every moment of your work, that your conference is a conference constituant, and that, if you have established a constitution satisfying for the organization of the nouvelles, you have completed your mission. And here is a second point. You have a precious guide for your work in the report of the conference preparatory of Paris and in the recommendations of the Conseil Economic and Social. And your project will be submitted to the Assembly. I believe you will remain in my role and express the sentiment of all those who place great hope in the organization that you are creating, in forming the vues that the structures project are precise, but souple, and that they allow, for a future future, and future future, all the developments that make necessary the progress imprevisibles of the science and the authority and the growth of the growing needs of the Nations Unies. In particular, a movement general entraîne les esprits of all those who réfléchissent vers the organization of laboratories of international research dotés of all the materials and personal materials, using at full time the scientists of all countries who work in an atmosphere of human collaboration and the human community and the human community of all countries I fight for many years I fight for many scientists of all countries to take the responsibility of the human community and the responsibility of the research international of this genre. I am convinced, many international experts are convinced that it is a way that is a effective way and, against all the appearance of economic appearance, of the economic of making quickly of the research of the difficult of the research which will continue to be carried out at the national level in all countries. I do not point today in your actual mission of creating these laboratories nor to design these projects but I think, and I think that you will respond to the people's hope if the structures of your organization make possible not only to the action for the protection of the health and the health public health but if they make possible for an future that I would like to be a future the creation in the medical field of this international research the only way that can be able to promote rapidly the discovery against all the great the humanity's great can you in your work be inspired both by the wisdom of the old chefs and by the courage of the youth and by the courage of the youth of the world and the way of the future of mankind the task that now lies before you is of paramount importance for the first time in history the whole of the human community gathered here through its representatives has set for itself the task to unite all its efforts to coordinate and to multiply them them on the level of the whole world in order to launch the fight against suffering, against illness, against death. I shall not by long speech delay the moment when, with all your fervor, with all your devotion to the great cause of health, you are going to start on your work. I associate myself merely, and I do this wholeheartedly, to the welcome wishes that you have been offered. However, as I have my share of responsibilities in the success of your work, I want to invite your attention to two precise factors which I deem of importance. The first is this. Your conference has one precise aim and one only. This aim is to establish the constitution, the rules, the structure, the practical functioning and machinery of the World Health Organization of the United Nations. Each one of you is passionately interested in certain precise technical problems, be it the fight against cancer, against TB, against rheumatism, against tropical fevers, or be it cerebral surgery, epidemiology, pharmacology, psychiatry, or other specialized fields. A day will come in an early conference when you will have to concentrate on these technical problems to set up working programs with all your scientific knowledge, with all the devoted care which you give to your own medical disciplines. But today, I ask you to keep in mind through each step of your work the fact that your conference is a constituent conference, and that if you have established a satisfactory constitution for the new organization, your mission will have been fulfilled. And here is a second factor. You have a valuable guide in your labors, the report of the preparatory committee in Paris, and your draft will be submitted to the assembly. I believe I am not stepping out of my functions. I believe I express the feeling of all who set great hopes in the organization you are about to establish, when I voice the wish that the framework to be set up may be precise but flexible, and may allow in the far or nearer future, all developments made necessary by the impredictable progress of science, and the increasing authority and responsibility of the United Nations. There is in particular, a general trend in the minds of all who think, towards the organization of international research laboratories, equipped with material means, with the highest grade personnel, gathering in full-time occupation the scientists of all countries, who would work in an atmosphere of close human cooperation. For long years now, I have been fighting myself, by the side of many scientists of all nations, to obtain that the community of mankind should take the onus and the responsibility of international research of this kind. Because I am convinced, because many international minded men are convinced, that this is an immensely efficient way, and contrary to all expectations, a truly economical way of bringing rapidly to a satisfactory achievement many difficult research work that are now with great pain conducted on a national level by all countries. It is not part of your present mission to establish today these laboratories, nor to draw their outlines. But I believe, and as I believe it, I say so, that you will answer the expectations of the peoples of the world by setting up a machinery for the new organization that will make room, not only for the measure of protection of hygiene and public health, but make room also in a future that I wish to be a near future, for the establishment in the medical field of this kind of international research, sole capable of speeding up scientific discovery and triumph for humanity's over humanity's greatest plagues. May you be inspired in the work you set about to accomplish, at the same time by the wisdom of the old chiefs and by the creative temerity of youth. Members of conference, we have to appoint now five members to credential committee. Anybody of delegates wishes to speak or to make any particular proposal? Members of conference, we have to appoint now five members to the committee of verification of the power. All members who desire to appoint the parole to his office is inviterable. May I propose the names of delegates to the conference? Please propose the names of delegates to the conference. Dr. Shusha Pasha, delegate for Egypt. And Dr. Piedro Naviera, delegate for Cuba. Dr. Fokin Kupanaris for Greece. Dr. Hilario Lara for Philippi. Dr. Marcin Kapshark for Poland. Dr. Hilario Lara for Philippi. May I ask the gentleman to form this committee under chairmanship of Dr. Shusha Pasha from Egypt. I would like to propose five notes to the conference, the conference of the Commission for verification of the Cuba on the president of the Egypt. I would like to ask the question. Dr. Shusha Pasha, Now we have plenty of time to hear the explanation of Dr. Shisholm, reporter of the Preparatory Committee for International Health Conference. May I ask Dr. Shisholm to deliver his speech? Dr. Shisholm, reporter of the Committee for the Committee for the Preparatory Committee. I would like to ask Dr. Shisholm to deliver his speech in the president. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with a resolution adopted by the Economic and Social Council on the 15th of February 1946, the technical preparatory committee met in Paris on the 18th of March 1946 to draft proposals for the establishment of a single international health organization of the United Nations and to prepare an annotated draft agenda for an international health conference. Sixteen experts in public health were appointed by the Economic and Social Council to the Technical Preparatory Committee. Dr. René Sand of Belgium was elected chairman of that committee. He has unfortunately been prevented by illness from presenting the committee's report. The greatly enhanced importance of international health controls has been recognized ever since the steamship reduced the time of travel between continents below the time of incubation of many diseases. The coming of air travel throughout the world will now largely nullify many of the protective barriers built up against the spread of diseases. No country can any longer depend solely on its own protective arrangements. Each must be assured of satisfactory controls in all other countries as well. In the future, no country nor any group of countries can stand alone in protection of health. The recognition of these facts makes clear the importance of setting up an international organization which could render effective service in safeguarding the health of the whole human race. In addition, this international health organization would benefit all the peoples of the world by promoting extensive exchange of information about medical research, advances in public health administration and practices, and medical education. These considerations, and many others, greatly impressed your Technical Preparatory Committee with the importance of the task assigned to it. As the committee was composed entirely of doctors of medicine, the report is naturally uncomplicated by legal language or political considerations. The members of the committee approached their task from the purely medical point of view. They have tried to put on paper their agreed views of the sort of machinery which would be effective in achieving the purposes and objectives of worldwide cooperation in the field of health. The members of the committee realize that the ideals they have stated are high and difficult, but they also recognize the desperate need of the world for a determined, devoted, and persistent effort to attain such ideals. In this knowledge, they look with confidence to the Economic and Social Council and to the International Health Conference for action appropriate to the magnitude of the problem and the great opportunity for service to the human race. While the draft report is therefore their statement of the ideal goal, they will expect the Council and the International Health Conference to make any necessary alterations in the light of practical and legal considerations. Their high ideals and hopes for the new body are expressed in the unanimous recommendation that it be named the World Health Organization. The report of the committee, which has been transmitted to states members of the United Nations and to the Economic and Social Council, consists of the following sections. One, a brief summary of the events leading up to the meeting of the Technical Preparatory Committee. Two, an historical sketch on international cooperation in health matters. Three, draft proposals for the constitution of a World Health Organization. Four, resolutions adopted by the committee. Five, an annotated draft agenda for the International Health Conference to be held in June 1946. Six, a list of members and alternates of the Technical Preparatory Committee and of representatives of international health organizations who attended the past meetings in a consultative capacity. Seven, the texts of the summary records of the meeting of the Technical Preparatory Committee. I am sure that the members of the committee would have me, in the absence of Dr. René San, one, convey to the Economic and Social Council their sincere thanks for an opportunity to share in the formation of an agency which could do so much to alleviate suffering and to promote physical, mental, and social health in the whole human race. Thank you. Thank you. Conformément à la résolution qui a été adoptée par le Conseil économique et social le 15 février 1946, un comité technique préparatoire s'est réuni à Paris le 18 mars 1946 afin de rédiger des propositions pour établir une organisation internationale unique de la santé et de préparer un projet d'ordre du jour pour une conférence internationale de la santé. 16 experts en santé publique ont été nommés par le Conseil économique et social pour siéger au comité technique préparatoire. Le Dr. René Sand de la Belgique a été élu comme président du comité. Malheureusement, par suite de maladies, il lui a été impossible de venir ici afin de présenter le rapport du comité. La grande importance des contrôles internationaux de la santé a été reconnue depuis que le bateau à vapeur a réduit la période de voyage entre continents et a réduit ceci au-dessous de la période d'incubation de nombreuses maladies. L'avènement de voyages aériens à travers le monde entier va à présent annuler en une large mesure un grand nombre des barrières de protection qui ont été élevées contre ces maladies. Aucun pays ne peut plus dépendre entièrement et uniquement de ses propres dispositions de protection. Chacun doit être assuré que des contrôles satisfaisants existeront également dans d'autres pays et dans tout cela. À l'avenir, aucun pays, aucun groupe de pays ne peut rester seul lorsqu'il s'agit de protection de la santé. La reconnaissance de ces faits démontre clairement l'importance de créer une organisation internationale qui rendrait des services efficaces pour sauvegarder la santé de la race humaine tout entière. De plus, cette organisation internationale de la santé rendrait service à tous les peuples du monde en favorisant un échange très grand de renseignements en ce qui concerne les recherches médicales et également en favorisant les pratiques d'administration de la santé et l'éducation médicale. Ces considérations et bien d'autres encore ont grandement impressionné votre comité préparatoire technique et lui ont fait comprendre l'importance de la tâche qui lui était dévolue. Comme le comité était entièrement composé de docteurs en médecine, le rapport, évidemment, n'a aucune complication en ce qui concerne un langage juridique ou des considérations d'ordre politique. En fait, ils ne pensaient pas que ce texte resterait tel qu'il est à l'heure actuelle. Les membres du comité ont entrepris leur tâche d'un point de vue uniquement médical. Ils ont essayé de coucher sur le papier les points de vue sur lesquels ils sont arrivés à un accord et sur le genre de mécanisme qui pourrait être efficace afin de remplir les buts et les objectifs d'une coopération mondiale dans le domaine de la santé. Les membres du comité réalisent que les idéaux qu'ils ont énoncés dans leur projet sont très élevés et très difficiles à atteindre. Mais ils reconnaissent également le besoin désespéré du monde par des efforts déterminés et persistants pour atteindre de tels idéaux. En tenant compte de ceci, ils regardent avec confiance vers le Conseil économique et social et vers la Conférence internationale de la santé pour en obtenir une action idoine et conforme à la grandeur du problème et à la grande occasion qu'ils ont de rendre service à la race humaine tout entière. Alors que le projet de rapport est l'énoncé des buts idéaux qu'ils attendent du Conseil et de la Conférence internationale de la santé, et qu'il est évident que ceux-ci pourront y apporter tout changement nécessaire à la lumière de considérations de pratiques et de considérations juridiques. Les idéaux élevés et les espoirs pour le nouvel organisme sont exprimés dans la recommandation unanime qui consiste à ce qu'on appelle « Organisation mondiale de la santé ». Le rapport que le comité est invité à approuver a été transmis aux États membres des Nations unies et au Conseil économique et social et est composé des chapitres suivants. Résumé succinct des événements ayant motivé la réunion de la Commission préparatoire technique. Aperçu historique de la collaboration internationale en matière de la santé publique. Projet de constitution de l'Organisation mondiale de la santé. Résolution adoptée par le comité. Projet d'ordre du jour motivé pour la Conférence internationale de la santé qui se tiendra en juin 1946. Liste des membres et les remplaçants du comité technique préparatoire et de représentants de l'Organisation internationale de la santé qui ont assisté à la réunion de Paris à titre de conseiller. Texte des procès verbaux des réunions de la Commission technique préparatoire. Je suis certain que les membres du comité désireront, en l'absence du docteur René Sand, me demandaient de remercier le Conseil économique et social de façon très sincère pour l'occasion qu'il nous a donnée de pouvoir nous associer avec lui dans la création d'un organisme qui pourra faire tellement pour alléger les souffrances et pour améliorer la santé physique, mentale et sociale de la race humaine tout entière. Merci. Merci. Merci. Merci. Merci. Merci. Merci. Merci. Merci. Merci. The confidence is adjourned. The confidence is adjourned.