The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What can we learn from the life and philosophy of Goethe? Goethe was so far ahead of his time in many respects that only in the 20th century are we beginning to grasp more truly what he was driving at. This is, I'm sure, it what the great American poet Emerson said about Goethe when he said, the old eternal genius who built this world has confided more to this man, Goethe, than to any other. And in addition, it seems to me, Goethe offers a positive formulation of a humanistic philosophy which may serve as a beacon in the question of a general comprehensive education in our time. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents transcribed The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, on the 200th anniversary of the birth of the famed German author and philosopher, Goethe, The Reviewing Stand discusses Goethe 200 years ago and today. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the meaning that the life of Goethe may have for us today. At the end of the program, we'll tell you how to get a printed copy of today's discussion as well as a list of books and articles about the subject discussed and Goethe and his philosophy. Now, our moderator, Robert Buchanan, director of The Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Buchanan. This year, the American public has found itself in the midst of a rash of newspaper stories, memorial meetings, magazine articles, radio programs, about Johann Wolfgang von Werthe, the famed German author and philosopher. The first tendency of many of us, and I certainly would include myself in this, is to wonder just why so much attention is being paid to someone who lived 200 years ago. The force of the answer to our question is rather startling. Tell us about Goethe and his importance. The reviewing stand today welcomes C.R. Goethe, chairman of the German department, and Harold Jantz, professor of German, both of Northwestern University, and Helmut Rader, head of the German department at the University of Illinois. Now, Mr. Jantz, you seem to believe that we can still learn from Goethe. Do you mean by that that he still may have presented some ideas that we haven't yet discovered or fully explored? That, of course, would be very difficult to say if we haven't explored them yet. But so much is true that in the 20th century, we are gradually finding out that Goethe made sense where the 19th century thought he was making nonsense. The matter of some of his scientific work is an example. He was an anti-Newtonian. Well, until Newton, the idol, fell, no one had any concept that Goethe might be right. But Eddington and others now seem to believe that what Goethe had to say should bear some weight. Well, that leads, of course, to what you said there, Mr. Goethe, in the fact that you term Goethe a genius, or at least in the words of Emerson, he was termed a genius. Why is he so important to us after these 200 years? Well, you might say he's a universal man. In the totality of his achievement, he prominently reveals a profound understanding of human welfare and happiness. And it's in his works that we again and again, at all ages, at all times, find the potential forces of inspiration and of guidance, you might say. Is this the guidance and the forces of inspiration that you speak of, Mr. Rader, when you refer to Goethe's relation to our educational system today? Definitely so. Goethe cannot be called an educator, and he never claimed to be an educator, but his works, particularly his Faust and his two novels, Wilhelm Meister, deal with the problem of education of man, not in the direction of any particular specific profession, but in the direction of life as an artwork. The results of these two novels are human characters who finally are able to master life, and that, it seems to me, is the value we are after in modern education. Well, the interests of these men seem to surprise me no end. Can we call him a philosopher, an author, a scientist, a musician? Mr. Yance, just what did he do in his lifetime? He really did just about everything. He tried himself out as a statesman quite successfully. He was one of the founders of the modern theater. He engaged in scientific experiment in the field of botany, in the field of physiology, in the theory of color. He wrote biographies and histories. He was interested in practically everything that went on in his day. He had one of the great art collections of, um, uh, that any, one of the greatest art collections that any private man of his day had. But above all, of course, he was a poet. Well, without being at all facetious, I wonder if we shouldn't make clear the fact that the pronunciation of this Goethe, which is difficult for me, is, uh, probably a confusing factor. Here in Chicago, I know Goethy Street seems to be the general pronunciation. Are there others? Uh, what do you hear in pronouncing the name of this man? In our classrooms, we hear nothing but Goethe, because that's what we're trying to do, at least in German classes. Yes, before they come in, they pronounce it perhaps Goethe, and when they leave the classes, they have the correct pronunciation. I'd like to come back to what Mr. Rader said a little while ago, speaking of the mastery of life. I think he touched upon one of the fundamental philosophies, uh, points of, uh, Goethe's philosophy of life, a mastery, uh, of life, which I'm sure he did not envisage as, uh, an ultimate state of, uh, happiness and bliss, nor for the individual, nor for the nation. Uh, but, uh, uh, he envisaged, I think, this mastery of life in, and this is important, in a constantly renewed and never-ending effort on our part to, uh, to, uh, strive for a fuller realization of, uh, life. That is to strive toward a rich and free and creative life, uh, by means of an innate power. Don't you think that, uh, what you defined as the striving for the, uh, experience of fullness of life can be, uh, can be gathered in the term of metamorphosis, of transformation, which seems to be the guiding concept in Goethe's own philosophy? What do you mean by this metamorphosis in his philosophy? I don't understand. Goethe thinks that, uh, nature brings forth many things, each equipped with that form which serves its purpose best. And the purpose is to live, to exist, and to enjoy existence. to lead this full life we're talking about, to, uh, exploit to the utmost the capacities that you have? Yes. However, that could easily be subject to the challenge of selfishness and egotism. I do not think that is entirely the case with Goethe. Uh, that fullness of life that we have been speaking about, uh, would be, uh, attained by creating a life which would be extremely valuable for others. And life in the service of others, uh, is the, uh, fulfillment of, uh, of one's existence. Yes, does he not think in terms of, uh, uh, realization of self-development and thereby, of course, uh, a, uh, a human, general human improvement. And it's a struggle. It's not expressed in the words, uh, of Faust when he says, uh, nur der verdient sich Freiheit wie das Leben der täglich sie erobern muss. Freedom alone he earns as well as life who day by day must conquer them anew. Uh, where would you put the accent? Uh, doesn't it appear that the accent falls on the must conquer it anew? I agree. Uh, I think another example might perhaps be the existence of a plant. A plant, uh, fulfills its own existence by unconsciously following, uh, the laws which have defined and determined its, uh, outer, uh, form. Uh, in contrast to that, Goethe would also conceive of human life as that of a plant, but, uh, to attain this purpose consciously seems to be a daily, uh, imperative which Goethe imposes upon every individual. As I understand it, he believed that throughout each day he should accomplish even the smallest task to the best of his ability. Is that a logical assumption on his philosophy, Mr. Rader? That is right. I think it can also be illustrated by another quotation from Faust, uh, was du ererbt von deinen vätern hast, der wirb es, um es zu besitzen, meaning that, uh, mere inheritance, does not qualify for the possession of goods, but the individual who has inherited has to merit it too by his own actions. And the important thing is, uh, it seems to me that he is, uh, it's, as far as he's concerned, it's sufficient that a person strives, attempts to reach that goal. Think of the, uh, words of the angels, uh, which approve of Faust's, uh, wisdom. Wer immer streben sich bemüht, den können wir erlösen. Whoever aspires unwirriedly is worthy of redeeming. Well, then, if we can sum up this philosophy we're talking about to do the best every day to the best of your ability and live the fullest of lives. I hate to, uh, put Geerti's philosophy in such words as that, but that's at least what it means to me. And to grow every day to continue to develop and to add to the richness and fullness of life. And that Gerti did. Could we accuse Gerti of being a Pollyanna in this sense? Didn't he realize the frustrations, the problems, Mr. Yance, that all of us must face? Yes, Mr. Buchanan, he most assuredly did. He faced many of them himself. In much of his practical activity, he was frustrated by the shortcomings of men or simply by the tricks of fate, the, um, conclusion that he always came to go forward anyway. That is, there is always that in spite of everything. You must surmount those obstacles then. you've spoken, Mr. Yance, about his achievements in the field of science. Just what were some of those specifically, especially with relation to this Newtonian theory that you're speaking of? In his theory of colors, I am no scientist, of course, Mr. Buchanan, but as I understand it, in his theory of colors, he was decidedly anti-Newtonian. And, of course, Newton could not be questioned during the 19th century. He was God in that field. And it is really only recently that his more physiological approach to the theory of colors has been seen to have quite a bit of cogency, quite a bit to be said in its favor. His work in botany has been highly recognized for some time. That stands as quite a positive achievement of his life. His interests in science were general. Do you think, Mr. Yance, that the results of Goethe's theory of color could be employed usefully in modern technology? Coming from the realistic point of view of just what the eye sees and how it reacts to colors? Yes, most decidedly. He anticipated many of the physiological phenomena that are associated with the eye, with vision in the way of color. Well, probably, many of these achievements might have been well ahead of their time, and today, technology has changed so much. Any man who could see anywhere near this far into the future, it seems to have had the qualities of genius of which Emerson speaks. But I'm a little bit confused, Mr. Goethe, about his relation to music, that is, Goethe's relation to music. Was he a musician of note himself? I don't believe he was. Most of his, or at least many of his, poems are set to music by very famous composers, but he himself, although he enjoyed music, Beethoven and others, I don't think he was much of a musician. What do you think? No, he wasn't. His approach to music was that of appreciation. He was, for instance, long before the Bach revival, an ardent admirer of Bach's music at a time when Bach was out of fashion. But as for being an active musician, no. Do we get that impression, do you suppose, from the fact that Guno made Faust into an opera, and therefore we think also of Goethe writing Faust ipso facto, Goethe as a musician? Yes, as a matter of fact, Barbier wrote the words to Guno's Faust and not Goethe. I understand that. Now, well, what about the modernity of this man? We've touched on that a little bit. What was his effect at the time, Mr. Jantz, on others, his contemporaries, some of the poets or some of the authors of the period? Did they pay court to Goethe? Yes, most decidedly. His contemporaries considered him as a leader, but particularly the younger generations that came along as Goethe entered his maturity and reached old age. The Romantic schools looked to him more or less as their leader, and the novel Wilhelm Meister was highly admired. His prestige went far beyond the borders of Germany. He was a friend and correspondent of Byron, and on his last birthday, the most famous living English writers got together and sent him a present together with a letter. Sir Walter Scott was one of the men, Coleridge, Southey, Wordsworth, and about a dozen others. All of them combined to pay tribute to the man whom they considered their master. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.