Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the function of criticism in a national emergency. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around President Truman's request for unity and his distinction between harmful criticism and constructive criticism. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Spencer Allen, Director of News for WGN Television, Douglas Morgan, Chairman of the Department of Philosophy at Northwestern University, and Victor Obenhaus, Professor of the Church in Agricultural and Industrial Life at the University of Chicago. President Truman said this, as you gentlemen know, in his State of the Union message. To quote him, Well, to my thinking, Mr. Truman's position is well taken in the matter. I think that any leader, whether he's the President of the United States or a patrol leader for the Boy Scouts, is entitled to expect unity on a course that's been determined by and for the group. I think that the basic course of action, which Mr. Truman's speaking of, has already been determined, and that in that field we already have unity. That course of action is to oppose and contain communism. And on that I feel certainly we have unity, because I don't recall hearing of any responsible leader or citizen or representative get up in recent months and say that we should not oppose it. Now where we don't have unity is in the means by which that opposition or containment of communism is to be accomplished. Now there we have the administration indicating a particular course to pursue. But even the Republican Party doesn't have unity in its opposition. We have the Hoover, the Taft, and the Dewey proposals. Each different from the administration's course and each different from the other. As for criticism, I think the President is right in differentiating between harmful and constructive criticism and in calling for the latter. Now in that portion of the State of the Union message I can find nothing to criticize, constructively of course. Do you agree with that, Obenhaus? I think the President's request for unity presupposes something that is common to the life of the nation as a whole. His insistence that there are the different kinds of criticism, the irresponsible and the responsible, also presupposes a basis upon which any wholesome criticism would come. And I can't help feeling it if the President would take cognizance of the fact that there is a common basis in American life, call it our American heritage, whatever you will. If our criticism could be stemming from that kind of a base, we could have a unity of the kind that he's calling for. What's your position, Morgan? On the whole, I agree both with Alan and with Mr. Obenhaus. It seems to me we do have some fundamental area of agreement, and our imminent problem is to extend that area. I would question, however, Mr. Alan's formulation of this area of agreement as an agreement in opposition to Russia, for the containment of Russia. And I would like to suggest the possibility, at least, of extending this conception rather more broadly. You see, I still think it's possible for us to find an important area of agreement, however limited that may be, with the Russians, even though I wholeheartedly disagree with their philosophy. Well, I think in this particular case we were speaking about the unity Mr. Truman mentioned in his State of the Union message. I would agree with you in that it would be highly desirable if we can attain that kind of unity, that bespeaks of a peaceful world you've mentioned there, Morgan. But I would also say let's get first things first. I don't think the second can be attained without this first thing that we've been talking about, which is the containment of Russia. I'm afraid this means let's get the war over before we talk about the peace of the world, and it's exactly this which I oppose. Well, the possibilities of the kind of cooperation or mutual understanding that Morgan refers to as Russia depends certainly on something other than simply our force or pressure as we now are trying to give expression to it. If we have a possibility of doing anything cooperatively or working out harmonious relations with Russia, is it not true that we have to give voice to the kind of basic concerns that are inherent, we'll say, in democracy? And because those are integral to our national life, we have to base any criticism of the Russian situation upon our own foundations in that regard. And how would you give voice to that kind of unity, Obenthaus? Through words, deeds, or both? Both. Seems to me that in point four, the whole economic cooperation administration program, the kinds of things that we have done in American history for a great many years, even going back to, let's say, the boxer uprising indemnity refund and all that sort of thing, America has given expression to this so that as we come to this present critical situation, we are in a position to rely upon our own American heritage in that respect. And don't you think also, Mr. Obenthaus, that the very existence of an active criticism in our government today furnishes a working example to the world at large, that we do mean what we say? Exactly, yes. Well, I see no reason then why we must go beyond what we have already accomplished in these past 175 years of our history. In the past, we have set the example through the world on what American motives are and what our heritage and background is. And apparently that even that message to the world has been lacking. But don't you think, Alan, that the smaller nations of the world have some misgiving about America's integrity in this matter, particularly in the light of events, we'll say, the last half century. Not to try to rehearse them, but one one thinks, we'll say, of our continued providing of scrap iron to Japan when the Chinese-Japanese war was on, causes other nations to look upon us, wonder how consistent we are with our own national principles. Well, I could say that these smaller nations of the world could look to others than the United States for examples of that kind. We might look to the formation and the maintenance of the British Empire for 150 years. We can look at the moment to the actions of Soviet Russia. And if they're going to stack our integrity up against, say, with Soviet Russia, or with some of the policies of the colonial nations of the past, that is, the British, the Dutch, the Belgians, I would say that the United States is head and shoulders above the rest of the world in integrity. Now, I take this discussion to mean that you people are in agreement with President Truman when he suggests that we've got to find some unity as a basis for discussion, as a basis for criticism, and that you would seek to extend these areas of agreement as far as possible, that Morgan here would hope that we might find some areas of agreement with our potential enemy, Russia, as a basis for discussion. I take it that you are agreed that there are differences between harmful criticism and constructive criticism. The President makes that distinction. You concur in it. How would you make that distinction, Alan? Well, I would say primarily that the degree or the quality of criticism is determined by the motive of the one who criticizes. What does he hope the end result is going to be? If his criticism results, say, in the tearing down or the destruction of a course of action... But doesn't everybody think his motives are good? How are you going to assess a man's motives? Well, there, I think we have to look into the history of the man himself. I think for an example, we might take the criticisms of Mr. Hoover and Senator Taft last week. Now, we may disagree, some people, with what these two gentlemen said, but I don't think anyone questions their integrity and their good intentions. Therefore, I would say that that is constructive criticism. May I inject what I think is a profound religious insight at this moment? Namely that no man's judgment of himself is to be relied upon. Therefore, if we are to make criticism, it must be of the kind that will stand the objective appraisal or further criticism of others who may challenge our own motives. I think everyone expects that when he criticizes. Now, expand that position a little bit. Let me ask a question, Ovenhouse. Would you regard, in the light of what you just said, purely negative criticism as irresponsible and harmful? Well, any purely negative criticism, if it has no alternative proposal, is harmful. But we would assume, I think, that a responsible critic has an alternative program, something he thinks is more commendable than that which now prevails. If that's true, he is willing to submit his proposal to the kind of scrutiny and analysis that he's asking to be applied to the other. You see, we're living in a national emergency, gentlemen, and our president has made a plea for unity and he suggested that some of the criticism that we're getting is harmful. Now, what I'm trying to get from you here is some basis for estimating what constitutes decent, acceptable criticism of our government and our institutions in these times. Now, you suggest that you look at a man's motives. If he's honest and decent in what he proposes, that's one standard. You suggest that if he has some constructive suggestion to offer that isn't purely negative, that that begins to give you responsible criticism. How do you make that distinction, Morgan? Well, I think when it comes to name-calling and mudslinging as we found in our recent political campaign or to the mere iteration of a dogmatic position as we, for example, find in Malick's position at the United Nations, it is bootless. There is no point to just such criticism. I think, by contrast, criticism which stems from an explicit set of values held in common with the person or policy criticized and eventually suggests or at least may furnish the basis for an implication of a well-conceived and well-considered alternative possibility is useful and helpful. All I'm anxious to avoid is inflammatory criticism. Well, we might get back to Mr. Malick, whom you mentioned there, Morgan. I'll agree with you that many of the things he said were inflammatory. He called names. He threw mud, if you like. On the other hand, from the purely Russian point of view, I would say possibly his criticism was quite successful in that many instances he attained an end which he and his government were pursuing. This is like saying that a pickpocket does a good job of picking pockets. It may be successful, but that doesn't make it moral. I think we can also use the illustration of the McCarthy kind of criticism in the present American scene. We throw this stone at Malick, deservedly, I think. But one has to ask whether in our own national congress and political life we are any freer from that kind of irresponsible criticism in this sort we refer to as McCarthyism. Well, let's take some of these examples that you men have been bringing out here and discuss them a little more systematically. You talked about Hoover's criticism of the administration policy and Taft's criticism of the administration policy. Do all of you regard that as constructive criticism? Alan does. Do you? Yes, even though I disagree with its suggestions. Well, now, why? What values do you see in that? Because it opens up new ways of attaining what Taft, Hoover, and Truman conceived to be held as common goals. Does it lead to disunity? Not any kind of disunity which I would want to avoid. That is, it does lead to disunanimity, if I may coin a very odd phrase. But it doesn't lead to the kind of disunity which need disrupt the free course of a free people. Well, we respect the basis upon which Taft and Hoover have made their observations of the national and international scene. I think neither can be accused solely of partisanship. On the other hand, the very fact that they have made their observations out of a depth of appreciation of the American national ideal or heritage has, I think, given encouragement to a lot of other people to engage in criticism on the same level. Well, I would like to say that if unity is going to fall apart because of criticism, then we didn't have a very stable degree of unity in the first place. I'd say that possibly criticism is the test of unity. While it may not promote unity, it is the catalyst by which unity is attained. And in that sense, I'd say they're quite compatible. Russia has unity. Who wants that kind of unity? Well, now talk about, for a minute, about Malick's criticisms in the United Nations. Do you think the discussion in the United Nations councils generally have provided constructive criticism? I think, as Alan suggested somewhat earlier, our position in the United Nations is morally a good deal sounder. I use the word advisedly. As the Saturday Review says this week, we have by and large the best moral case in the world, yet we are morally on the defensive. I think Russia's position is much weaker than our own on these grounds of value standards. On the other hand, Russia's position is certainly much stronger than our own in the current international situation. Part of this, I think, is exemplified in the United Nations discussions. I think that's true. We do have a good moral case. But events in our own nation and some of the things that we have done as a nation in the world scene have given rise to the world. We have given rise to doubt about our integrity. Now, if we can return our national life to the fundamentals we assume are inherent in our history, I think the rest of the nations would take hope and take some encouragement from our own stand. Well, Obenhous, you speak as though we have departed from something in the past several years in the United States, and you ask that we get back to it. What precisely did we depart from? Obenhous, as a nation, I think we have heretofore in years past proven ourselves the champion of small nations. We have been a small nation. And having outgrown that state, we are feeling our oats. We get the request that this be made the American century and that sort of thing. Well, there is a humility that belongs with greatness. And in the present state of things, the rest of the world isn't particularly confident of our national humility, shall we say. Well, I think you men have been saying in substance, see if I interpret you correctly, that criticism is irresponsible and harmful. It's totally negative, that stems from bad motives, that fails to expand areas of agreement, and it resorts to mere name-calling. Is that a fair summary about what you've been saying? Yes. Well, now, if that's the case, do you think that we ought to try to stop what you would regard as harmful criticism? Should we impose limitations on public discussion in an emergency, the sort in which we now find ourselves, Alan? No, absolutely not. I would make possibly one exception where military security is involved, and even that to a much lesser degree than the military today regards security. Now, does that mean that the American Malik should be allowed to mouth their points of view all over the country? I certainly do. Let them go? Let them go. That is a fundamental American right. If a man wants to sound off, he has every right in this country to sound off. In other words, while you deplore what you regard as harmful criticism, what we've attempted to define as harmful criticism, you'd make no attempt to stop it? Well, then we're going to be getting into censorship, and I certainly do not like that in a civilian society. Do you agree with that? Well, I think in the present period of hysteria, which is less, I believe, than after the First World War, even at that, we are seeing a wave of... ...attempt to curtail all kinds of criticism and many of the things that are integral to the American history or heritage itself. May I use an illustration? Do, by all means. There's the American Legion. They've done a magnificent job, it seems to me, in the matter of extending democracy at the point of race relations. But at the same time, they are fostering or encouraging bills in the state legislature, I understand, maybe I'm accurately informed, that would curtail further exploration of the whole democratic ideal. This, in case, through their support of another Broyles Bill. Now, if we are to have a genuine democratic life in America, surely there must be full opportunity for expression. You can't get the rats out by burning down the barn. Yes, but you can't consistently defeat the Broyles Bill by muzzling the American Legion. No, no, I think it ought to be, as a part of this very criticism here, it ought to be known to us that agencies that are working toward the suppression of other groups are themselves subject to the same kind of criticism. Now, you say you can't, uh, you suggest that we not try to get rid of the rats by burning the barn down. Do you have any objection to measures which would attempt to get the rats thoroughly identified? No. It seems to me, in this country, the FBI can do a magnificent job with that. They have done it. We know where the rats are. But, uh, through such an instrument as the McCarran Bill, or the Broyles Bill, or the kind of thing that California has in suppression or attempt to curtail, uh, communism, or the kind of thing that California has in suppression or attempt to curtail, uh, uh, communism and its university, uh, we get something that's ultimately self-defeating. Of course, the sponsors of those bills would, would, uh, deny that charge, Obon House. I remember Senator McCarran arguing on this, uh, reviewing stand, uh, some weeks ago, that his purpose was, uh, uh, to get the rats identified, to smoke them out, get them out where we can, uh, can see them, rather than to deny them, uh, an opportunity to say what they will. Well, I trust, Obon House, that the, uh, as you have stated the proposition there, you do not, you would not be against the, the criticism of these, uh, subversive groups or communist elements. No. No, not at all. Yes. Well, now, uh, you gentlemen seem to be saying, then, that while certain criticism is, is, is harmful and deplorable, that you would deny to no one the, the opportunity to engage in it. Is that right, uh, Morgan? So long as criticism does not become mere criticism for the sake of criticism, so long as we do not become a mere parliamentary debating society and impede our own effective action when the time for action comes out. Are you arguing, then, for the exercise of, of, uh, personal responsibility? In a sense, yes. I do believe it would be a serious mistake for us to appoint a police censor who will ever tell anyone what he may or may not say. Well, you feel more, then, that it's up to the individual. Uh, perhaps as we had in the last war, I think there was quite a bit of, uh, self-restraint on the operation of the war and the operation of our government, uh, during the war years. Although we had no official censor as such over and above military. The point of criticism, of effective discussion, is arriving at intelligent and well-considered decisions. But having made a well-considered decision and having no new evidence, then I fear for discussion rather than action, and there must be action taken in emergencies. Some people, uh, fear that a climate of opinion exists in this country or is, is developing open house, in which people are, are really, uh, afraid to criticize. Or at least, uh, in other instances, think of it as pretty futile anyway. Now, that's, that's unhealthy, if that exists. Do you think it does? I think it's a combination of fear, uh, of engaging in criticism, and a disillusionment about the effectiveness, effectiveness of it anyhow. May I interrupt there to say that I, I think at that precise point, both Taft and Hoover performed a tremendous service. Exactly. Because they made articulate a great section of American society, whether you agree with them or not. And I, I think, I think many people were afraid, really, to, to voice the kind of positive criticism which those two statesmen, uh, voiced. Well, are we then to, uh, countenance the apparent lack of courage that so many people apparently have in not speaking out on what they believe or what they feel? That they must look to someone else to voice it for them. Well, it seems to me there is a subtle but very definite feeling of, uh, a plague on both your houses. We don't know the facts, and we don't think anybody else does either. Therefore, nobody's criticism is of any value. Therefore, why not suppress criticism generally? Of course, you're describing a, uh, what amounts to a profound, uh, skepticism. Exactly. And if that, uh, if that skepticism exists in America and people refrain from free, open discussion, free, open, uh, criticism, then it seems to me that, uh, democracy's in a bad way. I would say that, uh, perhaps that is in Obenhaus's field there, the field of theology to combat that, uh, that type of thinking, uh, that has produced that sort of, uh, reaction. Would you say that? I, I think that's true. That's why I kept, uh, insisting here that there are fundamentals upon which any criticism and upon which our national life as a whole rests. Uh, I didn't go so far as to suggest I think there are religious fundamentals. But, uh, if we're to have criticism, they, uh, must stand under the kind of judgment that, uh, we assume all human life stands under. Well, now, uh, the, the limitation on freedom of discussion that, that we're most likely to see will come through censorship, Alan. As I, I doubt that we're likely to see any, any direct attempt to, uh, to, to stop people from talking and criticizing. Well, I sincerely hope you're right. Uh, except as it may come through, uh, through censorship. Now, what are your attitudes on that problem? Are you speaking of military censorship or, uh, censorship of the United States civilians, obviously? Uh, first, military censorship. Now, you're, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, television, uh, newscaster. Right. How, how is this, does this military censorship affect you and how do you regard it? Well, it can affect, uh, me both in my profession as well as in my, uh, honest beliefs. Uh, above and beyond military security aspects, I'm utterly opposed to it, such as we now have in Korea. You think we've gone too far with it in Korea? I would say that the, either the Pentagon or the Eighth Army or General MacArthur's headquarters, one of the three has gone much too far in it. Uh, after all, what we want to prevent is information that is helpful to the enemy in Korea. Now, that's been made to extend to morale, for instance. And I don't see how a man can write a story, uh, from, say, Korea, a report on the course of action there without reference to morale. Could I quote a line I saw here from, uh, Robert Ruark's column the other day? He used to be a Navy censor himself, and he later ran up against, uh, censorship as a correspondent. And he says that Ernie Pyle, in the last war, could not have written his now-famous dispatches under a rigid interpretation of the, uh, morale clause. Without honest criticism by the men on hand, even if it does sometimes affect morale or even security, the people who run the effort and pay for the effort, the people back home, are in the dark as to the efficiency of their effort overseas. That's Robert Ruark. I think, uh, McBurney, the recent censorship clamp has only served to deepen the feeling of frustration and disillusionment and the whole matter of criticism or of participation in, uh, national thought. Well, now, uh, and this isn't wholly limited, is it, to, uh, to, uh, military censorship. Aren't we getting, in a way, a kind of censorship when you have, uh, secret, uh, agreements arrived at in, in, uh, political areas? If I interpret, uh, Senator Wayne Morse correctly, he, he deplores that kind of, of censorship. His, his point being that you can't get, uh, competent discussion, competent criticism, if it's denied the facts of censorship of any kind. But that's an old diplomatic custom. That's what President Wilson was talking about years ago, covenants openly arrived at, which we still have not attained. Well, how would you, gentlemen, uh, very briefly sum up your position on this question? What do you regard as the proper function of criticism in a national emergency? How would you state it, Oberyn? Well, I would say it is to bring about conditions consistent with our national ideals. This presupposes a clear understanding of those ideals and frank statement of the methods deemed best to implement them. Such integrity with, uh, a genuine humility is indispensable, both for ourselves and our nation. Criticism thus given contributes to the healing of men and nations. I wonder if we can accept Obenhaus' summary as a, as a statement of which we'd all agree, essentially. Essentially, sure. Thank you for this discussion, gentlemen. In concluding, may I remind our listeners that in two weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year. One hundred years of service to the nation in the great Northwest. The reviewing stand will continue to present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, the function of criticism in a national emergency. Why not send now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin, one dollar for a four-month subscription to the reviewing stand, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Spencer Allen, Douglas Morgan, and Victor Obenhaus. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the subject, America's Role in Southeast Asia. Our guests will be G. H. Dobie, British geographer and faculty member at Raffles College, Singapore, for over 20 years. Evie Espenche, Jr., Associate Professor of Geography at Northwestern University. And Earl H. Pritchard, Associate Professor of Far Eastern History and Institutions at the University of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of America's Role in Southeast Asia. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
