Ladies and gentlemen, we've taken the air very quickly from the Starlight Roof because Mr. Whelan, at the behest of the Lord Mayor of London, says we should reverse the process and hear from the Lady Mayresses. So, Mr. Whelan has just introduced Mrs. Impelletari. So, the Lady Mayress of New York, Mrs. Impelletari, is the first speaker here at the Starlight Roof. Mrs. Impelletari. Thank you, Mr. Whelan. I can assure you this is most unexpected. He did pull a fast one on the ladies today, but the Lady Mayress and I shall try to pull a fast one on him. I did have a speech prepared for tomorrow night, and I deeply regret that I cannot be here to deliver it. However, I think my husband this morning did his official duty in greeting the Lord Mayor and his distinguished entourage. Today, since Grover put me in this spot, I think I shall greet the ladies. Mrs. Lawson, Lady Mayress. That's a title I am not entitled to. I think if I used it, it might develop some political and domestic complications. However, I think that the Lady Mayress of London is well entitled to that title. She's young, and she's charming, and she's beautiful. I'm going to read the last two sentences of what I thought was a terrific speech that I was going to give tomorrow evening. Introducing the Lady Mayress. These are the sentences. As one of the great treasures of English liberty, as you no doubt know, it is necessary for the king himself to ask the permission of the Lord Mayor before he can enter that portion of London known as the city. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the lady who stands beside the man who stands before the king. Good. Ladies and gentlemen, and Mr. Whalen. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, and Mr. Whalen. I consider I'm at a great disadvantage because Mrs. Impeliteri is able to quote from her speech tomorrow night. Well, I haven't made mine, and I'm not able to get out of speaking tomorrow night, so I have to keep my answer to what she was going to say to me and have to produce something entirely out of the hat. Now, we told Mr. Whalen when he told us that he was going to pull this trick on us, we didn't really believe him, and we threatened to murder him. So we'll have to wait and see what happens. I would like to say how very happy we are to be here and how much we enjoyed the wonderful reception we had this morning. It's really like coming home for the Lord Mayor and myself to come to New York, although we haven't been in an official capacity before. We've been many times and always enjoyed ourselves tremendously, and I can see that this time we're going to do the same. I want to thank you all very much indeed for the wonderful reception you've given us. Thank you very much. Well, if I were making an estimate of all the speeches that were made today, the last two of the best. Now we let the male members of the family speak. Our mayor, we've got to do something better for him than a gray hat and a blue suit and other odds and ends of that kind. He doesn't look so hot to me. But anyway, we'll allow him to speak because his wife made a very good speak. His Honor, the mayor of the city of New York, Vincent Impelteri. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Frankly, I think that the ladies have completely stolen the show. I think they did a much better job than either the Lord Mayor and I can hope to compete with. I think the Lord Mayor and I will rest on the laurels we've already secured from the people of the city of New York from what we had to say at City Hall. Well, when Grover referred to the attire of the mayor of the city of New York, I think he was comparing me with the beautiful ceremonial gowns of the Lord Mayor of London. Grover, I wish that you'd take that up with the citizens' budget commission. You know? You see, the Lord Mayor of the city of New York is very economy-minded, and I don't think that some of these civic groups would like the Lord Mayor of the city of New York to go through the expense of these very expensive ornaments that you bring here to the city of New York. But, Grover, if you can arrange it, I'd be very happy to oblige. The closest I came to that, and I explained that to the Lord Mayor, writing up here from City Hall, was that some time ago the Circus Saints and Sinners had a dinner right here at this hotel where some 2,000 businessmen of the city of New York frolicked, and they selected the mayor of the city of New York to be what is known here, Mr. Mayor, as a fall guy. He is the man who's put up on the platform, and they really take him over the coals, as we say in England. And that's the only occasion when I was permitted to wear the ceremonial gowns that the Lord Mayor of the city of New York should wear. But outside of that, it has never happened. And immediately after the end of that luncheon, those ceremonial gowns went out of existence. As I said at City Hall today, Mr. Lord Mayor, the city of New York is very pleased and happy that you and the lady mayoress and the members of your official family have had sufficient time, or made sufficient time, to drop in on the city of New York so that our people could demonstrate to you, through me and through their own applause as you went along the streets of the city of New York, that the people of America, the people of England, and the people particularly of the city of London and the people of the city of New York have so very much in common. We have been traditional friends for a great number of years. We've been friends in tough days, and we've been friends in happy days. We've fought side by side in two of the worst wars that humanity has ever known. We fought for exactly the same objectives. The people of England, the people of America, believe in freedom. They believe in liberty, and they believe in preserving human dignity. In that cause, we have been allies for a great number of years. Today, we are still fighting side by side in an attempt to preserve our ideals, our traditions, and our common objective for world peace, so that your visit to our city today represents the thinking of your people in London and a reciprocal feeling on the part of the people that I represent here in the city of New York. And I hope that you had no misgivings about the type of people that were selected by me to head up the committee to welcome you here to our city. Grover Whalen was the chairman of that committee. It's a good Irish name. Joe Shockey is the president of the council. George Monaghan is the commissioner of police. But even with that background, as Americans, I know that you thoroughly enjoyed the hospitality that was accorded to you and that will continue to be accorded to you during the length of your visit here in our city. I go back personally a long time with your people. In the First World War, I served aboard an American destroyer that operated out from a place that was then known as Queenstown, Ireland, but today is known as Cove Erie. I served then under the command of Admiral Sims, who was the American commander, but under the overall command of the English admiral, who was in charge of all naval operations in that particular theater. During that period, aboard that destroyer, I brought, I helped convoy a great number of American troops to England, to France, and then back to my home port in Queenstown, Ireland. During that period, I had occasion to visit in England, and during one of those periods, when my ship, after a collision in the Irish Sea had to be dry docked in Birkenhead, I came to know the people of England even more intimately. Dating back from those dock days of 1917 and carrying through to the present day, I've always had a profound admiration and respect for the English people. They've demonstrated that to the entire world by the way in which they stood up, almost single-handedly, and took whatever the Germans had to give them in the recent world conflagration and came through with their heads raised high to the admiration and respect of all the people of the civilized world. So in that spirit, Mr. Lord Mayor, I'm happy indeed as the mayor of the city of New York to tell you that we're very happy, so happy and pleased to have you with us. I'd love to spend more time with you. I'd love to have you spend more time with us. But you know the political implications of my job, and you'd be amazed how well the Lord Mayor is acquainted with the political ramifications of the city government of the city of New York. He told me something about the political ramifications of becoming Lord Mayor of the city of London. And after he got through telling me what he had to do to become Lord Mayor, and when I go back to what I had to go through last November to become Mayor of the city of New York, in spite of what I thought was a very difficult job, his job to get to be Lord Mayor, I think was just a little tougher than mine. He said, you know, in London, I had a Tammany Hall to overcome too. Mr. Lord Mayor, greetings from all the people of my city. Thank you. A city which absorbs a convention of 30,000 visiting firemen without even noticing it, a port which welcomes a liner like ours of 80,000 tons, it docks almost among its streets, and yet is treated practically the same as any other commuter, merely part of your normal routine. I was much interested the other day to read the words of Mr. E.B. White, one of your talented editors and writers, who aptly described the great city of New York when he wrote of its ever upward trend, saying, New York is to the nation what the church spiral is to the average American village. It is both an inspiration and a call to faith. Faith both in the power of Americans as a nation and a living faith in the God of all your many, many faiths. Persons, for the most part, sprung from English and European roots. Even, Mr. Mayor, the Triborough Bridge, which I am told last year carried a traffic load of almost 30 million cars, did not bother to mark its recent 15th anniversary. I understand that Mr. John Spargo, the General Manager, explained this absence of ceremony in characteristic fashion. There were no birthday cakes, presents, or ceremonies, as he said, just some more automobiles. When William Penn paid his first visit to America in 1682, he wrote, Oh, how sweet is the quiet of these parts, freed from the troubles and perplexities of woeful Europe. Today, you are face to face with the perplexities not of Europe alone, but of the world. It is to America that the free peoples look for help and leadership, and it was from America that in the form of martial aid, the world was given leadership. In such acts of open-hearted and overwhelming generosity, the influence of a great city such as New York most clearly counts for much. and it is to your city that I, as a representative of the City of London, offer my deep thanks. It was General Eisenhower, himself, an honorary freeman of the City of London, and so well beloved by Britons, who said in our guild hall, kinship among nations is determined by inequalities, intangibles, and intangibles. Liberty, freedom of speech and worship, equality before the law. These are the things that bring London close to the very plains of Kansas and the plains of Texas. And Mr. Mayor, I would like again, on behalf of the Lady Mayores and the Sheriff and myself, to thank you and your people for all their great kindness and an inspiring insight into the magnificence of your wonderful city and the warm-heartedness of all its citizens. And in saying thank you, I would like to express the hope that we may perhaps be honored with the great privilege and pleasure of a visit from you in London so that you may see for yourself the enthusiasm and gratitude of the citizens of London. and now, ladies and gentlemen, in closing, I would perhaps like just to offer one cautionary word to the mayor. I am very mindful of two ladies who went traveling in his native country. And as they journeyed on, rather like we have been doing, they lost track of exactly what town they had reached. And the daughter said to the mother, are we in Rome today? And the mother said, don't ask me, you better look at your itinerary. If it's Friday, you're in Rome, and if it's Thursday, you're only in Florence. So, Mr. Mayor, I wish you Godspeed on your travel and a safe return. And again, I express the hope that we may perhaps be lucky enough to see you, and I thank you most sincerely for your characteristic and splendid generosity. Thank you so much. Thank you, Mr. Lord Mayor, for your inspiring words. We'll adjoin this delightful luncheon and hope to meet you soon again. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary and his lady, Mrs. Impelletary, were host to the Lord Mayor of London, the Right Honorable Sir Dennis Lawson and Lady Lawson, here in the starlight roof of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria. The Lord Mayor of London is a very tall man. He seems almost seven feet tall. I understand he is six feet five, but he looks taller. In his magnificent black robes embroidered in gold and the wonderful chain of the mayor of the city of London with the Tudor decorations coming down from the time of Henry VIII and a chain which was bestowed by Henry's daughter, Queen Elizabeth, and the arms of the city of London emblazoned on the lozenge of the chain. Well, that made him refer to Mr. Whelan's idea that some new investiture be made out for the mayor of the city of New York and the Lord Mayor of London with his inimitable which said, if ever I can be of assistance in making you a member of the chain gang, you may call upon me for designs. The Lord Mayor told a very cute story in City Hall today which would be a delight to the borough presidents of the various boroughs of our city. He says, like most roads, you go so far and then you strike a hole. He said, I was proceeding to a point and there was a large hole in the road and my car could not pass. The laborers working there were three. Two of them above the surface were very much flustered as to how to address the Lord Mayor of London. They worked out several routines all the time my car was standing there and I was waiting to proceed. They hadn't yet quite made out what to call me or how to call me. And then he says, they called down into the hole where the third digger was working and they said, seeing that the Lord Mayor of London sits at Old Bailey and at the Assizes and the criminal courts in London as part of his job, they called down and says, how do you address the Lord Mayor of London? He says, I generally says to him in the morning, not guilty. So that's what brought up the guilty proceeds here at the Hotel Waldorf Astoria at the Starlight Room. Mr. Whalen, at the instance of Mayor Impeletere, reversed the order of the ordinary procedure and utterly surprising the ladies, he called upon Mrs. Impeletere and the Lord Mayoress of London, Lady Lawson, to make the first speeches. Unprepared as they were, Mrs. Impeletere made a most beautiful speech, finally introducing the Lord Mayor of London as the man who stands before his king. And then Mrs. I would rather, Lady Lawson, responded and made her greetings to the people of the city of New York. And so with this luncheon by the Mayor's Committee under the able leadership and organization of the Mayor's Reception Committee chairman, the Honorable Grover A. Whalen, we leave you with the starlight roof with the splendid impressions which the Lord Mayor of London and his lady, the sheriff, and his sword bearer has made on the people of the city of New York. The pageantry that has accompanied this scene here today only brings to our mind that tradition is a very wonderful thing and love is the greatest tradition of all. That's all from the starlight roof. This is the municipal broadcasting system. We join the program now in progress. and the nine booths is a large spot that's the source that we have a very fun of other people in the world and apartment who can either become 있을 or build into a place or floor with be the or thereaker Tour of Government