Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Your president, Colonel Craig. Thank you, Mr. Becker. I wish to welcome you all back to our meetings. I do hope that you had a pleasant summer. As you undoubtedly know, the office of president of this chapter for the ensuing year has again been entrusted to me. Thank you. I want to assure you that I will work continually with your cooperation towards the progress and purpose of our fine organization. It makes me very happy to see this fine attendance here this evening. And I trust it will continue to increase as our regular monthly meetings are conducted. Now more than ever, with world conditions as they are, we must be strong and must be available and prepared to help if called upon to give assistance. We must remember that each member has a personal responsibility. There are a few individuals making important contributions to this organization. This is not sufficient. On that basis alone, we are constructively weak. The responsibility must be continuous and should be accepted by every member. The life of any organization depends on the dynamic individual membership. Each member should bear a share in one or more of the following. First, securing new members. If you recall, on the notice of the meeting for tonight, each member was urged to bring a prospective new member. I would like to see the hands of the prospective new members at this time. That's fine. I believe that Mr. Kossoff, our secretary here, has some application blanks. If you'll see him, we'll be very glad to accept you as one of our new members. Secondly, supporting the chapter by obtaining advertisement for the Transportation Journal. You are all familiar with our fine journal issued by Monthly. And I think that we have placed the burden of securing advertisement on one particular member. I think each member should be interested in supporting our magazine. Thirdly, contributing to the minute articles of our journal, I feel sure that there are a number of you who are literary-minded, and many fine articles could be published by the New York chapter members. If you have any articles that you would like to have published in this journal, if you will send them in to me, I will make every effort to see that they are duly published. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I extend a hearty welcome to you all. The sixth annual convention of the National Defense Transportation Association is being held in San Antonio, Texas, on October 8th, 9th, and 10th. Our board of directors has seen fit to appoint three representative members from our chapter to attend, namely General Estelle, Mr. Al Hefner, and yours truly. There are 26 other members from our chapter who plan to attend. I certainly think this is a fine showing. The Treasurer's report follows. Net worth as of May 31, 1951, $11,950.88. Receipts during June, July, August, and September, $1,765.34. Expenditures during June, July, August, and September, $1,203.90. Net worth as of September 30, 1951, including $6,000 in government bonds, $12,152.32. Membership report. Total New York chapter members as of May 31, 1951, $1,107. Total membership as of 30 September, 1951, $1,176. A total gain of 69 members for the period of May 31 to September 30, 1951. I'd like to remind you that our meetings will be held the first Friday of each month. I wish each of you will reserve that night for our meetings. The next one is to be held November 2nd in this same room here. You, of course, will be notified regarding the guest speaker and the subject of his talk. Before introducing our guest speaker, I'd like to present the gentleman on the desk here. Brigadier General Howard H. Lestale, Commanding General of the New York Port of Embarkation, and a member of the Board of Directors, General Lestale. Rear Admiral John M. Will, Commander of the Military Sea Transportation Service Atlantic at the New York Port of Embarkation, and one of the Vice Presidents. By the way, this is the second anniversary of the Military Sea Transportation Service today. Congratulations, Admiral. Colonel Thomas R. Vague, U.S. Air Force, Port Air Representative at the New York Port of Embarkation. Mr. Anthony Sugar, President of the Jersey City Traffic Club. Mr. Sugar. And visiting the New York to attend a conference, we have with us Captain W.T. Thayer, who succeeded Admiral Will as Commander of the MSTS Eastern Atlantic and Mediterranean, whose station is London, England. Heaven's there. We also had Ray Kirshner with us tonight, but I guess he's left. He had another appointment. He's Deputy of the Undersecretary of Commerce, Washington, D.C. I think he had to attend another meeting. Are there any photographers here? If there are, I wish you'd save your flashlight bulbs until our guest speaker completes his subject. As our guest speaker this evening, we have a man whom I believe all of you know and therefore needs no special introduction, since he is one of our own members. However, I should like to tell you a little of his background, which I feel is very interesting. He began his career in the transit industry in 1915 with the Interbore Rapid Transit Company. Having risen to the position of technical assistant to the president of the IRT, he remained with that company until unification of the city's rapid transit facilities in 1940. During World War I, he was a master engineer in the Railway Engineers U.S. Army American Expeditionary Force, for which service he was awarded the Croix de Guerre and other decorations. At the outbreak of World War II, he was commissioned in the military railway service of the Transportation Corps of the United States Army and served in the European Theater. During this tour, he made many valuable contributions to the war effort. Among these, he developed and carried out designs for special construction LST-2s, which enabled the invading forces at Normandy and elsewhere to carry fully loaded freight cars and diesel locomotives with them in the first beachhead instead of waiting for several months for sufficient space in which to assemble them. He also developed the breather bridge, which made it possible to land this equipment during all 24 hours of the day. despite the 28-foot rise and fall of the tide. For three years, he acted as liaison officer with the Royal Engineers, British War Office, and liaison officer with the Canadians and the Free French. Following the establishment of General Headquarters, Military Railway Service in Paris, he was assigned as assistant to the Director General of Military Railways and supervised the operation of over 50,000 miles of railway in France, Belgium, Holland, Germany, and Austria. For his services in World War II, he was awarded many decorations and honors, including the Purple Heart, the Legion of Merit, the Bronze Star, the Order of Leopold, Belgium, Order of the British Empire, Croix de Guerre, of Palm, and Chevalier of the Legion of Honor. He returned to New York City transit system in 1945 and for the past several years, in addition, has served as advisor and consulant to many foreign governments as well as local officials. In the study and planning of transit and traffic improvements, he holds high posts with the New York State Civil Defense Commission and the New York City Office of Civil Defense. He is a licensed professional engineer of the state of New York, a member of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers and the Institute of Transport of Great Britain. His major assignment at the present time is chairman of the Board of Transportation of the City of New York. It is with great just a pleasure that I present to you Colonel Sidney H. Bingham. Colonel Bingham. Mr. President, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I know you gentlemen are interested in transportation, in a much broader field than civil defense preparations, but I shall limit myself to that particular subject today. Although recent actions of congressional committees may be discouraging to those of us active in civil defense, we must remember that all our armed preparations are civil defense in the broadest sense of the words, and Congress has been most generous to the armed forces. We are arming to defend our civilians and our civilian institutions against the possibility of aggression by an enemy that threatens to destroy them. the administration here in New York City and in New York State, the administration has given a much more realistic view of the situation and has given wholehearted support to our office of civil defense and all its activities. Our board of estimate last month gave its approval to the Board of Transportation's plan for the construction of a 2nd Avenue trunk-lined subway with its branches, a project that will cost $500 million. Our thanks are due them for this action in these times. It demonstrates that they realize the need for this vital additional link in our transit system to enable New York to function even more efficiently in our production for defense. This additional subway link also has direct value with our civil defense preparations. Long stretches of the tunnel will pierce through solid rock and will be available for shelter if the need should arise. actually the advantages to be derived from this $500 million project are threefold. It not only provides shelter facilities and improved transportation, it also ensures us against a period of unemployment during the next six years or more. But I see that I have already departed from my chosen topic, transportation in civil defense. Let me return to that and tell you about our organization and preparations in New York City. Under the mayor, we have an office of civil defense of the city of New York with former police commissioner Arthur Wallander at its head. This organization has been working very hard preparing New York City for defense against enemy action. As you have undoubtedly seen in our local papers, we are recruiting hundreds of thousands of volunteers to man our emergency operating divisions and are planning a public test in November. within New York City Civil Defense Office, we have a transportation division of which I am director. Our function is to furnish men and materials for transportation in case of emergency. We must provide transportation to bring men and materials into a damaged area to aid in the rescue and treatment of injured people and in the restoration of damaged facilities. We must provide transportation to take wounded and homeless people out of an attacked area. We must provide transportation to permit the unharmed people to carry on essential activities. Let me talk about the last point first. You may have seen a British motion picture about a year ago in which a mad scientist threatened to destroy London with some undescribed terrible weapon he carried in a suitcase. The most striking scenes in the picture showed London evacuated as a result of this threat. this can happen only in a motion picture. The British did not evacuate London under continuous bombing and we will not evacuate New York City under the threat of enemy attack. Marin Pelletieri has emphasized that. If we are attacked and hit we will evacuate the injured and we may have to evacuate some of the homeless and the very young and the very old but the able-bodied will stay on and work. New York is one of the most important production centers of the country and the greatest port. To force us to evacuate New York and shut down its port without actually destroying it would be a tremendous unearned victory for any enemy. The most important task of a large part of our transportation industry will be to carry on its regular activities possibly at an accelerated rate and certainly under difficulties. Food and fuel will have to continue to come into the city. Workers will have to be carried between their homes and their jobs and essential plants will have to receive raw materials and send out finished products. We are therefore organizing these essential transportation activities to operate under emergency conditions. Warehouses and outlying areas are being designated for emergency food supply delivery and pickup and emergency cooperative arrangements are being made among shippers and warehouse men. We are fortunate that a large part of our fuel supply is water borne. It is inconceivable that all our water front can be so destroyed that we will not be able to receive liquid fuels and coal. we are making plans to use whatever facilities are available to serve all essential users. The problem of carrying our workers to and from their jobs will be very difficult if many of our power generating plants and subway substations are destroyed. Most of our workers get to their jobs on the subway. The subway tunnels and equipment will probably stand up pretty well under anything but a direct hit. Our power transmission lines are mostly underground and therefore reasonably secure. But our generating plants and substations above ground are vulnerable and without electric power the subway cannot operate. We have plans to use all city buses privately as well as publicly owned in an integrated scheme to serve essential users. We will supplement these with trucks to carry workers. But stopping rapid transit service on any large portion of our lines for any extended period would be a severe blow. people need to keep on the necessary to keep on functioning because it is less dramatic than some of the other phases and the public tends to lose sight of its importance. You and I having been in the war appreciate the necessity of keeping essential activities going. we know that if we are attacked it will be war and that some people will be killed and some people will be injured but all who are able must keep on working until the enemy has been defeated. Rescuing those buried in the rubble of an atomic bomb blast and giving aid to those who have been maimed or burned or irradiated is very important and dramatic but a comparatively short term job. It is going to take us a long time to repair the damage done by an atomic bomb. We must therefore organize our facilities so that we can carry on our essential activities despite the damage. That is why I stress the importance of setting up transportation for essential production as soon as possible. Since we are talking of long term problems it is perhaps in order to describe briefly how an atomic bomb exploded in the air will affect our transportation facilities. Some of you are already familiar with this. but it is an important factor in our civil defense planning and therefore worth reviewing. To start with the railroads essential railroad installations except at the very center of the blast area should not be too badly damaged. Bridges and road beds stood up well in Japan. The U.S. strategic bombing survey reported that in Hiroshima railroad trains ran through the city two days after we dropped the first atomic bomb. A British mission reported that in Nagasaki slow running trains reached the city along the main railway line which runs within 100 yards of the center the damage three days after the bombing. In the built-up areas our greatest railroad problem will be the removal of robble blocking tracks. Signals will require adjustment even if not destroyed and will be rendered inoperative if the power supply is interrupted. Stations and freight houses may be destroyed by blast but we can unload freight into trucks and sidings or yards and transfer passengers to buses if railroads cannot get into the damaged central areas. Buses and trucks are expected to be our most valuable means of land transport within the damaged area. Their flexibility will permit us to route them through the cleared streets and they are not affected by interruption of power supply. They carry their own power plant. In New York City where the waterways touch every borough we will use ships boats scows anything that floats to carry traffic of all kinds. They are not stopped by rubble choked streets are independent of central power and rarely encounter traffic jams. aircraft will be valuable for special purposes for reconnaissance and transporting wounded and high priority personnel for example. Their utility will depend of course on the accessibility of suitable airports. Unless we are hit with widespread simultaneous attacks we anticipate no overall shortage of transportation. Our problem is the old one of having enough of the right kind in the right place at the right time. Now let us look briefly at what may be called the rescue functions of transportation and civil defense. Our first job immediately after an attack will be to provide transportation to the injured. The job is tremendous. The New York State Health Department is using a figure of 160 casualties. 80,000 killed, 80,000 injured from one atomic bomb airbase as a basis for planning. Of the 80,000 wounded, 40,000 will be stretcher cases. The actual number of casualties will of course depend on many factors. The density of population, the time of day, how much warning has been given, and the shelter available. But the planning figures are significant in indicating the size of the problem. No city can cope with such a medical emergency by itself. Our first task will be to move medical personnel and supplies to the damaged area. Almost at the same time, a stream of injured will start moving out. They will move from medical aid posts to the clearing stations and emergency hospitals, then to remote hospitals for longer term care. All these moves require transportation and ambulances, buses, trains, ships, and planes will all be used. I have developed a collapsible stretcher together with a set of straps and hooks which enable us to carry 14 stretcher cases and 23 seated patients in one of our large buses. With these collapsible stretchers stored under the seats, the bus can immediately be converted into an ambulance on the scene of the disaster. We will have 50 buses in New York City so equipped at the end of this month and eventually we'll have 800 of them. There will also be some movement of evacuees, the chronically ill and aged who occupy hospital beds required for casualties, will be moved to remote hospitals or private homes. Some of those rendered homeless and for whom space cannot be found in an undamaged area of the city will have to be taken elsewhere. There will undoubtedly be many non-essential people who will voluntarily leave the damaged city. Rescue teams, firefighters, police, construction, repair and demolition crews and public utility repair repair crews will also come into the damaged city from surrounding areas. But these will generally ride their own specialized equipment and will not call upon us for transportation. transportation. To sum up, the immediate post-attack functions of the transportation division will be to provide transportation into the damaged areas for medical and personnel and supplies and out for casualties and comparatively few non-essential evacuees. vehicles. Then we will have to see that regular supplies of food, fuel and materials of production continue to move and that transportation is available for workers in the undamaged areas. The problem of rebuilding is a tremendous one and a long-term one, but not one facing the transportation division of the Civil Defense Organization. Now, just a few words about our organization within the transportation division. In one way, we in the transportation industry are fortunate. We are already organized for emergencies within our own operations. Transportation is that kind of an industry. It is always being faced with unusual or emergency conditions and must be prepared to operate despite them. In New York City, I have divided the transportation division into industry subcommittees for railroads, buses, shipping, trucking, airplanes, and fixed-based aircraft. The members of the subcommittees are all men in the industry or closely associated with it. they are experts in their business. They can make realistic plans for emergency operations, and they are in a position to carry these plans out if the need arises. The chain of command in New York City has the city director of civil defense at the top, the transportation division director under him, and the various subcommittees under him, orders for transportation during the emergency will go through the director's operating office to the transportation division headquarters. Within the subcommittees, we are leaving as much as possible of the organization and planning to the members. I do not believe that we can establish one pattern to fix all these industries. They vary too much. However, all are doing certain basic things. They are setting up an organization that can function in an emergency and are designating the individuals who will have the responsibility for specific tasks. They are working out standard operating procedures for everyone in the organization to follow in case of an alert or an attack. It will be too late to start telephoning your people to report after the bombing. They have to know in advance where to report and when and what to do when they get there. And since we are working through organized industrial groups, we are not seeking volunteers from outside the industry. Our organization has no place for armatures. If we are attacked, transportation will be the job for professionals. I am sure we can handle it as well as we in the Transportation Corps did in the last war. In New York City, we are preparing for a civil defense test to be held in November. This test has been divided into two parts. The first part, definitely scheduled for the evening of November the 14th, will be a test mobilization of civil defense personnel. On receipt of the yellow or confidential preliminary warning, key personnel will man the report and control centers. On the red signal, which will be sounded on the air raid sirens, air wardens and auxiliary police will perform their assigned duties and then take shelter. On the all clear signal, also sounded on the sirens, mobilization of civil defense personnel will start. As far as the public at large is concerned, it will be merely a siren test. no public participation is required, although cooperation is expected. It is the desire of the mayor and commissioner Wallander to minimize interruption to normal city life at this time. The mobilization of transportation equipment and personnel will therefore be on a token basis. assistance. For example, we in the transportation division have arranged with the medical emergency division of the office of civil defense to have three buses and two trucks report automatically to each of the 400 medical aid station training locations. upon the all clear, no further instructions will be required. General Mangan, whom you all know, has been working out the details, dividing all the bus lines into zones, with each operator in each zone instructed where to report. These vehicles will then be used to carry the aid station personnel and equipment from the location where they have been training to the spot where they will establish the station to treat the casualties. The vehicles will then be available to carry treated casualties to the hospitals in the rear. For the November test, it is obviously impractical to activate 1,200 buses and 800 trucks, and in any event, the medical emergency division has received funds enough to equip only 50 stations. We will therefore activate only five stations in locations scattered throughout the city. Similarly, the police department has requested buses to carry police from the mobilization points to duty stations. A small number of these buses will be furnished. For the remainder, the function of the transportation division in this first part of the November test will be to man its various command and communication posts and prepare to meet any requests for transportation. The second part of the test will be a public participation test. This part will be held during the latter part of November. The exact day and time for this drill will not be announced, except that the public will be advised, that the drill will be held within a stated two or three days and during a stated part of the day. This exercise will start with the sounding of the red air warning signal, and will end ten minutes later with the sounding of the all clear. On the red signal, occupants of buildings will be expected to proceed to shelter areas within the building. The general public on the street will take shelter and remain there until the all clear is sounded. Vehicles in operation on highways will draw to the curb and come to a stop. Occupants will take shelter in the same manner as provided for the public on the street. This public drill, particularly its effect on vehicular traffic, has raised some problems that are not yet entirely resolved. An obvious one is the disposition of bus passengers, discharging them, and preventing them to reboard the bus creates a small but troublesome difficulty. The disposition of the tremendous volume of private and commercial automobile traffic on our highways, tunnels, and bridges will create traffic problems. The subways present a most serious problem which is still under discussion. As a transportation official, desirous of keeping as many avenues of transportation open as possible, I want to keep the subways running. New York is utterly dependent upon the subways. The London subways or undergrounds ran throughout the Blitz, but that means that excess to the subways must be limited to the number of people who can safely be accommodated on the mezzanines and platforms and carried off on trains. On the older sections, we have very little space. We require extensive public education and policing to prevent dangerous overcrowding. At this point, I would like to stress the danger of panic. It is impossible to overemphasize it. While the damage that can be done by an atomic bomb is terrible, it will be minor compared to what can result from blind panic afterwards. We have had several examples of this some time ago in our subway. A short circuit blew a main fuse under one of our subway cars. Not an unusual occurrence, accompanied by some noise and smoke, but entirely without danger. Unfortunately, some hysterical person shouted bomb. Before the passengers could be calmed, some jumped through the windows and started to run across the tracks, and others erect the car interior trying to get out. That is a small sample of what panic can do. There is only one way to avoid panic. That is by giving everyone information of what to expect and by having definite plans for action after an attack. People who know what to do will not become panic stricken, nor stampede upon wild rumors. others. We must do all possible to spread accurate information and participating in our community's civil defense activities. Thank you kindly. Is there any further business to be discussed at this time? Do I have a motion to adjourn? moved and seconded. The meeting stands adjourned, and we'd like you all to join in refreshments in the rear of the room. Thank you. Thank you.