In the year 1910, Andrew Carnegie, a great American and one of the builders of our great steel industry, set aside a sum of $10 million for the Endowment of International Peace and to study the causes of war, which has been the activity of the Carnegie Endowment for Peace in the past 42 years. It has supported the development of international law, international organization, education about world affairs, and all the factors leading into the great concept originally had by Mr. Carnegie. And today, it is culminating again in another branch of the activity with the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, which is located at 46th Street and United Nations Plaza, where we all are at the present moment. And in just a moment now, we will have the privilege of presenting the chairman of today's activity, Mr. Joseph E. Johnson, who is president of the Carnegie Foundation, who will preside as chairman. And now may we present our president, Mr. Johnson. Ladies and gentlemen, our national anthem. Ask lug arape. You may as well fill your energies on its side. Up to the table, which is, Bill. In a moment, Mr. Johnson will reach the cuadri level of honor, which will join the LORD, who can we rep citrika?after there is no reason, you may be the first enemy, but there will never be atрат態 dit on its side. Way to be able to have a ESTASI CARTAN and visit with the European Union. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The United Nations is now under attack from many quarters. I have confidence that it will survive these attacks and will grow in strength. One very important reason for this confidence is the fact that both candidates in the recent American election expressed their support of the United Nations and that the President-elect has since reaffirmed his faith by word and by deed. This building we are in is material evidence that the trustees of the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace share that faith. The building will, we believe, play an important and increasingly useful role, not only in the work of the endowment itself, but in many other ways which will be of benefit to the United Nations and to the quest for peace. But a building and the activities it embraces are meaningless if the spirit is lacking. We of the endowment will, in all humility, endeavor to remember and to help others to remember that true peace is of God, that without dedication to moral values, without the power and the insight that come from the spirit, peace with justice cannot be attained. I now have the great honor to introduce to you Mr. David Rockefeller, Vice President and Treasurer of the Carnegie Endowment. Mr. Rockefeller, whose imagination grasped the possibilities of such a building as this, and who inspired the endowment's trustees to erect it. Mr. David Rockefeller. Thank you, Mr. Johnson. Ladies and gentlemen, it would appear that the advancement of science and technology are never ending, and that the skill of the construction company erecting this, uh, this, uh, outstanding, are outstanding in this regard. I have never before heard of a building that was built from the top down, yet it was in the middle of the summer that many of us here today took part in a roof ceremony. Now we are here again, four months later, to participate in laying the cornerstone. What miracles can we expect? I will recall the first meeting which I attended as the Trustee of the Endowment in December of 1947. The meeting took place at the Washington headquarters, where most of the Trustee meetings were then held. The building was next to Blair House, and opposite the White House and the old State Department building. The site had been selected by Mr. Elihu Root, who, prior to his active association with the Endowment, had been Secretary of State. Little could he or anyone else then have imagined that years later a man who was destined to become Secretary of State also would play a major role in selecting the new headquarters of the Endowment. It is a great disappointment to all of us that Mr. Dulles is unable to be with us here today. That 1947 meeting was memorable for several reasons. Most important of these was that it took place two days after the death of President Nicholas Murray Butler, with whose career the Endowment's history was so significantly intertwined. After the meeting was opened by Mr. John W. Davis, Mr. Douglas Freeman spoke about Dr. Butler. It was one of the most eloquent eulogies I have ever heard about any man. It described what Dr. Butler's leadership had meant to the Endowment for more than two decades. It was a fitting statement bringing to an end an epoch of distinguished service by the Endowment under the leadership of Dr. Butler. Within the next two years, a new chapter unfolded. Formerly, many projects in the international field depended upon the Endowment for financial support. These projects were related to fields of interest of the Endowment, but were not created or administered by it. More recently, other more wealthy foundations began taking an active interest in supporting such projects. This meant that our organization no longer had to set aside such large portions of its income for those outside activities, and could now plan to enter more actively upon the carrying out of projects which it created and administered. With this transition into an operating agency, the Endowment found itself handicapped with one office in Washington and one in New York, and neither one complete in itself. It was obvious that a single headquarters was necessary. It was also increasingly obvious that the United Nations was the major organism concerned with the objectives of the Endowment, and that our new headquarters must be located conveniently near the permanent headquarters of the United Nations. For this reason, it was a natural decision for an organization dedicated to the cause of peace to elect New York rather than Washington, and the sale of the Washington office was the obvious sequel. But the aging building on Morningside Heights, which for many years had been loaned to the Endowment, thanks to the generosity of Columbia, was not satisfactory either as a building or as a location for the Endowment's principal headquarters. The area near the newly selected site of the United Nations was chosen by the Trustees as the most suitable location, and at the Trustees meeting in December 1949, just three years ago, they authorized the purchase of the property on which we now stand. Mr. Wallace K. Harrison, Chief Architect of the United Nations, was asked to draw up plans for the building whose cornerstone we lay today. The headaches and heartaches involved in going from an idea to a beautiful new building like this are best known to those of us who have undertaken such a project. Certainly the necessary sacrifices and postponements in our program have been hard for the staff as well as for the officers and trustees. We would not be having a cornerstone laying today were it not for the scores of men and women whose contributions will be mentioned to you shortly by General Otto Nelson. Since he is a modest man, however, he will not tell you that he more than anyone else must take credit for the realization of our new center. His untiring persistence, his attention to details, and his undying faith in the project have been an inspiration to those of us who have worked with him. I sincerely believe that Mr. Andrew Carnegie, the founder of the Endowment, would share with us our pride in our new headquarters. Even though his gift was made more than 40 years ago, he had the foresight to know that changing times bring changing problems and that the endowment's policies must be flexible. He expressed this in a letter to the first trustees when he wrote, Lines of future action cannot be wisely laid down. Many may have to be tried. And having full confidence in my trustees, I leave to them the widest discretion as to the measures and policies they shall from time to time adopt. Only promising the one end that they shall keep unceasingly in view until it is attained is the speedy abolition of international war between the so-called civilized nations. While I am confident that we as trustees of the endowment have acted in accordance with the responsibilities imposed on us by the founder, our task will just begin in March of next year when we anticipate being able to occupy this building. The building will serve as a symbol for our work and will provide us with the tools with which to carry out our program. To make this new center possible, it has been necessary to devote to it much of our energy and much of our financial resources. Now, as it nears completion, we must turn the full force of our strength and imagination upon the best possible use of the center we have created. It is indeed fortunate that we have so capable a man as Joseph E. Johnson as president of the endowment in these critical years. He and his staff are developing a working program to carry out the endowment's objectives. As trustees and officers of the endowment, we must not be afraid of big problems. But on the other hand, we must focus our program so that we can most effectively employ our limited income. We must think in large terms and deal with fundamental issues. With this magnificent new building to inspire us, may we have the faith and the wisdom to make a country for a long time. We must think of the wisdom to make a contribution toward bringing into fruition the great goal of world peace, which was the aim of the founder. Thank you, Mr. Rockefeller. Mr. Rockefeller has already mentioned our next speaker, Mr. Otto L. Nelson. Otto Nelson, builder. Otto Nelson, builder. For in truth, as chairman of the building committee of the endowment, he has led and sometimes driven the team which planned, worked out the financing for, designed, contracted for, and constructed this edifice. Mr. Nelson. Mr. Thomas Nelson, I think perhaps first it's necessary for me to correct some of the statements that have been made concerning the role that I have played to date. It has been the countless number of people who really have, whose work have thought about the building that we are laying the cornerstone for today. I think, though, that it's appropriate at this time to perhaps emphasize three points. The first is that I'm sure it's the hope and dream of all of us who had something to do with the building. That this building, when completed, will multiply many times the effectiveness of the work of the Carnegie Endowment for Peace. And that somehow in the brick and stone and mortar that are erected here, we will find those aids and those devices, which will make the work which goes to the mind and the spirit many times more effective than it would have been if handicapped by the lack of these facilities. At this cornerstone laying, I think it is appropriate also to recall that this is more or less the halfway mark. And at this time, I think it's especially important to mention the names of a few of the people who've done so much to bring the work to this stage. We begin, of course, with David Rockefeller, because if it had not been for his vision and imagination and zeal, this building would not be where it is today. To Wallace Harrison and all his associates, who it seems to me have captured the spirit of the United Nations headquarters, and in miniature have recreated a part of it here before us. To Fred Severitt of the engineers, and to Jack Hennessy, also the consulting engineers for their work. I scarcely could mention all the people who've been a part of the constructors and builders. Caldwell Wingate and company, in my opinion, have done an outstanding job in bringing the building to the point it is today. And I would be derelict if I didn't mention Mr. Gelder, Andy Fisher, Walter Wilson, and John Paterno, and Herman Brayloff, for all the work that they've done to bring the building to where we find it today. On the job here, we're deeply indebted to John O'Brien. I could go on and mention the names of many, many people, and I hope that in mentioning the few that it is possible to call attention to today. I have not been unfair and failing to mention the many, many others that have played a part. Certainly, Pierce Browning on the legal end, and I might say many of my own colleagues in our own company have, as a matter of their own volition, done an awful lot of work, which I'm afraid I've gotten the credit for, but I can assure you that a good many of the people of the Housing Department of the New York Life Insurance Company have contributed many, many hours on their own time to check up on some of the details that were important. I should mention also the building committee of David Reed, David Rockefeller, Phil Reed, and myself, who've had many, many meetings, and the advice and support that we've had from Mr. Zeckendorf and from Gordon Braslin, our real estate consultant. It is Gordon to whom we're looking to fill the building with paying tenants, so the structure erected here can pay its way and the facilities be used in a way that the endowment can afford to use them. I must say in closing, but again, this is but the halfway spot. And because this building has emerged and gone a little bit further than we first thought it might go, it has cost more money than we first had anticipated. And again, I want to stress the importance that somehow I hope the builders will regird their efforts and that by the middle of March or the last of March that we can occupy the building and then get down to the point where the endowment can use its facilities to carry on their program and where the tenants consisting of other organizations in the international field can begin their work and where, to the great desire of the building committee, I might say, the building will finally get on a paying basis. Thank you, Mr. Nelson. We have now reached the symbolic part of the ceremony which has brought us here together this afternoon, the laying of the cornerstone. In a moment, I shall ask Dr. James T. Shottwell, Mr. Rockefeller, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Wallace Harrison, to join me to the cornerstone niche behind me and help set the stone in place. While we are busy with our trowels, Mr. Leslie Paffrath will tell you something of the items which have been placed in the cornerstone. Mr. Paffrath, the secretary of the endowment, has pulled the laboring oar on the staff in this enterprise. He has rendered tireless and unstinting service. His heart, and I'm afraid some of his youth, are in the building, if not in the cornerstone. Mr. Paffrath, will you please take over? The gentlemen who are participating in the actual laying of the cornerstone now take their places in what is in fact an ancient ceremony. The contents of the cornerstone box also draws its heritage from a tradition from ancient times. It is a matter of fact that in current times we have found in cornerstone boxes from ancient times many items that were then of current interest. It may be, it probably will be, that in some future day, a time unforeseen now, others will draw on this box for the recollections from the memorabilia that we are placing there now. The audience, I believe, will be interested in some of the items which are being placed in the box. There is included, for example, the United Nations Charter in five languages. There are representative coins of each of the United Nations member countries. There is a chronology of the International Center as it has evolved under construction. There is a photostatic copy of Andrew Carnegie's original letter of his gift to the trustees of the Carnegie Endowment. And quite significant to the staff of the endowment in New York City is a key to the door of the endowment's European Center in Paris. The key having been handed for insertion in the box by Malcolm Davis, a long-time associate of the endowment, and brought here several weeks ago. A signed copy of Dr. Shotwell's poem, The Way, will also be contained there, and a number of publications which represent the work of the Carnegie Endowment, work that is the effort and the talent of a number of authors, each conspicuous in their field, men on whom the Carnegie Endowment draws for its results in research. Perhaps future generations will also look to a copy of the Sunday Times of today in Ragged Edition, which has been placed in the cornerstone box. There is an article on the subject, timed by Dr. Shotwell, published some years ago, and a complete collection of United Nations stamps. Also significantly, there are two trowels being used today. A trowel has been adopted for the purpose, a new trowel for this milestone in the endowment's history, and will take its place as one of the endowment's valued bits of memorabilia. In addition, we are brought back in using the second trowel to July 14th of 1923, when as part of the National Festival of France, in the little town of Farnier, there was dedicated Carnegie Place. The year before, the trustees of the Carnegie Endowment had appropriated substantial sums for the construction of a model public square to replace a war-devastated area. The trowel later was presented to the trustees, and is being used here now. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, we, unfortunately, have to pay attention to the fact that we have one more speaker and brief radio time, and we certainly should have that speaker on the air. speaker on the air. The next and last speaker is Dr. James T. Shotwell, President Emeritus of the Endowment, a historian of note and a historian particularly of the great issues of war and peace. I have the great privilege and honor of presenting Jim Shotwell. When on the 14th of December 1910, Andrew Carnegie created this endowment for international peace, no one could have envisaged the problems with which it would be confronted in the subsequent years. In the mind of the founder, his act was not bold pioneering in an unexplored field, but the practical application of the lessons of the history of his time, 19th century history, as interpreted by the most enlightened leaders of political thought, men like Bright, Cobden and Morley in England, Passy and Destinil de Constant in France, Andrew D. White and Elie Herout in the United States. With these men and others like them, Andrew Carnegie was in close, close, personal contact. For the first time, a strategy of peace was being worked out to meet the challenge of the war system in international relations. It was being worked out with notable success in British-American relations by arbitration for the settlement of long-standing disputes. Mr. Carnegie, who had done much to further this movement, was eagerly engaged in the attempt to extend arbitration to cover every kind of dispute, even including those that involved national honor or vital interest. In his letter of gift establishing the endowment, he referred to the efforts of President Clapp to make international arbitration compulsory as, quote, the shortest and easiest path to peace. It was in line with this effort to substitute the reign of law for that of the rule of force that Mr. Carnegie established the peace palace at The Hague for the permanent court of arbitration, directed in The Hague conferences, and the support of which, and of international law in that regard, was the first important work of the endowment. But in the tragic month of August 1914, the First World War began not over justiciable disputes to be settled in arbitration or in courts, but over political disputes. Political disputes, those that read wars, are not on the issue at stake but on what the disputing nations think each might do to the other as a result of the quarrel. After the First World War, the greatest single task of the endowment was the social and economic history of the war, the first effort ever made to analyze the full impact of war itself on the processes of civilization. Out of this vast survey emerged one outstanding conclusion, that war in the industrial and scientific world of today, because of its terrible capacity for mass destruction and its impact on the economic life of nations, had undergone a fundamental revolution, which made it no longer a controllable instrument of national policy. This lesson of World War I was repeated in World War II, and now has been immeasurably reinforced by the weapons of the atomic age. The pioneering work of the endowment in research on the nature of war has been more than paralleled by its support of the organization of peace. Its program centers on the activities of the United Nations, which in spite of difficulties in the world's endowment and dangers remains the world's best hope of peace. The erection of this building to serve as a peace center across the street from the United Nations is the outward invisible sign of endowment support. It should not be thought however that this building will house all its activities, its educational work, reaches hundreds of colleges, its publications deal with the major problems of today, and it is now working on the central problem of all, the nature of the future organization of peace in the light of the history of the United Nations. But what is all this work amounted to in the face of the greatest conspiracy against peace in all history, forcing a cold war upon the West and threatening by actual war in Asia to overturn the whole structure of civilization? The answer lies in the fact, obscured and distorted at the present time, that the forces of science are inherently on the side of peace. They have already made war in Western Europe an anachronism and are creating an interdependent world community. This process will never stop. It is not an interlude in history, but a new direction given to it for all time. The most pressing task of today is to mobilize these forces of science first in defense against aggression. But defense is not enough. The foundations of permanent peace are justice and freedom. I wish that could be inscribed in this stone. Justice as well between, as well within as between nations. The application of that great maxim of the Roman law, that justice is the fixed and constant purpose to give to every man is due. Freedom is the pursuit of happiness under this moral order. The road to the achievement of these ideals is a long one and blocked by many obstacles. The goal to which it leads will not be reached in our time. But blindly or knowingly, humanity is on the march. We must clear the way for it as far as we can. And the sure faith and the inspiring confidence that the cause of universal peace based on justice will ultimately prevail. Thank you very much, Dr. Schott. Now I hope those of you here will join us upstairs in the as yet unfinished international center where we can give you something a little bit warmer than what you have had around your feet. You've heard the kindly words of Mr. Joseph E. Johnson, president of the Carnegie Foundation for International Peace. And he followed Mr. Shopwell, who gave us the purposes and intentions of this building here at 46th Street and United Nations Plaza. This splendid building, which with its modern facilities will offer greater cooperation to related activities to international peace. And the Carnegie Foundation for International Peace looks forward to a new chapter in its long search for pathways of peace and international understanding. This is the municipal broadcasting system. WNYC, the voice of New York City and WNYC-FM. Thank you. Blows data. Trimena. Abrams map 503 señor