The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Do we want the welfare state? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the pros and cons of the welfare state. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the role of government in the social and economic life of the nation. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will make an important announcement and introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. I have an announcement which pleases us greatly. The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand has been selected as the outstanding educational program on the air by the Illinois Federation of Women's Clubs. We appreciate this honor, especially since it comes from an organization whose competence we respect so highly. Our speakers today are Alfred P. Hockey, economic consultant to the General Motors Corporation and mayor of Park Ridge, Illinois, and Maynard Krieger, professor of economics at the University of Chicago and member of the National Executive Committee of the Socialist Party. Now, gentlemen, if we define the welfare state as one which assumes responsibility for the welfare of the people, I think you are agreed that a government which assumes no responsibility for welfare is untenable. And I think you are also agreed that one which assumes complete responsibility is indefensible. Our problem today, then, is one of considering the extent and kind of welfare activities. Mr. Krieger here thinks that we have not gone far enough. Mr. Hockey thinks we have gone too far. Each speaker will state his position, and then we will discuss the issues which these statements raise. May we hear from you first, Krieger? Mr. Krieger. In the last couple of years, the term welfare state has come to be used as a term of political attack. It's a political attack by people who are opposed to specific welfare measures that are now under consideration, primarily by the federal government. It's an attack which is, in my opinion, not based on a political philosophy, but is based, rather, on specific opposition to specific measures. Now, welfare state activities are very, very old. In Andrew Jackson's time as President of the United States, there was a larger proportion of the federal budget actually being spent on welfare activities than has been the case in recent years. I think the problem is one of choosing between different ways of getting things done. There are some activities that we can do better as individuals. There are others which we can handle better as municipalities, still others as states of the union, and a great many others can be handled more effectively as activities of the federal government. But I don't think that the concept of the welfare state requires that it develop into a pure and simple grab bag state. And if in the discussion of whether we do or don't want the welfare state, we can distinguish between the sort of welfare activities that we think a state ought to be involved in and the sort that ought to be left to other agencies or to individuals, then I think we may make some contribution to public understanding on this question. But in general, I take it, Krieger, you are in favor of extending the area of the federal government in welfare activities. I'm quite sure that the area of the federal government ought to be extended, that is, its coverage in the field of welfare activities, that there are specific measures that ought to be added and added quickly that will be called welfare measures added to the activities of the federal government. Now that gives us Krieger's position. Where do you stand, Hockey? To me, it's particularly significant that the United States, the one country in the world which has avoided the welfare state as its development, has nevertheless produced the highest state of well-being for its people, in all time and in all the world. When you compare that with what has happened in England, Germany, and elsewhere, it helps us to understand that the welfare state finally defeats its own purpose through a lower deficiency in utilizing the tools of production. I recognize that the welfare state, which is really socialism on the march, doesn't mean what I thought it was meant some years ago, because then we thought of socialism as meaning the ownership of the tools of production. We've learned that the central government can get its results through controlling those tools without owning them. And so the modern welfare state is one in which the government, assuming a responsibility for the welfare of its citizens, must also take over control of economic life in sufficient degree to control the fixing of prices, the distribution of income, and the spending of surpluses. To me, it's tremendously important that democracy develop more self-reliant men and women. And at bottom, I think those who believe in the welfare state and those who oppose it disagree primarily on their philosophy. The one believes in a collectivism, which will bring about the greater welfare of the people, the others inclined to emphasize more strongly self-reliance and independence. I yield to no man in my ardent desire for the well-being for the people. I'm opposed to the welfare state, however, as the less effective way of securing that welfare and as bringing in its train evils which are considerably worse than those which it sets out to cure. Well, now, just how far have we gone in these welfare activities? In other words, do we have the welfare state now, Krieger? One quick way of getting a judgment on that, Bernie, would be to take a look at the federal budget. I take it that the federal government primarily that we're talking about. Now, if you take a look and see what the federal government's money is spent on, I can see very good reason for calling the present state the military state with military expenditures for 1949 running to around $13 billion a year. I can see fairly good reason for calling it the veteran state. I can see some reason for calling it the interest-paying state, or you could call it the foreign policy state. But in terms of the way the federal government spends its money, I should think that it would be much more justifiable to call it the foreign policy state, the veteran state, the interest-paying state, or above all, the military state, rather than call it the welfare state. And it leaves me puzzled as to why what Mr. Dewey called that clumsy Republican who invented the term actually invented the term welfare state. That's a rather interesting comment, and I think the answer to it, Krieger, is this. Some of us, and myself certainly, call it the welfare state even though a high percentage of the budget is taken up by military requirements and so on. I call it a welfare state because this particular government keeps itself in power. The administration keeps itself in power by use of the welfare measure, by use of the welfare argument. It gets itself re-elected by promising people to do more and more for them with the assumption, of course, or the underlying idea that it isn't going to cost them anything. So I don't believe that your budget will be a fair indication of whether or not it's a welfare state. It may be that after a while we'll have to spend even more on military expenditures because the failing democracy, in one in which people lose faith in themselves and the principles that made them, that kind of a group will start with a welfare state and wind up with a police state. This comment of yours, Hockey, about the present administration keeping itself in power by its welfare activities rather than by those others, I might have some reservations about that, but you're not suggesting, are you, that that constitutes a major distinction between Republican and Democratic parties? I'm not concerned at the moment with distinctions between parties at all. And I'll say to you candidly that our problem is not nearly so much the difference between parties as it is in changing the basic thinking of the people of the United States. We've got to get the people of the United States to stop asking the government to do for them things they ought to do for themselves. As long as they feel the way they do now, it's going to be a little bit difficult to make distinctions between parties. Now, you've made some reference, Hockey, to the size of our national debt in your opening statement. Do you consider this debt a result of welfare activities? No, not so much as it is a result of the war. Of course, the war has been the tremendous factor in building up that debt. But the point is that we're recognizing that debt now under the welfare state such as we have at the moment. We're recognizing that debt as an asset rather than a liability. And Mr. Truman even proposes to increase our purchasing power and make us more prosperous by having more debt so we have more debt to monetize and give more purchasing power to the people. That is the new kind of economics. Well, now, the argument I'm getting at is this. Is the presence of a large debt an argument against welfare measures which might otherwise be desirable? In other words, are you saying this is a poor time to buy a new automobile, a poor time to make expenditures, federal expenditures, because of the size of this debt? Is that the gist of your argument? Of course, you wouldn't expect me to say this is a poor time to buy a new automobile. But I do say that... I thought that might be a sore point. I do say that the... Well, there's a lot of new things to buy, refrigerators and clothing and shoes. I'm talking about federal expenditures, of course. Precisely. The argument against the huge debt is that having so large a debt already, there's greater danger still in making it even larger. I don't say the big debt is the reason against the welfare state activities. It's an additional reason for going slow on them. I don't quite see that, Hockey, because it is true that the interest on the national debt is paid to people who go ahead and spend it just as if it had been tax money that hadn't been taken away from them to pay interest on the national debt in the first place. I should think the primary question with regard to welfare state activities would have to be, are they for their own sake desirable? If they are for their own sake desirable, any specific kind of welfare undertaking, if for its own sake it is desirable, I don't see that the national debt constitutes any reason for refraining from undertaking that activity. And, as a matter of fact, during periods of substantial unemployment, it may very well be that welfare expenditures undertaken by the federal government, which give employment to people, may actually result in an increase in the total amount of production, rather than representing a drain on what people would otherwise have as the standard of living. I'll gladly concede to you that if welfare activities were desirable in and of themselves, if those activities improved the level of living for people and made them better people, then the fact that we have a debt ought not to stand in the way. But, you see, I don't begin with that premise. I begin with the fact, you notice that it is a distinction between the two words, perhaps, I begin with the fact that welfare activities themselves mean a less efficient use of our productive capacities. In other words, to the extent that the federal government uses money to provide for welfare, it takes productive capacity and uses it in that way when it ought to be used to increase production. And the net result is less goods for people to consume. Then I think, McBernie, one question has been cleared out of the way. He's not objecting, Hockey isn't objecting to welfare activities because this country can't afford them. Neither am I. There's no way we can dodge the necessity of facing squarely the question of whether such welfare activities are for themselves desirable or whether they're not. Now, of course, they do cost money. There isn't any doubt about that. But they can be financed either by taxation or in times of unemployment they can be financed by federal borrowing. But there is a distinction we made earlier that ought to be mentioned again, I think. The distinction between the kind of welfare activities that do require substantial expenditure, you can find them in the budget, and the kind of welfare state activities that are of the control type, like the price controls that we had during the war, or like the tariff, which is not an expenditure activity by the federal government, but is a control over economic affairs and a control, by the way, very widely supported by most of the people who are against the welfare state. Let's go back a moment, because after you drew the two of us together, apparently, you went on to another point. I don't agree that it is desirable to spend money through the federal government for welfare. When I speak of welfare activities, I have in mind not the government, federal government, providing this welfare. I have in mind it's far more desirable for people to do it for themselves. In other words, I don't think of a dollar when it leaves Park Ridge, Illinois, as going to Washington and having pups on the way. As a matter of fact, it's smaller when it gets there. I want to keep that dollar home. I want to spend that dollar myself, for myself, and with my neighbor for the two of us. And that way, we're going to get much more for our money than to spend it through Washington. I take it that means, then, that you would like all the roads in the country to be built by cities and states without any help from the federal government? No, I wouldn't like that any more than I would like for the state of Illinois to take on Japan when we come to a war. The federal government does have certain responsibilities. It has a responsibility of carrying on war for the whole country. It has a responsibility for certain interstate activities. When we build a road, that road interests not only Illinois, but also Indiana, Ohio, and so on. And so does education, and so does health, and so does practically every other welfare interest that you can name in a population where people can move freely from one part of the country to another. Now, if you want to tie people down and insist that the people of Alabama shall stay in Alabama and the people of Illinois shall stay in Illinois, then you might say that health and education matters in Alabama don't concern people in Illinois. But I think you'd have to, you'd probably have to train all the germs and viruses to respect those state lines, too. No, I think that you're drawing to a mistaken conclusion there. I would go for example for flood control by the government because the state of Louisiana cannot control what happens up there in Minnesota and can't do anything about it. On the other hand, education, eating, clothing myself, is not a matter that concerns the federal government. We can take care of sanitation in our little town of Park Ridge without having a senator or a chief justice or even the president of the United States come around. In fact, we'll do it a lot better if they stay out. And we can take care of our education without having a federal commissioner of education. You can do it in Park Ridge, I think, for the same reason that Florida, with a lot of people who make their money in New York living down there, would be able to do it. But those parts of the country that don't have such a concentration of people who make their money elsewhere, I think do have an economic relationship to other parts of the country and are entitled to draw on economic support, economic help from other parts of the country in the education and the health of people raised in those places, say in Mississippi, many of whom then do later actually move to other parts of the country. I don't think that people are any more fixed, you see, than the Mississippi River, which does run through several states. So do people. So do health, disease, germs, and so does ignorance, and so does knowledge. I wonder if this question would help clarify the discussion a bit. Hockey, do you approve or disapprove of these welfare measures in principle, that is, in the aggregate, or are you taking your stand on specific measures? But in both, as a matter of fact, no one wants people to have diseases. We want them to be educated, but we want it to be done. We want it to be done in the best and most efficient way. And if one could conceive of a federal government taking the responsibility for education all through the United States and doing a decent job of it, well, that might be all right. Nobody has proposed it, you know. No, but that's the direction in which we're going. What I'm interested in is developing people. As a matter of fact, there was a time when we had pretty poor schools. Out of Kentucky, out of Illinois, out of the backwoods, came some of the greatest people in America. They didn't have to go to New York and Philadelphia and get someone to subsidize their schools. People can read and they can think and they can work even though they don't have all the little furbelows that go with more expensive education. And the closer you bring responsibility to the people themselves, the more likely you are to get things efficiently done. That sounds to me too much like an argument that because Abraham Lincoln learned to read by the light of a log fire and learned to read on Pilgrim's Progress, therefore nobody else needs any electric lights or any other books than Pilgrim's Progress. I think we've got better ways now and we've got better techniques for spreading knowledge and for spreading health than was true in the periods that produced Abraham Lincoln, Thomas Jefferson, George Washington, all the rest of them rolled up together. That's exactly right. That's exactly right. And the reason that we have them so much better is that during these years, the responsibility was carried not by government but by individuals and the reason they're going to be better tomorrow with all the electricity and all the advantages we have today, it's going to be still better tomorrow provided we still keep the responsibility with the individuals and don't turn it over to the state. Take the diesel locomotive for example or take any other great inventions that have come. The reason that we've got them is that we have decentralized determinations on those matters. Suppose someone invented a great machine to make a great improvement. Suppose he had to go to a federal administration administering the railroads. He'd never have a chance. But a man comes along with an idea, a diesel locomotive. He doesn't have to sell all the locomotive companies. He doesn't have to sell the government. He's got to sell only one railroad. That's all he has to do and competition does the rest. Well you see, I think your history there has been somewhat warped by your interest in attacking the welfare state. It happens that the development of railroads in the United States took place heavily under federal auspices and with considerable federal and state financing in them and that was not only true of the railroads it was true of the canals which preceded the railroads. Well now are you... That was true also of the roads. The fact remains that you have never had a single important invention come out of government or even be approved by government. It was George Washington and Ben Franklin that wouldn't even bother to look at the steamboat. The federal government wouldn't have a thing to do with the cable across the Atlantic Ocean. Mr. Grant when he was president held a telephone to his ear and said it was interesting but who would ever want to use it? It's the individual with the individual determination in spite of government control and discouragements who's taken us on ahead. Now how far would you go with this decentralization, Hocking? Do you object to... I take it certainly to an extension of federal welfare measures? Do you object to the state? Do you object to communities undertaking these welfare activities on behalf of the people? There are certain welfare activities that can well be undertaken by the communities. The Mormons, for example, when we had the relief problem, took care of their own people. That is as it should be. In a community where there are neighbors, neighbors should take care of each other. And there's a tremendous advantage in that because if it's done that way, they know where their money is spent, how much is being spent. And the further you get the spending of the money away from the people, the less you get for every dollar that you spend. Then I take it you're saying that in case of another major depression in the United States, if there should be one, you don't think the federal government ought to go in for unemployment relief activities? I think the federal government ought to keep its hands off of raking and re-raking and re-raking of leaves. But how about an answer to the question? Do you think they ought to go in for unemployment relief? I would say that communities ought to take care of themselves to the extent that they cannot, then it becomes a state problem. And the state, for the most part, can take care of it. Our answer is, that, as a matter of fact, Maynard, I don't think is a real question. Our real problem is not to take care of unemployment after it comes. Our real problem is to stop it from coming. That's true, but most of the welfare state activities that have been undertaken have been undertaken because the private economy did not succeed in solving the problem of poverty, did not succeed in keeping up its own expansion rate on new plant and capital equipment and did not succeed in solving the depression problem. So that if you're complaining about the welfare state hockey and defending private enterprises against it, I think you ought to recognize that in large part, the welfare state is the child of the failures of private enterprise and that if you want to reduce, if you want effectively to hold down welfare state activities, your primary job ought to be to solve the poverty problem, to keep the private economy expanding and to solve the depression problem. You're leaving out, of course, the most important single factor in all those situations. The wars. And that is the wars, of course. Right. Your wars distorting the economy no matter what kind of a system you have. A distorted economy coming as well as a war will bring all these things in its train. But how efficient is the federal government, Krieger, in meeting these problems that you're talking about here? Hockey's charge is that they do not do the job efficiently. It's better left to the communities, the municipalities. They do the job more efficiently in some areas and they do it less efficiently in other areas. I don't think there's any general rule that can be applied on that. There's nothing that's automatic about the efficiency of any organization, a government or any private organization. Now, I think government can operate a national social security plan more effectively and with a greater degree of general satisfaction to people than it can be operated by either individual initiative or small fraternal societies. I think government can operate post offices. I think it can give federal aid to the local units in the field of education. I think it can operate in the housing field with a greater degree of efficiency than a private housing industry that's been flat on its back for a large proportion of my lifetime. There are fields in which the federal government can be more efficient. There are others in which it can't be. The federal government would not be the most efficient garbage collector. I think Park Ridge can do it much better. Yes, we do that very much better. There's something left out there, though, as I see it, listening to what you've said. The fact is that when you have control in the hands of government, that control is bound to be exercised by the people for political rather than for the real welfare of the people. In other words, a man wants to keep himself in power, and any administration can get a lot of money to spend, and they'll spend that money to get votes rather than to do good with it. And it's so easy to spend money to get votes. It's so easy to raise taxes without losing votes. And it's the political danger, the political threat particularly, that is a bad disadvantage with this welfare state. I agree, Hockey, that there are political dangers involved in welfare state activities. I think the degree of safety with which we can put the federal government increasingly into welfare activities is directly proportional to the extent to which people take politics seriously. I wouldn't agree with you that a political decision is necessarily a bad decision. Political decisions can be good decisions just as well as private decisions can be good decisions. But if we're going to put the federal government increasingly into activities that involves the regulation or the control or the operation of the economic system, if the federal government is going to assume increasing responsibility for the welfare of people, I think it becomes highly important that we have in mind a set of principles by which such activities can be judged. Otherwise, what you get is the grab bag state instead of a welfare state. My complaint about the present arrangement, what you call the present administration, is not on account of its welfare measures. It's because so many of its welfare measures are simply of the grab bag variety justified only by the fact that some small group wants them and not coordinated with the desires of other people at all. That requires a higher degree of political development than we have had in the past. I agree thoroughly with that. We've got to have a much higher degree of political development which will manifest itself in wiser administration of public affairs and even more so manifest itself in better understanding on the part of the public. Which is a way of saying, however, that as we get this better understanding below and the better understanding above, it also becomes less and less necessary to do the things for which you're setting it up. In other words, if you'll pardon me for bringing it in at this moment, what we call the welfare state or applied socialism, are really going to work beautifully in two places. It'll work in heaven where it isn't necessary and they already have it in hell. That's why it's hell. But now you see you're somewhere in between the two. This is neither heaven nor hell and there's no way you can escape the necessity of deciding what welfare activities you do and don't want the federal government to be in. Now, my impression is that most of the people who criticize the welfare state agree with most of the welfare activities that are presently undertaken and are opposed to those that are now being proposed. In conclusion... And my thought is in conclusion that our primary concern ought to be to build men and women. Their physical being is important, of course. But over the centuries, we want to lift men and women in understanding and ability. And I can't conceive of doing that except through their own exercise of their own powers making their own decisions. I want the welfare state extended. I think the attack on it is an attack on specific measures but the extension of it requires a definite principle by which people can judge what decisions are desirable or not. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion Do We Want the Welfare State? Two weeks ago, the reviewing stand discussed the question Are We Drifting Toward Socialism? You will want to secure copies of these related programs dealing with one of the most important questions of our time. Just send 20 cents to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois and copies of both discussions will be sent directly to you. Better yet, start your subscription to the reviewing stand with these exciting programs. Just say, Start my subscription with the Socialism broadcast. 52 copies of the reviewing stand cost only $2.50. For $1, you will receive transcripts for the next four months. Just address the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Alfred P. Hockey and Maynard Krueger. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will have as its guests three of America's outstanding chemists. James P. McKenzie, director of chemical research with the Copolymer Corporation. Carl S. Marvel, professor of organic chemistry at the University of Illinois and winner of the 1950 William Gibbs Award Medal in chemistry. And H.A. Winkleman, technical director of the Dryden division of the Scheller Manufacturing Company. Our subject will be natural versus synthetic rubber. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Our guests today were Alfred P. Hockey and Maynard Krueger. Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.