From the world's most famous nightclub comes the grandest motion picture in years. It's Sam Koslow's glorious show of shows, bringing you Hollywood's topmost talent in New York's most glamorous cafe, Copa Cabana. Copa Cabana. Copa Cabana. Copa Cabana, starring Groucho Marx, Carmen Miranda, Andy Russell, Steve Cochran, and Gloria Jean. And don't forget those gorgeous Copa girls. It's hilarious when Groucho tries to play tag with the luscious lovelies at the Copa. How'd you like to see your name in lights? Why? Are you an electrician? No, but I've got some good connections. It's side-splitting when Carmen doubts Groucho's love. I don't think you want to marry me. How can you say that? We've been engaged for almost ten years. And wait till you hear Andy Russell singing a whole raft of tuneful, croonful Coslow melodies like this one. My heart was doing a bolero. My heart was doing a bolero. Under the star in Rio de Janeiro. Oh, holding you. I was dazzled and electrified while a tiny little voice inside seemed to whisper, Darling, this is the moment of moments. I don't remember were we dancing. Was it a tango? Or was it a bikini? All I know is my heart was doing a bolero. And you were so close to me in Rio de Janeiro. That was Andy Russell singing, My Heart Was Doing a Bolero, from the picture Copacabana. And now I'd like to... And now, I say, and now, Drez, I think we ought to tell the folks something about the picture, huh? Oh, I'm glad you brought that up, Andy, because I was just going to ask about your role in Copacabana. Oh, Drez, it's not really a role. Gosh, with this ham in it, it's a sandwich. Oh, no, Andy, I thought you did a great job. Thank you. You know, I'll never forget that scene where Gloria Jean is all alone in the office of the Copacabana, and you come in, and then you go... But look, Andy, why don't you reenact that scene for our radio audience? All right, but first I'd better explain about the love story in Copacabana. It's pretty complicated. You see, I'm in love with Gloria Jean, but she doesn't love me. She loves Steve Cochran, and he loves her, but he thinks she loves me, which she doesn't. So he starts making a play for Mademoiselle Fifi, only Mademoiselle Fifi isn't Mademoiselle Fifi. She's really Carmen. And Carmen loves Groucho, and Groucho really loves her, except that when he's around those 14 beautiful Copacos, I... Say, how am I doing? Oh, gosh, I don't know, Andy. Confusing, isn't it? Well, look, Steve and Gloria are right out in the wings, so why don't you three just do the scene and see if it doesn't explain itself? Just what I was thinking myself. Introduce it, will you, Drez? Ah, glad to. The place, the office of the Copacabana. The cast, Steve Cochran as Steve Hunt, the owner of the nightclub. Gloria Jean as his secretary, Anne, and Andy Russell as himself. As we look into the scene, Anne sits at her desk, clipping newspaper reviews about the Copacabana's sensational new singer, Mademoiselle Fifi, while Andy hovers over, offering some romantic advice. Stranger things have happened Stranger things by far Is it so remarkable If we can touch the star This may be just a casual fling Stranger things by far And then again It could be the genuine thing Stranger things have happened This could be the night And this glow around us Could be heaven inside For anything is possible Beneath the moon above Yes Stranger things have happened So why couldn't this be love Oh, sorry, kids I hope I didn't break anything up Oh, no, Mr. Hunt I was just going Don't forget what I told you Say, what goes on between you two? Oh, I have all the clippings for you Fifi certainly is taking this town by storm, isn't she? Never seen such reviewers Sensational Wonderful Stranger things have happened Stranger things Please don't sing I can't concentrate on these clippings Is there anything you want me to do, Mr. Hunt? Oh, yeah, I'm glad you brought that up I want you to go down And order a 12-ounce bottle of perfume And call up the florist And have them send a large box of flowers To our dressing room You certainly have to work hard To make the Copacabana a success Don't you, Mr. Hunt? Not half as hard as it'd have to work If I didn't have such an efficient girl Friday And don't forget about those flowers I have to go down and see about another act Hello This is Mr. Hunt's secretary Please send over Four dozen beautiful roses To the dressing room of Mademoiselle No, no, wait a minute Make it one dozen And Not roses Petunias Do you have violets? Yes? Good Change the order to one bunch of violets A very small bunch Thank you, Gloria Jean and Steve Cochran And now here's my favorite tune from Copacabana Je vous aime Je vous aime A sherry Je vous adore Je vous adore Je vous aime A sherry I love the deja vu's adore. Can't we sing as we sang before? In her eyes was a promise so tender. While her lips sang a song of surrender. That will live in my heart forevermore. Je vous aime ma chérie. Je vous adore. Andy, that's a terrific tune. Well, everybody likes it, Drez. As a matter of fact, we liked it so much that both Carmen and I sang it in Copacabana. Saying, speaking of Carmen, I think it's about time she and Groucher got into the show. Fair enough, Andy. She really ought to be in it twice, in fact, because she's in the picture twice. Yes, half the time she's Carmen Navarro, the Latin bombshell. And the other half, she's Mademoiselle Fifi, the French chanteuse. And in all fairness to our listeners, I think I ought to warn them that I'm not the only one in Copacabana who's crazy about both Carmans. My principal rival is that funny fellow with a mustache and eyebrows, the one and only Groucho Marx. And here are Groucho and Carmen in person to bring you one of their amazing love scenes from Copacabana. The place? The lonely hotel room of Lionel Q. Devereaux, played by Groucho Marx. The time? Three o'clock in the morning. As we look into the scene, Lionel is nervously pacing the floor, awaiting the return of his fiancée, Carmen, who is out seeing the town with Steve Hunt, the owner of the Copacabana. At long last, the door opens and Carmen enters. Remember me? The man you're engaged to? What's the idea of being out with Steve all this time? It's three o'clock. So, Mr. Casanova, you cannot dish or you take out, huh? And you are jealous. How wonderful, how exciting. Let me ask you something. What's he got that I haven't got? Well, he's young, he's handsome, he's strong. Stop. I withdraw the question. Where'd you go? Oh, he took me to a very magnificent, wonderful, exciting restaurant. Bleeding napkins, gypsy music, and I ate as I never ate before. I had a filet mignon. Such a beautiful, lovely, adorable filet mignon. With darling French fried onions? Oui. And lovable mashed potatoes? Oui, oui. Did he try to kiss you? Oh, si, and how? Did you let him? What could I do? I am Fifi the French coquette, and he's my boss. And he's so young, so rich, so handsome. Scared bed, we went through that before. Did you kiss him back? Oh, yes, yes. We better get to a no pretty soon. Where's my hat? I'm going straight to that guy and beat him to a pulp. I don't care if he's sound asleep with his glasses on. But Lina... Don't try to stop me. There's nothing in the world that can stop me. But he's bigger than you. He could kill you. Well, that stops me. Thank you, Groucho Marx and Carmen Miranda. And now, let's do the Copacabana. Let's do the Copacabana. It's tropical food. We'll go to your feet and make you be Latin. That's cause the Copacabana comes directly from the canyons of Manhattan. In the land that gave us the coconut and bananas, In the jungles and the pampas of Brazil. No one there ever has heard of the Copacabana. But they win you. But they win. Look at Senorita Watul and Senor Shapiro. As they swill the rapture, their bombs to capture the ice. They're the envy of all the other Cubans at zero. As they cry. Aye, aye, aye. It is beneath your bandana. It's easy as fight. Just go down and try six lessons or so. You'll be delighted to know You can Copa de Copa de Copacabana You can Copa de Copa de Copacabana Copacabana Ladies and gentlemen, during the past quarter hour, you've heard some of the stars, some of the songs, and some of the hilarious comedy in Sam Koslow's glorious musical production about New York's most glamorous cafe, the Copa de Copacabana. It's the biggest, brightest, romantic musical fun ride of this or any year. So we know you'll want to see this lavish show of shows. Starring Groucho Marx, Carmen Miranda, Andy Russell, Steve Cochran, and Gloria Jean with a gorgeous Copa girl. Yes, be sure to see Copacabana. It's Copacabana. Just another way of saying Copacabana. You can go for the Copa, the Copa, the Copacabana. Copacabana. Gresser Dahlstedt speaking. This program has come to you from the studios of the Beacon Pictures Corporation in Hollywood. Beacon Pictures Corporation in Hollywood.