The Northwestern University reviewing stand. Should prices go down now? The general average of prices should stay where it is now, but some individual prices should be reduced. The real question is whether prices can come down. Declines in the prices of some commodities are called for. However, I am convinced that any substantial drop in the price level as a whole would prove undesirable. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today we analyze the question, should prices go down now? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around an analysis of the main factors determining prices and present trends in prices. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Yale Brosin, professor of economics at Northwestern University. James L. Donnelly, executive vice president of the Illinois Manufacturers Association. And Kenneth D. Ross, partner in the investment council firm Stein, Rowe & Farnham. Now gentlemen, I should like to ask first whether prices have come down appreciably. What are prices doing now, Brosin? In the last year, the cost of living index has dropped between 3 and 4 percent. Spot commodity index has dropped about 15 percent. And the industrial raw material index about 18 percent. Well now interpret those indexes for us just a bit. Well the cost of living index includes the items consumed by middle income families in urban areas and cities. Such items as food and clothing enter into that index. The spot commodity index... Now that has come down. That's come down between 3 and 4 percent. The spot commodity index, which has come down about 15 percent, includes the commodities quoted on most of the great exchanges such as wheat, cotton, rye, corn, those items. And that has come down? 15 percent. The industrial raw material index, which includes the raw materials used by industries such as burlap, rubber, copper, items of that sort, has come down about 18 percent. Do you have anything to add to that, Ross? Well the general price level has fallen only about 3 percent. And it's still perhaps 75 percent above pre-war. Despite their drop, prices of farm commodities remain highest relative to their pre-war position. Well now do you see any particular pattern or trend in this price decline? For example, have these declines been gradual or have they been precipitous? In some cases they've been rather precipitous. Well the general pattern that I see is that the raw material prices have declined a great deal more than finished goods prices. We might say that the declines in cost prices have not percolated through the finished goods price structure as yet. Donnelly? It's interesting to note that in the period since January 1941, the farm prices have increased at a rate of over 152 percent. Whereas manufacturing prices, or the prices of manufactured products, metal products particularly, have increased at a rate less than 75 percent during the corresponding period. And of course many miscellaneous manufactured products have increased at a rate materially lower than 75 percent. Well now that gives us our general price picture today. Our question, as you know, is should prices go down? Now before we analyze that question, I should like to ask how you know whether prices should go down under any circumstances. In other words, Ross, what is a good price level? What factors determine whether the price level is too high or too low? Well I think a good price level is one in which incomes are fairly distributed and in which the price level is in line with the money supply and the amount of outstanding debt. Well a good price level is one in which all the goods that can be produced at full employment can be sold. Well quite aside from those what you might term abstract considerations. It's the objective of all manufacturers in the industry generally as I see it, to produce and to sell the largest possible volume of goods at the lowest possible price and in the shortest possible time. The lowest price at which a product can be sold, of course, stimulates the largest consumption and therefore supplies the greatest number of jobs in the long run. In general I might say the good price level is the price level at which we are now or at which we are at at any time. The idea being that we should keep prices stable. We should not change price levels. Well I think that that isn't an invariable rule. There are some times such as in 1920 when the price level was obviously too high in relation to incomes at that time. Why do you say, uh, Brosin, that a stable price level is desirable in and of itself? That just any old price level is good as long as we've got it? Well a changing price level has two sorts of impacts, both of which are unpleasant. One of them is an impact on expectations. If a price level starts dropping, people expect business to be bad, they begin holding back on their spending, and the result is business becomes bad. Uh, the other impact is the differential impact of price declines or increases upon the distribution of income. When prices start declining, some groups are hit hard and other groups benefit. For example, farmers are hit hard by a price decline while those who are on pensions benefit. I think it's well to point out that in a very large degree the principal factor is entering into the cost of a manufactured product are beyond the control of the manufacturer. For instance, the labor, labor content of the average manufactured product represents between 85 and 90 percent of the cost of producing, uh, the goods and supplies. And taxes represent a very important factor. It's estimated now that taxes require over 25 percent, uh, that they represent over 25 percent of the cost of, uh, of manufactured products. Now, those items are very largely beyond the control of industry. Therefore, the ability of industry to, uh, change prices is very limited. Well, now, mindful of, of Brosen's point, uh, in which you gentlemen seem to concur generally, that a stable price level is, uh, is a desirable thing. Uh, let's look into some of these, uh, factors affecting the price level that, uh, that, uh, Donnelly has just, uh, uh, discussed. Take first our, our national income, uh, Ross. Is the national income sufficient to support the kind of price level we've got now? I think it is well in line with the present price level. Uh, recognizing that this price level is substantially above what we were accustomed to, uh, uh, before the war, right? Right. Well, national income is substantially above what we were accustomed to before the war. Before the war, we had national income considerably below a hundred billion dollars a year. Now, it's considerably above two hundred billion dollars a year. Well, now, who's getting that national income? Uh, take wages first. Well, wage rates are nearly two and a half times what they were before the war, and have not come down at all. In fact, at the last report, they were continuing to rise. The actual payments in manufacturing industries are a little less than they were because of lower employment, but other wages are at a peak. Wages also constitute a larger part of total income than in pre-war years. I think it's quite true, as has been pointed out, that our national income is comparable with that which, in fact, is increased materially as compared to the pre-war income. At the same time, a much larger proportion of the income of the average individual is being diverted to taxes than was true in the pre-war period. Therefore, the money that he has left to buy is not as great relatively as it has been in the past. Well, now, come back to Ross's point about wages. He makes the point that wages are at a much higher level. Does that disturb you at all, Brosin? Well, insofar as we've had increases in productivity which match the increases in wage rates, that doesn't disturb me in the least. Only insofar as wage rates rise much too rapidly relative to prices, more than can be accounted for by the rise in productivity would I be disturbed. Now, explain that just a bit. You're not disturbed about increased wages, you say, as long as productivity increases. What's your point there? Well, insofar as cost prices in general get too high relative to selling prices, we have a situation where the flow of investment funds would be dammed up and we would find national income dropping because a large segment of the source of that national income would disappear. To go on, another facet, obviously, of this national income, in which you, I should think, would be interested, Donnelly, is the matter of corporate profits. Have corporate profits gone up as wages have gone up? I think there's almost a universal misunderstanding regarding corporate profits. It's a common error to figure or estimate profits on the basis of the dollar and cents income of the corporations. We should keep in mind that the cost of doing business has gone up just as the cost of living generally for the individual has gone up. And it's interesting to note that in the eight-year period ending with 1948 that the profit of manufacturers' sales after taxes was less than 6% on those sales. And I think that the profit should, in all instances, of course, including, you know, especially of the inflationary spiral that we've been contending with in recent years, should be related to sales. The profits have come down from 20 to 25% from last year and now constitute a smaller part of income than in either 1929 or 1941 our previous boom years. I'd like to point out also that in the last, what you might term, pre-war period, that is from 1936 to 1939, a period which, incidentally, I think is likely to be more comparable with the period from now on and has this inflationary period to which we've been going in the last eight years. And during that period of three years, that 60% of all the manufacturing corporations operated at a loss. Do you have any reaction to that, Ross? No, I think that the profits should be on a higher level now because business is much better. But as I said before, corporate profits at the present time constitute a smaller share of the total than they have in previous boom periods. Well, let's take a look at another income earning group. How about the farmers? How are they doing, Brosnan? The farmers are receiving a larger share of income than pre-war, although the share has been declining in the last year. A week ago on this reviewing stand broadcast, I remember our speakers were in general favor of some kind of government support for farm prices that would give the farmers a larger cut of the national income. I'd like to say something upon that subject. It's interesting to note that during the year 1948 that our federal government spent over two and one third billion dollars in farm subsidies. And to date in 1949, that is up to October the 8th, 1949, the federal government had allocated four and three quarter billion dollars for that same purpose. Of course, it's in precisely this area that we need some price declines. We have such commodities as eggs, cotton, and potatoes whose prices are now so high that consumers are not buying all those commodities that are being produced. The government is having to buy a large share of them and put them in storage to keep the price up. I think it's also well to note that when the government keeps up the prices of farm products artificially by the subsidy method, that these things result. In the first place, you impose a very serious burden, tax burden, on the people generally to support those prices. In the second place, you, by increasing those prices or keeping them up artificially, you make it impossible for those persons who buy those commodities to use as much money as they could, use as large a proportion of their income as they should, to buy other products, and particularly the products of manufacturing industry. Because of the high level of farm prices and those particular commodities at this point, we've said that consumers are not buying as much as is available. If those prices were reduced, it'd have two beneficial influences. One would be that the lower price of being consumers would buy more of those commodities, so we wouldn't have to waste so much by plowing them under, so to speak. And the other beneficial influence would be that we would not be adding more capital and more land to produce more cotton simply to put into storage. When we consider farm income, I think we should also consider the fact that the number of farmers has dropped, whereas the population and the number of other workers have risen. Well now, in relation to our national income, we've discussed wages, corporate profits, and farm income. What's happening to savings, Ross? Savings are lower than they were six months ago, but consumers are still saving a fairly good proportion of their incomes. Have our wartime savings been used up pretty largely? The consumers during war years accumulated a large backlog of idle funds, of money they received but couldn't spend because of rationing or didn't want to spend until products became available if they wanted to buy. A large part of those has been dissipated, but we still have a large amount of idle bank deposits and idle cash being held, which could still maintain a fairly high price level. It's well to note, I think, in connection with the subject of individual savings, that during the period from 1920 through 1930, which was the period of the largest industrial expansion, I believe, prior to the abnormal period during the war, that the capital issues during that period averaged over six billion dollars a year. Whereas, commencing with the period 1933 through 1945, that capital issues were less than one half million dollars, one half billion dollars per year, showing, of course, that a very large proportion of the income which formerly went to people in the form of savings, and which was invested in corporate issues, has now been diverted to the government in the form of taxes. For savings are important only insofar as people make decisions as to what to do with those savings, that is important in relation to the price level. If people decide to hoard their savings, that may cause pressure downward on the price level. If, however, people invest savings in the manner in which you've suggested here, that is, buying the new issues of corporations, and these corporations in turn use those funds to add to plant capacity or to inventory, then those go back into circulation and serve to maintain the price level. Donnelly's point about investment in industry raises the second factor affecting prices that I'd like to discuss. We've been talking up to this point about national income. Now, how about production? You seem to deplore the fact that less money is going, is being invested on the part of individuals in industry. Am I correct in that? That's correct. Well, I'd like to ask you this question, Mr. Donnelly. Don't you think that we're in danger of some over-expansion in industry, over-production? I'm mindful of what happened after the last World War, when we had this boom, industry expanded, and then everything folded up on us. No. We went into a tailspin. I don't think we should worry about what you might term normal expansion or over-expansion or over-production. Generally, if you let the supply, law of supply and demand operate without a lot of unnecessary governmental interference, the question of over-expansion and over-production is automatically taken care of. In my opinion, I mean, I think that if prices become too high, production will go down. On the other hand, if prices are reduced properly, why, production is increased. I think those things regulate themselves. Yes, Rose? I'm not worried about over-production because, to me, that simply means that there will be more goods for all of us to consume. I've never yet seen a situation such that we have more than enough of all goods for serving all the purposes we'd like to use them for. The over-production, or what seemed to be over-production that we saw after the First World War, was largely a price-income phenomenon. That is, prices were high relative to income, and as a consequence, people were not able to buy all the goods that could be produced at full employment. Now, by reducing prices, or by increasing income, what seemed to be over-production was made to vanish. And you think we're not going to experience that this time? We may experience what looks like over-production particular lines, that is, particular industries may find it difficult to sell their product in a utilizing full capacity at a price that pays cost. But that simply means that somewhere else we're under-producing. What is production doing now, Ross? Uh, production has recovered from the low point reached in July. Do you think the output per worker is increasing? Unquestionably, the output per worker has gone up. I estimate that it is now about 35% higher than it was before the war. However, the gain since the end of the war has, in my estimation, been somewhat disappointing. The gain, I think, has been only about 8% since 1941. Well, now let's relate what you just said about the output per worker increasing, to your earlier position about wages going up. If the output per worker is increasing, shouldn't we expect wages to go up and approve it? Wages have gone up since pre-war years by more than 100%, while prices have gone up only about 70%, which means that workers are getting a larger real income than in pre-war years. Now, that is the consequence of this increased productivity. And also a larger share of the total income than they did before the war. Yeah. I don't think that the worker is entitled to the entire increase in productivity, because capital additions have count for a good share of that. And then the very fact that production itself is high means that productivity is high. In connection with this relationship between wage increases and price increases, I think you'd be interested to have this experience of a very representative Illinois corporation. In the period since January 1, 1941 through 48, wages paid in that industry have increased at the rate of 92 and 6 tenths percent, whereas the prices of the product that that company makes and sells have increased at the rate of 60%. And I think that's fairly comparable with the relationship between wage increases and price increases during the past several years. Let's look, if we may then, at a third factor affecting prices, demand. We've talked about our national income. We've talked about production. What is demand doing? Is there a pretty steady demand for the things that the Illinois manufacturers and others are producing, for the things that the farmers are producing, Ross? Demand is very good. Consumer demand is high. Construction activity is spurted. Demand for other capital goods is still holding up, although it may appear to be on the verge of a decline. Governmental spending is about stationary, but will expand when the insurance refund is made. I'd expect demand to grow even stronger in the coming year, insofar as the government seems to be running about a $5 billion deficit at this time, and it is following easy money policies and financing that deficit. That is, it is creating the money to pay the deficit, and that is adding to the amount consumers have available for expenditure. Now, throughout this discussion, you gentlemen have been referring to governmental policies. I take it that those policies are a factor of considerable importance, so far as price is concerned. Am I right in that, Ross? There's no question that that is the fact. Farm supports have been important. Stockpiling is important. Foreign aid is important. Aid to housing is important. In general, the philosophy of government now seems to be to do whatever is necessary financially to prevent any unemployment. Insofar as labor unions shove wage rates to higher levels which might cause unemployment, the government immediately steps into the picture by pumping more money into the system to maintain demand at a level such that no unemployment results. The consequence of that may be a race between the monetary authorities pumping out more money to prevent unemployment and the union shoving up wage rates. I'd like to comment upon that subject with particular reference to two phases of government policies. One has to do with taxes and the other has to do with this current situation relating to pensions. I've already stated, I believe, that over 25% of the national income was represented by taxes, either direct or indirect. Let me relate that to several specific items. For instance, in the price of a loaf of bread, five cents is taxes. Here's a refrigerator which costs $225. $75 of that is represented by taxes. Here's a man that pays a rent bill of $60 a month. $20 of that is taxes. Here's a lady that goes down to buy a pair of baby shoes that costs, say, $3. $1 of that cost is taxes. But, Donnelly, you imply there that high taxes mean high prices. I would think almost the opposite of that. That insofar as we maintain government expenditures at a high level, if we have low taxes, that means that the government will be creating a great deal of money to finance that deficit, and that will cause inflation in higher prices. Only insofar as we maintain taxes at a level which will cover the expenditures of government can we avoid inflation. Well, whenever you take a considerable portion of an individual's income away from him, whenever the government takes it away in the form of taxes, then he has that much less to spend for the things that he needs. And thereby, he cuts down the demand for that article, and he cuts down the cost of production of that article. I mean, he increases the cost of production. That all is reflected in increased prices, is it not? You had a second point you wanted to make there, Donnelly. This other question relates to this current issue that's going on in the several strikes that we're so familiar with in relation to pensions. Uh, the, uh, this issue, for instance, that's going on in coal and steel at the present time is essentially a struggle between giant labor union monopolies. Now, we all know that for a good many years, John L. Lewis has been turning on and off at will the nation's coal production, and has rung from the public a series of special benefits and pensions, which have added materially to the cost of coal. It's well to note, I think, that during this period, not exclusively as a result of these demands for pensions and other special benefits, but on account of the pattern which has been set in the coal industry, that the consumption of coal during the last twenty years has remained the same. I mean, there's just about the same amount of coal consumed now that's being controlled at that time, whereas the, the increase in the consumption of petroleum and national gas and electric power has tripled during that same period. Employment is down one-fourth in the coal industry, whereas factory employment generally during this same period has gone up one-half, and prices, and that's the important thing. The price of coal during this period has doubled, whereas the price of these articles which have moved in and taken over the supply of coal, like gas and electricity, are down considerably during that period. Now, you make the, you make the point that if our economy generally is going to guarantee, through its government, pensions for workers, that we can, can anticipate higher prices? Yes, and let me give you just a practical illustration. If this pattern that has been, uh, demanded by the unions, and which has been apparently approved by the so-called steel fact-finding board, but in relation to pensions, which contemplates the employer paying the entire cost of the pension program, if that is extended to all corporations, other than the banks and insurance companies, it would make the liability of such corporate industry more than its entire working capital of sixty billion dollars. What reaction do you have to that, Rosen? Well, insofar as we do increase cost prices, and that does tend to reduce the rate of production there, I think we'll find the government stepping in to pump more money into circulation to prevent the unemployment that might otherwise result. And we'll then see the higher prices that Donnelly suggests. Well, now this, uh, analysis then, I think is clear. We've talked about our national income, about, uh, production, about the demand picture, and this last point that Donnelly has made, about, uh, the effective government policy. With this analysis before us, let's go back to our original question. Should prices go down now? My general feeling is that I would maintain stability in the general price level, but reduce only a few of the prices that we've suggested, such as those of the farm commodities that are now in surplus. As I see it, uh, lowered prices can come about in only one or more three ways. First, by lowering taxes. We've discussed that. I think we've claimed that taxes can't come down. Second is by increasing productivity. Now, pardon me. Donnelly apparently would like to see them come down, but you think they can't come down? Not as long as we run a government deficit, uh, of, uh, five billion dollars or more. What's your second point? The second point is by increasing output per worker. That is highly desirable and should be, uh, increased as rapidly as possible. But it is a long-term, slow development, and I wouldn't expect, uh, it to have much effect on prices in the near future. The third way is by lowering incomes. I think we'd all be worse off if incomes were reduced pro rata, and since the various types of income are already in fair balance, I could not single out any one kind of income to stand the reduction. Which leads you to the conclusion that our prices should stay about where they are now. That's right. I think it's, uh, significant that the American Federation of Labor, in its monthly bulletin for June, made this statement, and I quote, Wage increases should now be based upon past or future increases in productivity to prevent undue increases in company incorporation costs, earnings powers should also be considered. Which is pretty much in line with the position we've taken here this morning. Which is all to the effect that the more men produce, the more they get paid, and the more men get jobs. Production is the key to this whole question of price reduction. Now, you have said, uh, occasionally in this discussion, Brosin, that prices ought to go down on certain commodities. What commodities do you have in mind? Well, I've mentioned some of them already. Eggs, cotton, potatoes, and the various other farm commodities, which are now being overproduced relative to what's being overproduced relative to what's being sold at the current prices. Other prices I do not believe will be, that it will be necessary for them to come down. Well, gentlemen, in conclusion, uh, you apparently do not think we should have any general price decrease of any consequence, nor do you expect such as I follow you. Our national income remains high. Production is recovering. Demand remains excellent. We may expect some price decreases in the short run, but in the long run, prices will stay at the higher levels attained in the post-war period. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, should prices go down now. Why not send today for a printed copy of this broadcast, with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for a 4-month subscription to the reviewing stand, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Yale Brosin, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University, James Donnelly, Executive Vice President of the Illinois Manufacturers Association, and Kenneth Ross, Partner in Stein, Rowe, and Farnham. Now our moderator, Mr. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will move into the fields of atomic science and medicine. We discuss preparing for atomic age problems. Our guests will be Dr. James Barrett Brown, Associate Professor of Chemical Surgery at the Washington University School of Medicine. Dr. Leon Jacobson, Associate Professor of Chemical Surgery at the University of Chicago School of Medicine. Dr. Paul Schlerb, Post Doctorate Fellow with the Atomic Energy Commission and Fellow in Surgery at the Harvard Medical School. Dr. Paul Schlerb, Post Doctorate Fellow with the Harvard Medical School. We invite you to listen next week. Our subject, preparing for atomic age problems. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The diu will remove 15 August of Mission tohängum. The
