Say, George, who are you going to vote for on Election Day? Ray, I tell you, frankly, I've been thinking I wouldn't bother to vote this year. Not vote? Well, now, that's about... Now, wait a minute before you get up on a soapbox. You see, I feel it just doesn't matter who's elected in times like these. George, that's just where you're wrong. Why, it's in times like these we want the best and most efficient government in New York State we can get. Well, it's just like being on the ocean in a storm. You'd want the captain to be the most experienced and capable man available, wouldn't you? Yeah, I guess you're right. Yes, everyone who can should vote because good government doesn't just happen. You voters make government good by electing the most dependable man for the job. But even before you can vote, you must get your name on the registration books. Registration days are October 9th through 14th in New York City and Westchester County. Stop at your polling place and register. Get others to register, too. Then, on Election Day, vote. Say, friends, you wouldn't put up with inefficiency around your home or business, would you? And you wouldn't want your New York State government to be run by people you hadn't helped select, would you? Well, the solution is easy. All you have to do is vote for the most efficient, capable men on Election Day. But you can't vote unless you register first. Registration begins tomorrow in New York City and Westchester County. Lasts all week. Stop in and sign the registration book. Then be sure you vote. Because if you don't, that's when the political bosses step in and run the government to suit themselves. Let's not let that happen here in New York State. We voters want a clean government, an honest government. But we must register first. Get every voter you know to register. Then, when November 7th rolls around, don't fail to vote. Say, friends, I've been wondering what would happen on the battlefield if every third GI, one out of every three soldiers, were to say, Oh, I don't think I'll fight today. Sort of hurt our chances for victory, wouldn't it? But something just as bad, something that hurts our chances to keep our republic strong, is the fact that in last year's elections, only two out of every three eligible voters actually voted. Yes, only two out of three. That third man? He let our great American republic down. In times like these, don't you be that third man. Be sure you can vote. Be sure your name is on the registration books. Then you'll be doing your duty as a citizen. You'll help to make our free government remain free. In these critical times, we need the most experienced government officials we can get. Registration begins today at all polling places in New York City and Westchester County. Lasts all week. Yes, it's the duty of everyone who can to register and vote. You know, friends, before I sign anything, I find out what it is I'm signing. What it means to me. Well, today all you voters have a chance to sign your names, and it will really mean something to you. I'm talking now about the registration books, the books you sign at your polling place so that you can vote on election day. Registering gives you lots of things. First, you get the right to vote for the candidates you think best. And friend, in times like these, our great republic needs the best. Second, you can pat yourself on the back and stick out your chest, for voting is one way to help keep free government strong and safe. But you don't get these privileges unless your name is on the registration books. Polling places in New York City and Westchester County are open all this week, so be sure you sign the registration book. Then, on election day, November 7th, go to the polls and vote. Voters, it's your last chance today. Yes, today is the last chance you have to show your true American spirit by registering at your polling place. Remember, you can't vote unless you register. And if you don't vote, you're not doing your duty as a free American citizen. I'm glad you reminded me. I forgot all about registration. Me too. I'll go and register, though I haven't made up my mind yet on who I'll vote for. Well, mister, that's strictly up to you and every other voter. You know, this great republic of ours is one of the few places on earth where a man's vote is his very own. Where he can make his own choice for a clean, honest government. A government free of political bosses and corruption. So, whether you're a Democrat or a Republican, a socialist or a whatnot, be sure you register today. It's your last chance. Then, on election day, be sure you vote for the most dependable men. The men who will give New York State the best government possible. Voters, you may be Republican, socialist, Democrat or whatnot, but you won't be able to vote for the most efficient, dependable men and keep out the political bosses unless you register first. Polling places in New York City and Westchester County will be open October 9th through 14th. Friends, these are crucial times. You owe it to yourself as an American to vote for the men you think will be the most efficient leaders in the critical days ahead. Registration begins tomorrow at your polling place in New York City and Westchester County. You must register to vote. Today's the day. Yes, today's the first day of registration. The day you voters can show you mean to see that government is run the clean, honest way you want it run. You can't vote unless you register. So register at your polling place today. The attack on Korea caught us flat-footed, totally unprepared. Are you prepared to see that your government is run the way you want it? To vote, you must register. You can't vote unless you do register. So this week, register at your polling place in New York City or Westchester County. Voters, today's your last day to register. Your last chance to make sure you can vote on Election Day. If you don't vote, that's when political bosses step in and run the government to suit themselves. Remember, today's your last chance. You must register today.