. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson, E. Fairchild, welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. This evening, we continue our Tuesday evening series, The Psychology of Emotional Growth, with the art of growing older, or meeting the psychological problems of later maturity. Our speaker this evening, Dr. George Lawton, gerontologist, is an author of considerable note, and you should know his books on aging successfully, new goals for old age, and how to be happy though young, which I think is a very interesting title, particularly in connection with this particular lecture. Mr. Lawton is also a consulting psychologist here in New York City, lecturer, part-time, occasionally, at New York University and other universities around New York City, including Cooper Union, where some time ago, he gave a very successful and very fine course in this same general subject, and we're very happy to have Mr. Lawton back with us tonight. Mr. George Lawton. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'm very glad to be back at Cooper Union. I got started here in a sense because Aging Successfully was given here before it became a book, and a good deal of the material in the book came directly from people in the class. I think you're the most wonderful audience that I've ever encountered anywhere. I'm saying this at the beginning, perhaps, with malice or forethought, but you really are tops in audiences, and I've said this in print before tonight, and I've often wondered why that is so, but that really is another subject, and perhaps that's something that your chairman will tell you about. My topic is the art of growing older, and it's really the art of going on to the next stage in life. Now, that's something we need to know from birth on because we're always going on to the next stage. We go from childhood to adolescence, and then so on and so on and so on. Some of us get arrested at one particular period, and then there are perpetual adolescents who have never mastered the art of going on from adolescence to the next stage. Well, my particular topic tonight is how to go on from middle age to what comes later on, you see. It's the art of growing older, or if you want, the art of growing less and less young, getting farther and farther away from this supposedly ideal period of life. I don't know how you define middle age. I define it pretty much as a state of mind. Corey Ford said that middle age was that period from 25 to 102. If you like such a generous interpretation of middle age, and if you're happy in that, then, of course, everything goes. You're middle age from, say, 30, 35 to 102. For our purposes, I'd like to define a little bit more narrowly if we're going to use an age definition, which isn't a good one, that middle age starts somewhere in the 30s. For some of us, it starts even earlier. The 30s and 40s are a kind of the adolescence of old age. So middle age starts somewhere in the 30s, and it grows in strength and enthusiasm until about the 50s. And at 50, we are no longer, by that time, we admit we're no longer young. About 65 or 70, we admit we're no longer middle-aged. Now, I'm going to deal with this whole transitional period, and please don't quarrel with me about birthdays, because I'm talking always about states of mind, you see. The next thing, which you may find it rather difficult to understand, is that I'm going to devote about two-thirds of my remarks to the problems of men as they get older, you see. Now, it may seem odd to you that most of what I have to say about the art of growing older applies to men. And I better explain, it's because men find it very much more difficult to make a success of growing older than do women. Now, that can be your first challenge to me in the question period, if you don't like it. And men don't like it. And I don't like it either. But I'd like you to know, before I start, that some of my best friends are men. I like men. I approve of them. I am not hard on them. Life is hard on them. By all the evidence that women have, and scientific students are the question, men have much more difficulty. Men put up a better face, and men talk louder, you see, about it, and they beat their chests more, and so on, that they are very strong and hardy. But women know, especially wives, that men are not as able to handle frustration. They certainly have difficulty handling illness. They have much more difficulty than women in handling demotion. That is, any kind of stepping down. You know, for a man, I'm a big shot. He may be a big shot at a low level, but nevertheless, if he has to go still lower, he objects very strenuously. This is called the male ego, which is a very interesting object to study. But men have a lot of difficulty accepting a demotion, in job title, in income, in physical performance. A man who has to go from tennis, to golf, to croquet, to tiddlywinks. You see, finds each reduction in his physical activity quite a problem. And men have great difficulty in accepting any kind of demotion in the sexual field. If you look at statistics, the statistics all point in the direction of men having less ability to survive than women. women survive men today by about five years. The average wife is a widow at least eight years. Men have many more, a higher count when it comes to serious emotional illness. There's more insanity among men. Men sometimes try to excuse it on the basis that the women made them insane, but that's not a... but that's not a scientific explanation. There is more severe illness among men, illness leading to death. You see, after all, students of life expectancy are not concerned with illness as illness, the kind that you talk about. It's what really happens that counts, and if it leads to death, then we can deal with it. And men have much more of that. Now, women talk more about their illnesses, either because it's much more of a stock conversational topic for them, or it's a way in which they can get their husband interested in them, you see, or it's legendary among women to talk about illnesses, but the point is that the women continue to talk about the illnesses while men disappear. Now, men don't like this. Students of this question who have studied various animal species have found that in a study made of 70 animal species, the female is always stronger than the male. The female, in all the animal, at every animal level, the female has more of what it takes to outlast the male. That is, the female is really the strongest sex. Not stronger, perhaps, in annual incomes or in muscles, but stronger in survival power. Simply the capacity to hang around and be here when all the shouting is over. Now, you see, that's why so much of my talk tonight is devoted to trying to tell about ways in which men can stay here longer if possible and be happier if they are going to get older. Men are very gifted, you see. I like them and I must admit that while there are more men in institutions, there are also more men in halls of fame. We are, perhaps, in the long run, I won't say brighter, but more creative in certain ways and so on. We land in who's who's more often than women do. Now, the male animal, very interesting one, is built for action and speed. It has brawn, it has physical courage. These are very fine and very nice, but if you're going to make an art of growing older, you have to get ready for a time in which physical competence is not the main thing in your life. That is, you have to recognize that if you have been very active in sports, for example, as a young person, as a middle-aged one, that a time may come when your body is no longer your willing slave. Your body becomes recalcitrant. It doesn't do exactly what you want it to do. And you have to be prepared to accept this body to be a kind of a weak sister, to take more care of it, and to pass on to shuffleboard, if necessary. Some men find this very difficult to do, and many of the depressions in middle-aged men is due to the fact that they can't accept this change in physical competence. They're very proud of what their muscles can do. Now, I would like to deal with two main areas in which men have difficulty as they get older. The first one is the field of vocational accomplishment. Now, in our society, a job is probably the most important area of a man's life. It takes the place of war and sports in primitive societies. That's where a modern man shows how good he is. And you women must not try to compete with a man in the importance of his job. Let his work come first, and then you come right after it, second. But don't begrudge him the importance which he gets out of his work. Balzac said that man wants to be famous and wants to be loved, and women are not interested in being famous. See, there's a difference in what men and women want out of life. Now, in our society, getting older is a problem for men because many men have trouble finding a job after they pass a certain age, 40, 50, certainly by 50. If a man has lost a job and has to get a new one, getting such a new one will be something of a problem. even if he doesn't have to look for a job, we men, once we pass 40, 45, we live in a society where people talk about men slipping on a job. If we're very successful, we begin to look around us at our subordinates and junior executives and to see whether they're watching us. They are watching us, you see. And as a middle-aged man gets older, he's very eager to prove that he's just as good as he always has been in his job. He may never have been as good as he thinks he was. That's the illusion of distance, you see. But men suffer from that illusion. They want to remain just as good as ever and possibly get better. But you see, we live in a country in which industrial America stresses certain qualities that belong to youth. It stresses speed and alertness, continued output of energy under stress, muscular strength. These are the virtues of youth. They are fine virtues. If nobody ever got less young, then there would be no problem. But we get older. The only way, the only sure way to avoid old age is by dying. You see, that's the only way you can be sure that you will not get to a point where some of the things I'm talking about will happen. If we lived in a country which emphasized stamina and skill and patience, the quality of a task, craftsmanship, then it would be much easier to get older on a job, you see. We are still an adolescent country, a pioneer country. We don't recognize the fact that almost one-third of the population today is over 45. and we still emphasize youthful qualities which leads to a great deal of conflict in people and it does in men. One reason why a job is so important to a man in our society is generally it's the only place where he can be creative. You women have a home. children. You have children. These are places where you can be creative. You can be creative through the work of your husband. But a man doesn't find the same outlet in children or in a home or in his wife and his arena of accomplishment is his job and that's why his job is psychologically so important and why anything that happens to him in his job hits him so hard and many of you women whose husbands begin to seem a little depressed or quiet don't know but that he is wondering how he's doing on his job. Will his job hold up? Will he have to look for another one? Will he be superseded? Will somebody else be promoted over here? You see. I believe that in a society like ours where jobs get out of date pretty fast that every young boy should be trained with several different skills you see a variety of skills. I do not believe in a specialist. A specialist is not a realistic figure in a modern economic world. We need people who can ship from job to job because all of a sudden a whole industry disappears. Modern technology has taken it away. Well I've tried to sketch very briefly some of the problems that a man has as he gets older. The first one was the field of jobs. The next is the area of sex. Men do undergo some decline in sexual ability as they get older. Some men worry a great deal about this. The more neurotic a man is the more likely he is to worry about any change in sexual ability. If a man is immature and he stresses sex more than he does love naturally any change in sexual performance bothers him very much more than in his ability to love or to receive love. There's a as I say a great deal of difference among men in this area. It's too bad that we know so little about the psychological problems of middle age and old age and we know even less about the sexual lives of middle age and older people so that wives don't know what to expect and what not to expect and men don't know what to expect of themselves and so very often men are unduly concerned and worried about something which is a natural change. As we get older we must expect that there will be a lessening in certain types of abilities. many men today turn eagerly to sex hormones as if that were the answer. I think a much more important answer is to change their whole philosophy of life their whole attitude toward sex and toward women. Immature men neurotic men feel that the way to conquer women is through sex and so that if there's any lessening in this area they are no longer equipped to compete. Actually women are not conquered through sex they're conquered through love and love the ability to give love and to receive love to awaken it has very little relationship with age. Now if the middle-aged man would learn that lesson a lot of the difficulties he has in the sexual realm as he gets older would vanish you see. And one of the big problems of wives is how to educate their husbands without the husbands knowing it. Now if your husband is here with you tonight of course then there's no problem because he'll deny everything the truth of everything that's been said when you get home. but it's important for men to be reassured about this because getting older then would be a much happier experience. One of the ways in which middle-aged men think they're going to cure themselves of this difficulty of lessened sexual ability is to get interested in a young girl and this is of course an ancient cure it goes back millions of years maybe but it seems very prevalent in our society and the number of marriages that break up when the man is in the middle 40s and the answer is a young thing the attitude of people who I mean of professional people who deal with middle-aged men is that this is not proof of a man's virility but of his anxiety which is quite the opposite since a certain wedding occurred today I better be careful about I shouldn't have said that we take that out of the tape at a municipal station too I wanted to point out that the the binding line between the first 40 years and the second 40 years for men is very much sharper than it is for women see most of the things that women hold valuable they can continue doing right through the 40s and 50s without too much of a change but a man who no longer has a job or an important job will find that transitional period a very sharp one you see a man who has been away from the house most of his life then suddenly has to spend more time there because he's not as physically active or perhaps his job doesn't take up so much time he may resent being around the house so much but a woman has made a home pretty much her center operations all the time she has seen a kitchen before she's washed her clothes she has cooked she's putted around and if as she gets older she spends more and more time at home it's not a surprise to her and I have seen executives who are in great trouble even if they have no difficulty with their job suppose they retire they have plenty of money they have twenty thirty forty thousand dollars a year on retirement and suddenly they have to spend a lot of time at home or a lot of time with their wives and it's very very difficult for them to get accustomed to a whole new style of life there's one other little change in men that I'd like to call attention to it's their change attitude towards sin as men get older they suddenly become against opposed to sin this is part of the normal aging process that is at a certain point in life it's one of the signs of a man having finally withdrawn to the sidelines he becomes very very virtuous and very noble about the behavior of other men I mean he's someone has said that no man is so virtuous as a reformed sinner and I have a friend who coined this little aphorism he said that the older man grows the more virtuous women become which is a kind of sour grapes you'll recognize that I am saying this for the benefit of the men in the audience to just to try to show you that these changes occur in all men and not merely in you see this is something that goes on I'd like you to read to you a little verse that I'm sure you will like it's very philosophic and very sad King Solomon and King David led very merry lives with very many concubines and very many wives until old age came creeping with very many qualms then Solomon wrote the proverbs and David wrote the psalms you see I write books on old age now I don't know whether I would have gotten quite this delight in analyzing the problem 15 or 20 years ago I have a list of rules here of what every man should know I'm very very happy that there are so many men here because often I have to talk to their wives and then we have to figure out a strategy of how this information can be released at home a little bit one sentence a week you see if a man is to make a success of going from middle age to the next period and the next after that he will have to learn the art of worshipping quality instead of quantity he will have to stop being an athlete where he works at the dining room table in the bedroom he will have to become an artist you see he will have to get interested in strategy and skill instead of speed and muscle he will have to learn to cut down on the pleasures of the body and increase the pleasures of the mind now you men don't get upset you don't have to give up anything completely you simply you have to change your pace your tempo you have to do a little less and do it more slowly and then keep that attitude toward all of your experiences you see the next thing a man needs to know is the importance of good relations with people and to make at least one good friend every year men tend to become somewhat antisocial as they get older as they pass from middle age to old age and you have a man has to exercise a great deal of willpower and self discipline to associate with his wife's relatives and friends who are all boys if that's the only way in which he can make new friends each year then a man needs to learn a philosophy of life in which he will believe that no man is indispensable you see men with sort of weak egos try to puff themselves up to think that if they stayed home from the office that the their business would collapse I mean society couldn't go on anymore you see and yet we are all replaced sooner or later the world does go on even though great and famous and valuable men have lived and passed on a man has to learn a philosophy in which he can handle his own infirmities his own physical limitations his financial and job title demotions you either learn to handle these things or you're in for a tough time and that's why so many people age unsuccessfully and that's why so many men age unsuccessfully because they cannot accept these they can't go on to the next stage life has to be arrested mid-flight and it has to stay always the way it was once then men if they're going to make a success of going on to old age will have to learn something about the importance of love they will have to believe that this is not merely a woman's province but that it's important to them also now when you're young you can define love as a combination of sex and tenderness and joy I'm not opposed to sex in youth and in later periods if it's there grand but sooner or later if you live longer and longer you'll have to define love as a combination of joy first tenderness next and then sex and if you live long enough with your mate sex may drop out but it should be no tragedy for you when it drops out that's part of the price that you pay for being one of the living things we pass from birth to death we go through a great many intervening changes a great many intervening experiences we should enjoy every experience at a time in life when it's appropriate and then go on without shedding any tears or looking back over our shoulders you see that's the art of going on to the next stage now there are many men that we describe as tired businessmen they work hard to make money maybe they have to work hard to make money but I've discovered in my work that many tired businessmen are men who have gotten very tired because they work too hard and they work too hard because they were running away from close relationships with people especially their wife and their children they are much happier dealing with things than with people they're very much happier dealing with people in the office strangers oh they can be wonderful with strangers grand every life is smooth when they get home life is tough so it's natural for them to be where life is easy and they run away and they get more and more tired you see and more and more unhappy because it's an unnatural way to live what businessmen have to learn is that there's a very close connection between success in family life and success in business and that a person is a person wherever he is he's the same person you see different sides of him I had a woman client recently who protested against having a husband who was a very tired businessman she said Dr. Lawton must I go on being a husband sitter that's all she did every night she watched to see that he wasn't awakened or disturbed and then he got up from being asleep and went to bed for the night I hope some of you men who really work very hard and need to don't think I'm unfair to you that I'm not you see but work is not the only thing in a man's life that leads me to the next point which is the importance of leisure every life should be a combination of work and rest and play and we should enjoy each part when we're doing it but then we should switch over to the next there's nothing sinful about resting or about playing and work 24 hours a day or 7 days a week is not something to boast about it's really an admission of inadequacy of failure as a human being that all you can live for is your job and that you don't get pleasure out of other types of activity relationships I think every man should learn some art or craft at which he is quite good I think every man should do some work for humanity and not allow his wife to be the only one in the family who makes a contribution to the community I think men have to learn to make their achievements in the present to be admired today you have to do something admirable today that you were big shot in 1903 is very interesting as part of your biography but you can't make a career today of doing nothing else but reporting on what a big shot you are in 1903 now as a psychologist I'm not a mean man but all of you know that we're not interested in someone's past we're interested in what he can contribute to the present men have a tendency to become more inflexible than women it's much harder for them to change any of their habits to learn any new ideas I know some men here may be ready to cut my throat and perhaps you will in a discussion period but I see it all in my daily work that men it's our egos that get in the way we are afraid of losing face we are afraid to admit any imperfection in us that we are strong smart men you see and to admit that we are at fault or wrong we'd be destroyed I think such a man ought to learn to cultivate a sense of ridiculous I think everybody should do something silly occasionally just so he doesn't become the slave of his good habits any virtue carried to excess becomes a vice you pick out any virtue and see what happens to it if you do nothing else but that you see if you're to make a success of getting older you can't be a man who gets up every day at 720 has coffee at 728 gets a suburban limited at 732 who never varies there are men who boast that they have never deviated from their daily routine in 35 years such a man should go around and be ashamed of himself what happens life is supposed to have something of a spontaneous in it you see such men actually are very anxious men they build up a ritual of uniformity that way which they think has a magic value you see I think every man should try to learn something new each year he should launch a new project I think a wonderful way to aid successfully is to take up an unpopular cause find a victim of injustice find some find some victim of injustice and defend him and then see see why I have said that this is the way to remain young because if you get in a habit of mind in which you are rebellious and belligerent this is not a talk on aging gracefully you see I'm not talking about that I'm talking about aging effectively successfully and in order to do that you have to remain a part of the community you have to remain functioning as long as you live and one way to really rebel and get your teeth into the world around you to be really part of it is to take up the cause of a minority group I don't care what the minority group is it doesn't have to be on a religious or racial basis it can be it can be such a minority group as older people because old people perhaps you haven't recognized it yet are a minority group and once you pass 50 55 60 you are on the defensive as far as the rest of life and society is concerned right now I'd like to turn to the problems of women as they get older all men think they're experts on women and I'm not any different most of my practice is with women they are much more willing to talk about themselves to admit their drawbacks to seek improvement now a normal woman as she gets older doesn't change too much in her inner feelings at 50 she may feel the way she did at 30 at 70 she feels the way she did at 50 the tragedy of old age is that you don't feel old as you get older you don't feel old but society treats you differently and this treatment actually you could say that one is as old as society says you are or you're as old as society is used for you in the case of women society reacts to your appearance to the grey hair to the bifocals to the other physical changes I want you to remain my friend so I won't go into details but people treat you differently you start out in life you're a little girl a pretty little girl then you're a young girl then you're a young woman and someone said that the best 20 years of a woman's life were between 28 and 30 there's a period in life in which men whistle and you're indignant there's a later period in life in which men whistle and you turn around quickly to see if it's really so then a point comes where you're a young matron then you're a matron then they start calling you sister that's an indefinite period then you get on a bus and the driver says to you there's a seat for you in the back mother next stage final stage you're standing waiting for tickets to the movie and the ticket man says won't you let grandma go in first you see and each time you're somewhat surprised and you look around to see if you are meant and you look and look and look and there's no one else it happens to men too last year a little girl got up on the bus to give me her seat and I went home and looked in the mirror I felt youthful inside but the little girl thought otherwise some of you may have seen the picture of Whistler's mother I am not a partisan of Whistler's mother sitting with her hands folded you see I'm in favor of grandma the riveter grandma the riveter who went to the factory with a lunch pail sometimes people think I'm a very cruel man I want grandmothers to work I do I like a working grandma a militant active socially conscious grandma a grandma who's not dependent on her children for emotional nourishment companionship and entertainment you see a grandma like this sometimes has a tough time with her husband who may not let her be as active as she wants to be and she may have an especially tough time with her grown children who are horrified of the idea of grandma who could sit home and be taken care of all day still wants to go out and do something you see it's a very odd thing that in my experience with middle age and older people that you should find often the obstacle is the children in working on a plan for an older person just as when you work with a child the parent may be an obstacle you get to a point in life when you get just the reverse well at any rate that's the kind of older woman that I would like to see as a woman gets older there are many changes one change is that she needs less protection against men this may or may not be a good thing some women are grateful for this and some aren't I'm just pointing out the ways in which they know that they're getting older I remember a woman who told me about she carried a book for protection when she was young but then as she got older she read it one of the problems of women as they pass on from one point in middle years to another point presumably later that they run into the age taboo you know that most of us in this country believe that the ideal age for a woman is 21 that's why women always say 21 plus and the movies of course continue this tradition television does it the magazines the radio it's really a very harmful thing because after all if the ideal age for a woman is 21 what happens to women who accidentally not get beyond it can't help themselves see what happens to a woman who gets to be 31 occasionally some women do not officially you see but it's a rather difficult thing to do someone has pointed out that there are seven stages in a woman's life infancy childhood adolescence young womanhood young womanhood young womanhood and young womanhood that's all women are so go berserk about the subject of age it's that men who have made them that way men by talking about young cuties and sweet young things emphasizing the age factor all the time and especially in our culture women are simply defending themselves the best way they know how if it's a dangerous thing to get older they don't get old they're meeting they solve the problem another serious problem for women as they get older is this the ideal female type in shape and dimensions is supposed to be straight up and down according to the mannequins in the windows and the covers and movies and television the ideal feminine type has no bosom no hips looks like a string bean you see is slightly tubercular and actually actually is a young stripling is not a woman now some women as they get older tend to spread and instead of weighing 110 they may weigh 115 120 maybe even 125 now these women go to great lengths to diet and studies have been made that show that many women even who come from very good homes husbands make plenty of money are undernourished they're trying very hard to look like the ideal picture they have of themselves up here you see and it's a terrible strain for a woman who weighs 142 to get down to 118 which she swears she once weighed anthropologists have found out that in the days of the caveman the average woman was the same in all three dimensions now I don't know whether some of you women who have gotten beyond 125 pounds need any consolation but regardless of your weight you ought to know that there is some man who thinks that weight is ideal otherwise women who weren't 110 would never get married would never keep husbands I don't think any study has ever been made that shows that women of any particular weight find it easier to get a man than any other weight see and yet women because of the covers on the magazines torture themselves into getting into a shape which is not best for them I would like to just say a word about names of perfumes as clues to feminine attitudes toward getting older we really are a very adolescent nation psychologically and of course everybody passes the buck about why perfumes have the sexy names they do have but you have perfumes that are called my sin seduction surrender indiscreet and etc etc now my objection to these names is the emphasis it plays on sexual appeal now you would imagine that an age might come to a human being where he where a man a husband would buy a perfume for his wife that wasn't called seduction you see or something like it of course he's paying his wife a double compliment and that's why perhaps it's sold and that's why she appreciates it but it's a very immature attitude why can't people grow up and get to a point in life where their values are somewhat different now I don't know who names perfumes or who buys them for whom that would be very interesting to find out but certainly the whole thing makes it more difficult for a woman to get older if if a woman of 50 or 55 has brought a bottle named seduction how is she as a big girl supposed to act you see then it begins to be more ridiculous as the years advance for both you see I'm interested as a psychologist simply in the fact that this is the best country in the world in which to live long probably the worst in which to get older we make it very difficult for ourselves to get older and to enjoy being older you see I'd like to say a few things about the typical older woman in the first place she is still interested in her looks and in grooming a woman remains a woman as long as she lives you see she should always be interested in men as part of the scenery if not in direct relationship to her interested in romance interested in sex if not for herself as an aspect of life what I said about sex hormones for men applies to women a great many women today it's almost a frenzy a terrible fad every woman who runs in any kind of problems psychological problems as she gets older will run for sex hormones as if anything that came out of a bottle or came out of a syringe was going to cure a mental attitude if a woman's children have grown up and left the house if she doesn't have so much to do anymore if she's widowed or divorced you see if her marriage relationship isn't good will sex hormones cure something that life isn't able to cure see and I think I'm not opposed to them but I think that in our society in the middle class group we are looking for panaceas all the time there is no substitute for thinking about ourselves and working out wholesome methods of living no substitute for that now I think a normal older woman still feels competitive with other women see the woman of 85 who shot her killed her husband of 80 for flirting with a woman of 75 she carried a good idea a little too far see and that almost begins to be serious but but you see she she was still competitive and that's the way a woman should be a normal older woman should still want to be a love object for a man actual or potential and not merely a love object for her children and grandchildren when a woman decides that nobody will love her except her grandchild she is through as a woman she's not through as a grandmother of course she started a career as a grandmother that we hope will bring her satisfaction but if she lives only for her grandchild I don't think being a grandmother will bring her complete happiness I think a normal older woman won't tell her age but isn't afraid to do it you see now what happens to a woman who is dependent on her physical charm her beauty her sexual appeal for her pleasure in life for her success with men she's in for a tough time as she gets older she can try cosmetics she can try magic she can try peace of mind and peace of soul and everything else in the repertoire but if she's unable to pass on to the next stage a stage in life in which physical appearances and externals are not her way of making friends and keeping them she will have difficulty I don't think a normal older woman likes the physical changes the wrinkles the waddles I happen to but she accepts them she doesn't hate young girls or young men who are enjoying sex and love she's not interested in gossip I think a normal old middle-aged woman doesn't read her daughter's diaries or daughter's letters I think a middle-aged woman who does that shows that she's not getting ready for the next stage she's not getting ready to pass on she has been arrested in adolescence because she can't let what's happening to her daughter go I'd like to point out that while a husband and children are fine things for every woman to have every woman should have them that in our society where we don't have many children where women have a good deal of time on their hands where they have good minds and energy that they ought to use where a great many women get alone become alone as they get older survive their husbands it's very important for a woman to have some outlet outside of her home and family she should have a part-time job she should have some activity in the community she should learn an art or craft and she ought to do something about companionship one of the ironic things is that even though a woman gets married she may not be completely satisfied as far as her companionship needs go and she may be a newspaper widow or a golf widow or her husband may be a very very tired businessman you see and so for many reasons a modern woman needs to have activities outside of the home if she doesn't need the money she should give the money to charity if her husband objects to her working say she's doing it simply to keep herself mentally alert and alive and that she's turning the money over to a worthy cause so that people won't think that he doesn't make enough money I think that middle income women tend to work too little and the husbands tend to work too hard I would like to see such wives help their husbands live longer certainly enjoy life more and so I propose that women as they reach 35 or 40 ought to do something in the way of earning money in order to help share the economic and mental problems of the husband you see that is marriage is a partnership and men and women should share in the pleasures and in the responsibilities and in the economic burdens I don't like women who are parasites and I think many women especially today when if a woman has two children she thinks she's had a terrifically big family you know so that the children grow up and leave the house when she's around 40 and then she doesn't know what to do many such women if she got herself a job and did something in the community you see would not need the sex hormones she wouldn't she she she would she would not be depressed because she felt useless she would feel that she still had another life but you see that means she has to be an expert in the art of going on to the next stage some women have been mothers and they've loved being mothers and they don't want to be anything else and so when they stop being mothers they simply must be professional grandmothers they won't give up and the same way they've always been wives if they're divorced or separated or the husband dies they refuse they go into bereavement and stay that way and will never do anything else they can't go on to the next stage now I'd like to end now with some recommendations for both sexes don't be surprised if I believe very much in psychology I would be a very bad representative of my profession if I didn't believe that it could be helpful so I believe very much in periodical examinations both of a medical kind and of a psychological kind and I would like to see the community provide such services for everybody from the time say of 30 or 35 on and I think if we did that we would help many people get ready for the next stage you see many of us are doing seem to be doing quite well now but if what we were doing right now were taken away from us we would not be prepared for what would follow now I think that the advantage of such a joint medical and psychological examination would be to show executives and professional men how to live to slow them down to switch them from a strenuous life to a slower but still as interesting and nourishing one I think that men also need to know the interrelationship between their attitudes toward their job and their entire philosophy of life and the relationship with the attitude toward their job toward their family life toward their sexual difficulties many of the sexual difficulties of men are tied up with job dissatisfaction and when you find a case of impotence you want to see whether a man is really happy not with his wife so much but happy in his work I think that if there were such periodical examinations you could save a great many marriages that now go on the rocks I don't have to point to the number of marriages that break up around the silver wedding anniversary is the man is in the 40s of his 40 or 45 and suddenly he ends things you see now he makes a great mistake very often he's going to blame his wife for a sense of unfulfillment where he should be blaming life if we knew much more about the process of getting older and we did things about it I think we could save half of the marriages in the middle years that now break up because what these people need is a new start they could start new enterprises of other kinds they don't have to start a new marriage to solve that problem what they need is a kind of a new future a new tempo I think I think if there were such periodical examinations relations with children would be far happier as the children grew older parents wouldn't cling to them so much I think it's very important for men and women to realize that as they get older their interests may change a job that was good for them at 30 may not be good for them at 40 or 50 or they may be in a field in which they're likely to lose their jobs at 40 or 50 and they might get ready for a new job a woman might learn in this way to build up a life outside of her husband and children and then I think both men and women in our society need psychological guidance for creative outlets a person can be perfectly normal and happy and yet not be using all his abilities all his talents all his gifts and when a time comes when he's no longer busy on his job he may need to draw on all these talents all these gifts you see I recently had a very startling example of this kind a man of 50 came to me who was going to prepare for his retirement at 55 he earned $70,000 a year or he will until next summer and we worked out a plan whereby when he would retire at 55 he would help prepare business executives to retire he would do for others what was being done for him well he worked at this idea studied it read and did things and we worked together last week he told me he's retiring this summer he has found himself a job as a university professor at $10,000 a year he's going to drop from $70,000 to a total income of about $15,000 which means a readjustment for his wife and his children and he said to me that he's always wanted to be a professor and he's always wanted to do something for humanity instead of sell cloaks and suits and now he's going to do it at 51 and he's delighted you see now that's something now this man will have a richer life by passing on he's going to have really a whole new existence that will be better in some ways than his first one and so my final remarks are that it doesn't matter how old or how young you are it is how you are young and how you are old that counts you see birthdays don't count what counts is our capacity as long as we live for making our own life purposeful and interesting and you can do that regardless of your years if you have the proper mental attitudes thank you very much Dr. Lawton for that very interesting talk on problems of old age and growing older successfully we'll now have a short intermission ladies and gentlemen those of you who would like to write in your questions please do so I'll be glad to read them or if you want to ask them directly please come down to this other microphone thank you hello конечно thank you okay okay okay here I have to Thank you very much, Dr. Lawton, for that interesting talk. I must say that you cover a lot of things, from growing older to types of perfume and who names them. Incidentally, sir, one way to age successfully is to be chairman of the Cooper Union Forum. It's not that I'm complaining. In fact, I'm enjoying it immensely. Now the questions, doctor. What positive steps is society taking today to counsel older workers into new fields and to give jobs in these fields? What steps is society planning to accomplish in these things in the future? I once asked some man whether he was aging successfully. He said, I don't know whether I'm aging successfully, but I'm aging undoubtedly. Well, about this one, what positive steps is society taking? Well I wish I could be optimistic, but you know, I think we're doing very little. We need meetings like this to get people to think more and more about it, and perhaps we will do more. There are two conflicting attitudes about what to do about older people. One is bigger and better pensions, that is bigger and better dependency to take care of them, take care of them sooner and more comfortably and so on. That's the dominant tendency today. It's not the tendency in which I believe in. The other tendency is to equip them to remain independent members of society as long as they live. Now the first tendency of bigger and better dependency, we'll talk about better institutions, larger social security, larger old age assistance, all of that sort of thing, bigger pensions. I'm not opposed to these things, but I wanted to include the only kind of life which is normal for people, which is to remain outside in society, functioning, participating, doing things. Now that's all, that point of view is, this second point of view is not strong today. And you in whatever way you function, through a woman's club, through a church group, through a school, should try, first you should believe in that point of view, you should really believe it. And then wherever you exist, wherever you work, as an employer, you should employ more older people. If you, you should retire your people, not on the basis of age, but on the basis of whether they're ready to retire. You should try to keep people active and functioning as long as you possibly can. That's the point of view which I represent, but it's not the popular one today. Thank you, Doctor. Would you suggest a separation of a man and his wife for an unlimited time when interest in each other is decreasing? Another question in the same general sort of thing. That's a tough one. Let me do that. I'm gonna start with that. I don't see the point of a separation. Would you suggest a separation of a man and wife for an unlimited time when interest in each other is decreasing? Do you mean, do I believe in permanent separations and divorces and so on? No, I don't believe in them. I accept them when they're absolutely necessary. I regard the breaking up of a marriage as a tragedy. It's a kind of surgery which is necessary sometimes like all kinds of surgery if you have to break up a marriage and you have to do it, but I don't think any marriage should be broken up until each person knows why he is breaking it up and especially he knows what he has contributed to the failure. You see, I have a great many people who spend hours and hours complaining about their mate, but they have to find what did I contribute to render this marriage a failure. That's all I can say. I want good marriages and if they're not good, I want to make them good. If they have to be broken up in order to make them good with another person, okay. Now, well, I think that's the first part of that, certainly, Doctor. We have several others here. Could you explain just what psychological checkup means for an ordinary man who may not feel that he has a problem in old age? What's a psychological checkup? Well, what we do is to find out what a man's interests are, what his aptitudes and abilities are. Is he utilizing his abilities and his interests and his energies in a field which suits him best? Is he happy in his work? Is he in a field in which he can count on continued employment? Or is he doing something where there's an age deadline so that while this is fine at 30, there may be trouble at 50? Or perhaps he's in a field where he's going to retire at 65 and he wants to be active after retirement, perhaps to make money. These are the things that we would look for. Doctor, a gentleman writes in here that you seem to joke about women driving men to institutions. That's not funny at all. Isn't it a fact that male bachelors look and feel better than female bachelors or married men of the same age? I'd better be careful. He really believes this. a man. Do I believe that women drive men to institutions? No. I think that there are many men and many women who are not emotionally geared to live with another human being in a close relationship. I think that there are 11 million men and 11 million women in this country who never marry. And many of these have done the opposite sex a favor by remaining single. There are many people who marry. You know that many people marry who never should have. Now, I think that most of us believe that the people who marry are better adjusted. That is, if you take a, if you exempt your own husband and take a thousand people, a thousand men, that people who marry are better adjusted than those who don't. And I don't think that unmarried men are any better or worse than unmarried women. I think they, many people, I think most people who remain single are people who are incapable of loving anybody else but themselves. Doctor, what about the married children who make demands on mothers and resent mother holding a job? Well, after all, everyone has to believe in what he's doing. And of course it's a big help if a mother, if a parent is mature. But you know, reproducing is one of the easiest things in the world to do. And it's very easy to get married. So many people get married and have children who are not mature enough to bring up children or to fight for their own place in life. There is no reason why a parent shouldn't have some pleasure out of life and some liberties and manage your life the way you want. I think that, well I don't know whether to agree with most middle aged people that we bring our children up pretty badly today and so on and so on. But certainly some parents are very much afraid of their children and very dependent on them, very much influenced by them. And what you have to do in such a case is to help the parent grow up as well as grow older. Thank you Doctor. And could you suggest how a physical worker of age 53 could change over to a job requiring mental aptitudes? The change is made necessary for reasons of health. Now how does a person go about making such a thing? Well, in the first place he has to find out what in the mental field he could change to. There's nothing I can say up here without knowing the man. Perhaps his union has a vocational guidance service or he can go to a vocational guidance service in the community. If he will apply to a place like the Federation Employment Service or to one of the big charitable organizations like the Community Service Society, they may direct him to some place in the community where he will be studied in terms of his abilities, his interests and aptitudes. You can't do this by mail. It's like buying glasses in the 5 and 10. You have to study a man and it's not merely a question of what he can do but what he wants to do, you see. And after that, if he would go, if this particular man would go to a place like the Federation Employment Service which is, I think, free, he would get a good deal of help. Doctor, you stated that the average married woman is a widow for about eight years. Is this not in great part due to the custom of a man marrying a woman many years as junior? It is. Many people have tried to explain the fact that the average wife is three or four, used to be three years, is now four years, her husband's junior. Men have a tendency to prefer younger women and this is on biological grounds because a woman's childbearing period is limited and a man's isn't. So the tendency is to pick women in a younger age group. I personally would like to see a society in which women could marry men who were six to eight years their junior. That is where men would marry older women. Now, it requires certain types of men, certain types of women. You see, I'm in favor of husband and wife having the same marital span. That is, I think it's a very nice thing when a husband and wife can grow all together and live approximately the same number of years. And I search around, rack my brains to try to think of ways in which this can be done. One way is to help your husband live longer. You can't lengthen a man's life expectancy, but he can be helped to live out all the years that he should, you see, because many men shorten their lives. That's one way to do it. And the other way is to marry a man who was eight years your junior. Then you'll end up together. Now, Dr. A lady just handed me this statement. Any woman can marry if she wants to. It takes a noble woman to leave alone. Would you like to comment on that? Any woman can marry if she wants to. I think any woman can marry who is emotionally ready for marriage. I don't think it's a question of will. I think people remain single, not out of intellectual or moral virtues of any qualities. They remain single, and they don't remain single because men aren't available. I don't believe in that. They remain single because they are not prepared for marriage. I have seen too many cases of women who, when they were emotionally ready for marriage, found a man. He appeared suddenly from out of the background. He was there always, you see. It takes a noble woman to live alone. I wouldn't bring in nobility. I think it takes great ingenuity. And I think it, look, I'm not making fun of people who live alone. I think a person has a right to be single if that's the way he wants to live. And I think it takes a good deal of courage and inner resources to make a success of that. I know many people who are single who are better adjusted and better human beings than men and women who are married. That's another story. Doctor, will you please say something about the single person and his or her adjustment to growing old successfully? You seem to mention quite a bit about married couples. I talked about married people because most people either are married or want to be, you see, and I use that as my norm. I do know that many people go through life unattached. Many of these people could get married if they were straightened out. I would like to see everybody married if they were ready for marriage. Now, single people have problems. The single person has an economic problem, a single woman especially. She has to be able to earn a living all her life, you see, without a husband and without relatives. She has a much greater social problem. It's not as easy for her to be invited. She has a problem of companionship and entertainment. To go into how these, how she can meet these would be out of place here. I try to touch about it, touch on it in certain of my writings. It requires a great deal of time and thought and effort. I personally am very sympathetic to the problems of the unattached woman. I wrote a piece a year ago in the Times on this theme in which I pointed out that married couples rarely invite single people up. They leave the unattached woman out. I feel that every married couple should have as one third of their guests unattached men and women. And I, in the Times piece, I said that you married women should do it because you do not know when you will be in the same boat. So don't ride on your high horse. Someday you may be an unattached woman and you better study how they do it. Doctor, how can one get a husband to learn more? This isn't a sign discouraged, but I think it could be. Well, how to educate your husband is really a special technique. Some successful wives have learned it and they practice it. It's really a very difficult thing to do. You can't do it in a direct manner. You see, don't quote a psychologist or both you and the psychologist in a tough spot. Don't quote a book. I think one way to do it is to say that you met a woman whose husband, so and so, and she, this woman said, and just give her two or three sentences at a time. Now, test it out, wait a month, and then perhaps your husband a month later will come up with that as his own idea. If he does that, if he points his finger and he says, you know, men should do this, women should do this, and that's what you told him, and he doesn't remember, you're succeeding. So keep up some more. Another way to get ideas across is to bring a book home that your husband should read, but don't tell him about it. You'll read it, and then someday when you're not around, he will pick it up. You'll tell by the fingerprints, you see. Another way, probably the best manner is this. If you have a family doctor who is inclined to help you in psychological problems, talk it over with your family doctor and say, the next time my husband comes in, I'll tell him to come to see you the next time he's sick. You tell him so-and-so. Scare the daylights out of him. Tell him he has to cut down from ten hours a day to eight or to six. Tell him he should do this and do this and do this. reassure him about this and this and this. Now, husbands are less inclined to quarrel with family doctors and with physicians generally than with almost any other form of the animal species. Yes? All right, thank you. Oh, earn? That word is earn. How can one get a husband to earn more? No. Is that earn or you earn? That... That is the largest, largest E I have ever seen. It's about as big as the whole thing. Wait, the doctor here thinks it may be yearn instead. Of course, how to earn more, learn more, and yearn more, these are all very interesting and valid problems. Now, I don't know which one to take up. I did work on learn. I think you've covered one of them very well, sir. You state that women past 40 should get an outside job. Very well, doctor. How about the employers who refuse to employ women at that age and category? What can we do about getting people to employ people when they get into a later maturity? I think that a big problem, of course, is to get industry to employ more older people. From my contact with industry, I would say that that's bogging up the wrong tree. I think that the answer for older people are forms of self-employment. Jobs in which one person creates, in a way, a new field. I believe in workers' cooperatives for older people, that as a group of older people get together and do their work perhaps in their own homes or in one workshop and then have a retail outlet. The way industry is geared today, I don't think it's going to accept more older people. Also, in order to find jobs for older people, you have to outwit a great social prejudice. You can't put older people into jobs where they compete with young people, which often means you can't put them into familiar types of jobs. You have to pick out new types of jobs, something the community needs, which is not being done. Now, in my own work, when I get anybody, 45 or 50, who's going out looking for a job, I will try always to direct them into some form of self-employment or something which is new and which meets the needs of a particular community where they are going to live. Now, I think that, I always preach this, that the Division of Old Age Assistance, the Federal Security Board, all of the charitable organizations should have very good vocational guidance departments with men and women staffing them who have been trained in the problems of older people and who will steer older people into new types of jobs. See, this is a whole new field. We have more older people today than ever before. Society is not yet geared to handle the problem. We really need a great many more scientific students of the question. Now, any of you who are interested in professional aspects of this, who want to know about courses being given around here and how to deal with these problems of older people, which is what you need, you might drop me a note and I'll try to tell you what to do about it. Thank you very much for that offer, Doctor. If a man should have several skills, then shouldn't we reshape our educational system, particularly in view of the things which you have been stating about? the old age problem. This is an excellent question. I believe that our education of young people is completely wrong if we are to prepare people for the problems they will face in middle life and later maturity. The trouble with most of our students, whether of psychology, sociology, any of the disciplines, is that they think entirely in terms of youth. We prepare a young person to graduate from college, get his first job and get married. We don't study the problems that we have to do with the problems that we have to do with the problems that we have to do with the problems that we have today. If we were to study the problems that people face as they go from 30 to 60 or 70, we would toss out most of the education which we have today because it may be pretty and it may sound nice, but it has very little relationship with reality. We don't prepare people for their vocational problems. We don't prepare them for their marital and social problems. We don't prepare them for their recreational problems. Now, the trouble is this, that we are so prejudiced about the subject of age, we are so frightened that very few people want to talk about it, very few people want to think about it. Do you know that practically very few universities give courses in this at all? At NYU, I started the first course in counseling the older person. There is still not another course like that in the United States to prepare people to do work in this field. You must remember that many scientific fields get the blessing of the public, but this is one area which you fight public prejudice all the time. People don't like the subject of age. You probably may have said, well, what do you want to talk about these things? What do you want to deal with them? They're not pleasant. Of course they're not pleasant, but they're real. Thank you, Doctor. Now, I have several questions handed in here that I'm going to try to summarize. Very briefly, in these two pages, there is a very important comment made and a very important suggestion made to the audience. One is, don't you think that there should be cooperative houses, hotels, or clubs, where people over 60 and without families could live and be charged a very reasonable fee, where they could have cooperative activities. cooperative activities and where they could do away with some of these difficult problems of old age by helping each other. And on one of these slips, it is suggested that if anybody here is interested in such a cooperative housing project, that they come down and leave their name and address on this piece of paper. This is not a Cooper Union housing project, but I will be very happy to take the list of names for anybody here that is interested. First, let's hear what the doctor has to say about housing and this problem. housing is a very great problem of people as they get older. There are a great many different solutions depending on our needs. Some of us want to live private lives as long as we live. Some of us don't mind forms of group living. Some of us will accept institutional living. Now, since the solution for you will depend on what you will need, what your physical and mental needs will be when you are older, I think there should be all sorts of things. There should be a colony, a bungalow colony for older people. There is one at Millville, New Jersey. There should be cooperative apartment houses. The Home for Aged and Infirm Hebrews in New York City runs these. The whole house is taken over with 10 room apartments for both men and women. That's another way of doing it. The staff at Home for the Aged will pay an older couple while they remain in their own home. Pay their rent. That's a very fine way. There are a few, not enough, very low cost residence clubs. I think the ideal solution would be that these big housing developments like Stuyvesant and Peter Cooper and all of these would have one one wing, one whole wing devoted to one room suites for older people. And in, uh, in that same building, in the basement, there would be a recreation center for the older person where he could meet his contemporaries. There would be a sheltered workshop where he could do some work which would be sold so he could bring in some money. On the roof, there'd be an infirmary with a nurse and perhaps a doctor. This would, and then he could live in this on his old age assistance grant. Or social security. Now, this would be an ideal solution. In other wings of the residents, uh, development, there would be families with children. Then the old person could come out and sit in the park and be with children as long as he could stand them. And then he would go up, he would, uh, let's go upstairs, either go to his room if he wanted that, work if he wanted, go to the arts and crafts if he wanted, or, uh, and when he needed nursing and medical care could get it. Now, if we, we, we were to put up such residence developments, you see, at low cost, and insurance companies ought to do it. And I have pleaded with the big life insurance companies to do some such thing. If we had that thing, we could look forward to living out in the community as long as we live. What drives people in, in institutions is the fear that they may be helpless. You see, this way they will get the nursing and medical care, and it will be low cost. Now, let's hope we may see something like it in our lifetime. I don't know anything just like it today. I don't know anywhere. Thank you very much, Dr. Lawton. Thank you very much.