By transcription, your city station brings you the proceedings of the safety awards made by Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletieri today at the Board of Estimate Chambers in City Hall. The Mayor will award prizes for excellent performance in the city's accident control program to President Cornelius A. Hall, President of the Borough of Richmond, and Commissioner Frederick H. Zermuelen of the Department of Public Works. The awards made each year to the city departments showing the highest percent improvement over their previous year's accident frequency record marks a 59% improvement in the record of the Richmond office and a 29% improvement in the Department of Public Works. And here now is our Chairman, Mr. Abraham D. Beam, Director of the Budget, to begin the proceedings. I'm sure we're all happy to take part in this acknowledgement of a fine performance on the part of the co-workers of our city. Those of us who are interested in the management program and in the safety program realize that the greatest impetus it can get is from the public recognition which is given to those who are engaged in it. There has been no more significant contribution to this than that made by Mayor Impeletieri. His sustained interest and his firm support of this program has guaranteed its success. We, I'm sure, we are all appreciative of it. As evidence of his continued help and cooperation, the mayor is here today to present the awards which are called for by this occasion. It's a pleasure and an honor to introduce his honor, Mayor Impeletieri. Mayor Impeletieri. Graeme, Professor president hall. Commissioner Zemellin, Solhandza. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, uh, I have indicated my enthusiastic support of this program for a number of years. I certainly have wanted the help and the encouragement of my department heads and the city employees generally in promoting this program, which I think is very, very important, not only to the city government, the city employees, but also to the people of the city of New York. I make it a habit of trying to be punctual, and generally I succeed. When I set this ceremony down for 11 o'clock, I meant exactly that. I was ready to come up here at five minutes to 11, and when I sent my aide up here to my great consternation and disappointment, I was told that there was only a corporal's God, so I delayed coming up until 11.30. I want you to understand, those of you who were here on time, that I appreciate your punctuality, and at the same time to let you know that I was ready to come up here at five minutes to 11. Now, this is a very important part of the city's program, and I cannot for a moment understand why there is not a larger attendance of department heads or at least their delegated representatives. To indicate my support of this program, I sent a memorandum to each department head, and there's 33 departments represented in this program, and I expected that those department heads and the people that represent this program in those departments would be present today when the safety awards were made. And I serve notice now that in the future, when the mayor sends out a memorandum requesting the attendance of department heads in a program that the mayor feels is important to the departments of the city of New York, he will expect the department heads to be present, or if it's impossible for the department head to be present personally, certainly I will expect his chosen representative. I am, of course, happy to participate in these ceremonies this morning, which mark another year of progress in the city's accident control program, which is now five years old. In this period, considerable strides have been made in reducing employment hazards in city employees. Starting with five city departments, the program now includes 33 municipal agencies and 165,000 city employees. Without delving into the complicated statistical picture at which Mr. Beam and his aides are much more adept than I. I should merely like to point out that the figures of the Division of Analysis of the Office of the Budget Director, which directs and guides this program, show that there has been an 18% improvement in accident control and prevention in this five-year period. I should like to take this opportunity of expressing the city's appreciation to the staff of City College for its continued cooperation in carrying forward this work and for supplying us with the basic principles and standards and research materials necessary to our program. The Division of Analysis of the Bureau of the Budget is to be commended for the direction and leadership that is giving this program, as are the members of the Coordinating Committee for the city's accident control program. I want to thank each and every one of the commissioners and the department heads for the cooperation, as well as the safety coordinators of the respective city departments who meet monthly to discuss our mutual problems. A regrettable feature of any awards ceremony is that prizes or trophies cannot be presented to each and every participant. This, of course, is impossible, but I am very happy to be able now to call upon Burr President Hall of Richmond to present to him the first prize trophy for safety progress and achievement in 1951. And before handing him over the symbol of the achievement of his office, I would like to point out that the rate of accidents per million man-hours worked in the office of the Burr President of Richmond was reduced from 28 to 11. This is a 59% improvement over 1950 and constitutes the greatest improvement by any municipal department or agency during that period. My heartiest congratulations to you, Cornelius Hall, and to your employees. And it's my pleasure to present to you this very beautiful trophy which symbolizes the work and the devotion that you have given to this program and the attention that your employees have given to it at the same time. Thank you. Thank you. I am very happy to accept this award for my department. We are very proud receiving it. I want to congratulate you, Mr. Mayor, and your administration for the New York City Accident Control Program. It is difficult to comprehend the full significance of this program. In a short time, marvelous strides have been made by city agencies in all categories in reducing accidents. This spells dollars saved to the taxpayers and to the employees as well. I can remember the days when no attention was being given to safety controls of any kind which resulted in a considerable loss each year in property damage and in loss of service. The training that our employees receive today will not alone serve the city but his family and his community. Mr. Mayor, when you asked me to appoint a representative to this control program, I selected Mr. Cletusiva, my maintenance engineer, as my representative. and before he left for your first meeting, I placed the full power of my department behind Mr. Cletusiva. I gave him complete authority to go through all of our divisions and instruct the men and women in this safety control program. Recently, Mr. Cletusiva has been promoted to the position of senior engineer in charge of highway construction in my department. I feel that the work that is being carried on in this control program is of such importance that I will continue to have Mr. Cletusiva represent my department. It's a great pleasure to be with you today and I deeply appreciate this award, Mr. Mayor. Thank you very much, Cornelius Hall. And I'm happy to note that although you're an elected city official and could have very easily designated one of your appointees to represent you on this occasion, that you, recognizing the importance of this accident-controlled program, saw to it that you attended this ceremony today in person. And for that, I want you to know that you have my deep appreciation. One of the city's most active and busiest departments is the second prize winner. This department reduced its accident frequency per million man-hours worked from 19 in 1950 to 14 last year for a 29% improvement. And when you think of the tremendous programs that are under the jurisdiction of the Department of Public Works and the great number of employees that take part in that program, that, in my judgment, is really a phenomenal record. I'm very happy to present the second prize trophy to Commissioner Frederick H. Zermullen of the Department of Public Works. Mr. Mayor, the Department of Public Works accepts this with deep appreciation. As a commissioner of that department, I don't know of anybody that I would rather run second to than the president of the Borough of Richmond from which I come. My department, as you have said, has a considerable number of locations where work is going on. I think the last report I had amounted to something in the neighborhood of 367 places where our people work. Naturally, our supervision, therefore, is rather thin because of the fact that our locations are so numerous. For that reason, I want to, at this time, congratulate my safety director, Mr. Langdon, for an excellent job during the past year. Certainly, a 29% increase or decrease in accident loss is a commendable job. We are very appreciative of this. We will exhibit it in our trophy case. And, Mr. Mayor, if you have seen our trophy case, you know that we're quite expert in bowling, in baseball, and now in safety. Thank you very much. I want to offer the city's heartfelt appreciation to every department and city employee engaged in the important work of accident control and prevention. Although we have made great strides since the inception of this program five years ago, we can establish even greater records with all of us working together. To those commissioners who are present this morning, to the representatives of the commissioners who are present this morning, I want to express my appreciation for their presence and for their cooperation in this program. For those commissioners who are not present, who are not represented by their representatives, I shall endeavor to find out why they were not present. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. On behalf of the Division of Analysis of the Bureau of the Budget, I want to thank you very much for being here and hope and know that your continued efforts in this very humane and all-important work will bring fruit in the next year. Thank you for being here. Thank you. By transcription, you have been listening to Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletieri's presentation of safety awards to various divisions of the municipal government. This has been a public service feature of your city station. This is the municipal broadcasting system.