The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Pelletari, has just been presented by the Honorable Groverway Raylan, Chairman of the Luncheon here in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria. The Honorable Luncheon, rather, which the Mayor of the City of New York has tendered to His Excellency David Ben-Gurion, the Prime Minister of Israel. The Mayor is speaking. To the City of New York. The Prime Minister told me on the way up to the Waldorf from City Hall that he was simply overwhelmed by the warmth of the reception he received from people who lined the streets from the time he started off until the very moment he arrived here at the Waldorf. It's significant that the people responded to our request declaring this day Ben-Gurion Day in the City of New York. He already knows that he has won the affection of our people. But something I didn't know until today, but I sort of read it into the lines that I looked into before preparing my formal address at City Hall. And in that address, I said that this was his first official visit to the City of New York. That set me to thinking. And I asked the Prime Minister a couple of questions. He said, really, I'm a New Yorker because I lived in New York City for three years. I met Mrs. Ben-Gurion in the City of New York. He said, this building doesn't look familiar, but I was married right here at City Hall. Mr. Prime Minister, it's a great pleasure for me as the mayor to extend to you the affectionate wishes of all of our people. And to say to you that I have an inkling that in addition to the official side of this visit, as well as the unofficial side, sometime later this week, you'll be interested in another city proclamation designating this week as Israel Bond Week. His Excellency, Thomas E. Dewey, Governor of the State of New York. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure I speak with a full heart on behalf of all of the 15 million people of the state of New York in extending a warm personal greeting to a man of very high courage whom we not only love but for whom we have the greatest of respect. He's a man who, by reason of his immense personal courage, proclaimed the existence of a new state at a time when no one believed it could exist. He participated in and led one of the most courageous fights by ill-armed, ill-prepared, ill-supplied people against overwhelming numbers in which the spirit of man triumphed in one of the most stirring successes for human liberty in the history of man. The first and only Prime Minister of a new republic now three years old, he has matched his indomitable courage and lifetime of persistence with the wisdom and the force of character to lead it through the most troublous times of modern history. Under his leadership, it is almost a truism to say that a desert has been turned into a flowering garden. But more important than that, he has put us all to shame. In a state with inadequate resources, where the population has more than doubled in four years, he has a million four hundred and fifty thousand people whom we could tuck into one corner of New York State and still have 13 million people left. And yet his state does what no other state in our country still does not do. His state says, We are the asylum for the homeless and the persecuted. And every Jew anyplace in all the world who needs or desires to return to his homeland shall forever be welcome and no one shall bar him and he shall be a citizen the day he lands. The Republic of Israel has captured and I think embellished upon the great basic concepts upon which our country was founded. It is progressing the cause of human liberty and the dignity of the individual. It makes asylum and freedom real because it provides the place for the persecuted, for the homeless, from which no man may ever bar them. All of us are merely here as a symbol of the millions of the people of the city of New York, of the state of New York, of the United States and I am sure of the whole free world in saying we pay heartfelt and very grateful tribute for a new type of shining leadership which gives good heart, great strength and great courage to free men everywhere. Welcome, Mr. Prime Minister. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Quindi, thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker will be the Honorable Henry Morgenthau, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Governors of the American Financial and Development Corporation for Israel, and the former Secretary of the Treasury of the United States of America. Governor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Prime Minister, and my good friend Paula Ben-Gurion, an honored guest. I'm very glad to be here, Mr. Prime Minister, and join your many friends in welcoming you to this great city. It's been my privilege during the past three years of your tenure of office to visit you in your country. And you were kind enough, even while the war was on, to give me much of your time so that I could come back and do the work which I and my associates had undertaken here. But I'd like to tell this audience that one of the things that's always stood out in my mind of the many conversations that I had with Prime Minister Ben-Gurion. He said, this very small country of ours cannot hope to be a large exporter of merchandise and worldly goods. And that is my hope and aim to demonstrate to the world that in this country that man can live with man. And that is the spirit which we hope to export from Israel to the world. Mr. Prime Minister, as the head of this bond drive, I would like to give you a nine-day report. And say that my associates and I feel that from the short time that we've been going that it will not take three years to sell $500 million of your bonds to the American public. But I'm confident at the end of nine days that we're going to do this in at least two years. The response has been magnificent. And I suppose that every one of these festive occasions, somebody has to give the commercial. That is the part on the radio entertainment that somebody pays for. So the commercial which I'm happy to give is that we have the bonds for sale. They are available. Many people are buying them. I recommend them for whatever it is worth. I've had some experience in selling bonds. And I hope that each and every one of you, in the not too distant future, will avail yourself of this privilege to make good the statement that I have just made to Prime Minister Ben-Gurion that we're going to do the job in two years. Thank you very much. The Honorable Lazarus Joseph, co-chairman of the Greater New York Bond Drive, and controller of the City of New York. Mr. Chairman, Governor Dewey, Mayor of Pelletere, my colleagues on the Board of Estimate, distinguished guests, distinguished Prime Minister, and Mrs. Gurd. The hour is getting late. The speech has been brief. I'll follow along. First place, I disagree with the distinguished Secretary of the Treasury. Perhaps I'm a little optimistic. Henry, you won't need two years to put over that bond. If you have any difficulty, just call Governor Dewey on the phone. He'll have his controller. And I'll pitch in, and I think we'll finish the job very, very quickly. And if you have any influence with the Governor, the next session of the legislature, make these securities legal investments for the state and city of New York, and your problem is over. I got a great thrill this morning, one of the greatest thrills in my life. The greatest thrill since I was married. And I also somewhat made good, not on the same scale, as the distinguished Prime Minister, because Mrs. Joseph also came from Brooklyn. I got a great thrill because I had the distinct honor and pleasure of accompanying the distinguished Prime Minister in the parade from Idlewild, through Queens, all the way through Manhattan, then at the Waldorf, then down Broadway and 7th Avenue, all the way down to Bowling Green and up Broadway. Hundreds of thousands of people were there in that parade. Christian and Jew, rich and poor, black and white, no distinction, race, creed, or color. Everybody was there to join in a great tribute to a great man representing a great country, the newest republic throughout the world. And they came to pay tribute to a people of courage, of vision, of understanding, of voice, say. A brave people who had the will to live and the willingness to die for that will to live as free and independent human beings. The city of New York, the greatest city in the world, salutes you, Mr. Prime Minister. Wishes you and your family many years of health and happiness. Continued service to your country. And service to your country means... The advocacy of peace and happiness throughout the world. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. His Excellency, David Ben-Gurion, Prime Minister of the State of Israel. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Your Excellency Governor of State of New York, Mayor of New York, dear friends, from the time I landed in Idlewild Airport until this very moment, I have been aware in every gesture of your population of the friendship which is being heaped upon me in such a generous measure. Personally, I have, as the Mayor told you, a very close affinity for this great city of yours. Thirty-six years ago, I came to this city as an exile from my homeland and found here a temporary happy heaven. Thirty-four years ago, the happiest event in my personal life was achieved here. My marriage with a girl of New York I loved. And I hope, Mr. Mayor, he will not begrudge me of my having carried her away to my own land after our first child was born here right in New York. My wife that presented me in this city which she served us so well as a nurse and in her name as well as mine. I thank you from the bottom of my heart for this welcome. New York and the whole of America have been a constant source of inspiration and encouragement for us in Israel during those dark days when we struggled so hard and longed against superior oaths. New York and the whole of America, when we fought our war of independence, as you did in the end of the 18th century. Israel's road has been rough. Yet, we have never lost hope, neither in ourselves nor in humanity. The history of Israel is full of examples of great and mighty empires which attempt to overwhelm us. We were always a small nation, but we always refused to submit to mere physical superiority. We always believed, and we still believe, in the supremacy of the human spirit, in the supremacy of justice and freedom. And our faith has lately been vindicated. We are back again in a part of the world where we first stepped on the stage of history some far 4,000 years ago. The people of Israel now uprooted twice, once by the Babylonians and then by the Romans. From their land of origin, always held high the hope of return, and return we did. We believe in our redemption. And after 2,000 years in exile, re-established three years ago, our national homeland and our independence. There is no easy road to the objective we have chosen for ourselves. There is only hard work, toil, physical and spiritualization, and unremitting effort. We must make room and create free homes for all oppressed Jews. This is the historic mission of the State of Israel. In these three poor seers, the people of Israel have imposed upon themselves the strictness of austerity, and the most severe of national discipline, so that others and hundreds of thousands may share in our freedom and independence. The war that swept over us, within eight hours of our independence, made heavy and exacting claims upon our young manhood and womanhood too, upon our resources and in ingenuity. We have faced the test unflinchingly, as we have done in the past, and as I hope we will continue to do in the future. And though independence is indivisible, it does not exclude a bond with all humanity. Mutual bonds between countries, state and nations are the eternal fact and historical imperative. Each nation takes sustenance from others, from the heritage of ages, from the conquest of human spirits, in all periods and in all lands. In less than in all preceding generations is it possible nowadays for a people to live alone and in isolation. We in Israel are very much aware of this great truth. In the first year of our existence as an independent and sovereign republic, we are embarking on a new and bold venture into international cooperation. We are launching, by the authority of the Knesset, our democratically elected parliament, a 500 million bond issue in the United States. We are appealing to the people of this country to participate with us in the rebuilding of our homeland and in the rescue of all Jewish victims in lands of oppression. This move is a far-reaching and significant consequence for us. The work started a program of four points, which imposed a mandate upon us to raise a billion and a half dollars within three years to settle another 600,000 immigrants. It is, I believe, a striking commentary on the virility and strength of the community of Israel that we ourselves are going to raise in our little country one-half billion dollars, one-third of the total sum. In addition to heavy taxation, the physical structure of heavy and unrelenting work, the people of Israel have willingly and unreservedly accepted this new burden. We have opened our homes to the 600,000 Jews who came to us in the first three years. And we shall open them even wider, for the 600,000, anticipated in the next three years. We have raised and continue to strengthen our defense forces and land in the air and the seas. These, these, these, these, these, these, these, these, we do by ourselves. For that, we are charging only our own people in Israel. and all the money so far contributed by the funds of the United States, the loan which we gratefully received from this great country has been channeled directly and specifically to settlement and immigration and the upbuilding of agriculture and industry. Now we are embarked on this three-year program, a large share of which will come from the bond issue in the United States. The money derived from these bonds will be put to diversify productive work and will extend our economic structure and enable us to absorb more and more immigrants in our land. It will also enable Israel by the end of the three-year period to break the free air of economic independence. Mr. Mayor and dear friends, we are trying to fashion an exemplary nation in our resurgent homeland, a nation which will not shame the heritage of our prophets and the teachers throughout ages. We have still much to learn and much to accomplish. But we feel we are on the road to success. Given a peaceful world and given an opportunity of peace in our own region, we can move rapidly towards attaining our prime objective, economic independence and development of the country for all Jews who need and desire to return to Zion. In these aims, we are deeply grateful for the moral and material aid given to us by the United States. You are welcome this morning. In this very luncheon this afternoon, I regard as a manifestation of the sincere sympathy that the great people of the United States feel towards Israel. And I shall take back with me to Israel with the deepest gratitude what I have seen and felt the few days I am here. Mr. Mayor, I extend to you on behalf of my people our sincerest thanks. We will never forget it. Thank you. APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE APPLAUSE Launching this adjourn. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere and his Lady, Mrs. Impeletere, were host and hostess here in the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria to His Excellency David Ben-Gurion, Premier of Israel, and his Lady, Mrs. Ben-Gurion. The Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception, acted as chairman for the luncheon here in the Waldorf and introduced the speakers, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Governor of the State of New York, Mr. Henry Morgan Thor, who is heading the bond issue for Israel, the Honorable Lazarus Joseph, Comptroller of the City of New York, and finally the distinguished guest and honored guest, His Excellency David Ben-Gurion, Prime Minister of Israel. That concludes our broadcast at this time, and this is the Municipal Broadcasting System, WNYC, the voice of New York City. WNYC now joins with station WNYC-FM for the Symphonic Matinee Program now in progress. And that concludes our council work of behmost of hope too. How Caitlyn believes the brand authentic authority across America in progress. Hoenn Phillips is the most Ingphonic Statism