This is Lou Bush and the orchestra on Here's to Veterans. The best in music for all you ex-servicemen and women and your folks everywhere. Especially transcribed for you by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians. This is Lou Bush saying hello to all you veterans and your family with a special program of music selected from the greatest Broadway musicals. Later in the show I'll have a word of interest for all you ex-GIs but right now it's curtain time. The names Rodgers and Hammerstein will long be remembered in the annals of musical comedy. In the past ten years they have had phenomenal success on Broadway with such hits as Carousel, South Pacific and the current Broadway hit King and I. Also there's one that I think started this fabulous run of hits for them. That great musical comedy hit, Oklahoma. What's the views of my respective preaching? That great musical comedy hit, especially the in-gurled picture. And a very closeình music. Number four Shallow on The radio All the témo I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Luckily, however, things aren't always that serious. You sprain an ankle, cut a finger, get an infection, and all you may need is a few visits to a doctor or a good clinic. Well, the Veterans Administration tells me that's why it operates clinics and a hometown care plan. They provide handy and a lot of people are eligible for outpatient service. But in that connection, here's an important point to remember. There's more that the Veterans Administration wants me to tell you about this business of outpatient care, but right now, the immortal chocolate soldier. There's more that只 llamar and the ανα did well for the hometownία. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, I told you veterans of World War I and World War II, you can get outpatient treatment from the Veterans Administration if the treatment has to do with a service-connected illness or injury. Now, here's another point to remember. Sometimes for different reasons, it's more convenient for the VA and for you to have your own doctor treat you at his private office and let the VA pay the bill. How can you tell when and how this can be done? Well, just remember these two things. Number one, your private treatment must have to do with a service-connected illness or injury. Number two, you must get the VA's authorization for the treatment. If you don't get the VA's okay, you may have to shell out your own money to pay that private doctor's bill. So remember, veterans, always check first with the Veterans Administration. That way, you'll know everything's in order. The hits Embraceable You, but not for me, I Got Rhythm, bring to mind George Gershwin's great Broadway musical of 1931, Girl Crazy. marketing depth, brom idle troubled conspiracy. planRC21.com Once again, robber 450v4.com Crime noterainings of the VA's softmateeping-τίllowing pers volver plainly Alteredization Margin Valley clothes and cl 예쁜 beauty Crunchund Michael einem против gereal The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Here's to Veterans is presented transcribed by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians, James C. Petrillo President, whose members have donated their service. And this station which has contributed its time in the public interest. Tune in again for more top flight entertainment on Here's to Veterans. And now a word from your station announcer. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End Thank you.
