The Office of War Information presents its director, Elmer Davis, in another of a series of weekly war reviews. These reports are designed for the American people at home and for America's fighting forces overseas. Each week, Mr. Davis will review the news of the home front and discuss issues of direct importance to the prosecution of the war. Mr. Davis. The conferences between British and American generals and admirals, which have been going on in Washington for the past two weeks, have ended in complete agreement on future operations in all theaters of war. This was announced yesterday by the President, and today the Germans are complaining that the announcement was too brief. Naturally, they would like to have details, but they will find out in due time what is going to be done and where. Note that the announcement said all theaters, which means Asiatic as well as European. The Chinese and Burmese fronts were adequately represented in the conferences by General Stilwell and General Chennault. As Mr. Churchill pointed out this week, the question of priority between theaters of war is no longer as urgent as it was just after Pearl Harbor. We have more men and more material now. We can fight in the Atlantic and the Pacific areas concurrently, not consecutively, no matter where the emphasis may first be placed. This week's action was mostly in the air, though the slow job of cleaning up the Japs on Attu goes steadily on. Photographs have been published that show you the mountainous landscape of Attu, a hard country to fight in, especially in sleet, snow, and fog. But the Jap holdings have now been reduced to one substantial area around the mountain peak and scattered pockets of resistance elsewhere. Tokyo has apparently decided not to try to rescue the garrison, but to attempt to offset the loss by spreading fantastic propaganda stories about American losses in ships and men. Actually, our casualties up to yesterday had been about 600, and no American ship has been sunk or damaged. The Japs attacked our ships with submarines and torpedo planes, but the only damage done was to the planes and submarines that attacked. There's local fighting in Russia, with both sides feeling each other out. The Germans will certainly strike once more there this summer and strike hard. From all indications, the Russians are in very good shape to meet them, however, and the enemy is likely to have something to keep him occupied in other parts of the continent of Europe before the summer is over. German propagandists have been telling their people that the submarines will make an American offensive in Europe impossible. But apparently that story has worn thin after what happened in Africa. At any rate, a German submarine expert wrote this week in a Berlin newspaper that Germany could choose between two methods of submarine war. Either to sink as much tonnage as possible, which he said would inevitably lead to catastrophe for the enemy, or to apply attrition tactics merely aimed at neutralizing our shipbuilding program. You would think they would choose the method that would lead to catastrophe for their enemies. But the implication of this statement was that they would not. In other words, submarine sinkings are decreasing, and the German rulers seem to feel that they cannot keep that fact from their people, that they must think up some kind of explanation, even if it's a thin one. Actually, submarine sinkings are decreasing because convoys are better protected by escort vessels, carrier planes, and shore-based planes, and more U-boats are being sunk. March was a bad month for us in the submarine war, but even then considerably more shipping was built than was lost, and the losses of April and May put together will hardly equal those of March. We cannot be sure that there will not be other bad months. But for two months past at least, the submarine situation has been steadily improving. Improving so much that the Germans have had to try to explain it away to their own people. Most of the action this week was in the air, as I say, in southern Europe, against enemy air and naval bases in Sicily, Sardinia, and Italy, in the north, against German industrial cities. The bombing of Italian bases will contribute to opening up the Mediterranean for Allied shipping, thus shortening the route to the Far East. It may also be a preliminary to action of a different sort. The bombings of Germany are aimed primarily at the crippling of German industry. The great raids against Dortmund, Düsseldorf, and Essen this week, following other destructive attacks on the Ruhr cities, must have hurt. Not very much of the industry of the Ruhr district can be moved out of the Ruhr. Most of it has to stay there and take it. Few military authorities will accept the view of the extreme advocates of air power that the war can be won by bombing alone. But bombing on such a scale as the American and British air forces are now practicing in Germany, if it is kept up long enough, can seriously weaken the industry on which the German army must live, and it's likely to weaken the morale of the people, too. That it is beginning to hurt is proved by the complaints that come from the enemy and his friends. The Spanish press and radio, controlled by the Spanish fascist party, raised an outcry this week against these bombings. At first, the Spanish papers complained of the inhumanity of attacks against civilian populations, something they never thought to mention when the Germans were attacking civilian populations. Not even when the German aviators who helped Franco win the Spanish Civil War were attacking Spanish civilian populations. It's only attacks on the Germans that are inhumane. But today, orders were given to the Spanish newspapers to take a different line. They are to say now that it is not the bombing of civilian populations with which Spain is most concerned, but with the fact that this sort of thing leads to reprisals and chaos. So say the Spanish fascists. They never warned the Germans not to bomb Warsaw or Rotterdam or Belgrade or London because it might lead to reprisals. But now that the reprisals have come, they want us to call it off. We must call it off. Now we're going to hear more and more of this story from the Germans and the Italians and the Japs and their friends. As the war goes on and the enemy gets hurt, we shall have many appeals to our humanitarian feelings. But remember that this propaganda campaign against bombing by our side only is one of the enemy's weapons of war, an instrument by which he will do his best to postpone defeat. And if he had any success in persuading our side to let up on the bombing, it would mean that more Americans would be killed before we could win the war. The great political event of this week was the announcement from Moscow of the dissolution of the Communist International, by which for almost a quarter of a century the Russians had kept a connection with the Communist parties of other countries. In recent years, that connection was more theoretical than real so far as the Russians were concerned, though communists abroad took it seriously. Stalin has always followed a nationalist policy, as against the world revolution advocated by Trotsky, and the heroic Russian resistance in this war was mostly a national resistance. In these facts lies the best guarantee that when the Russians dissolved the Third International, they really meant it. As Mr. Hall remarked, the elimination of this organization and the cessation of the type of activity in which it has in the past been engaged will promote a greater degree of trust among the United Nations. The Germans and the Japs evidently think so, too, to judge from their desperate efforts to persuade us that the Russians didn't mean it. But the balance of evidence indicates that they do mean it, which means that the great powers of the United Nations can collaborate in a confidence that could not have been entirely possible before this action was taken. It's not supposed that this will make much change in the antics of the American communists. No doubt they will continue to do what they think the Russians would like to have them do. But in the past, they often had to guess at the party line. The Russians didn't tell them. And sometimes they were pretty poor guessers. Anyway, the way to keep communism from amounting to anything, in this country or any other country, is to keep the country sound, economically, intellectually, and spiritually. Take care of that, and there's no need to worry about communism. Well, this is a week of good news. But it does not mean that the war is about over and we can lean back and relax. The President reminded us of that today, when, in announcing the creation of the Office of War Mobilization, he said that we are entering a phase of the war effort when we must streamline our activities and keep both our military machine and our essential civilian economy running in team and at high speed. In other words, if things at the moment are going well, we must bear down all the harder to make sure of victory. The creation of this new office, which embodies the substance of recommendations made by three congressional committees, is an attempt to get better results out of the national effort. Justice James F. Burns, lately Economic Stabilization Director, is now made Director of War Mobilization. With the assistance of a committee, he is ordered to establish programs and policies for the maximum use of national resources and of manpower, which is not yet in uniform, for the maintenance and stabilization of civilian economy and for adjustment of the civil economy to wartime needs. Justice Burns' job is to iron out conflicts and controversies between government agencies on the civilian side of the war effort and thus to take a lot of work off the shoulders of the President, who will accordingly have more time to devote to broad problems of national policy and military affairs and in international politics. The Director of War Mobilization has power. He is authorized to issue such directives to the agencies of government as may be necessary to carry out his decisions, and directives not merely about policy, but about operations. In other words, he is authorized not only to tell them what to do, but to tell them how to do it if they are doing it inefficiently. This looks like a real streamlining and stiffening of the civilian part of the war machine. Labor disputes are no longer in Justice Burns' field. They are still under the War Labor Board, subject to review in certain cases by the Director of Economic Stabilization. This, Justice Burns' former job, is now filled by Judge Fred Vinson, once an influential member of Congress. Maybe the coal dispute will eventually come up to him. The Labor Board sent it back to be argued between the union leaders and the operators, and so far they're still getting nowhere. Meanwhile, the rubber strike has been called off, so our aviators are not going to have to go without self-sealing gas tanks and rubber life rafts to get away in if their planes are shot down. This strike, unauthorized by union leaders, was over wages, an increase of three cents an hour when the workers wanted eight. But it might not have happened, but for the too general belief, which has affected plenty of businessmen as well as laborers, that the war will soon be over. There's no reason to expect that. This war is going to be with us quite a while longer. And men who go on strike in wartime are doing incalculable damage to the prospects of union labor after the war. I speak as one who was once upon a time the president of a labor union, and I don't want to see union labor cut its own throat. Before this war is over, 10 or 12 million Americans will be in uniform, and several million of them will have seen fighting. Men who have come back from the front have told me things they have heard soldiers under fire say about strikes in war industries, even soldiers who were union men themselves in civil life. They were not pleasant things. And I can't see what good it does to the labor movement in general, or to any union in particular, to set several million Americans against labor unions, especially when they are the men who are likely to dominate American politics after the war. Well, we're all beginning to get our application cards for ration book number three. We're supposed to fill them out and get them back to the OPA by the 10th of June. hang on, we're supposed to pay littleき Jestenna 1537 to ensure that the the the way the that