A Look at Australia. To the tune of Australia's popular song, Waltzing Matilda, Henry Milo, authority on world affairs, presents the regular transcribed series, A Look at Australia. A Look at Australia is a program designed to give you an intimate glimpse into the lives of the people down under. Through the men and women whom Mr. Milo brings to you in this series, we hope you will come to know Australia with a new understanding and hope, too, that you will have a new appreciation of its customs and its way of life. A Look at Australia is heard regularly over this station and is produced with the cooperation of the Australian news and information bureau, a Commonwealth government agency at 636 Fifth Avenue, New York City. So let's join Henry Milo for an informative and authoritative insight into a land which is already well known to many of us. In short, let's take a look at Australia. And now, ladies and gentlemen, here is Henry Milo. How do you do, everyone? It doesn't seem so long since we had our old friend, Doug Lee Glass, with us to tell us something about the Australian theatre. Mr. Glass is one of Australia's best-known composers and right now is busy writing an opera, which we'll probably soon be hearing. Mr. Glass is well known in the United States for his light operas and his lectures on round the world with music. In fact, Dudley, I think that we're all most responsible for you being back in the United States. Yes, that's right, Henry. I had been giving two concerts in England during the war and I was invited a couple of years ago back to Australia to broadcast for the Australian Broadcasting Commission. I came to America because I wanted to discuss my opera with its American librettist, Madeline Mason. It was something that started before the war. Well, quite a long job, writing an opera. It certainly is. I thought even a few weeks of discussion in New York was worthwhile and I didn't expect to have the opportunity of staying longer. However, the broadcast I gave with you on this station a couple of years ago had surprising results. An American lecture bureau, the Red Path Bureau, happened to listen in and immediately invited me to stay in the United States giving talks on round the world with music. I came for a month and I stayed seven. Thank you, Henry. And I should also like to thank Lloyd Clarke of the Australian News and Information Bureau. Well, anything like that that I can do to oblige, well... And then you continued your trip to Australia, huh? Yes, and I felt I'd arrived in Australia when I got to California. Well, why was that? I smelt my first-come trees. I mean eucalyptus trees. They imported them from Australia, you know. And then came the trip down the Pacific where I heard all the familiar tunes. Now, what do you mean by that? Well, at each island from Hawaii to Pango Pango, from Fiji to New Zealand, they have their special songs. Always songs of farewells the ships sail away. Like Aloha and Song of the Islands. Have you got a piano handy? Yes, I'll hand it right over to you. Take it. It's all yours. Yeah, thanks very much. We're just sailing from Honolulu Harbour. That's what they play on the ukuleles. Oh, we might be sailing from Auckland, New Zealand, another tune. Hmm. I thought that was an American song, Dudley. It's familiar on the jukeboxes, you know. Well, it really comes from New Zealand. It's a Maori farewell. Now, what about a welcome song? Didn't they have one in Australia when you sailed into Sydney Harbour? How about our old friend, Waltzing Matilda? I'm beginning to know that by now, you know. As the welcome song I had was from the Australian Broadcasting Commission, offering me a contract for 30 broadcasts in three months. Well, I think I'd call that a symphony more than a song. A symphony it certainly was. I thought so too after I'd accepted it. I never worked so hard in my life preparing those broadcasts. Immediately one was finished, I started on the next. In fact, I wrote some of them in taxis, buses, tramcars. Tramcars? Now what are they? Oh, I should say streetcars. Oh. And any other kind of vehicle. Even used aeroplanes flying from Melbourne to Sydney and Bahigan. So you were in the air as well as on the air, huh? And what did you talk about? Mostly cultural matters, and of course music. I was able to talk of the great musical events in the United States, of the Oscars and the symphony concerts, your open-air concerts in the great stadiums, Lewiston Stadium in New York and Hollywood Bowl and so on. Struck me as being of particular interest to Australia. And you know they couldn't think what a rain check was. I had to explain it to them. Well, don't they have rain in Australia? I know it sounds a perfect country. We don't talk about it. At least we don't broadcast. Did they produce any of your own compositions on the air? You wrote the beloved Vagabond, didn't you? And the toy maker of Nuremberg? Yes, I wrote those musical plays, and they did the toy maker on the national network. The old toy maker told his secret of the toy to quite a lot of people in the land where the teddy bears were from. the other toy maker. But you cannot agree to play. They have major sunshine pas fourteen. The other toy maker of Nuremberg is called aoke technology، and as soon as soon as soon as a party will then. The other toy maker of Nuremberg banner was always in awe. What has the** did that when theان team came to a competition? Of the crag, impossible to do. The Merryppt social business. He was a bitch 편ish harvested in Ciao interpretive and sauające. The they were dirty dog bikes lost its три waves And as soon as soon as theyd been written again The other 건데 Kon networking colifor yepным cinquain The other nasty organizable run was famous. It was just as well the toy maker wasn't on television, but the leading lady, who was supposed to be a young and beautiful girl, was suddenly suffering from toothache. Her face was all swollen up and she had it almost obscured by the bandages. But she sounded beautiful when she sang. Mm-hmm. Well, were all your appearances over the air, Dudley? No, I talked to the Rotary Club in Melbourne on a very special occasion, July the 4th. The American Consul General was there and I was able to tell him and a few hundred others the story of how American songs were written, Yankee Doodle and the rest. Well, I think I could learn something in that way. Now, what about Yankee Doodle? Well, Yankee Doodle started as an Italian melody and then it was taken up by France and Holland and then words were fitted to it in England and finally it came to America. Now, wait a minute. I can't take all that in. I must listen more carefully to Yankee Doodle in the future. You certainly must. And then I told them about the SPEBSQSA Incorporated. Of course you know what that means. Oh, I don't think I do. Now, say it slowly, will you again? SPEBSQSA Incorporated. You mustn't forget the incorporated. I give up. It means Society for the Preservation and Encouragement of Barbershop Quartet Singing in America Incorporated. I've been invited to the New York headquarters. Mm-hmm. Well, now, you, uh, do you mean, uh, are they any good? Are they any good? Do you mean the Society or the headquarters? Well, I mean both. You mean both? Well, I should certainly say they are. Uh-huh. Anyway, their harmonies are pretty fluid as they meet in a brewery. Oh, my. They sing the old favorites, but of course I had to teach them our own favorites. You know Walt and Matilda. Oh, yes. Don't tell me that's what you mean. It must have sounded good in harmony. Now, tell me your impressions of culture in the Australian cities in Melbourne and Sydney and the rest, will you? Yes, it struck me that there'd been many advances made during the eleven years I'd been away. The musical season there takes place in the winter months, your summer months. Ah, yes. You can't catch me with that, you know. People crowd to the Sydney Town Hall, the Melbourne Town Hall and the rest. Orchestral concerts are so popular that they have to repeat each concert of the series twice to accommodate the people. Are American artists popular? Very. The season I was there, John Charles Thomas was singing and Vivian Delacchiese, and Isaac Stern playing the violin, and of course a great asset to Australian musical life is the appointment of Eugene Goosons at the Sydney Conservatorium by the harbour. And what about the lighter side of music? Well, I can only tell you that Annie Get Your Gun was one of the greatest hits ever known at His Majesty's Theatre Melbourne, and now it's to be followed by Oklahoma. And I used to talk about Broadway and Hollywood. I always felt they'd practically come to Australia. Would you say that Australia has the American touch? Yes. It seems to me that the two people are very similar in many ways. Although there's a great sentiment for old England, yet Australia is really characteristic, its way of life and particularly its scenery. An Australian poet once wrote a line, I love a sunburned country, and I think that just about expresses it. People should be told about the remarkable and beautiful coverings of the bush, the grey-green gum leaves, the distant blue haze on the mountains, the golden beaches. Australia of the future should be a tourist wonderland. Well, that sounds very romantic. The words of an artist, a musician. Now, can we hear some of your philosophy in music? Have you written an Australian song? Yes, I wrote and composed an anthem published by the government, which I dedicated to the children, the builders of Australia. It's called Australia Land of Ours, and it goes like this. A land of peace and promise, where toil's reward is won, on wide and fertile pastures beneath the radiant sun. Our land of hope and freedom, unlimited your powers, for these we sing your praise. Australia, land of ours, in course. Australia, land of ours. Our country, our country, and all together, God bless this land of ours. Gee, that certainly was written by someone who had a feeling for his native country. And yet, you're back in America. Yes, and I feel like saying thank you again. For this time, I've been here nearly 18 months. My friends in England are beginning to think I'll never return there. You must like this country. I do. You have a habit of saying you're welcome, and you've certainly made me welcome. This time, I found my nonsense songs that have been published over here. Nonsense songs? Yes, they're settings of Edward Lear's famous rhymes. One is The Owl and the Pussycat Went to Sea, In a beautiful pea-green boat. They took some honey, and plenty of money wrapped up in a five-pound note. The owl looked up to the stars above, and sang to a small guitar. Oh lovely pussy, oh pussy my love, what a beautiful pussy you are. You are, you are, what a beautiful pussy you are. Dudley, are you continuing your lecture tours and concerts? Yes, and I'm finishing my grand opera and a new operetta. It's rather a large order to ask you to play some of your opera. But I'm sure we'd like to hear a melody from the operetta. Here it is, it's called Why Do We Have to Say Goodbye? I don't want to have to say goodbye. Good byerativeabetics? Thank you. Thank you again, Dudley Glass, for this musical gem. We all have enjoyed it and are grateful to you for having come to this program with it. I hope that its title, Why Do We Have to Say Goodbye, does not indicate that we are soon going to say goodbye to you and that you will come back on our program again soon. Because the millions of friends and listeners in this country, to a look at Australia, consider you a good friend and neighbor. Anyway, we wish you luck and hope that you'll bring us more of your delightful music soon. Radio friends, you have been listening to the distinguished Australian composer, author and lecturer, Dudley Glass, playing some of his delightful Australian melodies and telling us about Down Under. And this is Henry Milo saying goodbye for now. You have been listening to a transcribed program, A Look at Australia, brought to you each week over this station. This broadcast was presented by Henry Milo, with the cooperation of the Australian News and Information Bureau in New York City. Write to Henry Milo, care of this station, for an attractive 32-page illustrated magazine about Australia. And this is Stanley Burns, inviting you to listen in at the same time next week for another in the series of A Look at Australia. Thank you. Thank you. A Look at Australia. To the tune of Australia's popular song, Waltzing Matilda, Henry Milo, Authority on World Affairs, presents the regular transcribed series, A Look at Australia. A Look at Australia is a program designed to give you an intimate glimpse into the lives of the people down under. Through the men and women whom Mr. Milo brings to you in this series, we hope you will come to know Australia with a new understanding, and hope, too, that you will have a new appreciation of its customs and its way of life. A Look at Australia is heard regularly over this station and is produced with the cooperation of the Australian News and Information Bureau, a Commonwealth government agency at 636 Fifth Avenue, New York City. So, let's join Henry Milo for an informative and authoritative insight into a land which is already well known to many of us. In short, let's take a look at Australia. And now, ladies and gentlemen, here is Henry Milo. How do you do, everyone? Well, it's travel, travel, vacations, going places. That's the order of the day here in this country. Everybody is talking about going places these days, aren't they? Well, so let's get a little first-hand information about travel down under, from one of Australia's foremost traveling travel authorities. When I say traveling travel authorities, our guest, Mr. Roland Hill, who hails from Sydney, is one of the foremost travel agents in Australia, and he is just now traveling around the world. He wants to know all about the places that he's trying to tell Australians about, and we here in the United States want to hear all about Australia and all the unusual things that we may see down under. We feel that Australia is very close to us, those on this program. We've heard a great deal about that great land down under, from Australians in all walks of life, and many of us plan to go to Australia on vacation. So, from this great authority on Australian travel, let's have a word about what we're going to see when we get there. All right, Roland, this mic's yours. Thank you. Well, experience tells me that the American tourist, and my listening audience is American, so my words are directed personally to you. The average American tourist, for instance, comes out to Australia to discover a new continent. He knows the continent is large. It's like his. He wants to see more than just the cities. He wishes to see the backbone of the continent. He knows that he's going to like Australia, for Australians and Americans mix happily together. And he wishes to see as much as Australia in the shortest time, and typical of the high standard of American life with the utmost comfort, which he's assured of receiving whilst he's visiting Australia. You know, we Americans never have too much time, and we really must see a great deal in a short time in Australia, because it's a great continent as big as the United States, isn't it? Indeed it is. And there are, I think, as many surprises in Australia for the American tourist. He found fun discovering his own continent. He'll find, indeed, a greater pleasure discovering Australia, from the famous barrier reef, to the tropical beaches, to the unusual freakish animals, the platypus so well known in New York, that you've given more or less a rather selected permanent address for, the koala bears, nationally and also now world famous. Now tell us about the great barrier reef. We had Mr. Ruffley, one of the greatest authorities in the world, on the barrier reef on this program some time ago, and he described it as a marine wonderland. I know that you've been to the great barrier reef, and perhaps, Roland, you can tell us something about some of the strange marine life that we might see. Well, seeking marine, strange marine life has not been more or less a positive search on my part. Mr. Ruffley's advice to the American audiences would be authoritative. But I know, just speaking generally, that the waters in the great barrier reef are bound with amazing sea fish and sea life. And beyond description and types, I wish I were more an authority. I would say this, that the ideal climate, the sandy beaches running for hundreds of miles, the coconut palm fringing the beaches, the pleasant way of living, the easy access to these places, for Australia has an air service that will take you to the great barrier reef in a matter of hours, and at a considerable less cost than what you would pay for the same mileage in this great continent of yours. Now, the great barrier reef, though, is a very large and vast place, isn't it? How long is it? Well, it runs through, stretches for hundreds of miles. Is it near Sydney? Does it go out of Sydney? No, in fact, you proceed from Sydney by air to Brisbane, and north of Brisbane, stretching from Brisbane, Rockhampton, Townsville, Cairns, the great barrier reef is there to accompany you for your search for more or less the exceptional in tourist value. Now, let me ask you this. Most of us will, of course, go to Sydney. Just what will we see in Sydney? It's a big city, we know that. Certainly. Sydney will happily remind the American visitor of home. Amenities generally are consistent with the standards found in the United States cities. Exception might be the great metropolis of New York, but the main cities in the principal states of USA say each have more or less a leading hotel or a number of leading hotels, and they have busy thoroughfares, shopping centres, etc. The American will walk from his leading hotel in Sydney, and he'll go to stores full with very attractive, alluring goods to purchase, and very well-priced. And an advantage to us, too, on the rate of exchange, isn't that so? Definitely not to be overlooked by anyone promoting travel to Australia, for the dollar goes much further. Then I understand, too, that Americans can bring $400 worth of merchandise at the cost price in the United States without duty. And that pleases them. Not only is it found from those Americans returning from Australia, that generous concession of the United States government of the $400. I found Americans quickly buying up rare and very, very fine quality woolen goods in Australia that even when the same goods had been purchased in other British countries, the Australian price, the quality, scores on both points, satisfying the visitor beyond doubt. Now, really, to enjoy everything that's in Australia to be seen as tourists, I suppose we should consult our own local travel agent, shouldn't we? Indeed. If you had a headache, you'd probably go to your doctor, or at least go to an authoritative person to cure that temporary ill. To satisfy your inquiry regarding Australia, you'd certainly go to the address which you will mention. I suppose the American Society of Travel Agents have representatives all over the United States, and even not your member, I'm sure. In fact, it's my privilege to represent the American Society of Travel Agents in Australia. Well, that's fine. And there are, I think, in the United States, a thousand of them. Recently, at Savannah, Georgia, between the 18th and the 23rd of October. I see. Go ahead. I'd be pleased to continue and tell you about that, because the inquiries reaching me at the Savannah Convention indicated the American travel agent is anxious to learn more regarding Australia. Well, I think that we will probably be very happy to consult our local travel agent and go to Australia in order to see these wonderful things that we've been hearing about. But tell me about your federal capital, Cambria. Canberra is comparable to Washington, D.C., known throughout the land to every American citizen. Canberra is the federal capital territory of the Australian government. And as to give it a very interesting American interest, it was a well-known American architect named Griffin that planned Canberra. In fact, planning of Canberra has been conceived by Mr. Griffin on the same way as Washington was conceived and planned. Now, what else could we see that would be interesting in Australia? I suppose we could see opal mining and some of the other precious stones that you mine and various things. But tell us what you think would be most outstanding in your mind, Mr. Hill, to see, will you? Well, there are many surprises. And, of course, the American, after reaching the capital cities and with his curious mind to go further to seek as much information, he goes into the inland, the great continent, and there, to his delight, he finds vast sheep ranches, cattle ranches. I'm calling them ranches to make you feel at home because that's how you'll feel when you are in Australia. The waterways, the highways, the beaches are all worthy of tourist allure. They certainly satisfy the tourist. And these great beaches are within easy access to your great cities, aren't they? Much more convenient and more plentiful, if I may say, than the beaches in USA. In other words, you don't have to travel many miles or for very long to reach them, do you? Indeed not. It's a full pleasure. You're not tired before you get there. Well, that's very fine. And now what about seeing all these sheep? I understand you have as many sheep in Australia as we have people in the United States. Well, the sheep, too, are particular. They're very happy of the progressive population in their ranks, and they're doing a very good job earning dollars. Australia's a dollar-hungry country, and through the fine wool produced by Australia, Australia is well represented by the sheep, so we may be permitted and allowed to glorify the sheep as, especially now, a good dollar earner for a country deserving American interest. But I think it would even be interesting from a tourist standpoint to go to a country where we might see tens of thousands of sheep in one herd or flock to the other. Oh, you could do that without any trouble. In fact, the large sheep stations, the owners of these fine properties, and the homesteads in these properties, the hospitality of these folk, why, the door is open for the American tourists. Now, another very interesting thing that would fascinate me, I think, would be to see the Aborigine as he lives, and I suppose that could be arranged, too, if we've visited Australia. It's a country where the Aborigine really runs even near the big cities, doesn't he? No. In fact, I'm glad to inform you on that because the Aborigines now are in very few numbers and only found in the Commonwealth Government reservation areas. Mm-hmm. Well, they're a very interesting race of people as they represent man as he was about 20,000 years ago on this earth. Well, it's been very fine to have you on this program, Roland Hill, and I hope that you will be able to convey in Australia a good idea of some of the fine things to see in this country as you have to us Americans here some of the great things to see in Australia. And this is Henry Milo saying goodbye for now. You have been listening to a transcribed program, A Look at Australia, brought to you each week over this station. This broadcast was presented by Henry Milo with the cooperation of the Australian News and Information Bureau in New York City. Write to Henry Milo, care of this station, for an attractive 32-page illustrated magazine about Australia. And this is Stanley Burns, inviting you to listen in at the same time next week for another in the series of A Look at Australia. A Eiffel Family A Maori Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.