Good evening. From the United States Military Academy at West Point, the municipal broadcasting system, in cooperation with the West Point Public Relations Office and the Signal Corps, takes pleasure in presenting the Cadet Glee Club. For their first selection, the Glee Club, which consists of 69 voices, sings Sullivan's Chorus of Piers from Isle Anthony. The Glee Club The Glee Club The Glee Club The Glee Club The Glee Club The Glee Club The Glee Club The British nation And the strata, strata, strata, strata, strata, strata To be the king of the royal and special The royal of the rich and rich The British nation And the strata, strata, strata, strata, strata, strata, strata, strata, strata The power of the royal and special The power of the rich and rich The British nation And that's a thing. Bow, bow, he's over, he'll clap, Bow, bow, he's great, and bow, he's best, For the drummen, bag the brats, And that's a thing. And that's a thing. And that's a thing. And that's a thing. All the drummen, bag the brats, And that's a thing. Bow, bow, the drummen, bag the brats, Bow, bow, the drummen, Bow, bow, the drummen. Howdy, Lord, male of blanton. Howdy, gracious. Howdy, master. Howdy, Lord, male of blanton. Howdy, gracious. Howdy, master. Howdy, master. Howdy, master. Howdy, master. The glee club sings next a medley of Welsh folk songs, The Monk's March and Men of Harlick. From the leader Chester, rags, filenards, and flyers, grey. March from bang, God's terror has made. High, their holy anthem's fire. Set God's way up on every pound. From the leader Chester, rags, filenards, and flyers, From the leader Chester, rags, filenards, and flyers. Compares, filenards, and flyers, the young man, thecycle moon, oftentimes. And may form. Let us follow those who write Нуe around it at dawn. That above alloriel is coming. That 294 sosруз investing. What the獄's footings are making, That child Willy got botted up. Gas käytt, Samson, famished, alak machine sans anger, The day is shattered down and broken heart. Long recalls the wolf of might. How I shine the paper's first. Never shall thy trees return. The feldest fight shall take for sanctuary. Only the day let go. A cor Caleb. Capeング the earth from fire. THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END FOR THEIR THIRD AND CONCLUDING NUMBER, THE GLEE CLUB PRESENTS BENI HAVENS A BALLAD SUNG BY SONS OF WEST POINT FOR OVER A HUNDRED YEARS AND SUNG TODAY WHEREVER WEST POINTERS GATHERED GATHERED THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END IN THE ARMY THERE'S SO BRIODY FROM WATCH AND VERY SLOW SO WE'LL SING OUR GRAND DISCENSE OF BENI HAVEN'S POPE O BENI HAVEN'S POPE O BENI HAVEN'S POPE WE'LL CAKE OUR REMINISCENT OF BENI HAVEN'S POPE TO OUR KIND OLD ALMA MATER OUR ROCK BOWL ROCK BOWL ISLAND HOME WILL CATHBACK'S MAN YAH HONRY GREAT AS FOR LIFE'S TEAS WE ROAM UNTIL ON OUR LAST BATTLE SHIPS THE LIGHTS OF HELM SHALL FLOW FLOW WILL NEVER FAIL TO DRINK TO WE HONRY HONRY AND BE FOR BE HONRY HONRY HONRY O Benehaven's home, We'll sing our grand The Nippon's home. O Benehaven's home, May the army be augmented, So more than sea let's flow, May our country in the hour of need Be ready for the fall. May the time that soldiers let them fight to be a soldier's role, We'll throw him up In thy heart's name O Benehaven's home. O Benehaven's home, O Benehaven's home, We'll sing our grand The Nippon's home, O Benehaven's home. From West Point, We conclude this quarter hour of song By the Cadet Glee Club, Conducted by Cadet G. S. Harper, With Warrant Officer Barry Drews in charge, And Cadet W. S. Fisher, Pianist. On Tuesday, June 4th, At 10 a.m., The address of Secretary of War Patterson To the graduating class, Will be broadcast over Station WNYC. This is Major Bill Hood speaking, And returning you to the studios Of the Municipal Broadcasting System. Welcome everyone to this Pete. May we introduce Pete McGinnis. Now what do you think of anything Being 300 years old, Pete? Well, I want to let my good friends know That there's been 300 years of royal welcome That we have in the borough of Brooklyn. And in this borough, We have gathered many tongues Of many nations all over the world. And we live all happy together. No matter what race we come to, No matter what our religion is, God has given us that feeling That we shall continue to love one another, Irrespective of our religion, our politics, As long as we are all good friends together. I say in this great borough, In 300 years, It has developed, And it's been a thing, Of an inspiration for the whole world. Those that have never had the chance To see our great borough, Highly come here, To see our tall buildings, Our great manufacturers, Our many things of the interest, That help supply the good things All over the world. Oh, people, When the opportunity comes to you, Kindly visit our borough. We are the borough of good-hearted people, Good-natured people. No drive was ever started in the borough of Brooklyn That ever fell down. This borough has been generous in everything. War-bound drives, Red Cross drives, War-front drives, Cancer drives, And many, many others. Because the people of Brooklyn Were always generous, And they give, They give them out to this hunger famine All over the world. And I hope the world in return, Won't take advantage of ours, As has been done on many occasions, But love and a joy, The friendship, Not alone of the borough of Brooklyn, But the good people, That come from all parts of the world, To make our country, What it is today. And Brooklyn is one of the springs in our country, That has developed, And we in Brooklyn are very, very proud, That we are residents of this borough. I thank you. Now, Pete, You've committed a grave error. You haven't said a word about Greenpoint. Well, I wanted to be a little modest. I want to feel this way, That to me, Greenpoint is the garden spot of the world. It is a spot, Where I was raised, And first seen the light of day. At number 132 Eagle Street. Thanks be to God, There was a Greenpoint. And to the people of Greenpoint, I worked and worked the same as every other man, And labored on the docks. I pulled lumber, I worked in the whole of business. And I am proud, And I was a long shaman. I am delighted to say that I work with men, And I have done the same thing as every other man done. Work for an honest living. And thanks be to God, For that. As we stand here and look down historic Fulton Street, We get some idea of the development of Brooklyn, As we look, as we said before, At the span of bridges. I wonder if Mr. Cashmore would like to speak a word to you. Could we take a moment of your time, Mr. President? Oh, I'd surely, I'd be glad to on our 300th down of Oyst Street. We're standing on the steps of Burrow Hall. And I'm going to say that I work with men. And I've done the same thing as every other man done. I work for an honest living. And thanks be to God for that. Thanks be to God for that. As we stand here and look down historic Fulton Street, We get some idea of the development of Brooklyn, As we look, as we said before, At the span of bridges. I wonder if Mr. Cashmore would like to speak a word to you. Could we take a moment of your time, Mr. President? Oh, I'd surely, I'd be glad to on our 300th down of Oyst Street. We're standing on the steps of Burrow Hall. It's 98 years old. Just two years more, and we'll have an anniversary For the oldest public building, housing a borough president. It may interest you to know that this building was started in 1836. And then a depression set in it. It lay here in Brooklyn as a white elephant for 10 years. And then the building was finally erected in 1848. That's when it was first occupied. We paid $52,000 for the land, which today is assessed for $3,600,000. Over there, on the right hand side, that old Arbuckle building, That's coming down and we're going to build $11.5 million, Kings County Supreme Court building. Then you go down a little further and we're going to have a brand new post office site. The old post office building, we're still going to keep there and we're going to renovate that and use it there. We're out of a car. In other words, thanks a lot. We're here at Brooklyn, at Burrow Hall. As we stand here and look down historic Fulton Street, we get some idea of the development of Brooklyn as we look, as we said before, at the span of bridges. I wonder if Mr. Cashmore would like to speak a word to you. Could we take a moment of your time, Mr. President? All right, surely I'd be glad to on our 300th anniversary. We're standing on the steps of Burrow Hall. It's 98 years old, just two years more, and we'll have an anniversary for the oldest public building housing a Burrow president. It may interest you to know that this building was started in 1836, and then a depression set in. It lay here in Brooklyn as a white elephant for 10 years. And then the building was finally erected in 1848, when it was first occupied. We paid $52,000 for the land, which today is assessed for $3,600,000. Over there, on the right-hand side, that old Arbuckle building, that's coming down, and we're going to build $11.5 million, Kings County Supreme Court building. When you go down a little further, we're going to have a brand-new post office site. The old post office building, we're still going to keep there, and we're going to renovate that and use it for a federal court. This whole Brooklyn Civic Center is going to be flanked on both sides by public buildings, and right in the center of it, it's going to be a war memorial. And it's going to be a useful one instead of brick, lime, lumber, and cement. It's going to be an honor of the 327,000 boys and girls who fought in this war. And don't forget, Brooklyn supplied more, and that 327,000, the many of 39 states in the Union. In this war memorial, you're going to have an auditorium that holds 1,500 people. And then you're going to have a room on the right where the trophies that our boys captured from the four corners of the world are going to be on display. Then on the left-hand side is going to be a room in bronze where the names will be inscribed of every boy and girl who made the supreme sacrifice. And downstairs, this is very interesting, and I believe you'll like it. We're going to have a room for each of the veterans' organizations, which isn't anywhere in the city of New York. We're going to have the American Legion, the King's County, the Spanish War veterans, the Catholic War veterans, and the Jewish War veterans. They're all going to be down there in that one building source. Any of these 327,000 veterans needs assistance. They'll have a central location point to which to go. Thank you. I appreciate you very much, Mr. President, your busy life, stepping by this way and taking a few moments. That was quite a celebration you had down at Hamilton Ferry, wasn't it? You want to say a word about that? Yes, that was a big thrill. I'll tell you a little about that. A ferryboat, known as the Moran Thugboat Company, supplied it as a company. He lives in Brooklyn, and he's a resident. I wonder if we can pick up somebody here, will you? I shouldn't say pick up, that's the wrong term. He came out and walked across the square with Pete McGinnis, and I'm by a very athletic young man shook hands with him, and he says, How are you, he says... So what? How is the American man? That's okay. In the einz시라03, your group of God made me jealous He didn't see. You're gone, Joel Valde Bean, he says... ...you're full ofroidب Charles, complete Markurs, complete Markurs, complete Markurs, complete Markurs. ...when you are done. You're doing these two small portion meters away. You get that up here. What are you doing? I want to go that far andDS bought you from them. We buy the知識 and find it. I want to go out about that. All right. Here are too many tasks we do. You have tricks on right, and try to go out and see those parts.