From City Hall Plaza, WNYC brings you now a special broadcast of the presentation of Fire Department Awards. Fire Commissioner Jacob Grimett has already made public the names of the 29 members of the department's uniformed force cited for heroism and other meritorious acts performed in 1951. This afternoon, Mayor Vincent Aram Pelletieri will present the awards, five of which will be posthumous and presented to the next of kin. You have just heard the national anthem played by the Fire Department Band, and in just a moment, Presiding Chairman, Commissioner Jacob Grimett. Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, today we pay our annual tribute to the heroes of the Fire Department, whose deeds of valor were above and beyond the call of duty. Five of these brave firemen made the supreme sacrifice. I extend my sympathy to all those who sorrow for them. Every time a fireman rolls out of quarters in response to a call to protect the lives and property of the people of our great city, he is not certain whether he will ever return. While the bravery of our firemen is taken for granted, not all know their efficiency is also unsurpassed. Last year, they again confined more than 99.9% of all fires to the area involved upon their arrival, a record they have now maintained for four years in succession. And I feel that I can confidently predict that when the statistics for this year are compiled, the same fine record will be maintained. This record of confining more than 99.9% of all fires to the area involved upon the arrival of our firefighters is indeed amazing when we remember that they responded to 44,040 fires during the past year. Of this number, 29 spread to other floors and 11 to adjacent buildings. So that they held 44,000 fires to the area ablaze on their arrival. This record was achieved at great personal risk to every member of the uniformed force who responded to these fires. It now becomes my great pleasure to turn over this meeting to a real friend of the firemen, to a friend of all the people of this city, one who has not given to false promises, His Honor, Mayor Vincent R. Pelletere, who will pin on the tunics of our medal winners the departmental tokens of bravery after he has awarded the fire department's medal of valor to the next of kin of those who are forever enshrined in the grateful hearts of all of us. Mayor Impelle Tere. Commissioner Grumet, Reverend Clergy, members of the fire department, and their friends assembled here and listening in on the air. In the name of the good and grateful people of this city, and in my own name as mayor, I will very shortly present the fire department's Medal of Valor to the next of kin of five heroic firemen who died last year in the line of duty. These five men made the supreme sacrifice as part of their daily routine work. The highly hazardous task of protecting the lives and the property of the people of this great metropolis was their job to give them that protection from the consuming flames. These valiant heroes laid down their lives while protecting all of us. And on behalf of all the people of New York and as their mayor, I extend the city's condolence, as well as my own, to the families and friends of the brave men whose memory we honor here today. Let me here observe what so many of us are so apt to forget, that a year never passes, unfortunately, without some of our dauntless firemen paying the full measure of devotion to the people of the city of New York that they so zealously serve. Some of the men on whose breasts I will pin medals are here only by the grace of God, for they barely escape with their lives in the breathtaking rescues that they made in 1951. As our distinguished, very able fire commissioner, Jacob Brumet, has already noted, these heroes are only a few of our firefighters whose brave deeds placed them on the roll of merit last year. The total number well exceeds 400. We have indeed an army of heroes in our fire department. They are world-renowned, not only for their bravery, but also for their efficiency, which has already been demonstrated to you very vividly when Commissioner Brumet told you that the fire department of the city of New York shattered not only the records of fire departments in our own state, but shattered the records of fire departments all over the country, when last year they succeeded in keeping 99.9% of all fires from spreading after they arrived on the scene. This record, I am proud to say, is unsurpassed. Then there were two other medals that will be awarded today. One, the administration medal, will go to Deputy Chief Massage for his labors in revising the department's rules and regulations and official action guide. And the other, the Stevenson medal, to Captain Shea of Rescue Company No. 4, for maintaining the best disciplined and most efficient company in 1951. Captain Shea has won a place on the roll of merit in four separate years, and Chief Massage was placed on this roll of brave men on three separate occasions. The city of New York is indeed mighty proud of its firefighters. And may I point out on this occasion that your mayor, your city administration, and your fire commissioner, join with thousands of people assembled here at City Hall Plaza today, to not only extend their condolences to the next of kin of the brave men who've passed on, but to join with all the decent-thinking people of our community in congratulating and commending the members of the fire department for the splendid service. They render to the people of the city of New York 365 days each year. And here once again at RWNYC microphone in City Hall Plaza is Commissioner Jacob Grumet. The fire department members are arranged in formation before the grandstand here, with the medal winners in the front ranks. They are now moving forward, the 29 men who are to receive the award. And here once again at RWNYC microphone in City Hall Plaza is Commissioner Jacob Grumet. The fire department members are arranged in formation before the grandstand here, with the medal winners in the front ranks. They are now moving forward, the 29 men who are to receive the awards. The 24 actually in the five posthumous. The 24 are in the five posthumous. The 24 are in the five posthumous. The 21, by your distribution, a medal in accordance with the recommendation to the board of mind. It's a pleasure. Thank you, sir. Oh, well here's my copy so you can guide yourself. First Deputy Commissioner Horowitz is at our microphone now. The department medal awarded posthumously to Fireman First Grade Arthur C. Smith, Hook and Ladder Company 118. Mrs. Smith. The wife of Fireman First Grade Arthur C. Smith of Hook and Ladder 118, who died May 5, 1951, is receiving the award through his wife, Mrs. Smith, who has now come forward, has been congratulated by the mayor and Commissioner Jacob Grumet. Fireman First Grade James Roche. Mrs. Roche, please. The wife of Fireman First Grade James Roche has come forward now to receive the posthumous medal from both Mayor Impeliteri and Commissioner Grumet. She's accompanied by her daughter. She's accompanied by the young son, whom I didn't see a moment ago, standing in front directly in front of Mayor Impeliteri. I believe the young boy is receiving the medal for his father. Fireman First Grade Roche died 1951 from injuries received ahead of fire on the 24th of September of last year. Quite a number of photographers here, and the entire plaza is filled with people who have come to pay their respects by being present at these special awards. Lieutenant Robert C. Davison, Engine Company 73. Mrs. Davison, please. The third of our posthumous awards, Lieutenant Robert C. Davison of Engine 73. Mrs. Davison has come up to where the medals are being given and is receiving the award for her husband from Mayor Impeliteri. Fireman First Grade Bernard Delamer, Engine Company 49. Mrs. Delamer, please. The wife of Fireman First Grade Bernard Delamer, of Engine Company 49, is now receiving the posthumous medal from Mayor Impeliteri and from Commissioner Jacob Grumet. The families of the firemen who perished in the United States, the families of the firemen who perished in the line of duty are standing in a line where their photographs are being taken. There's a tremendous feeling of pride which is visible even from here. We're standing on the steps of City Hall, and the ceremonies are taking place directly beneath us. A very bright summer day. A tremendous feeling of pride, mingled of course, with their very great sorrow. The fifth and final fireman who perished last year, who was receiving this award, is Fireman First Grade Frank E. Wolfe, of Hook and Ladder 8. And then the awards and medals will go to the firemen who also during the past year have shown outstanding heroism and acts of valor and power. Photographers are still taking pictures, both motion pictures and still shots. Newspapers are very well represented by the firemen who are still taking pictures. Photographers are still taking pictures, both motion pictures and still shots. Newspapers are very well represented. Directly beneath us, between where the ceremonies are going on and the top step of City Hall, the very beautiful color guard of the fire department, and throughout the plaza here at City Hall, various fire companies are represented. Other medals which were announced yesterday by Jacob Gromet, and who will also receive them this afternoon, are Thomas E. Crimmins. The Thomas E. Crimmins Medal and Department Medal goes to Fireman First Grade John K. McCullough of Engine 78. The Thomas A. Kenney Memorial Medal and Department Medal goes to Fireman First Grade Robert A. Weiner of Hook and Ladder 2. The Albert S. Johnson Medal and Department Medal to Fireman First Grade John J. Conroy Jr., Engine Company. The James Gordon Bennett Medal and Department Medal awarded John F. McGlynn, Hook and Ladder Company Number 10, for rescuing a man from a fire at 32 Spruce Street, Manhattan, on January 16, 1951. Lieutenant John McGlynn has come forward now to receive his medal from Mayor Impelituri and Commissioner Gromet. antiquated david military Anita Bakery and Commissioner Gromet. Station of Fire Department Digital Federal Federal Federal Federal Federal Federal Federal Federal Federal Federal Swissade Transfer Procedure Command Son is He said one more picture. Thomas F. Docherty Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade Solomon M. Wells, Hook and Ladder Company 10, for participating in the rescue of Mr. Murray Shelton from the fire described above in the case of Lieutenant John F. McGlynn. The rescue which Deputy Commissioner Horowitz is discussing is a rescue which was performed at the top of an aerial ladder as fire shot from every window of the building. Mr. Shelton was treated for second-degree burns of the hands and face, Lieutenant McGlynn for abrasions of the left hand, and Fireman Wells for second-degree burns of the right hand. They are recipients of the James Gordon Bennett Medal and also the Department Medal, which goes to Lieutenant McGlynn, and the Thomas F. Docherty Medal goes to Fireman First Grade Solomon M. Wells of Hook and Ladder Company 10. The weather has changed very slightly here in City Hall Park. The sun has gone behind a cloud. It is much cooler. There was a tremendous heat beating down on this ceremony here today. The two firemen, Lieutenant McGlynn and Fireman First Grade Solomon Wells, are posing with Mayor Impeletteri and Commissioner Jacob Grumet as photographers take their pictures on this day which honors their bravery and valor as members of New York City's Fire Department. Others who will receive medals today, the Mayor LaGuardia Medal and Department Medal will go to Fireman First Grade Vincent E. Ryan of Hook and Ladder 43. The William F. Conrad Medal and Department Medal will go to Fireman First Grade Thomas Hefner, Rescue Crew 2. The Chief John J. McElgott Medal and Department Medal to Captain Otto H. Knockenhauer, Engine Company No. 16. The William O'Dwyer Medal and Department Medal will go to Fireman First Grade John J. O'Connor. New Bonham Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade John J. O'Connell, Engine Company 222 for rescuing Mr. Richard C. Cumberbatch and his wife Kathleen from a fire at 105 Reed Avenue, Brooklyn, on December 25, 1951. Fireman First Grade John J. O'Connell of Engine Company 222 has come forward now to receive his recognition for rescuing a man and his wife from a fire in a three-story rooming house in Brooklyn on Christmas Day. William H. Todd Memorial Medal and Department of Department of Department awarded to Lieutenant William L. Casey, Hook and Ladder Company 15, for rescuing a man trapped in a sewer at Liberty Street between Washington and West Streets, Manhattan, on October 31, 1951. Mrs. J. Herbert Todd will assist the mayor and the fire commissioner in the presentation of these medals. Mrs. William H. Todd has come forward now to pin the medal, the memorial medal for her husband William H. Todd, and also the department medal on Lieutenant William L. Casey of Hook and Ladder 15. Mrs. Williams L. Casey, painter Porque'd a Jedi Freedom Overy Coordinator for theRP man project is Deputy Commissioner Horowitz. As we mentioned earlier, the William O'Dwyer Medal and Department Medal will go to Fireman First Grade George R. Roy of Hook and Ladder Company 14. The Michael J. Delahanty Medal and Department Medal will go to Lieutenant Alfred W. Santacero of Engine Company 6. The Henry D. Brookman Medal and Department Medal will go to Fireman First Grade Paul R. Bush of Hook and Ladder Company 1. The Brooklyn Citizens Medal and Department Medal will go to Fireman First Grade Conrad P. Metzger of Hook and Ladder Company 1. The Michael J. Delahanty Medal and Department Medal awarded to Lieutenant Alfred W. Santacero, Engine Company 6, for attempting the rescue of a man trapped in a sewer described above in the case of Lieutenant Casey. Mr. William E. Reid will assist the Mayor and the Fire Commission in the presentation of this medal. Nine firemen have already received the awards of the 29 who are to receive them this afternoon. The John H. Prentice Medal and Department Medal. The Thomas E. Crimmins Medal and Department Medal awarded to Fireman First Grade John K. McCulloch, Engine Company 78, for rescuing another of the men trapped in a sewer, as described above in the case of Lieutenants Casey and Santacero. Amen. The John H. Prentice Medal Henry D. Brookman Medal and Department Medal awarded the fireman first grade Paul R. Bush, Hook and Ladder Company One, for participating in the rescue of men trapped in a sewer as described above in the cases of Lieutenants Casey and Fireman McCullough. William F. Conrad Medal and Department Medal awarded the fireman first grade Thomas Hafner, and you're company number two, for rescuing one of the three men trapped in a sewer as described above. The Franklin D. Roosevelt Medal and Department Medal awarded the fireman first grade Charles G. Bosch, 9th Battalion. Fireman Charles G. Bosch of the 9th Battalion winner of the Franklin D. Roosevelt Medal and Department Medal is unable to attend today's presentation of medals by Mayor Impeletere. Fireman Bosch was severely burned in a restaurant fire and explosion at 260 West 57th Street, Manhattan, on May the 23rd last. He has been confined to Roswell Hospital ever since. The Walter Scott Medal and Department Medal awarded the fireman first grade Richard V. Oliver, Hook and Ladder Company Number 4, for rescuing Mrs. Antoinette Gabroski and participating in the rescue of other persons from the fire described above in the case of Fireman Charles G. Bosch. All 4, for rescuing one of the center ofAdd of precisely, to remain in their plats as commander and Device dois, and to remain in their plats 하나 dasnw seconds than before and after and after death,<|sv|> one of the things he says to do for the weekend Other medals to be given this afternoon. From City Hall Plaza, your city station has brought you a special broadcast of the presentation of the Fire Department Awards. The 29 awards for meritorious service and heroism were made by Mayor Vincent R. Impella Terry by Deputy Commissioner, by Fire Commissioner Jacob Grimmett and Deputy Fire Commissioner Charles Horowitz. This has been a special public service feature of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.