This is Clark Eichelberger. The UN is my beat. Someone has said that if you drop pebbles in a pond, increasingly large circles and ripples appear on the surface. That's what we want to talk about. Once again, the National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, is bringing you transcribed Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations, in another thought-provoking discussion of vital issues confronting the UN. Mr. Eichelberger. Well, it will seem strange to you, again as it does to me, that you hear my voice on this program, when at this very moment I am at Geneva, Switzerland, attending some roundtables of the World Federation of the United Nations Association. But next week, upon my return, I shall tell you about those interesting meetings. But it's my privilege on this program to tell something about the American Association for the United Nations, and to have three of our directors in the field tell you of their kind of a program. A representative from our Midwest office in Chicago, our Southwest regional office at Los Angeles, and closer home to this office, the director of our Mount Vernon, New York chapter. The American Association for the United Nations has, as you know, its national headquarters. You've heard me speak from that headquarters many times. And you've heard the staff of the national office tell about their planning throughout the country. But now we're going to the country to tell what the real life blood of the Association is doing, if I may use that figure of speech, throughout the length and breadth of this land. In other words, there are hundreds of communities in which there are local people, banded together in a chapter of the Association, conducting a broad educational program with what the United Nations is doing, and what are the obligations of the United States, and what its foreign policy is in regard to the United Nations. So I think we'll go to Chicago first. I'm going to introduce Mr. James Eldridge, Midwest director of our association. This is Jim Eldridge. I am happy to be able to tell you something in the work of our Chicago office. There was once a day when the Midwest was considered isolationist, and Chicago was the center of that isolationist spirit. But in 1950, Chicago was host to the first United States International Trade Fair. Forty-three countries of the United Nations displayed their wares, and over a half million citizens of the Midwest visited the trade fair. I am speaking to you from Chicago's famed Merchandise Mart, where the NBC studios are located. As I came into the studio, I noticed the blue and white banner of the United Nations in the colorful avenue of flags in the plaza of the Merchandise Mart. But it is in the day-to-day activities of our office that we in Chicago contest the Midwest interest in the United Nations. Our local board is made up of a group of truly representative Americans. Educators, labor leaders, politicians, housewives, industrial leaders, members of the clergy, lawyers, all join together in a common civic effort to make available to the people of this community the story of the United Nations' attempt to build a lasting peace. These citizens serve under the able leadership of our distinguished chairman, the Governor of Illinois, the Honorable Adlai E. Stevenson, one of the founders of the United Nations. 1950 has been a busy year for us. In January, our association, together with Rockford College, established the first United Nations seminar for Rockford College students. Under the direction of Mrs. Schmidt of our office, 15 of the students went to Lake Success and for two weeks studied the United Nations at first hand. Recently, in cooperation with the University of Chicago, the United Nations Association of Chicago launched the first home study course for teachers throughout the Midwest so that the teachers may prepare themselves to teach their students in the high schools and the colleges of this area about the United Nations. In March, we were host to the third annual Midwest Collegiate Conference of the United Nations at which people like Senator Paul Douglas, Professor Quincy Wright, and Harding Bancroft of the United States State Department spoke to students from five Midwestern states. Through our radio services, through our telephone answering committees, through our speakers bureau, through the use of visual aid, through public information booths at our state fairs, through our people's section, through the high schools and teachers of this area, the United Nations Association of Chicago carries to five Midwestern states the story of the United Nations. Recently, Admiral Nimitz came to the Chicago office and spoke to a group of distinguished Chicago citizens and discussed the United Nations and Korea. He went throughout the Middle West as he described himself as a traveling salesman for the United Nations. Day to day in the Chicago office, we answer questions. Now that the United Nations comes to Chicago by television, our phone rings every day with questions about what it is that Mr. Malik is doing, what it is that Mr. Austin is replying, what is the Rule 17 of the Articles of Procedure that Mr. Malik is discussing. We are a busy beehive these days in the United Nations in Chicago because the people of the Midwest have become truly aware that the fate of this country and the fate of humanity and the building of a lasting peace depends so very largely upon the success or failure of the United Nations. And we in the democratic tradition believe that that success depends upon the degree of the participation of the people themselves in the United Nations effort. And now, Miss Elsie Jensen, Southwest Field Director from Los Angeles. Today, I bring you greetings from the members of the Southwest Region of the American Association for the United Nations. Our members wanted me to tell all about all their programs, such as sending a college student to Europe this summer, providing scholarships for high school students for visits to the United Nations, to tell you about members writing articles for the local press, and chapters entertaining officials of the United Nations, for instance, Dr. Ralph Bunch, and members of the U.S. mission to the United Nations, such as Admiral Nimitz. Now I can only talk about three or four such activities. For example, in Pasadena, our AAUN chapter president, Mr. Stuart Chevalier, an attorney and author, prepared an excellent statement on the present Korean situation. The local paper printed this statement, which was presented in the form of a petition. Citizens whose point of view was in accord with this statement signed it, then clipped it, and mailed it to the local chapter, or directly to the United Nations Security Council. So the voices of the citizens of Pasadena were heard at Lake Success, and popular support for the forthright action taken by the United Nations against the aggression in Korea found an avenue open for immediate expression. There are ten chapters in Southern California, from Santa Barbara to San Diego. Their elected representatives met in emergency session on June the 28th, at the City Hall of Los Angeles, and drafted a resolution expressing vigorous support of the United Nations, and the United States action in Korea. Then gave this statement to the radio commentators, to the press, and sent it to our Secretary of State, and also to our congressmen. In this way, they unified their efforts on an acute issue before the citizens of our country. The officers of these chapters are recruited from the ranks of business, professions, churches, schools, labor, service groups, and women's organizations. Membership is open to every thoughtful and responsible citizen. We are fortunate here in Hollywood to have much talent concentrated in one spot. So, through the initiative of the Beverly Hills League of Women Voters, and their joint cooperation with our Southwest AAUN office, a beautiful and unusual dramatic production of an original play entitled, Meet the World, written by Peg Fenwick, produced by Justine Wanger, directed by Bernard Zold, was presented by a cast of 60 professional theater and motion picture personalities, who contributed their precious talent and time. Jeff Chandler, as narrator, headed the cast, and was supported by Jester Hairston and his 60 voice choir. Thus, the purposes and the constructive work of the United Nations and its specialized agencies was dramatized for the people of our region. Now, these personalities are all active members of the Association. But all the exciting programs are not just here in Southern California, for the State of New Mexico is busy planning a wonderful United Nations Weekend Day program for October 16th through 24th. Our Regional Chairman, Mrs. George Taubman of Long Beach, has just returned from a trip to Santa Fe and Albuquerque. And while she was there, the Governor of New Mexico appointed a publisher, Mr. Reynolds, as the UN Weekend Day Chairman. And the Citizens Committee has planned a special UN flag raising, which will take place in the plaza adjacent to the oldest building in the United States, the Palace of Santa Fe. These are but a few of the many programs undertaken by the citizens of the Southwest region to bring about understanding of and participation in United Nations activities. And now I have before me in the studio, Miss Elizabeth Wyss, Secretary of our Mount Vernon chapter, one of the local chapters in the Greater New York Region. So I can ask her questions because she's here. Miss Wyss, it's a great advantage, isn't it, having your chapter so close to Lake Success. Tell about the students' visits to Lake Success. Yes, it is, Mr. Ackleburg, an advantage to being nearby because not only students from the schools are taken to Lake Success, but many of the adult organizations have been stimulated in forming groups to go out to the United Nations itself. I wonder if those visits to the United Nations result in a very successful activity. you have audience, active audience participation. Tell a little about that. I think it would help some of our other chapters to know. Our monthly meetings usually have as a program a speaker or a panel discussion. Regardless of either, the audience takes a very lively interest in the questions and in... The audience really gets into the act, does it? The audience really gets into the act. In fact, they hardly ever want to go home. We keep on having fairly late meetings. That's good. That's real democratic discussion. Now, a couple other things I want to ask you about. Nothing has been said yet in this program. I guess probably that isn't quite right, but tell us more about United Nations Week, and your preparation for it. The plans for the United Nations Week are in the making, and in fact some of us, through the Executive Committee and the Chairman of Committees, have been working during the summer. We plan to try to get the cooperation of merchants in having special United Nations window displays and advertisements in the local newspapers. Are we going to have the UN flag flown? We hope to have the UN flag flown on the main street, at the various corners of the main street, as well as to present the flag to the city. Also, services in the churches and coming back to schools, special programs in the schools featuring United Nations. Excellent. Ms. Linzer tells me that some of the techniques you're developing in Mount Vernon are going to help some of our other chapters. Now, tell about, in conclusion, your cooperation with the schools. I know that you're doing quite a lot of work with students. How do you proceed with that? That's a hard question. I know that's the hardest question. That's the hardest question. I know that you're doing quite a lot of work on the school, simply because it takes a little longer to work with a school system. They already are doing quite a bit of work with United Nations. So what you need to do is to supplement it and get them a gift. It's to supplement what they did. And really, we have so far in the five months of our existence, or six months, been able to do concretely a great deal more with adult organizations in actually stimulating their programs and making arrangements. We've got help from the League of Women Voters and the labor groups and all other groups. Yes, we do. And that's the kind of an example that we'd like to have you set to the other chapters in the greater New York area. We're proud of you and what Mount Vernon is doing, and we hope that you'll continue to set a goal for the other chapters in New York. Thank you, Mr. Eichelberger. The National Broadcasting Company, in cooperation with the NBC University of the Air, has brought you another transcribed broadcast in its series, The UN Is My Beat, with Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations. Each week at this time, Mr. Eichelberger calls to our attention the events and problems of the United Nations. Whenever possible, he brings before our microphone the men and women who are making history in the world today. So be sure to be listening next week and every week for The UN Is My Beat.