The National Association of Educational Broadcasters presents another in the series of transcribed programs on the Jeffersonian heritage. The experiment of a free press, starring Claude Rains as Thomas Jefferson. The National Association of Educational Broadcasters Welcome, sir. Welcome to Monticello. I appreciate the courtesy of your coming and the intent of your visit. You have asked me to recount the growth of freedom of the press in America as I saw it, in war and peace and political controversy, and to state what I believe to be the meaning of the liberty of the press. I wonder if you will allow me first, however, to show you around my own dear Monticello. Here in my retirement, on this little mountain, I am the happy possessor of a rich and varied scene that nature has spread beneath our eyes. Here, with majesty, we ride above the storm. I can look down at the workhouse of nature, see her clouds, hail, snow, rain, thunder, all fabricated at our feet. And the glorious sun gilding the tops of the mountain and giving life to all nature. Ah, but you are impatient to hear of the importance of a free press in the lives of my countrymen. Forgive me if I speak of my old preference for life here at Monticello, rather than begin at once to tell you of the torture of my experience on the gridiron of the newspapers. If you will step this way, we will go in now by this portico that faces the east. The whole house has been in an almost constant state of rebuilding from the time that I first leveled off the summit and began to lay out the grounds half a century ago. I hope that I shall always find the place unfinished. Architecture is my delight, and putting up and pulling down one of my favourite amusements. Now after you, sir, through these folding doors into the parlour. The busts of Alexander and Napoleon are there on the pedestals on each side of the door. On the walls are portraits of Bacon, Newton and Locke, of Columbus, Cortez and Magellan, of Franklin, Washington, Lafayette, Hamilton and many other remarkable men. In the dining room and elsewhere are scriptural paintings, among them the Ascension of St. Paul, the Holy Family, the Scourging of Christ and the Crucifixion. Pray advance, sir, and enter my library. Please step over those books on the floor. It's a habit of mine to have sometimes twenty or more of them open on the floor at once, as I find it aids me to read first one, then another, as I gather information to reply to my correspondence. Please take this chair. You will find tobacco there beside you. The freedom of the press, I have always deemed one of the essential principles of our government. While President of the United States, I inaugurated the experiment of complete freedom of the press from control or censorship by government. During that time, a distinguished French citizen, after visiting America, was asked by Napoleon, what kind of a government is that of the United States? He replied, it is one, sir, which you can neither feel nor see. Napoleon, the military conqueror, asked no more questions. I was persuaded at the beginning of my career that the good sense of the people will always be found to be the best army. The people may be led astray for a moment, but will soon correct themselves. They are the only censors of their governors. Give the people full information of their affairs through the channel of the public papers, and contrive that those papers should penetrate to the whole mass of the people. The basis of our governments being the opinion of the people. The very first object should be to keep that right. And had it been left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not have hesitated a moment to prefer the latter. But I mean that every man should receive those papers, and be capable of reading them. I cherish, therefore, the spirit of the people. Where the press is free, and every man able to read, all is safe. So I believe from almost the beginning of my public life. In the administration of President Adams, the Federalists brought into the Lower House of Congress a sedition bill which, among other enormities, undertook to make printing certain matters criminal, though the First Amendment to the Constitution had expressly forbidden abridgment of freedom of speech, or of the press. Indeed, this bill, and the alien bill, both were so palpably in the teeth of the Constitution as to show they meant to pay no respect to it. The law was adopted. Seditious libel was defined as any statement tending to weaken the public confidence in the Federal officials. The party in power attempted to suppress freedom of speech and crush political opposition in the noble name of National Patriotism. The alleged justification was the danger to the country from revolutionary France aided and abetted by disloyal Americans, so they claimed. The party in power exploited the foreign situation to their own advantage and grossly underestimated the patriotism of the American people. I considered the alien and sedition laws as merely an experiment on the American mind to see how far it would bear an avowed violation of the Constitution. It was at this time leading Republican journalists such as Thomas Cooper and James Thompson Callender were prosecuted and added to the list of victims of the sedition law. There were some 25 arrests under the Sedition Act, 15 indictments and 11 trials resulting in 10 convictions. This campaign of intimidation was supplemented by a number of actions under the common law of seditious libel which yielded five more convictions. The Federalists argued that the victims of their prosecutions were given the chance of proving the truth of their statements as a defence but the judges in these trials so acted that the defendants could not secure witnesses and documents that would enable them to prove that their political assertions were in fact truthful statements. I, as well as most other Republicans who were able to do it contributed what I could afford to the support of the Republican papers and printers paid sums of money for the B, the Albany Register and other papers when they were staggering under the sedition law. I contributed to the paying of the fines of Callender himself, of Holt, Brown and others suffering under that law. I made Virginia a haven for journalists and others fleeing the Sedition Act. I resisted this tyranny over the press as best I could. Mr. Madison and I fathered the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions in an attempt to rally the states in support of civil liberty. During this time in the newspapers I myself was a fair mark for every man's dirt. I believe some indulged themselves in this exercise who would not have done it had they known me otherwise than through these impure and injurious channels. It is a hard treatment and for a singular kind of offence that of having obtained by the labours of a life the indulgent opinions of a part of one's fellow citizens. However, these moral evils must be submitted to like the physical scourges of tempest and fire. After my election to the presidency I pardoned all who were still serving terms for violating the Sedition Act declaring that I considered that law to be nullity as absolute and as palpable as if Congress had ordered us to fall down and worship a golden image. Yet I was no advocate of a licentious press for I had many unhappy moments as the chief of a government that followed the policy of full liberty to the press. I remember burned in my mind the searing things they wrote of me. Jefferson sinfully has a Congo harem under Jefferson as president all Bibles will be burnt. Jefferson has denied the right of property marriage natural affection chastity and decency. Jefferson hired mercenary libellers to destroy the reputation of Washington and aims at the overthrow of the Constitution. In the court of public opinion Mr. Jefferson stands convicted irrevocably of hypocrisy of treachery of ingratitude of impiety of personal cowardice of brutal lust. Should the infidel Jefferson be elected to the presidency the seal of death is that moment set on our holy religion our churches will be prostrated and some infamous prostitute under the title of goddess of reason will preside in the sanctuaries now devoted to the worship of the most high. It was in France where Mr. Jefferson resided nearly seven years that he sucked in the poisonous doctrines that have corrupted his heart and brain. It was in France that his disposition to theory and his skepticism in religion morals and government acquired full strength and vigor. Mr. Jefferson is known to be a theorist in politics as well as in philosophy and morals. He is a philosopher in the worst French sense of the word and as such is a known enemy to the federal constitution. It can be proved that the honorable Thomas Jefferson the man whom the mob delight to honor obtained his estate and property by fraud and robbery. Lawyer Jefferson defrauded and robbed a widow and her fatherless children of a legacy worth 10,000 pounds sterling while acting as executor of the estate by keeping the property and paying off his victim in worthless paper money at 40 to 1. It can be proved. The End of the Land Although frequently solicited by my friends I never would descend to a newspaper refutation of calumny. I never, in any instance, appealed to the retribution of the laws. I know that I might have filled the courts of the United States with actions for these slanders and have ruined perhaps many persons who are not innocent. But this would be no equivalent for the loss of character. I left them, therefore, to the reproof of their own consciences. If these do not condemn them, there will yet come a day when the false witness will meet a judge who has not slept over these slanders. Had I undertaken to answer the calumnies of the newspapers, it would have been more than all my own time and that of twenty aids could effect. For while I should be answering one calumny, twenty new ones would be invented. I thought it better to trust to the justice of my countrymen that they would judge me by what they saw of my conduct on the stage where they placed me and what they knew of me before the epoch when a particular political party supposed it might answer some view of theirs to vilify me in the public eye. This is an injury to which duty requires everyone to submit whom the public think proper to call into its councils. That is indeed the chief consolation for being hated by so many who, without the least personal knowledge, cover me with their implacable hatred. The only return I will ever make them will be to do them all the good I can in spite of their teeth. But my view was generally not comprehended. The celebrated traveller and geographer Baron Humboldt called on me at the President's house one day. On taking up one of the day's newspapers which lay upon the table, he was shocked to find its columns teeming with the most wanton abuse against me. He threw it down with indignation, exclaiming, why do you not have the fellow hung who dares to write these abominable lies? I remember that I replied, what? Hang the guardians of the public morals? No, sir. Rather, would I protect the spirit of freedom which dictates even that degree of abuse? Put that paper into your pocket, my good friend. Carry it with you to Europe. And when you hear anyone doubt the reality of American freedom, show them that paper and tell them where you found it. Baron Humboldt left the President's house far from convinced that my ignoring the scurridities of the newspapers was sound policy. He feared the artillery of the press leveled against my administration would mislead the people. He feared, too, that although we had banished from the land religious intolerance under which mankind so long bled and suffered, I was countenancing a political intolerance as despotic, as wicked, and as capable of as bitter and bloody results. He prophesied that our Republican government if it proved too weak to protect itself from slander and would lack energy to preserve itself at the polls, that a deceived people maddened by falsehood would drive us from office. I was willing to take that risk. It was with deep pleasure then that after the election of 1804 had vindicated my experiment, I was able to send Baron Humboldt a tally of the votes and a copy of my second inaugural address. There, I remarked to our citizens that during this administration and in order to disturb it, the artillery of the press has been levelled against us, charged with whatsoever its licentiousness could devise or dare. These abuses of an institution so important to freedom and science are deeply to be regretted inasmuch as they tend to lessen its usefulness and to sap its safety. Thank you. Thank you. They might indeed have been corrected by the wholesome punishments reserved and provided by the laws of the several states against falsehood and defamation. But public duties more urgent press on the time of public servants and the offenders have therefore been left to find their punishment in the public indignation. Nor was it uninteresting to the world that an experiment should be fairly and fully made whether freedom of discussion unaided by power is not sufficient for the propagation and protection of truth. Whether a government conducting itself in the true spirit of its constitution with zeal and purity and doing no act which it would be unwilling the whole world should witness can be written down by falsehood and defamation. The experiment has been tried. You have witnessed the scene. Our fellow citizens have looked on cool and collected. They saw the latent source from which these outrages proceeded. They gathered around their public functionaries and when the constitution called them to the decision by suffrage they pronounced their verdict honourable to those who had served them and consolatory to the friend of man who believes he may be entrusted with his own affairs. No inference is here intended that the laws provided by the states against false and defamatory publications should not be enforced. He who has time renders a service to public morals and public tranquillity in reforming these abuses by the salutary coercions of the law. But the experiment is noted to prove that since truth and reason have maintained their ground against false opinions in league with false facts the press confined to truth needs no other legal restraint. The public judgment will correct false reasonings and opinions on a full hearing of all parties. No other definite line can be drawn between the inestimable liberty of the press and its demoralising licentiousness. If there still be improprieties which this rule would not restrain its supplement must be sought in the censorship of public opinion. I had hoped that private individuals through legal suits in the courts would have a wholesome effect in restoring the integrity of the press. Nothing was done. I did not return to the sedition laws of John Adams, but I must confess I was deeply disappointed in the manner in which the American press of that day had abused the boon of freedom. In 1807, some months before I retired from the presidency, I received a letter from John Norvell, a boy of 17 who lived in Danville, Kentucky. He wanted help in preparing for his career. He asked my advice on two questions. His queries to me were, what were the best books on social and political philosophy? How should a newspaper be conducted in order to be most useful? I have a copy of my answer here from my letter file. With your permission, I shall read what I wrote to this boy who was thinking of becoming a journalist and later did become a newspaper editor. How should a newspaper be conducted so as to be most useful? I answer. By restraining it to true facts and sound principles only. Yet I fear such a paper would find few subscribers. It is a melancholy truth that a suppression of the press could not more completely deprive the nation of its benefits than is done whenever it abandons and prostitutes itself to falsehood. Nothing could be believed which was seen in the newspapers. I wrote to John Norvell in 1807 that truth itself becomes suspicious by being put into that polluted vehicle. The real extent of this state of misinformation is known only to those who are able to confront the lies of the day with facts within their own knowledge. I rarely look with commiseration over the great body of my fellow citizens who, reading newspapers, lived and died in the belief that they had really known something of what had been passing in the world in their time. General facts may indeed have been collected from newspapers such as that Europe was at war, that Napoleon was a successful warrior, that he had subjected a great portion of Europe to his will, etc., etc. But no details could be relied on. At that time, the man who never looked into a newspaper was better informed than he who read one, inasmuch as he who knows nothing is nearer the truth than he whose mind is filled with falsehoods and errors. He who reads nothing will still learn the great facts from conversation with others. But how can a newspaper become more useful? I suggested to John Norvell, who wanted to become a journalist, that perhaps an editor might begin a reformation in some such way as this. Divide his paper into four chapters, heading the first truths, the second probabilities, the third possibilities, and the fourth lies. The first chapter of truths would be very short, as it would contain little more than authentic papers and information from such sources as the editor would be willing to risk his own reputation on. The second of probabilities would contain what, from a mature consideration of all circumstances, his judgment should conclude to be probably true. This should contain too little, rather than too much. The third and fourth containing possibilities and lies should professedly be for those readers who would rather have lies for their money than the blank paper they occupy. Such an editor too would set his face against the demoralizing practice of feeding the public mind habitually on slander and the depravity of taste which this nauseous diet induces. Defamation is becoming a necessity of life, insomuch that a dish of tea at breakfast in the morning or at dinner in the evening cannot be digested without this stimulant. Even those who do not believe these abominations still read them with complacence. Instead of the abhorrence and indignation which should fill a virtuous mind, they betray a secret pleasure in the possibility that some may believe them, though they do not themselves. It seems to escape them that it is not he who prints, but he who pays for printing a slander who is its real author. Thus, in the last analysis, the public is responsible. This is what I wrote, John Novell, in 1807. Let me answer the surprise on your countenance and give you this letter from my file. I never believed in censorship by the government. It is so difficult to draw a clear line of separation between the abuse and the wholesome use of the press that I have found it better to trust the public judgment than the government official with the discrimination between truth and falsehood. You have asked for information on my experiences and views of the principle and the performance of a free press in our country. I have tried to answer you by telling of my intense devotion to the principle of a free press even when my honor was attacked, and I have reasserted my belief in the supreme usefulness of a truthful press. I am convinced that there is not a truth on earth which I fear should be known. As President of the United States, I lent myself willingly as the subject of a great experiment. This experiment proved that an administration conducting itself with integrity and common understanding cannot be battered down by the falsehoods of a licentious press. This fact I have established, that the press is impotent when it abandons itself to falsehood. I leave to you and to others to restore the press to its strength by recalling it within the pale of truth. Despite my own sufferings at the hands of the scribblers for these presses, my trust was never extinguished. I wrote in 1823 to Lafayette saying, but the only security of all is in a free press. The force of public opinion cannot be resisted when permitted freely to be expressed. The agitation it produces must be submitted to. It is necessary to keep the political waters pure. A free and honest press is indispensable if America is to remain the world's best hope. If you ask me then, as we sit here in my library at Monticello, for my summing up, I would repeat what I said in my farewell to the citizens of Washington. The station which we occupy among the nations of the earth is honourable, but awful. Trusted with the destinies of this solitary republic of the world, the only monument of human rights, and the sole depository of the sacred fire of freedom and self-government, from hence, it is to be lighted up in other regions of the earth if other regions of the earth shall ever become susceptible of its genial influence. All mankind ought then, with us, to rejoice in its prosperous and sympathise in its adverse fortunes as involving everything dear to man. And to what sacrifices of interest or convenience ought not these considerations to animate us? To what compromises of opinion and inclination to maintain harmony and union among ourselves and to preserve from all danger this hallowed arc of human hope and happiness? That differences of opinion should arise among men on politics, on religion, and on every other topic of human inquiry, and that these should be freely expressed in a country where all our faculties are free is to be expected. but these valuable privileges are much perverted when permitted to disturb the harmony of social intercourse and to lessen the tolerance of opinion. To the honour of society, here it has been characterised by a just and generous liberality and an indulgence of those affections which, without regard to political creeds, constitute the happiness of life. you have just heard The Experiment of a Free Press, another in the transcribed series on the Jeffersonian heritage, following plans of the noted historian and biographer, Dumas Malone, and prepared with his counsel. Authentic in historical spirit, while imaginative in form, these programs dramatise ideas which are the enduring possession of all Americans and all free peoples. Today's program, starring Claude Rains as Thomas Jefferson, was written by George Probst, with special music composed and conducted by Vladimir Selinsky. This program was produced and directed by Frank Papp. Listen next week for another in this series of programs on the Jeffersonian heritage. These programs are prepared and distributed by the National Association of Educational Broadcasters. The program you have just heard is made possible under a grant from the Fund for Adult Education, an independent organisation established by the Ford Foundation. This is the NAEB Tape Network. That's set. And now we have to prepare. Come on for lunch and get in shape and be prepared. Let's get in shape all candidates and to do advanced things as con vocation and the students as con vocation as con vocation as con vocation as con vocation as with a royal justice in true as a小路 and a woman as with a brother as Travis as with aaho in honors as with a minority and so as with a universal outdoor and a naturalác which is as big as active and working as with a