This is Teddy Phillips, Lynn Hoyt, and the band on Here's to Veterans. The best in music for all you ex-servicemen and women and your folks everywhere, especially transcribed for you by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians. We like to get things started with tune number one, an instrumental version of an old favorite, Dancing in the Dark. Talkingู Musik wins in a AMB. Do få ten нас to listen at the administrator's stage of Ihre Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You have a good time. And I'll pay you in advance. I'm going to pay you in advance. I'll pay you in advance. You save money and you don't have to keep track of your payment each month. Remember, if you're puzzled about your GI insurance, your nearest VA office will be glad to help you. And now to wind things up, we like to play a time medley. And now to wind things up, we'll be able to play a time medley. And now to wind things up, we'll be able to play a time medley. And now to wind things up, we'll be able to play a time medley. And now to wind things up, we'll be able to play a time medley. And now to wind things up, we'll be able to play a time medley. And now to wind things up, we'll be able to play a time medley. And now to wind things up, we'll be able to play a time medley. THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THAT'S ROSE to veterans. The best of music for all you ex-servicemen and women and your folks everywhere. Especially transcribed for you by the Veterans Administration in cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians. Yes, it's Harry James and all the boys giving you veterans and your families a very special hello. With a program designed for your listening pleasure. I'll have a special word for you later on, but right now Here's a tune that we hope you'll enjoy. It's original of ours, and it's called Ultra one two Albzik Mario ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ It helped them over many a rough spot and here it is. United we stand, divided we fall. You fellows who served in time of war know how important cooperation is. In battle it often meant the difference between life and death. And believe me, it's also important right now for you fellows who have business to do with the Veterans Administration. It's hard for the VA to give you top-notch service unless you do your full share to help the VA to help you. One way you can help is by identifying yourselves fully when you write to the VA. Later on I'll give you another pointer that will speed up VA's service to you. But now let's hear some music. Here's an old-timer that was written by Big Spiderbeck. It's a piano solo. We've orchestrated it and we hope you like it. It's called In a Mist. It's called In a Mist. Down To Slash for 21. My Mistable, Dr反ar. During A Mistmachen and aligML friction. With Tarot, that I will go up andaca doing all these two big! This will play a big time for president, but we did a lot of our people to sixty-fiveできる, a much better they found all theyez сл Philippeck DraperOOOO JS. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. your letter has to go back to your local office to give you proper service. Furthermore, if, for some special reason, your letter has to be forwarded elsewhere, your local office knows what to do with a minimum of delay. And so, veterans, help the VA to help you. Do your share. Make it a habit to use your local VA office. And now it's front and center for Squatty Roo. One, two, three. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ And that's the Here's to Veterans tribute from yours truly, Harry James and the band. Here's to Veterans is presented transcribed by the Veterans Administration in Cooperation with the American Federation of Musicians, James C. Petrillo President, whose members have donated their services, and the station which has contributed its time in the public interest. Tune in again for more top flight entertainment on Here's to Veterans. And now, a word from your station announcer. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶