Writers are funny people, but they are human and beset with human ills and problems. One of their everlasting problems up to now has been, well, sure, money and security. And it took a writer to work out a plan, a plan that may be the answer when the bugs are taken out of it and when it's been thoroughly discussed by all writers. This plan is one you've been reading about in your newspapers, a plan for an American author's authority. One of its originators is James M. Cain, distinguished author of The Postman Always Rings Twice and screenwriter who has, to his credit, Double Indemnity and Mildred Pierce. Mr. Cain has come on from Hollywood to speak before a meeting under the auspices of the Committee for Action in the Author's Guild, Monday, tomorrow night, at 8 o'clock at the Henry Hudson Hotel. And we consider ourselves extremely privileged to have him here in the WNYC studios for a preliminary discussion of his plan. Mr. Cain, this new plan of yours, this proposal for an American author's authority, seems to have kicked up quite a star. From all the excitement about it, I've often wondered if I shouldn't have called it the American author's atom authority or something like that. However, I suppose the main interest does center here in New York. It centers all over the country. In Hollywood, there had not been such a flurry since the day Rin Tin Tin died. The newspapers had it all over the front page. The Johnson office kept sending over to the Screenwriters Guild office for 50 copies, for 50 more copies, for 50 more copies after that. In LaRue's, in Romanoff's, in Perino's, in all four brown derbies, in Lucy's, it was all you could hear. The Johnson office is the headquarters of the Picture Producers Association, is that it? That's right. It used to be called the Hayes office. And what was it they wanted copies of? My article. My prospectus outlining the plan for the authority and explaining the need for it. It came out in the Screenwriter, the publication of the Screenwriters Guild, and a few days later it came before a membership meeting of the whole guild. And what happened then? It went over with a roar. You mean they decided to set it up? They decided in favor of the plan in principle and appointed the proper committees to get it in shape for submission to the other three guilds with which we were affiliated and eventually for incorporation. And just what is the plan? Simply an authority which will become the repository will receive as trustee for the writer legal ownership of his copyrights and then attempt to enforce the rights he enjoys or is supposed to enjoy arising out of these copyright rights. We would maintain a lobby in Washington to get a better deal out of Congress, a strong legal staff to obtain every consideration to us in court, and we would maintain a trained secretariat to keep track of every transaction made under the copyrights. Also, by refusing to execute the sale of any rights and insisting on the lease principle, so that after the picture, whatever it is that's had its run, the rights revert to the author. To end the situation, it obtains at present where copyrights rapidly have their component parts sold off, so that all that remains to the author is a sort of literary basket case, a pink card in the blue Bureau of Copyrights to which remains nothing of value whatever. Well, that doesn't sound so very horrendous. Not to me, it doesn't. Then what's all the fuss about? I imagine because the thing is so utterly obvious. Still, obviousness doesn't usually cause much excitement. I'm not so sure. I specialize a little in obviousness. Some of my books are about things that everybody knows but nobody ever admits. My first novel, for example, was about a woman who didn't love her husband and began to wish she was dead. Now, this utterly obvious idea kicked up quite a lot of excitement, too. You mean to let the cat out of the bag? I figured there were quite a few ladies who secretly had the same idea. And? That book still sells half a million copies a year. And what cat does your authority let out of the bag? The cat which the magazines, the publishers, the picture companies, and the radio stations know all about. That the writer is not primarily any of the things he thinks himself to be, though he may be these things incidentally. Mainly, he is the creator of property. Wait a minute, Mr. Kane. You're a little ahead of me. What are these things a writer thinks himself to be? Oh, you know, God's gift to literature and artists. Well, he is, isn't he? Sometimes, anyway. Not over my dead body, he's not. Art is what the artist gets $5 for and the dealer gets $5,000 for. And maybe there's nothing you can do for him, but they're not going to put that idea across for us writers. If I can help it, though for a long time they've been trying to, and the writers, to some extent, have fallen for it. Well, I must say this is just about as clear as mud. Mr. Siegel, a workman produces work and he gets paid. An artist produces art and he doesn't get paid. A writer produces properties and he doesn't get paid anything like enough, but he will, we hope. It hasn't cleared much. There is nothing, so far as I know, that you can do about art. It's not a commodity. You can't eat a picture or consume it or wear it out unless you'll be using it for a seat cover or something. The artist sells it, and so far nobody has figured a way to cut him in on any increase in its value that takes place during his lifetime. He's simply out of luck. He has to take his pay in glory. A writer, however, produces properties. They are a source of wealth. They are property of an intangible kind, but they produce an income that frequently goes on from year to year and even increases from year to year just as surely as an apartment house does or a theater or a parking lot. Well, this isn't exactly news, is it? To most writers, anything involving their interest is news. Charlie Bickford played in the first play I ever wrote, and it seemed the strangest thing to me to hear him say now and then, that's a nice piece of property you've got there. At that time, I was very artistic, that the play actually was, by exact definition, a piece of property didn't occur to me for years. It doesn't occur to most writers. They resent all discussion of literature and its economic aspects and think it completely below them. It was not below Giuseppe Verdi, one of the best businessmen in the history of music. It is not below Mr. George Bernard Shaw, a genius at literary business, but it is below three-fourths of American writers, and that's what I'm doing in town. But I thought they were organized. The men and women are organized. As individuals, as human beings, as writers, they are organized in their several guilds. The properties are not. Let me make this clear. As things stand now, it is as though all the clerks and salespeople on Fifth Avenue were organized into a union, but that the properties, the very big places that do business on Fifth Avenue, were not. Actually, of course, they are. The Fifth Avenue Association is a very large, powerful, sagacious organization which concerns itself with very many things, things that affect the interest of every business house in it, from taxes, to a policy on overhanging signs, to relations with the city. And it is largely because of the activities of this association that Fifth Avenue has become one of the celebrated thoroughfares of the world, and that property fronting on it has steadily increased in value until now it is fabulously desirable. But what would Fifth Avenue be without it? Just another street, out of luck with the assessor, the police department, the state's attorney's office, and even the fire department. Well, no, this sounds like what came out in the papers. No. Uh, we dare say we want some pie, too. We want to sit at the table. We're tired of it out there in the pantry, living off crumbs. Of course, they are very gracious about it. They often cut us whole slices and send them out there with sprigs of parsley. But we don't want graciousness anymore. We want our rights. By the way, who is they? All of them. The big corporations, the big rich magazines, the picture companies, the publishers, the radio chains, which use, and must have, the writer's product. But not, uh, these writers who are opposing you? No, certainly not. What's the reason for their opposition? Apparently they have two reasons. The first is a fear that the authority can be used in some fashion to regiment and control opinion. The second is worry that assignment of their copyrights may have unanticipated but disastrous consequences. Both of these anxieties, as well as I can make out, are perfectly sincere. But I hope to dispel them. Well, as a matter of fact, if it got into the wrong hands, couldn't it be used to control free speech? The government of the United States, if it got into wrong hands, could be used to control free speech and even suppress it. And as a matter of fact, it has been used to suppress free speech as in certain judicial decisions. Nevertheless, the 13 colonies by the year 1787 had reached a certain point. They couldn't go on as they were any more than writers can go on as they are. Something had to be done. The government of the United States is not perfect, but it is certainly better, and the nation it produced is certainly greater than anything that could have been accomplished under the Articles of Confederation. In our Articles of Incorporation and Bylaws, we are doing all that we know how to do to forestall the possibility that the authority would ever have anything to say about the content of any piece of material in any way whatever. It will not deal with ideas, nor with prices, with markets, with wages, hours, or working conditions. It will protect and enforce rights. But if the copyright is as valuable as you say it is, isn't it natural that a writer would hesitate to assign them to an authority which would execute the transaction arising under them? Natural, but silly. Doesn't sound silly to me. Why, after all, you're asking somebody like Mr. Soroyan, for instance, to hand over the copyright on a valuable play like The Time of Your Life, and he doesn't even know the name of a single director yet. I'm not asking Mr. Soroyan to do any such thing. I thought you said so. Mr. Soroyan doesn't even hold a copyright at The Time of Your Life. Well, what's the reason for that? I don't know, but the usual reason is the playwright brings a calf into the world and doesn't even take enough interest in it to claim it as his own, and the publisher puts his brand on it. If Mr. Soroyan has let his publisher copyright this play and several others of his plays in the publisher's name, I don't know why he would get excited at the authority copywriting in its name wholly and completely for the benefit of Mr. Soroyan. And as for the directors, pardon me, Mr. Segal, you have a bank account, I suppose? Yes, a very small one, but of course. Can you name me a single director in your bank? No, not offhand, I guess. You can't name a single director, and yet you hand over to this bank every cent of your money and ask him to keep it for you, so a burglar can't break into your house and steal it out of the old blue teapot just as I'm asking writers to do. Well, isn't that a little different? After all, we have laws governing banks, and there's some sort of guarantee on deposits now, isn't there? We've got laws governing corporations and bonding companies guaranteeing the good conduct of directors or such other officials we happen to appoint. Writers fear this thing because it is new, as people once feared banks and lightning rods and surgery. If you get sick enough, though, you'll get operated on whether you're afraid of surgery or not, and if you can find any sicker man in the country than the American writer today, I hope you tell me who he is because personally I'm not acquainted with him. You mean it's jump for the net or stay in the burning building? That's it. It's not really a choice. What about this row I read about in the papers yesterday? I'd rather not talk about it. But you're still holding your meeting? Of course we're holding our meeting. Tomorrow night at the Henry Hudson Hotel. We'll hold it as planned and it looks like a big turnout. That's the Committee for Action and the Authors Guild? And Action is what we need, I'd say. And there seem to be quite a few in the Authors Guild and League that feel they'd better hear more about the American Authors Authority. Well, thanks very much, Mr. Cain. I think that clears it up at least, at any rate, a little better than it was. Ladies and gentlemen, you've just heard Mr. James M. Cain, distinguished American novelist and screenwriter who discussed for the WNYC audience the American Authors Authority. Mr. Cain is here from Hollywood to speak before a meeting to be held under the auspices of the Committee for Action and the Authors Guild Monday, tomorrow night at 8 o'clock at the Henry Hudson Hotel. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. in a minute. I wonder who wanted Fimport Red Fimport