Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses, is Freud up to date? Taking part in this unusual program are Ernst Criss of the Child Studies Center, Yale University, John Dollard, psychologist of the Institute of Human Relations, Yale University, and William F. Ogburn, sociologist of the University of Chicago. Now to open today's Roundtable, Mr. Ogburn. The ideas of Sigmund Freud flashed like a media through the intellectual sky about a half a century ago. His impact on civilization was almost unparalleled. The nearest illustration that I can think of to compare with Freud are the ideas of Karl Marx, for instance, or the ideas of Charles Darwin. This is our topic then today, and I want to ask Mr. Dollard what he thinks Freud has done to man's thinking about man. If you compare the notions that people had 50 years ago with those we have today about man, I think there's one simple thing to be said about Freud's work. He has dethroned the notion of the exclusively rational behavior of men. He has made the effect of emotion, the importance of drives, the critical limitations on behavior imposed by repression, a generally accepted fact. Now Mr. Kress, what do you say, or what do you see that Freud has really done to man's thinking about men? I would say that he has gained for science a new field, previously treated by experts in philosophy, literary, art, and religion. He has made human life and human conflict, and I stress human conflict, the subject of a scientific investigation on which he started late in life after a training in physiology. And he has constantly, throughout the course of his life, changed and modified his basic assumptions in order to meet them the facts of observation. Your remarks about science, Chris, strike me as raising the question as to whether science really changes. Does the multiplication table change? The multiplication table doesn't change, but in the field of human behavior we are not as fortunate as that. But in science, it's really not like fashions in woman's dress. Science is really defined as the creation of reliable knowledge, and how then is not Freud always up to date? Thomas? Yes, well, there's a core of Freud's work which seems to me to be not only up to date, as you ask, but actually still in advance of our time, ahead of date, as it were. In other words, we want to know what Freud hasn't changed as well as what has changed. That is right. And I suppose one could say swiftly, following on this idea about the change in the view of the man's mind, sort of the man sitting in the middle of himself and picking his mind, picking out the acts that he will perform, and he's sort of more or less to suit his taste and not much subject to other influence, that idea has very fundamentally changed. And what is seen is the role of repression and inhibition in excluding possible courses of action, the return of these repressed and inhibited, rejected, I suppose you'd say, trends, in sometimes in behavior, sometimes in symptoms, and that that fundamental of, and that's only one of the many things one might say, but that's one of the most fundamental things is this dynamic view of behavior, the role of emotion and repression, the conflict between impulse and fear, if you will, as a very fundamental kind of conflict. Dolly has just told us what he thinks is lasting and fundamental in Freud. You have said that he's changing somewhat in his views, or rather the views regarding Freud are changing. How do you reconcile that with Dolly's statement? Oh, I meant it differently, Mr. Ogburn. I meant that Freud himself has been changing all his life, his views on many important questions, and I would pretend that nothing which has been contributed since his death has constituted changes of the size and dimension comparable to those which he himself has introduced. I'd put it a little bit different. I'd find it very hard to single out what parts of his system of ideas and propositions has been modified. I would say that there are parts which have been validated more, and parts which have been validated less. And naturally there are also parts of his writings which were his personal speculation and his approach to life. They are not subject of science then. It seems to me that science doesn't spring full-blown. There's always improvements. Look at the automobile and the airplane. They're quite different now from what they were, although fundamentally the airplane remains with us and the automobile remains with us. So we do have these modifications, and I understand that's what you mean by improvement. But there are some things, I suppose, that Freud has been associated with which perhaps may have been disproved. What would you say, friends, about the death wish? Now, did he not in his book on civilization and his discontent speak of an instinct or an impulse to death? Is that one of those things you think has been modified, changed, or what? Well, I'm on one side of that argument about the death wish. Personally, I think it is not a useful construction. And of course, in that sense, science doesn't answer that a thing is right or wrong, but it simply answers you that it is productive or fertile and useful or not. And I would say that this has not led to useful results and has some objections to it. And so I would say that that is not much of the past or much of the future as a conception. Do you feel that that has not been substantiated, Mr. Chris? I think that the so-called death instinct plays in Freud's theoretical thinking a very elusive part. He used it and he needed it for a rounding off of certain assumptions. But surely he didn't mean it to be a verifiable hypothesis. It has its inspirational value. It has stimulated our attention to the importance of aggression. But its verification will ultimately depend on what experimental biologists do with the survival of the self. But what other kind of hypothesis is there in science than one which is proposed for verification? Well, you may say that this is the extra-scientific element, a sort of architectural element in thinking. And there, you would have other judgments than those of validation. You would say, how much observation is stimulated? I will not admit that all constructs must directly be validated. You validate what you gain from those constructs. Now, I agree with Dollard that the death wish has not seemed to me very productive as far as concrete and empirical problems are concerned. It seems to me one way of answering this question is Freud up to date. It seems to me one way of answering this question as Freud up to date is to see how his conclusions integrate with scientific achievements, very reliable achievements, and other fields of endeavor. Now, Dollard, you just finished with a co-author a book on personality and psychotherapy, which I read with much interest, and which seems to me to integrate Freud's leading conclusions with the psychology. At least you have discussed their relationship. And one of these fundamental points in your book deals with the very important question of the learning process. And I wondered whether in your attempt to integrate Freud with psychology you would comment on this view of learning and whether that modifies any of his conclusions. Well, it's been apparent to a great many men who know something about Freud's work and something about the rest of science that there was going to be, there had eventually to be, some kind of larger integration of, say, some things in psychology and in the work of Freud. Freud. And one of the, in the royal tradition one might say in psychology is that of learning. The work of Pavlov and Watson and Guthrie and Hall, such, and thousands of experimenters have taught us a great deal about how learning occurs. And looking at psychotherapy from, just from the outside, it seemed to us possible that what is, that the transaction could be discussed this way, that from the standpoint of the therapist, it's a teaching adventure. And from the standpoint of the patient, it's a learning process. And that would imply similarly that the disorders, the neuroses, and the bad habits, as the patient has, have similarly been learned in the past, because psychotherapy then would be a technique of unlearning. And we have tried to test the work of Freud from this standpoint. How does it stand up when you test it from that point? Well, it stands up very well. It's, uh, I would say that we're interested, uh, in, uh, that as far as the facts are concerned, Freud's facts are concerned, they stand up extremely well. Uh, now we distinguish between the facts and, uh, well, the ideas or theories that you have about the facts. And we believe that, uh, that, uh, that it is possible that some parts of Freud's work, and perhaps some considerable parts, can be better bound together, more usably, uh, bound together by these learning principles than they can, uh, by the theories that he gives. I'm thinking of the libido theory, for instance. And, uh, uh, I believe the theory of, uh, what he calls the ego, and possibly the superego can be better described as results of learning than they, they can, uh, well, simply as entities that come to exist, as he describes it. I, uh, I, I don't think, uh, at all of the affair here, because it seems to me that, uh, in Freud's view's conflict, he speaks of an organism which tries to adapt to a given environment, a response to this environment's influences. What you call learning is, then, the influence of the environment on the organism. And we mean the neonate, or not even the neonate, the child with the mother. And, uh, wherever we have this relationship of maturational processes, the growing art, and the influence of the environment, we have a situation which you will choose to call learning, while the term is Freud is implied. And I have mentioned that the great advances and modifications which Freud himself suggested, and formulated throughout his life, and particularly in the last twenty years of his life, have been aiming at a better appreciation of his very point. Well, I, I agree that, that the data in Freud submits naturally and easily to a learning analysis. One doesn't sense a great antagonism here. But I'm speaking, by the way, of learning here, not in a general way such as to say, oh, the person somehow acquires his language. Or he somehow learns to play tennis, and you don't go into it further. By learning, I mean, obedience to, that the data must obey a strictly lawful, uh, interpretation, which is founded now on a vast body of experimental work. That is what we would like to test. It seems to me that, if I understand you correctly, Donald, you do not find that Freud's leading conclusions, uh, run counter to accepted methods of, uh, experimental psychology, do you? No, I would say not. Although, to be sure, Freud's, uh, propositions haven't been very directly tested yet, on a large scale. But, uh, I, I would say that the fact that Freud is a wonderful factual witness. The question is whether we can't bind those facts together in a more significant way. Well, I, I believe that I, I would object to this idea. Namely, you imply that the only way to test the proposition is to reduce it to controlled variables, and then to see whether you can reproduce it. There are, in our life, and Freud is part of, not only medicine, but social control in so many areas, very complex situations where we can't limit the variables, and we need a very complex theory, including the Theoretical theory, to describe these highly complex conditions. In our test, then, is whether, from our hypothesis, we can derive further hypotheses to move, to meet new contingencies of observation. Let me cut into this discussion here, which seems to be producing some differences, to raise an illustration. As I understand it, Freud's earliest wake, and one of his greatest contributions, is on the subject of neuroses. Now, since we've been in two world wars, since he wrote his paper on hysteria, we've learned something about neuroses, and what I want to know is, do these war neuroses, which have come into such study, and such abundant data, what has that done to Freud's theory of the neuroses? Well, if I may answer for one, and I think, and by the way, if you're an ardent member of any school, you're very likely to make a sort of under-the-cover innovation. That is, you'll just quietly change something, because if you change it publicly, people will say, well, you're just an exhibitionist, or something like that, and they have all kinds of bad names they can call you in this field. In fact, it's just wonderful how you can insult people in scientific language in this particular area. But I believe that the psychiatrists and psychologists who are working on the military neuroses feel that some new principles have to be invoked to explain it, or at least that old principles have to be reorganized and re-emphasized in different ways. And I think from the learning standpoint, we can show much more clearly how a war neuroses is learned than perhaps in any other area. My recollection is, darling, that Freud stressed these early childhood experiences as great factors, ideological factors, in causing neuroses, but war is stressing another type of factor, a factor that plays on the adult, is it not? Well, I would say that there, just very swiftly, that there are two areas of life, apparently, where neurotic behavior is learned. One, childhood, where the ego of the child, the self of the child, is hardly organized, and every stimulus is threatening. And the other, in the military situation, and in some other traumatic situations, where the actual danger is terrible, and the individual's helplessness is real. But if you want to make an estimate, who will bear the actual stress of the present situation, which you know very well from a number of informants who are around, that's the data to which you refer. If you want to make an estimate of the future, aren't you then coming back to the idea of what was the individual's history? And isn't it so that what no laboratory has been able to reproduce, we are going back in this history further and further and find the dynamic sequence of events? In other words, we have a set of hypotheses which describe how early and late experiences are linked to each other. The personality of your casualties in World War Number Two has been studied just by these principles. If I may change the topic here, one of the things that, topics that were associated with Freud's impact of his ideas had to do with our impressions of sex and the great role of sex in human life. Do you think that time has sustained that, or would you comment on that, darling? Well, I think that, yes, that part of the theory, I think, has remained a very solid fact. And that the role of sex, as Freud uses the word in a somewhat more general sense... Use it rather broadly, more so than we use it in general. ...that sex is involved with the whole of life, but also the specific facts of sex, as adults know them, that this has remained a chronic personal and social problem. And that, however, the many people have picked out this from Freud's total thoughts because of their own needs and interests and have failed to see the fact that Freud is the man, in a sense, who discovered anxiety. And the man who really gave aggression in social life, its actual importance. You have stressed in your writings two other books, Gideald on the subject of fear and aggression. Do you consider these more important than the emphasis upon sex, or as important? Well, as important, certainly. I would cut in here and say that even in talking about sex already, we make a mistake because what Freud has shown is the unity of the feelings of earliest interpersonal relationships, namely the child, mother-child parent situation, to later experiences of sexuality and aggression, to both. You have again here this emphasis on the past. But also you have this emphasis on continuity. And I would throw in the question that in dealing with sex, people tend to overlook that we deal with fear, anxiety, and love. One of the points that Freud, revolutions that Freud started, was in the training of little children. Do you feel that what he has had to say about influences on little children still holds good? Is that a great place for shaping a personality? Yes, I believe that holds up among the very best of Freud's findings. And in fact, many of us who are concerned with research in psychotherapy and the like, feel that the main reason for our research is to get a better set of hypotheses and to recommend better practices in the child area. Do you agree with that, sir? Well, I think that this is the field in which we have, during the last ten years, made the greatest progress. I hesitate to say that our advice is absolutely soundproof or that we have developed already the methods by which we will gain future knowledge. But it seems to me here we can see whether Freud is up to date because he has instigated and stimulated an approach to research which is ever expanding and in which this country has taken definite leadership over the last 25 years. But I would like to say one thing about that, that our knowledge of childhood is still reconstructed largely from the stories of adult people. And that the great research opportunity now is the actual study of the child in the situation where it is actually learning, namely the family. And we all hope that researches will be pitched in that area in the immediate future. Well, I fully agree with you, only I would add that if you look at the blank mass of data as a participant observer, you will get nowhere unless you take the weighted material of reconstruction into account. What we see in reconstruction is what an experience meant to the child. And that is a much more powerful impression than any contemporary observation in itself could supply. That I don't agree with. May I cut in here and stop this disagreement here because we'll have to get on. We've been talking now for some time on Freud's contributions to science with reference to whether it's up to date or not. But also Freud's contributions were put into practice. And after all, he dealt in the field of psychotherapy. And there is a practice of psychotherapy in the world. And what we want to know is, is the fact that his field of psychotherapy changed because of Freud? Or is he up to date in this field or not? What do you say with regard to that, Chris? Well, I would think that the progress in this area is constant. I would divide it into various areas. There is the progress of psychoanalytic technique itself, which is steady and perceptible, but which follows these problems of interplay between organism and environment in recent developments. But then there is the whole field of psychiatry imbued by psychoanalytic ideas, so much so that cases and problems which have never previously been attempted to be attacked by psychotherapy are now being successfully treated and we are on the verge of a vast area of experimentation. There is also the extension into psychosomatic medicine, which has a very great significance, and even greater significance, of the extension from therapy to preventive medicine, the point to which Dr. Dollars referred to Freud. Would you consider Dollars a brief psychoanalysis contribution or development in psychotherapy? Yes, I would. I think that... Do you look on it hopefully to you? I do indeed. I believe that by better theoretical knowledge we will be able to get at the problems quicker and be able to tell better what this particular person needs, whether extensive or intensive or short, shorter therapy. Freud's views on therapy and how they are carried out is only another of his contributions. He also made many contributions, or rather his followers did, to an explanation of human behavior in general, as it appears in art or literature or painting or religion. And what I'd like to ask there is, are his contributions or the interpretations of behavior in these fields reliable, or are they changing by fashion? What do you say about that, Dollars? Well, I believe that Freud has made the whole of man's life and work more intelligible and more sensible, and that with a knowledge of his principles, anything that one picks up, whether it be the work of an artist, whether it be a theory in social science, whether it be a scientific discovery, becomes more meaningful and interesting. It seems to me, if I may comment there, that the application in this field of human behavior is the least satisfactory of any of the results of Freud's work. And I would like to say that the difficulty lies, it seems to me, in the fact that he makes these dynamic impulses determinants of cultural patterns. But for instance, if you posit a factor of aggression, or a factor of death wish, those two things don't determine that we shall have an organized war. It seems to be an organized war, if that so would occur regularly. The organized war comes from other sources and other reasons. I would agree with you, Mr. Rockford, that in the social sciences, many mistakes have been made by taking, by leaving out the relationship between environment and organism. Naturally, the social situation will elicit responses. And I believe that in the social sciences, the application of recent development in psychoanalysis, namely a psychoanalytic egopsychology, will be fruitful. In the area of literature and art, however, I am much more skeptical. While artists have become closer, in our understanding, we haven't advanced to what Freud wrote 40 years ago, namely that we understand some of their conflicts, but not why it makes them greater. It seems to me that the Falks, in his application in this way, doesn't appreciate what I call the role of culture, which is after all the learning of habits in a cultural setting. But we've reviewed, therefore, his contributions to science, his contributions to medical practice, and his contributions to the fields of human behavior and other lines. How would you summarize the contributions, Mr. Chris, as you see them? I would briefly say that we are living through what I like to call the psychiatric revolution, in which the total field of medicine, of biological sciences, in a very large sense, is influenced by Freud's work, where links are extended into social welfare and social practices, and in the social sciences themselves. I personally believe that the core of his work will be in the medical field and linked to the biological tradition, where the biological tradition is understood in a very broad and all-invasive sense. How do you summarize it, Mr. Thomas? Well, I'd rather summarize it in terms of the kind of man Freud sets as a pattern. My conception of a good Freudian is he's not merely an adherent of Freudian theory, but that he identifies with Freud's independent realistic spirit, his testing facts by his own perceptions and his experience. You mean the good Freudian is a good scientist? But, as I would see it this way, science is essentially an accumulative process. You add bits of reliable knowledge to it, and Freud adds a little bit more than bits, because it was his luck to add a good deal. Now, this accumulation must be improved and modified from time to time, and we're in process of doing that at this particular moment, and many of his followers and many of his critics are therefore improving, just as we improve on anything that is done in science. So I think his contribution is really up-to-date in fundamentals, but it's being replaced here and there by improvements in the field of learning and so on. I think, however, that in his interpretations of human society, there needs to be a good deal of emphasis recognizing the role of culture as it plays a part in setting the habits of human behavior. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on Is Freud Up to Date were Ernst Criss of the Child Study Center, Yale University, John Dollard of the Institute of Human Relations, Yale University, and William F. Ogburn, sociologist of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of Is Freud Up to Date? contains the full text of the discussion and supplementary materials on how the latest research work in social science confirms or disproves Freud. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are only ten cents in coin, or you may subscribe to the roundtable pamphlet for a full year for three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program on Is Freud Up to Date? I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. May we invite you to join the roundtable home study courses in human rights, world politics, and economics in the modern world. These courses are open to all, and two of them are college credit courses. You may enroll and begin at any time. Write the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, for the brochure describing the courses and telling how you may register. Each month, three twenty-four volume sets of the Encyclopedia Botanica are awarded to the students in the three home study courses most successfully completing the course in that month. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst, and is a public service presentation by NBC, the national broadcasting company.