Years and years and years in a common struggle for basic things of fundamental value. Liberties, freedoms, freedom of religion, freedom of civil government, basic civil rights. The monuments, Mr. Premier, in the public parks of many cities along the Atlantic seaboard or studied with men, many of whom were not Irish, but who fought as hard as the Irish themselves to produce the freedom which Ireland today enjoys. The fact that there are these monuments means that there was that struggle. It also means that that struggle was fought for to the death. It is a reminder that despite all the fighting and all the death and all the gains, that we are now in an age when these very principles are endangered throughout the world. The common fight that we had once is still the common fight. And it is in this spirit that I as mayor of America's largest city humbly and at the same time proudly bid a welcome to the premier of area with the hope that not only himself but his sweet lady and his party will enjoy their stay with us and when they leave will come back soon. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the city, it is my privilege to present as mayor of the city this distinguished citation to a distinguished visitor. We are vain enough to hope that without it, his excellency will remember us kindly, but we would also like to present to him for his keeping a certificate of the fact that we are happy to have him here. Thank you. Now the ever alert cameramen are very busy taking pictures of the mayor awarding the scroll to Prime Minister Costello of the era. For the benefit of those on the air, may I read from the office of the mayor, city of New York, know all men by these presents that I, William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, Honorable John A. Costello, TD, Prime Minister of Erie, whose prestige as a legislature embraces a generation, whose fame as a lawyer worldwide, and whose honor as a statesman enhances the glory of his nation, have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York. In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the city of New York to be affixed this 27th day of August 1948, signed William O'Dwyer, mayor. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister of Ireland. Mr. Mayor, to Chairman, distinguished visitors, it requires no mere parchment writing, however long it may endure, to ensure that the recollection of the welcome which I have received today in New York will be ever present in my heart and in my mind. I am most grateful indeed to you, Mr. Mayor, for the welcome that you have given to me. No mere words are capable of expressing the emotion the gratitude which I, as representing the Irish nation, feel at the reception which I have received here from the very warm-hearted citizens of this great city of New York. As the head of the Irish Government, I bring to the citizens of New York, the the greetings, the respect and the affection of the Irish nation. In a very special manner, Mr. Mayor, I bring to you, as the head of the Irish Government representing all sections of the Irish people, the deep affection of your own native land and your own fellow countrymen. It is a great honour to me to be received by the Mayor of this, the greatest city in what is now the greatest country of the world. We are deeply appreciative of the honour that has been conferred upon us. But as well as it being an honour to us, it is a source of great pride to me and to the Irish people that a native-born Irishman should have achieved the highest office in the gifts of the millions of people of this great city. And in directing, the the OldiasFF has true義 is the most своим national heroes in the dust rouge and the biggest fan of the different nations of New York that the fact that the North prochaine the years is, the most special people that the Avivates acknowledged the help she has received in the past from the people of this city and from the United States of America as a whole in her long struggle to achieve independence. And I welcome this opportunity of expressing my gratitude and the gratitude of the Irish people for the help which has ever been through the century generously extended and accorded to those of our race who were working and laboring here for their own advancement and who never forgot their own country and who struggled for its liberty. His source of the deepest pride to me personally that I, however unworthy I may be of the honour should occupy the position that I do occupy today the Prime Minister of a native Irish government governing a state which is sovereign, independent democratic and free a state which but for one thing has reached a position which those of our countrymen at home and abroad fought for so long and hardly dared to hope would ever be achieved. It is a great source of pride to me that I can come here representing the Irish nation as a free, independent, sovereign state coming to this great country asking now for nothing on behalf of our Irish people but conveying to the American people our gratitude and the gratitude of those who died that Ireland should live for all the help that they gave in the last century for the struggle that we should for the struggle which has now been brought to fruition in the achievement of an Ireland free and democratic it would be not proper for me to let this occasion pass without further paying our tribute to the valour of the Irishmen who fought in the last war for America the valour of the American people as a whole Irishmen who came here to this great country never forgot their motherland but while they were ever conscious of the claims of blood and the ties of mother country they never forgot that their first allegiance was to the great country that gave them shelter and sustenance and I must acknowledge again on behalf of my country and express what I know to be the feelings of the other European countries the gratitude that is felt for the abounding generosity of the United States in coming to the help and succour of the afflicted countries of Western Europe we in Ireland have tried to do our little best within the limit of all resources to help the starving people of Europe the generous heart of the Irish of the generous heart of the American nation has given further proof of its abounding generosity in the help which it is giving now and which it will give in the future to the economic recovery of the 16 nations who are taking part in the European recovery program of the United States of America we hope to take our part in that too while we were proud and are proud of our nationhood and of our independence we are just as proud of our economic independence and we would look first to our own people to lend us the money that we require for our social and economic regeneration but owing to the economic unsettlement caused by the last war in world affairs and in world finance we too find ourselves in the position that we must take of the generosity of the American people we take it with gratitude but with the firm belief and desire and conviction that we will repay every penny of the money that the American people lend to the Irish people I have said that I represent a sovereign independent democratic Irish state of a kind which our forefathers hardly dared that would ever come to fruition Ireland is no longer the Ireland of sorrows cleaning on the seashore for our lost sons and daughters and bewailing the black future that confronts her the destiny of Ireland is in our own hands is in capable hands and I believe that we will bring about in the course of a few years material prosperity of a moderate kind suitable to our small country but we still have one objective politically which has not yet been achieved to our Irish here in this great democratic country we still rely for help and friendship six of our northeastern counties are still withheld from us we hand out or hold out the hand of friendship to all Irishmen whether they come from north or south east or west we are determined that that wrong of partition shall be undone in our time and with the help of our own people and with the friendly cooperation from all people of goodwill in this great nation and under God's providence we hope that in a very short time Ireland will be free from north to south and from east to west and from shore to shore I would like to thank again the mayor and all who have taken part in this wonderful reception that was given to me I know that that reception was not given to me personally it was given to our native country and the great old Irish nation which I have the privilege and the pride to represent here today you honoured not me nor the colleague nor my colleagues in the Irish government you honoured the Irish nation and you expressed in that warm-hearted welcome which we got today the affection which still exists and will always subsist between the exiled Irish abroad and their kiss and kin in their native land at home and our Killian absolutely thank you thank you thank you all CC thank you I don't mind