The End I see. And we here at the newsroom have a later report, supposedly originating with the police department at the scene, that 33 persons were removed from the plane before it went down, and that a 34th, the captain of the commercial airliner, has been rescued by still another police launch. Do you have any information about that, sir? We haven't as yet received any reports from our launchers at the scene. I see. They're out of an emergency and they're working and they can't give us a full report until they've completed their job. All right. Can I call you back, say, in about 20 minutes or so? Well, call me back and I'll give you any information we have at that time. All right. And your name is what, please? This is Patrolman Shortell. Patrolman Shortell. And officially, this is what location? This is the Harbor Precinct of the police department at Piray North River. Piray North River. That's right. Okay, sir. Thanks very much. You're welcome. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Sergeant Dan O'Habba, person. Hello. This is radio station WNYC Newsroom calling. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. What is the latest report you have on the plane crash in the East River? Well, the latest thing we've got is that there's 33 persons accounted for. Now, the plane is down. I did not get the exact number of the plane or the type of plane it is, but she went down 100 feet east of Rikers Island and there's 33 people accounted for and three missing. Three missing? That's the latest I've had. And, uh, is it the Civil Aeronautics Authority that says that there are 36 on board? No, that's the, that's information from the controller of the Coast Guard. The controller of the Coast Guard says 36 were on board and 33 have been rescued. That's right. That's right. Were they taken to, uh, College Point? Were they taken to 14th Street College, 14th Avenue College Point. I see. And, uh, thus far, no further information. That's all I have so far, NYC. That's right. I see. Hello? Hello? Yes, sir. This is radio station WNYC newsroom calling. Yeah. Uh, is there anybody in your department or you yourself who might have seen or know anything about the plane crash in the East River this morning? Will you run out one minute, please? I certainly will. I got, uh, looking at YC on the line. Well, uh, what did you want to know, sir? Well, was there anybody there who might have seen the plane go down? No, it was, it was foggy. It was a haze. Nobody saw it. The man, uh, the plane was coming in on finals. It was a, uh, instrument landing. On an instrument landing. From Boston, I understand. And, uh, did you hear anything? Pardon? Did you hear anything at your office? No, we didn't. Well, we just got an alarm. We got the call from the tower that he went down. It was in the water and out we went. And I thought he couldn't see anything. Uh, what, uh, what went out? When you say out we went. I mean, what, uh, pieces of equipment? Uh, wait a second now, please. All right. You want to know what people are doing now? Uh, New York City police launch went out and, uh, several small boats around there. I see. Into the bay, please. Is the, uh, police helicopter at the field now? Uh, he's not at the field. He's over at the scene now. He's at the scene? Yeah, over at College Point. College Point. Where they brought the survivors. Do you have any phone number or headquarters established out at College Point? Uh, wait a second now. Listen, we don't have any numbers. New York City police probably could help you on that. It's Marine 12. Marine 12? Yeah, they're Marine Bay. You can ask them. Marine Bay is 12? That's right. All right. Thanks very much. Okay, thank you. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Marine Base 12, please. This is WNYC. Marine Base 12? That's right. I'll have to put you on with the Harbor Precinct. I don't know. Well, I just, all right. I'll ask them. All right. Okay. Yeah, go ahead. All right. Give me the Harbor Precinct back again. Sergeant, down at Harbor Precinct. Hello, this is WNYC once again. I'm sorry to bother you again, Sergeant. We are right or we can help you. Well, can you give me the phone number of Marine Base 12? Yeah, I don't know how you're going to get it out there, though. You'll never get it. Well, we can... Maybe I can help you out. What information do you want? Well, I want to see if I can get in touch with the police pilot of the helicopter who flew over the scene. I see. See if I can get in touch with you. I understand he's at the base over there. Yeah. Well, that number is Flushing 95388. Flushing 95388. That's right. Yeah. I was just trying to wonder what his name was, but I don't suppose you know. His name is Woodward. We call a fellow named Woodward. I don't know who the operators are. Mr. Woodward. What is that number that went down there? That's close to the place. Well, I'll put it. That's not what? You put it down there before you get an average. You put it down there before you get an average. You put it down there. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I want to stop it. I want to go away down there. I don't know. I don't know where you can get there. Hold away. Just one second. I'm fine. I'm fine. I can get a picture straight there for you. It's fine. It's on the side. I'm not on the side. Goodwill you. You're not on the side. I don't know. I don't know if you can get there. It's on the next one. It's on the next one. I'm on the side over here. All right. Okay, let's do it. Espenire 7. Esplanade 71699 Esplanade 71699 Now that's our airplane base Now they'll tell you who was out in that Maybe you can contact them through them That's the airbase And the other one flashing 9-538-8 is Marine 12 That's right, I'll telephone up Marine 12 And the guy's name is Woodward Woodward is a fellow out in the airfield He's at the airfield That's right He might have went with the plane I don't know whether Woodward is a navigator or what Oh, I see Mr. Woodward, is he a patrolman? I believe so, yeah, that's right Uh-huh All right, I'll try both of them Thanks a million Right, bye Aviation Bureau, Patrolman Roney Uh, Patrolman Roney, this is radio station WNYC newsroom calling Yep Uh, is the patrol helicopter that flew over the crash scene of the commercial airliner in the East River back at base yet? No, I believe they're out of LaGuardia now They're out of LaGuardia? Yep I just phoned LaGuardia and they told me it possibly would be at the airbase No, it wouldn't be back here, it'd be somewhere up around the scene Can you give me the name of the pilot of the plane? Yeah, acting sergeant Harold Behrens B-E-H-R-E-N-S B-E-H-R-E-N-S Harold? Harold, yeah Behrens Yep Uh-huh And did he have a co-pilot? Yes, Thomas Williams Thomas Williams? Right And he's a pilot, a, um Co-pilot Co-pilot Right Uh, patrolman, is that? Thomas Williams? That's patrolman Thomas Williams Alright And, um, Marine 12, is that the same number as you have there? Is it Flushing 95388? Would it be over there, do you think? No, that's at College Point That's at College Point That's right, that's at Police Point So I might be able to reach him over there, possibly You might, I've been trying for a long time You couldn't do it Is the line busy over there? Oh, yeah Alright Well, we'll keep on trying Thanks a million One of your, uh, uh, well, what's your latest list? On these survivors Well, we had 33, uh, reported And three missing There's three missing, huh? Yeah, and there were 36 And that 36 had been reported from about two or three sources Wait a minute Jules, anything later on there? Yeah What do you got? The most 33 persons have been saved Yeah The airline says there were 36 on board Yeah Two were said to be hurt badly Two hurt Yeah That is, uh, uh, just from our newsroom Yeah 33 definitely saved Yeah The airline says 36 on board Yeah And of the 33 saved Two are hurt badly Yeah, that, uh, I heard it was 31, say There must have been two others No, well, there's 33 Two hurt badly And there are three missing thus far That's what I understand Yeah Okay, sir, thanks very much Right Right Hello, this is WNYC radio station Newsroom Who is this, please? Uh, this is Captain Jensen speaking Captain Jensen? Uh, that's all right Where were you this morning, sir When that plane crashed in the East River? Well, we were probably about a thousand feet away at the time We were at our stake boat We have a stake boat out here That we use to, uh, moor our scouts to And I was, uh, tied up there Waiting for the tide to come up a little bit more To get, uh, two sand scouts into flushing I see And what happened? So when she crashed, we were right there Uh, what happened? And we came right out to the plane right away But, uh, we had a little tough time Driving us through the mud there And it's about half tired, see? Yes, I see Well, we finally made it And got the tug right up to the plane And I'll come back What happened, uh, when you got to the plane? Well, when we got there There was, uh, people, uh, Holding onto the wings of the plane And the fuselage And then there was a crash boat, uh, from, uh, The, uh, some airplane company over here In College Point Edo, I guess they called it Edo And she got there just ahead of us Right in front of us And, uh, they were taking people off Because I couldn't maneuver the tug much around there And we had the tug up to the plane The wing, wing of the plane And we were taking the people off the wing I guess we took off about six people, I guess And this crash boat He got in close to, close to where the other people Were hanging onto the fuselage And then he transplanted them to us I transported them to us, see? And then we put them inside where it was warm And gave them blankets and coffee And things like that Come back How many people did you take aboard your ship altogether? That's right Hello? Come back again, please I said, how many people did you take aboard your ship altogether? We had 26 men and 5 women 26 men and 5 women That would make 31, is that correct? That's correct And, uh, would you say there were about 3 or 4 or more taken aboard the other ship? Uh, no, we had them all We had them all They put them all aboard us As far as I know They're 31 But, uh, the two pilots We left on the plane And they were chopping a hole on the top of the plane To see if there was anybody else left in there You know, come back Well, we have a report here that as of now 34 have been rescued And two are still missing Over I see Well, that's about right, I guess That's about right Because the pilots, they said They figured there were two people in the plane yet You know, come back What was the reaction of the passengers after you picked them up? Very good, very good Except that, of course, there were a lot of them Most of them all were suffering from shock and exposure The water was very cold It was lucky it was a warm day But, uh, they were all shivering And, uh, some of them was, uh, injured, uh, too I mean, cuts and bleeding And, but they did a magnificent job Uh, no excitement No hysterics or anything like that And, uh, these five women We, uh, they were wonderful They, they, uh, they didn't get hysterical or anything And they were, they were pretty badly injured Some of them, too By cuts and bruises, you know Come back And, uh, what happened When you reached College Point? Well, we came over to College Point With them just as soon as they could And we called the Coast Guard Across from the police department So they'd have ambulances over here And doctors So we got in here just before Well, before the doctors got The doctors got in here Just about five or ten minutes After we got in In the police department And all was here, too Because this is a police station Right here at College Point Ferry Come back Are you at College Point right now? That is correct We are at College Point Ferry I see And, uh, how many other people Are aboard your tug Beside yourself? Uh, well, about nine more people aboard Our general manager Our general manager Is aboard now But there was about nine men Aboard the tug When the accident happened Come back And they all helped to, uh, Rescue the people From the airplane? That is correct We threw life preservers Two of the ones That we couldn't, uh, Come to right away And then we threw Even lines And, uh, Pulled some of them Through the water there So they got aboard the boat And they all come back Did you have any facilities For, uh, uh, medical aid To those who were injured? In other words Did you have blankets And other facilities Aboard your tug? I tried We had plenty of blankets And we gave them blankets And we gave them hot coffee And, uh, and put them in Where it was warm In our galley And in the engine room And down our focus hole Which was all nice and warm But, uh, they were exposed To that, uh, cold water And it was Some of them was Pretty well shot, you know We had to take two across Uh, ashore and stretch For the police boat Come back In other words There are possibly Two of those you rescued Who are really seriously injured And the rest are not Too seriously injured Is that correct? That is correct I don't think any of them Are too seriously injured All right, sir And, uh, you are aboard The tug Bill Ender E-N-D-T-E-R Is that right? That is correct And your full name is what? Captain? My name? Yes, sir Your full name? Uh, my full name is E-A-R-L-E-R-L Jensen J-E-N-S-E-N And are you from New York City, sir? Uh, Flushing, Long Island You're from Flushing And how long have you been On a tugboat Or captain of a tugboat? Oh, for about 28 years Twenty Similar in your past 28 years? No, I haven't No, I haven't I've rescued a few people From drowning That are single Single people And, uh And, uh Excursion boat Up in the North River Here when I was Working for McAllister Here a few years back Uh, Broke down And we Uh, Put her into our birds And got some of the people off But that's about all I guess I see Where is the Wreckage of the plane Right now As far as you know? Why, it's about a breast Almost the breast Of College Point Ferry Between College Point Ferry And Rikers Island Was it, uh Toed out of the way Or is it, uh The same place Where it crashed? Oh, it's in the same place As where it crashed I see, sir And as of now What is happening At College Point? Can you tell me that? Well, uh Right now Of course, uh The ambulance Are all gone And the people I mean, uh The people that were rescued Are all taken off now And, um They're in the hospital By now And, uh The boss says That the police Around yet The police commissioner Himself was here A while back When, right after The accident happened When we brought The people in And he went out On a police boat And, uh They're right now Out to the wreck Which I can see From here Why there's Coast Guard out there And a number Of police boats And I think Somebody from the DA Is out there now Too Come back I see In other words Various officials Of different departments Of government Are at the scene At the moment Is that correct? That is correct All right Captain Earl Jensen Thanks very much For giving us Information about This plane crash Of a commercial airliner This morning In the East River Off Rikers Island Thank you very much sir