Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents by special transcription, the Reviewing Stand. In five weeks, Northwestern University moves into its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks the question, is Christmas losing its religious significance? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the alleged commercialization of Christmas and the effect on the spiritual values of Christmas. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are the Reverend Gene E. Bartlett, Minister of the First Baptist Church in Evanston, Illinois. Randall Cooper, President of Chicago State Street Council. Lawrence B. Sizer, Divisional Vice President and Sales Promotion Manager for the Marshall Field & Company. And Father Leo R. Ward, Professor of Philosophy at the University of Notre Dame. Now we're delighted to have two Chicago businessmen, representing, I might add, an enormous volume of Christmas sales, discuss the significance of Christmas with two clergymen. You men believe that we have commercialized Christmas to a point where we are losing sight of its true religious significance. What do you say to that, Reverend Bartlett? I wouldn't hold that we have lost sight of Christmas in its religious meaning entirely, obviously. I think we wouldn't be asking the question if we did not have a sincere religious conscience about it. And yet, as far as the question itself is concerned, I find my thinking running more to the answer, yes, we have lost much of the religious significance. I would also add, I think, that there are elements within our present observance which accelerate our losing of the religious significance. That, to me, is very much to the point of our discussion. I would feel that we are losing much of the religious significance in our current observance. What do you think some of the evidences of this growing secularization of Christmas are, Bartlett? My impression is that there has been a growing emphasis upon the material side of Christmas. I mean an emphasis upon getting rather than giving, an emphasis upon things rather than spirit, an emphasis upon externals rather than an emphasis upon the inner meanings of the whole Christmas truth, of which all this should be a symbol. Do you agree with that, Cooper? Well, I can't quite agree with it. The question, has Christmas lost its religious significance, my answer would be no. I think we have retained a great deal of what our fathers taught us in the way of religious significance. And as far as the commercial end is concerned, I would even go so far as to say that it might have helped to keep more people thinking of Christmas as far as its true meaning is concerned. Father Ward, how would you answer our question? I tend to agree with Cooper on that question. Although we may have lost a great deal of the religious significance of Christmas, I think we've retained a great deal of it also. Now, what I mean by that is that even in giving cards to our friends and so on and little gifts, what we're saying, well, is I greet you on the occasion of Christ's birthday. And it's not just any occasion. Otherwise, I wouldn't be giving anything at all. It is true that this is a great family event, a great friendship event, this business of Christmas as we've worked it out in American life. But at the same time, I think there is at the bottom of it a religious significance in the sense that we mean to say, well, this is on the occasion of the birthday of Christ. Not your birthday, but the birthday of Christ. And what Barcloth says is true, no doubt, that to some degree we have let the mere giving of gifts or the mere friendship or the mere family thing overshadow and dominate the religious thing. But I don't think they have swept it out of existence. I think most of the people that I encounter in this matter do retain a good deal of the sense of giving almost in the name of Christ or giving because Christ has come now into the world. How do you feel about the questions, Isaac? I think I can answer that best by reading a few lines from a book which we mail each Christmas to several hundred thousands of our friends and customers. And it goes like this. Dear public, Christmas to us is spun of two threads, believing and make-believing. Like you, we believe in the spirit of Christmas. And we keep Christmas, first of all, as a thing of spirit. Like you, we believe that Christmas is first the quiet midnight church, the soaring hallelujahs of the Messiah, the thankful family grace, the glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill. Like you, we believe in the promises of Christmas, that someday all men will live together in peace with justice, that there is purpose and dignity in human life. To us, Christmas is above all the light that yet in our dark streets shinin' our hope in war, our hope in peace. But Christmas is make-believing, too, just as sure as it is children. It's Santa Claus in a white icing house, where the bedposts are made of lollipops, and the doors have taffy poles and cookie-cutters dance on the kitchen walls. It's the story and song and sugar-plum tree of your childhood magnified a thousand times. It's the brief, beautiful point in time when your memories meet your dreams. And it's impossible ever to grow old. Yes, to us, Christmas is both holy day and holiday. It's both holy day and holiday. Now, are you saying, Bartlett and Substance, that we're emphasizing the holiday, the make-believe, rather than the holy day and the believing? Yes, I think I would take that position. I would even go on to say, first of all, acknowledging a very fine statement by Sizer, that Christmas is more even than those two threads, that it isn't just the candlelight service in the church or the singing of the hallelujahs, but that Christmas has another significance, and that is the acceptance of the values for which Christ stood, the value of things spiritual over things material, the value of things which are eternal is over against things that are temporal, the value of personality is over against possessions, and so forth. I think it's possible, and I believe this is being observed, that no matter how elaborate your external celebration of Christmas may be, either in the realm of belief or make-believe, that if there is not a fundamental re-acceptance of the mind and values of Christ, that we have not yet caught the religious significance of the season. How, Father, would you express the true religious or spiritual meaning of Christmas? Well, on that point, there's one big central matter that we've all learned from our childhood. I think that we all got in our childhood a good deal of the Christmas story. We got the words, we got the meaning, we lived the thing, we dramatized it, it was dramatized before us in church and especially at home, in the Christmas celebrations at home with cribs and gifts and some notion of the Christ child, perhaps something in the crib to represent the Christ child, a manger, and so on. And we got used to those great words of the Gospels, such words as she brought forth her firstborn and laid them in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn. And the words, an angel of the Lord stood by them. And the great words, glory to God in the highest, everybody loves those great words and they have great significance. And people associate them, of course, with Christmas and often hear those words in one way or another at Christmas. The words that, the story that the shepherds went to adore. So, of course, I think the essential meaning of Christmas, its proper ideal meaning, was best celebrated by Mary and Joseph and the shepherds and by the angels and by the wise men that came soon afterward. But I think we retain a lot of that meaning, too, that we never get over those words and their meaning and they brought a lot into the worship life of people. Not merely at church, but also in school, at home, and perhaps also in many ways in their business life. Do you think the giving of gifts is inherent in this conception of Christmas that the Father's been developing here? I think, as a symbol, it's a very important and inherent part. The only thing I would go on to say, however, is that the gift must be a means of expressing the central meaning of the season rather than becoming an end in itself. And I'm under the impression that the giving of gifts and the getting of gifts, those have become ends rather than means. Father Ward, you have refreshed our memory with a number of the beautiful symbols that we connect so closely with Christmas. I'd like to ask you a question about a dilemma in which we find ourselves in the business community and specifically in the department stores. A great many of our good and sincere friends during the year, and particularly at this time of the year, write us letters in which they strongly urge us to fill our stores and to use in our windows these various symbols of Christmas with a strong religious connotation. Now, our feeling has been that were we to accede to these requests and to these suggestions, that we might be guilty of commercializing. I would like to have your viewpoints and that of Bartlett. Sizer, I certainly feel that the people would criticize you at first for doing it, but I don't think that is finally a sufficient reason for not using that approach for selling church goods. I don't see why you shouldn't sell religious articles, why you shouldn't have them in your windows at Christmas time or any other time. After all, Sandy Claus was originally a sixth-century saint, and presumably he has something to do with religious life, and we have him everywhere in the windows. Of course, we've lost some of the sense that he was a sixth-century saint, Nicholas. Nevertheless, I do not see why we should divorce these two things, religion and business, and why your place should be considered simply a profane, a secular place, your place of business, and only the church or the home or somewhere that is a religious life. Well, of course, we do not so consider it. A few days ago, 200 of our people, our employees, who form a choral society, spent an hour and a half singing in one of our large tea rooms for an audience of several thousand people, delivered the entire Messiah. At the same time, we do have in our store a band of strolling minstrels who walk through and sing many of the well-known carols and also who do sing some of the better-known hymns. That's a very good point. I think for the purposes of our discussion, I would say that having the choir or not having the choir does not particularly influence or affect the recovery of the religious significance of Christmas. The great music of Christmas, the great symbols of Christmas, are still symbols. If you use these as an affirmation of a fundamental faith in the real religious significance of the day and of the season, then I think that's a rightful use. If it becomes, however, still an external, without a willingness on your part or an attempt on your part to make it an affirmation of the side of believe as over against make-believe, then I would question whether it would be rightful use. Of course, that spirit has to go with it. Now, I think that a lot of that spirit is retained. That is my main point. No doubt a lot of it is lost. And this singing of carols on the air and in the streets and in the stores and in the homes, well, I'd like even to see more of that done. People do serenade each other, I notice, in our school. They'll go from hall to hall in the evenings before the boys go home for Christmas and serenade us. Well, I like to have them do that. And I think there's a good deal of spirit that goes with that. I mean, a genuine religious spirit that goes with that kept of those boys. And I think also with your workers, perhaps, and with people that go up and down some of the streets in some of the cities singing Christmas carols, especially boys and girls. Well, we feel that way very much. And as probably some know, we play Christmas carols and various other types of music for the Christmas season out on State Street and over our loudspeaker system. We are criticized occasionally for that, as Sizer said. But there was a statement in the paper the other day to the effect that here in Chicago there were some two million people that were, as I said, not to be members of any church. And we're wondering whether or not the playing of Christmas music in the stores and on the street, as long as it's done in good taste, as we feel it is, doesn't help to put into the minds and the hearts of some of those people a little more of the religious spirit that they might not otherwise get, assuming that they're not members of any church. Now, Cooper suggests the possibility that the promotion of Christmas by the stores might actually bring home the religious values inherent in Christmas to a good many people who would otherwise escape them. I would question whether actually it does. It seems to me, Cooper, that the setting in which this takes place and the association with it are such, that that setting is such that it would be difficult to feel that it was making any real reminder of the essential religious nature of Christmas. You are saying something that alarms me. If I felt that Christ were only in the cloistered halls of the church and was not to be found on State Street for the asking, I would be very much discouraged. Very good point, and I agree to it. And I think that one of the great emphases of Christ was that he was to be served in the marketplace as well as in the sanctuary. I'm asking, however, whether the use of carols and the use of the religious symbols is motivated by your attempt to affirm the fact that Christ is on State Street as well as in the sanctuary. Well, I believe that the answer to that is partly in the fact that the men who promote this idea and who do this work at Christmas time are men who have the Christian being in them. They are anxious to do whatever they can to help in this situation. I think it might even be asked as to whether or not there would be as much religion and the Christmas significance would be thought of as much today as it is now if there hadn't been a retail promotion to sort of carry it along. Cooper, that's a point on which I agree with you. You're asking the question, and I answer it positively, that these millions, you say, perhaps even millions in Chicago who don't go to church, well, these people are reached with some religious sense and some religious spirit through the Christmas celebrations, especially perhaps through the carols and the programs on the air, Christmas decorations, Christmas celebrations. Some of them may be bad, but I think a lot of them reach those people, and some people, you know, go to church once a year, and that's on Christmas. Well, I think that's better than not going with your neighbors to celebrate together in the worship of God. And so it may be pretty thin with a lot of those people. It may be pretty far between those worship meetings, and it happens once a year, but I think that is much better than no worship of God. The one question I would raise as to whether the final effect, however, is not to secularize the carol rather than to make sacred the setting in which the carol is played. I think that depends entirely on the thinking of the individual. Those of us who have a religious background and who were taught, as was said here a while ago, in our early childhood to believe in the religious significance of Christmas, we still have that. We will always retain it. Good. It can't be lost, and I think that even though there are some who don't go to church, that will be brought back to them very forcefully. I'd like to add to that point, Cooper, that it seems to me that the evidences of Christianity must vary with the surroundings. It is far easier to practice the outward evidence and the tranquility of Christianity in an open field or at Walden Pond than it is in a busy downtown street or in a business section. I agree to that. But do you think that the tendency to lengthen the Christmas selling season and the terrific advertising campaigns that are put on at Christmastime to sell merchandise are evidences of the secularization that Bartlett here feared? Well, he would probably feel that it was from what he said a minute ago, but yet I think there's another side to the story. Actually, in many ways, we haven't lengthened the time as much as it would seem to some. we are today promoting Christmas business to a certain extent a little longer than we did prior to the last war. But actually, the number of store hours involved is much less today than there was many years ago. I'd like to ask these men a question really for information. The impression I carry is that the gifts purchased at Christmas have mounted and become more and more elaborate. In other words, that we moved away from simplicity toward the giving of elaborate gifts, I'd like to know whether my impression is correct or wrong. There are a number of interesting things to be said about the promotional possibilities in the Christmas season. To begin with, it certainly is true that the total amount of Christmas business is greater now than in the average community than it used to be. But this is obviously, if one studies it, almost a direct reflection of the increase of the total purchasing power in the community. Now, it is a strange but interesting fact that each community, each Christmas season, has its own characteristics. In other words, inherent in each Christmas season is a certain potential of total sales. Now, these sales are there regardless of promotional effort. And they are determined, their total is determined, by two elements chiefly. One, the purchasing power in the community, and two, the frame of mind in the community. The obvious question, then, is why the promotion, Sizer? At Christmas time, there is a tremendous barrage of what appears to me to be promotion. Why? Well, I would answer that by using an example that Cooper likes to use. He says that the Christmas business is like a cake, which is of a measurable size. And the promotional efforts in the Christmas season are efforts to increase the size of the cake that each participant gets. But the total is the same. It cannot be increased. There are other points, too, that I think ought to be brought into this early Christmas. Yes, we do start it a little early. But we also try, and by doing this, avoid a lot of taunt nerves, the wearing out of the clerk who tries to give a service, to say nothing, of the families who want to shop. I see. I don't think it would make a great deal of difference when we started the Christmas promotion, so called. They would, the people, the general public, would wait for a short time to really get going. I'd like to make one other statement about this subject of exploitation. As a matter of fact, any business, or specifically any store, which participates in promotion and exploitation for exploitation's sake alone, will very quickly go bankrupt because the store exists essentially as a service to a community. And when a store ceases to serve the community, the community has a way of doing away with it. That's a very interesting point, Sycer, because you know the public generally thinks, well, businessmen are in business for exploitation. They're in Christmas sales business for Christmas sales. And they're not primarily in that business to serve the community with something that it needs, as the good doctors in the community give the community something it needs. And you seem to have quite a different idea for your own business and also in your ideal of business and perhaps even what you think is the actual case for most business or even the possible case that business can't stay in as business if it goes in for mere exploitation. I think that's axiomatic. However, there does seem to me to be a point relevant to our central discussion. Whatever the purpose of lengthening the season has been, and I think you've made a very valid point there from your side of it, still, the effect, I believe, has been to take away something of the sense of the specialness of the Christmas season by lengthening it out as it appears to me to have been lengthened. We lose something of the sense of the, of what I believe ought to be an awe and reverence about the specialness, the highlighting of this particular birth of Christ. But we feel, on the other hand, that if we shortened it, as you would suggest there, I presume, that the nerves would be really shot by the time Christmas came along. In other words, by trying to level off this buying, which we actually do not control. It's here, and all we do is spread it around. But by the time December 24th or 23rd comes, things are quieted down enough so they can really do what you want them to do. That's a very interesting point. I'm also interested in your phrase about nerves being shot, because to my mind, that in itself is a reflection that somewhere within here there have come drives that are not what I believe to be the religious drives. Christmas ought to be a time of uplift instead of leaving us exhausted with our nerves shot. Well, how about Mother after she gets the Christmas dinner? Well, I suspect she's tired too. And yet, to my mind, for a whole culture to have to consider the way in which it arrives at a point of exhaustion because of the observance of a tremendously fine religious holiday does raise a question as to whether other motivations have come out. Of course, a good Christmas dinner, Sizer, has its own rewards even for Mother. You'll recognize that, won't you? Right. Father, did you have a word here? Yes, I'd like to see some of that simplicity, of course, recaptured. Even the simplicity of the first Christmas, I understand, of course, that we're not going to capture or recapture that altogether. In small communities, small towns, and so on, small parishes, that can, to a large extent, be done. But we're dealing in multitudes, really in millions, of people, and in millions of dollars of trade, and that simplicity can't always be there. A simplicity of spirit might be retained. Perhaps it often is retained, but actually, we're dealing now with a multitudinous thing and not with a small community, which in many ways would be my ideal. Mine, I think. We have questions put to us very often, which are a little bit along that same line, of getting back to what some people call the good old-fashioned Christmas decorations. Why don't we just string red and green lights on the streets and in the stores and put Christmas trees up there instead of other things, but whatever we do, whether it's the Christmas light or Christmas music, maybe it, to some extent, helps to bring in that simplicity that you're speaking of and levels it off a little bit so that it isn't quite as commercial as it might be. The pastor of a large church out in Topeka, Kansas has encouraged his parishioners to give to the church at Christmastime in the name of persons to whom they would otherwise present gifts. This suggestion is given on an attractive Christmas card and reads in part as follows. He says, let us remember Christ on his birthday and remember friends and loved ones on their own birthdays. What do you think of that program, Father? Well, I think that people do now give a great deal in their churches, much more at Christmas than at other times. They give more in the street to help to feed the poor for relief, to furnish dinners and so on, than they would give at any other time outside of Christmas. But I think the giving of gifts as we've worked it out need not be too much disturbed. It's a giving for the most part between person and person within the family and within the community and expresses the Christmas spirit although it expresses the family spirit. We have the idea now that nothing since the first Christmas really is profane and this family habit, this friend-to-friend habit of giving gifts at Christmas of course need not be profane. Well, gentlemen, thank you much on behalf of the university and the staff of the reviewing stand. May we wish all of our listeners a very happy Christmas and the kind of Christmas which you regard as best for you and yours. Well, thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion Has Christmas Lost Its Religious Significance? Why not send now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin $1 for the next four months $2.50 for an entire year right to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were the Reverend Gene E. Bartlett Randall Cooper the Reverend Father Leo R. Ward and Lawrence B. Sizer Next week the reviewing stand will be in New York to discuss the question Is the United Nations the world's best hope for peace in 1951? Our guests will be Clark M. Eichelberger Director of the American Association for the United Nations George Fielding Elliott Military Analyst Author and Commentator Abraham H. Feller General Counsel and Director of the Legal Department of the United Nations and Chesley Manley United Nations Correspondent for the Chicago Tribune We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question Is the United Nations the world's best hope for peace in 1951? And don't forget to send now for your printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed 10 cents in coin $1 for the next four months $2.50 for an entire year right to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois Northwestern University reviewing stand as broadcast coast to coast every week is a public service feature of Mutual Marshall Kent speaking this is a Mutual Broadcasting System