Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year. One hundred years of service to the nation in the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many programs of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today the Reviewing Stand considers what fools these mortals be. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the jokes and pranks of April Fool's Day and the meaning of these and related customs. And now our moderator James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Francis Coughlin, Director of Continuity with radio station WGN, Bergen Evans, Professor of English, and Mano Spahn, Professor of German, both of Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, tell us what is the meaning of April Fool's Day? What's the origin of this day, Evans? I think it's a vestige, a remnant in modern life of the ancient Saturnalia, the, those periods of, uh, of, uh, recognized license and restricted orgy, uh, springing, uh, perhaps, uh, ultimately from the fertility rites of the spring. But there were periods in every society when people were just allowed to blow the lid off, and, uh, and April Fool's is, uh, a remnant of that, uh, permission. Did you have this kind of a day in Germany, Spahn? Yes, we have the same thing. I would say that, uh, the Saturnalia, too, were a, um, vegetation festival, because on the 17th of December the Romans would plant their seed. And, uh, this opening up of the earth to receive the seed called for merriment. I think there are two elements to it. Why would you, why would why merriment? Why not solemnity? Ah, because the anticipation of food, I think, is always a very joyous, joyous feeling. What, uh, customs and traditions are, have been associated with this day, anyway? What's the spirit of the thing? Well, it, uh, in our civilization, at least, goes back to the Feast of Fools, uh, the medieval ceremony at which, uh, the abbot, or the boy abbot, uh, presided. And, uh, everyone played jokes, uh, crude, practical, intellectual. Uh, everyone had a good time. Uh, among those customs would be mock sermons, and, uh, in our, in our own society here in America. Oh, we have such, uh, pleasantries as, uh, foolish phone calls and, uh, imaginary packages being delivered. And, uh, various pranks and jokes, all of which, uh, again, tend to relieve the tedium of life, too. Most, uh, does that, does much, uh, adultfully go on anymore, do you think? It seems to me it's become very much a children's thing. Yes, I think it has become a children's thing. But the adult's too, for the children. Yes, because, uh, uh, now we're rather overburdened with dignity. And, uh, we allow the children to be undignified, but we ourselves don't care to be dignified, don't care to be undignified. In Germany, one particular type of practical joke is, uh, common. That is to send somebody on a fool's errand. And, strangely enough, that goes back to the strange interpretation that Christ's mock trial is running from, uh, uh, Hannes to Caiaphas to Pilate to Herod to, from pillar to post, uh, was, uh, some sort of mockery that was imposed upon him at Easter. Yes, that sounds to me like a sort of a folk learning. That is completely, completely folk learning, just as the, uh, very learned but also very foolish interpretation that, uh, Sirius, the goddess of, uh, the earth and of, uh, fruit, is calling for her daughter, Poserpina, which has been taken away. I suspect in modern practice, the fool's errand, which is a large part of a good joke, is, uh, is used because it makes it a better joke. That is, if you just deceive somebody, that isn't as much fun as if you get them to do something, like going for a left-handed monkey wrench among men who use monkey wrench. Yes. It's absurd in itself and they feel this person should have seen the, uh, the absurdity. The very German term says it, it says, Indien April Schicken, to send somebody, somebody into April. The idea being... Yes, every amateur in show business has at one time or other been sent for the curtain key. You see, the curtain must be unlocked before the curtain can go up from the show start. Every young mechanic has been sent for sky hooks. It's a very difficult job to lift the heavy aircraft. And, uh, Collins Boyd used to try to sell, uh, newcomers the radiator. The assumption being they ought to know the radiator was not for sale. Yes, on old sailing ships, uh, the young apprentice seaman was sent to ask for Charlie Noble. And he would climb to the main top and yell for Charlie Noble. And Charlie Noble is the galley stove. So he found out, uh, what the galley stove was called and it sort of oriented him aboard ship. Well, are these jokes and, uh, and pranks that we get on April Fool's Day here in, in America now pretty much, uh, watered-down versions of what we used to get, Evans? I feel that, uh, we've become either, uh, weaker or, uh, more civilized, perhaps on the same thing. Uh, I don't believe among, uh, the more civilized people of the North Shore, whom I can sort, that the violence of the old April Fool's jokes, uh, would be tolerated. They used to be extraordinarily violent, some of them, and very dangerous consequences to their victims. I don't believe that would be done so much anymore. Uh, well, of course, our whole life has become less violent. Uh, pioneering times in, in America were extremely rough and ready. The difference between the quick and the dead probably occurred during the interval, uh, an Indian, uh, yelled a scalp yell. And men who have lived a, a violent, uh, life, and a life full of vicissitudes, and a life, uh, uh, in which, uh, danger was ever present, uh, took somewhat more, uh, chances. And we're prepared to accept the results. Marie Sandos, in her account of her pioneer father, tells how he was injured for life by, uh, some wags covering up a new, new-built well with some branches, deliberately, to deceive him. Then sending him an errand that compelled him to cross this, and he fell 30, 40 feet below. Yes, uh, uh, we in Northfield don't do that. A broken leg was regarded as a good joke. We don't regard that as a good April Fool's joke. I think also there's a sort of rationalistic emptying of life. The, uh, the modern man, for better or worse, does not have the same intensity of feeling and of passion that, uh... His age has advanced too far. Yes, that too. Are you suggesting that we're a bit more rational and sophisticated? Uh, superficially, yes. And, uh, the same abandon with which our forefathers celebrated festivals simply doesn't exist anymore. Moreover, modern civilization is such a, uh, complex thing and such a restricted space that, uh, any, uh, Saturnalia would, uh, be a very dangerous thing because... The Saturnalia in the parking house, and they call the cops. Granted, but, uh, McNamara's band still plays for wakes and weddings, and, uh, the, the fundamental urges are there. Uh, the expression, of course, changes at the time is another thing, I think, when a large number of people are involved. For instance, a student riot in a small university numbering 300 learners was a small matter. But a student riot in a large university numbering 20,000 students becomes a defense against public order, which must be put down by the police. It becomes a very difficult thing. It's interesting also that these student, uh, these student outbursts occur more in small, uh, rural colleges, where life is duller, uh, and where these eruptions are more of a diversion. In a large city, the kids are occupied most of the time. We don't have very many serious student pranks. Occasionally they'll break a few windows, but nothing like that. And there's hardly the fellow feeling, either, among the, the, the, the, the students don't know each other by the first names as they did in the older days. Well, do you think these pranks, these, uh, Saturnalia, I think that's the word you gentlemen are using, uh, are a good idea? Well, I, uh, take exception to the term idea. They're really a necessity, because it's a sort of Dionysian outlet, an outlet for all the, um, hostility, uh, impulses that man feels for the, uh, urges to break away from the restraints of civilization. In other words, you ought to, do you think there ought to be a day when people can, can cut loose? Not only a day. In an unrestrained way. There, there has to be a cutting loose, but also there has to be a, uh, cultural form in which this cutting loose takes place, so it doesn't become too chaotic. And I think all civilizations provide some form, some outlet for these chaotic desires. Our football game in America is such an example, where, uh, the crowd can let go and, uh, can get wild. Well, do you regard April Fool's Day as such a cultural form? Oh, yes, yes. And I think the fact that it's limited to children in our society is, is possibly a manifestation of the fact that children are much more controlled. The parents deceive children the year round. We set aside one day in which the children shall deceive the parents. It's only, it turned about, it's fair play. The, uh, uh... Well, are these April Fool's Day jokes and pranks very different, after all, from some of our other, uh, uh, rites and customs? I'm thinking of Halloween, for example. I think not. I think they're, they're essentially the same thing. Go back to the wakes and weddings. A wedding is, uh, I attended a wedding last week. It is a solemn ceremony. It is, uh, excellent English, beautifully intoned, full of promises of, uh, faith until death do us part. A rather solemn thought. Uh, after the wedding, uh, people can't live on that high, exalted poetic plane. Uh, then, uh, you enjoy the punch and tell stories. And, uh, old friends and other acquaintances. Going back to the violence, uh, let's go back to the wake. Uh, I have no doubt that at many wakes, uh, violence, uh, got out of hand. Uh, celebration got too exuberant. In that case, some local Clancy lowered the boom on the offender. And, uh, the, the in-group, uh, has far more... Why do you think, why do you think it was necessary to have any, any violence at the wake at all? Why, why horseplay at the wake? Well, people were rather violent. Uh, horseplay was an expression of, uh, all sorts of things. Do you think it was sort of a defiance of death, did I say? Uh, possibly. There's a great fear there. There was more, more a fellow feeling. There was a release, it was a fellow feeling. Uh, people who experienced death, having mused on the solemnity of death, then decided they would whistle in the graveyard and go on. It's an old... Don't we always have these two sides to these folk customs? That is, on the one hand, an age-old route, or a route in the age-old time when, uh, all these rites had their magic meaning. You mentioned the wedding, when the rice rowing is, uh, rice is a fertility symbol, like all grain. And at the same time, there is this modern desire to break the monotony of the wedding, or the solemnity, and at the same time release the hostility. The fellow who can throw the rice in the bride's eye or in her hair is, of course, a great champion. Of course, it's lost its original meaning, don't you think? That it has, but, uh, it has to be rice. Nobody would think of throwing, let me say... But it's your shoe, what does that mean? The shoe is also a very ancient symbol. Okay. How about the... We put, uh, at Christmas we put our gifts in shoes, and Saint Nicholas, uh, put money in the shoes of certain girls, et cetera, et cetera. How about the old-fashioned, uh, chivalry? I suppose that's much the same thing. You're, you're partly, uh, this... A great deal of the horseplay at weddings, I think, is due to, in that first place, that the drinks are being given away free. Uh, but I think second place, there is an idea that in any moment of supreme human felicity, it's a good thing to have at least a little mock degradation, so that the gods don't take offense at your insolence of assuming you have a right to be happy. There's almost always a, a symbolic gesture of denigration, you know, in almost any... In, uh, at Oxford, until very recently, when a man received an honorary degree, the students were permitted to call out often fairly indecent jests at him. Tennyson was vastly thankful when he received an honorary degree at Oxford because... I'm delighted to hear it. I always thought Tennyson was horribly stepping. That's what the students implied, didn't they? This is a coxcomb freedom, which is so necessary, such a good psychological thing, that if you have the fool's coxcomb on, you can say what you think, you can insult a person, you can, uh, get rid of what is bothering you, and he has to hear it. As a coxcomb, the court, the, uh, jester at the medieval court had a right to tell the king what he thought about it. Yes, the jester could tell truths, uh, disguised as jests, which couldn't be told by a state minister. We have that coxcomb freedom, too, in various forms, of course. Yes, so we don't wear the coxcomb visibly. Well, a lot of these, uh, jokes and pranks, uh, appear to be associated with certain, uh, relationships, like the, the rustic and the, and the city slicker, the town and down relationship. We have a natural aggression there. Is that, uh, the case? That used to be quite common in the Middle Ages and later on. In Germany, for instance, we have the famous Till Eulenspiegel, who is the smart, uh, country bumpkin who takes his revenge and fools the city slicker. Then we have the traveling scholar, who travels around and makes a fool of everyone. Wherever you have tensions between social groups, won't you have, uh, some aggression, uh, decked out in foolery? You're bound to have it. Yes, you have. I, I think another thing could be added whenever the social group is secure in its status, then it permits a good deal of fool. I think, for instance, uh, during the Depression, when, uh, things were extremely serious in America, I regard it as a great tribute to the American solidarity that, uh, such a show as of the icing could be put on. Uh, when the British, uh, ruled the seas, uh, Pinafore and Prensons made, uh, hilarious fun of the Royal Navy. I thought there was a wonderful contrast between England's decline and America's strength in contrast to Cavalcade with a V.I.S. In, uh, the contrast to Cavalcade with a V.I.S. Cavalcade took itself awfully serious. Yes, that's true. It was, it was almost a sentimental, vulgar swan song to a departing great. Yes, it looks, it looks back on the thin red line of Europe. You couldn't have ribbed England, you couldn't have ribbed England in the thirties. They weren't, they didn't have what to take it anymore. No. They paid too heavy a price to stand the joke. But you use, yes, they had 900,000 war dead in the First World War, and it's not funny. America was, America was confident even in the Depression in some way, really, last, and, uh, you could make some fun of the country. Yes, I'll know I question today, I, I, I should like to see, oh, for instance, such a towering figure as MacArthur satirized as the modern major general. I don't know that that would go, uh, with the public. I don't, I don't think it would go with the public. But, uh, if it has the elements of a, an hilariously funny review. I can't imagine it would be accepted as a popular general general. You should be given a court jester. Which suggests the question I, I raised earlier, do you think these, uh, these pranks, these jests, these, these jokes are, are a good thing? Do you, do you applaud them? I do. I'm in the entertainment business, I heartily approve. Yes, I, I think that, uh, except where they go to, uh, two violent excesses, and people are injured. Uh, I think that it's, it's, it's fun to have all the fun you can. I think also in a broader sense there, there's something rather inspiring, dramatic, uh, noble in the thing. For instance, when, uh, Mr. Pickett trotted out his fifteen brigades to charge at Gettysburg, uh, brigades came out, did a right dress under fire, and the field music all hit the same tune at the same time, they played the girl I left behind me. Now, those confederates, those confederates who went in knew that most of them were leaving girls behind them. As a matter of fact, two thirds of them did leave their girls behind them. But it has that kind of, uh, gallantry in the face of danger. That sort of thing, uh, that's cocking a snook at destiny, that's... Yes, and it's, it's the kind of thing. But that's a form of protecting yourself. Right. It's like the aviators in the war calling their, on these dreadful missions, of which they were all really terrified, as long as they had any intelligence, calling their planes such a thing as a ruptured duck and painted, painting these glamour girls and cheesecake on them. That's partly a, that's an incantation to ward off the danger of arrows. Well, I think, uh, it, it may be an incantation, but it's still a rather admirable incantation. I would rather have the ruptured duck on my plane than, uh, than, uh, be called Otto Hitler's own. Did the Germans, by the way, give their planes funny names? Did that, you happen to know that they were trained there for? No, I, I, uh, as far as I know, not. It's... German humour is not, it's not that kind of humour. No, no, American division would proudly call itself the Death Head Division. No. That is the kind of thing, it's a little too serious. Uh, I would say, there remains a serious element, also in the practical joke, and in all sort of humour, which you can't get around, and that is that, uh, you can't make life harmless, completely harmless. And whatever man does, it will go with a certain amount of damage. So, his, uh, his entertainment, be it tragic or be it, uh, comical, sports, athletics, uh, there's very often this fascination with death, the fascination with, um, with damage that's to be done, the hostility which is in man. And we can't take that away or we emasculate life. Well, are you suggesting that these pranks have a, uh, a sadistic flavour to them? I don't like the term sadistic. As we use it, it means an abnormal delight in suffering or in pain or inflicting pain. And, um, um, we must, I think, agree that, uh, the pleasure taken in inflicting pain or in watching pain is basic to the enjoyment of art, to the enjoyment of, uh, uh, entertainments of various sorts, conflict, sport. And so I don't think we should say that all mankind is sadistic because sadistic has a connotation that is abnormal and morbid. Uh, I assume that, uh, that, uh, by sadistic you mean that, uh, that when, when the delight in pain, another person's pain is a substitute for a more natural gratification, it is wrong. When, but there is, you believe there is a normal, uh, delight in, in danger, at least. For which we have the German word schadenfreude, delight in damage, delight in harm done, which is a common thing. Yes, it is common, but I think it's a rather gloomy Teutonic interpretation. We may also delight in the fortitude exhibited, uh, in the heroism of, uh, young men on the football field, in the admirable stoicism of wrestlers. That's right, but behind all of this is death, because after all it's defeat. And if, uh, in the football game, if the, uh, fame of the university were not at stake and the salary of the, uh, coach, that means there were not real, real harm there. High treason. Cut this man off the air. That's true. My, my, uh, eleven-year-old son, uh, delighted, uh, with wrestling matches on television. And, uh, I must say he is, uh, he's learning, uh, one of the characteristics of our civilization, that the dirty, mean, illegal, brutal wrestler invariably gets his comeuppance. And ten minutes to eleven, no matter how he seems to have triumphed over the clean-limbed American athlete against whom he's pitted, the villain loses and the hero wins. Isn't it interesting, isn't it interesting with this revival of the arena and these dreadful, uh, wrestling spectacles that every, that the element of humor has been introduced. Every wrestler strives to have a comic aspect. As he approaches the ring, he's gorgeous George or studious Sam or something of that kind of, and there's, there's, there's the horse, there's the horse play. Yes, but it's an old, it's an old American custom. There's also hilarity involved. But we can't do without the villain. The villain makes it interesting. Oh, yes, but the villain must not win. You see, civilization is also the survivor of an innumerable number of barbarisms. It's beaten in a fair fight. Now, you, you've been discussing the, the, uh, historic background of some of these, uh, customs and rites. Do we have any, uh, Saturnalian rites that are essentially American, indigenous with us? Oh, yes, we have, uh, old boat races on Labor Day. We have sauerkraut festivals. Uh, we have, uh, people scrubbing Holland, Michigan. A peculiarly Fourth of July, great. Fourth of July. Making all the noise that you're not permitted to make at another time. And now, now, now, Spahn, you think it's a mistake to try to make Fourth of July safe? Would, would that a conflict with your theory? Granted, it is one of our, uh, Saturnals. I think it's an absolute necessity of our civilization to make it safe because we are too, uh, we are crowded in. We are on each other's toes. There would be, uh, fatal accidents and it simply has to be done, but it is a, it's a pity, but it is a pity that it has to exist. But still, isn't the term, isn't the term safe and sane Fourth a paradox, a contradiction? It's a contradiction itself. Since the actual Fourth was neither safe, was certainly not safe. Just as tricks are treated as an evasion of, uh, tricks have to be, have to be played now. Face it. And, uh... One of the great, one of my feelings was, uh, the great faults in that little Saturnalia of the, of the Halloween, is that really the students aren't prepared. The children who come to the door are not prepared to tricks. That's a hollow threat, really. They'll know they'll get the candy. And, uh, and if you, if you, if you just said to them, all right, I'll take the trick. You've given me my choice, trick or treat, I'll take the trick. They, they wouldn't be prepared. It would be a... Oh, it's possible that in more robust communities in the North Shore, that may happen. I mean, uh, youth may knock at the, youth may knock at the door and, uh, demand tricks or treats, and the householder producing a squirt gun says, tricks and squirts. And they would produce a brick. I get the impression that you, you, uh, deplore that, uh, Evans, that you, you'd like to have the trick. And a good lusty trick, too. Well, there is something sad about a child coming to your door with a chauffeur hovering in the shadows to see that all is safe, and in a brave piping treble demanding trick or treat as though they meant blackmail. We had a little girl come on first year at our house who, who said trick or treat, and then hastily said, don't give me any chocolate, I have an allergy. It seems to be a rather sad world where children are sort of artificially threatening you in such a safe manner as that. Sir Francis Drake didn't sail the world, circle the globe with that kind of idea. He didn't care whether a top man fell off the top. He expected to lose a few men. Of course, there's some of these, uh, these, uh, delusions which aren't as, as trivial as children's, uh, tricks or treats. Uh, I take it that, uh, what passes as astrology, as numerology, as palmistry, is a delusion of a kind, isn't it? Those, some of those things, of course, are again vestiges in our society of what wants, by the rationale of the time when they prevailed. They're ways of fooling people, aren't they? Or are they? I doubt it's the average. And also fool the practitioner. Yeah, I, I... See, that's the essential thing there. They're part of human folly. That I would grant. And perhaps on April Fool's Day they, they deserve to be considered because they are part and parcel of all human folly. But, uh, goodness, when you take hold of that Midgard serpent, uh... I think we sometimes go a little bit too, uh, far in, uh, throwing it all overboard. For instance, um, interpretation of handwriting or, um, the interpretation of the character from the, uh, facial features, not phrenology. That is something we have to do practically, no matter how, uh, unsafe it is, because the whole gestalt of a person indicates itself in his handwriting, in his, uh, intonation, in his voice, in his gestures. And we continuously have to do some sort of, uh, reading of meaning, of human meaning, out of facial features. The greatest charge can be brought against those things is that they're a mistake in science. For instance, phrenology makes a kind of sense, uh, and, uh, uh, psychologists are now studying the convolutions of the stuff. Sometimes, of course, errors make a great deal of sense. As, for instance, of the errors of the poor human, which we know in the room, yes. But that made a great deal of sense for 2,000 years. The people who practiced it weren't absolute fools. They were ignorant. Neither was the astrologer an absolute fool. The, the, the confirmation of the planets was a very imposing kind of thing. It was assumed that that thing, that confirmation was reflected on the Earth following a regular orderly sequence. But does it make any sense today? No, no. That's another thing, but it was a mistake in science. But it persists. It persists. And it's encouraged by the press. Newspapers run horoscopes, at least most of them do. We won't discuss individual papers, but... Sometimes, sometimes there's a, sometimes there's a grain of truth as in, uh, the four humors, which after all have led to modern endocrinology, and endocrinological, uh, research after all is serious. But there also are phlegmatic, humorous, bilious, and, uh, Yes, but there are, there are medicine men who do have real medical secrets which are sound and safe, as Chuck. Yes, but, but, men are so long as those things are regarded as approaches to science, as, as, uh, basis, uh, basis for further investigation. Then they become valuable. The minute they are overthrown, and then, uh, then, uh, they're persisted in this kind of charlatanism, and, of course, uh, all men are against them. That is, all men of good will and good learning are against them. So that you must, to, to, to define that kind of thing, you must take a point in time and say, was at this time, uh, this particular thing foolish? And then there, of course, there are these, uh, notions that the male sex is, uh, superior, that a certain race is superior. Yeah, there, of course, we have the difficult semantical problem. If I say, uh, the male sex is superior, I must say right away, superior in what? Otherwise, that's the same statement. I say the, the elephant is superior to the gazelle, or to the antelope. Superior in what? The male, if I say the male sex is physically superior, well, that's a pretty statement. Well, except, until very recently, except in fulcrative, it was definitely assumed the male sex was superior and infinite. But now we know biologically the female sex is stronger, you see. Yes, we do. But we have to define our terms. If I say the, uh, the male is stronger, then I mean the skeleton, I mean the, uh, muscular development. That can be proven, more or less. But I certainly cannot say that he is stronger as far as biological toughness is concerned. And, uh, so much nonsense is said about those questions because both sides do not, uh, clarify their terms. They say, uh, man is stronger than a woman. Stronger but respect. He means, sometimes he means, uh, biological toughness, sometimes he means, uh, size of skeleton and muscles. And, uh, if he breaks those questions down, then we see they are extremely complex. And then, of course, we come, we can compare, then, these various superiorities and say, well, it's some, some, so, and so. Our question, our question in this discussion is sort of, can you draw a line between illusion and folly? Or where do you draw such a line? Well, gentlemen, in your learned research, uh, we witnessed that contradiction in terms of the lady wrestler. You maintain that the male sex is superior in strength. Well, we're not meaning that. No, no, no, we just understand that. No, I understand that. Of course, some of these, some of these, uh, delusions can become positively vicious. This whole racial myth is, is a case in point. Oh, indeed it is. Yes, and the, going back to the, to the sex thing again, the whole society, such as the Mohammedan society, which inhibits its development in order to keep women in purdah and seclusion, it becomes, uh, more. Well, I think our own society did that to some extent until quite recently. Yes, it does, yes, it has. Do not misunderstand me, I did not mean to say that these are not delusions, but simply they are raised in this funny way. I was interested in the, uh, the, uh, Bacon's analysis that you introduced, uh, in our earlier discussion here, Coughlin, about the three sources of error. Yes, it's from his advancement of learning. He says the three great sources of human error, uh, derive out of the zeal and jealousy of the clergy, the severity and arrogance of the politicians, and the errors and the imperfections of learned men. Which is to say, I take it, that the clergy, the politicians, and the learned are productive of, uh, of that. Can be April Fools, and, uh, can be April Fools sometimes 365, and in leap years, 366 days of the year. Bacon would assume that the masses followed them, that they were the ones held responsible at least, and they, uh, they... Well, I think, uh, in his advancement of learning, he's, he's concerned about the advancement of learning itself, and, uh, his indictment, uh, simply, uh, uh, it comes down to this, that the clergy has, in his time, did arrogate to itself certain fields of, of knowledge. The politician then, as now, insists on a noisy, exhibitionist, uh, uh, uh, ridiculous, uh, interpretation of patriotism or conduct. Uh, the learned men in the universities, uh, had a monopoly of knowledge, which no one could share. Remember, the beginning scientists didn't begin in the universities. There were men who, who inquired of butchers and only... Only an innocent man from the radio world would assume, would use the fast tense in dealing with that, one of the... You're, you're exempting the present clergy and the present politicians and the present learners. By no means, I'm rather extending the thing to the, uh, to the general poobahs and, oh, uh, to pick a popular and deserve the popular whooping boy, a columnist. Columnists know everything. Uh, now, I, I would, would also remark a little about zeal. I think zeal... So the columnist is only a professor who's getting paid for it. Yes, that's... that's a way of... Well, Bacon mentions the zeal and jealousy of the clergy. How would that contribute to error? Give us an example. Well, it was held for generations that the, uh, the world is flat and square on excellent biblical warrant. An angel stood on each of the four corners of the earth and would sound a trumpet, or did sound a trumpet. And, uh, that was an error. Now, that, that has been fairly well, uh, fairly well dissipated. Again, I say, so long as investigation is permitted to take place, then there is no great, uh, no great harm done. But, uh, the zeal, uh, I think, whether in the clergy or the politicians or the, or the learned men, can be very harmful. Zeal, uh, has many, uh, many virtues as human attributes, but it's not a kind of tool for... A zeal means sort of fervent absolutism. Yes, a fervent and absolute conviction. It's, it's no instrument of which to advance an object. No, absolutely not. I'm particularly, of course, amused in, in, in, in, sort of research as I do for my own amusement, is the presumption of the learner. The, uh, the, uh, the man who assumes that he knows everything about a subject about which no one can know anything. You may remember a year or two ago, there was, uh, I'm afraid now about ten years ago, a spate of articles and then books on children who had been adopted by wolves. I, yes. Written by people who had never seen a wolf nurturing a child in their life, and yet assumed they knew the whole life of wolves. I read the book written by Bergen Evans with a wonderful, uh, depletion of the wolf child. Well, how can you know what to believe anyway? How do you test an idea or, or believe? You measure, you weigh, you compare, you compute, it takes time. Uh, the measurement, the checking on the error is always lagging way behind the error, often centuries behind, almost always years behind. Uh, the error is being. Vaughn? Oh, I just wanted to say a subdivision on, uh, scholarly arrogance as the, illustrated by the anecdote about Hegel. When Hegel was told that his theories about history, uh, did not agree with the facts, he said... I'm sorry gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, What Fools These Mortals Be? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast, with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Coffees may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the Reviewing Stand costs just one dollar for the next four months. Two dollars fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Today our guests were Francis Coughlin, Bergen Evans, and Menos Spahn. And now, our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program. Next week the Reviewing Stand will discuss the question, How much can we learn from history? Our guests will be Gracie Boyce, Chairman of the Department of History at Northwestern University. Rui Gottschalk, Professor of Modern History at the University of Chicago. And Kim Boone Young, Chairman of the Department of Sociology at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, How much can we learn from history? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. For announcer Frank Babcock, this is the Mutual Broadcasting System.