Imagine yourself living during the World War II in London. If you had shown no fear, this would be classified as abnormal. Fear of unemployment in times of crisis is considered a rational, normal reaction to a condition of stress. Among the abnormal fears, we can distinguish between the so-called free-floating, indeterminable fear and a systematized form which we call phobias. The word comes from Greek, from the word phobain, being afraid. The phobias are fears concerned with specific situations and specific objects. If you look at the phobias, you'll find some of these fears are understandable, although they impress you as more or less exaggerated. If somebody has a fear of dogs, you can understand it, although you can say at the same time, there are so many people walking on streets and seeing dogs, and they don't get frightened. And yet, you find individuals who cannot walk on streets, who refuse to go to their job because they might see a dog. This is a typical case of a phobia. You will understand, although you would consider it slightly exaggerated, an abnormal fear of infection. We all have it. If somebody is coughing right into our face, the idea passes our mind that we might be exposed to an infection. But if somebody washes 20 times a day in order to get rid of those various germs that are present, or if somebody refuses to go to theaters or to group meetings because he's afraid that he might catch a cold, you will find it exaggerated, and it is this which we find among the phobias. Some phobias are completely un-understandable to the normal mind. If you see a patient, as I saw about a year ago, a woman, about 35, who had the greatest difficulties to come to my office because she had to pass the Central Park, and in Central Park she saw pigeons, you fail at the first moment to understand why anyone should be afraid of pigeons. There is a point where our mind stops. We cannot explain these things directly. Or, for instance, if a person refuses to live in a certain neighborhood because there is a funeral power and because he sees the funerals passing by, which is impossible to him to endure. Nobody likes to attend or watch funerals. But if a person moves out of the neighborhood so that he cannot see funerals, this is a sign that there is some shift in the thinking of this individual which must be understood in ways other than the direct common sense. When we investigate these cases, we find that these cases are due to a peculiar attitude of the individual towards anxiety, towards fear. Namely, we deal here with a symbolic expression of the man's, of the individual's, deep-seated problems. It's too bad that we have no blackboard, but I'll try to explain to you what I mean under the symbolization and what really happens in the mind of such a person. I'm not trying to give you here a clinical lecture. I'm trying to make you understand a process which can teach us in our everyday life something which will prove rather beneficial. In other words, this is not a demonstration of sick people. There is a purpose to my explaining these things in detail. Freud was able to show us that the human personality, or as he calls it, the ego, the self, is an organization, is a setup and a system. And he proved to us that this ego consists of various areas, various provinces, which are in a certain relation to each other, to one another. He spoke about the ego as that part particularly that is exposed to the experiences of life, of living, to the outside world. And he showed that this ego, while relating itself to the outside world, to its enticements, its pleasures, and its threats, is exposed to another threat simultaneously. And that is the threat of that part in our personality that we don't want to accept. That is that part that is asocial and amoral in us, which consists of our selfish drives and selfish instincts. The instincts must be, our instincts must be controlled and properly surrounded with barriers in order to enable us to live in communities and to adapt ourselves to the various exigencies of the everyday life. At the same time, we have to deal with this destructive, rather, trend in us, which knows no other gods than the self. In this peculiar situation, where we are exposed to the outside world, at the same time to the world within, we must keep balance. And those individuals who can do that without particular disasters and difficulties are usually called well-balanced people. What happens in situations of threat? A well-balanced individual, that individual that possesses a well-integrated personality, can resist a number of threats much better than the individual who is exposed to unresolved pressures from within. And you see, in most phobias, in most of these conditions that I mentioned here, we find that we are dealing with individuals who are not only exposed to too strong pressures, but also have the feeling that they are not capable of dealing with these pressures. They distrust their own repressive forces. In such a condition, individuals of this type develop a specific type of anxiety, and that is the fear that their barriers might break down, and that the repressed impulses and instincts might force themselves into their consciousness. I'll give you a practical example so that we will not dwell too long on the theoretical field. I'm trying to simplify this as much as possible, but the example will produce the best result. A man came for treatment because he was afraid that he might jump out of the window. He had no reason for doing this. He realized that he was not exactly a suicide candidate. He was yet afraid of heights. It was difficult for him to visit anybody who lived, let's say, on the fifth floor or the tenth floor because he thought that he might throw himself out of the window. He went first to a doctor who was not familiar with the unconscious mechanisms, and the doctor tried to get him used to the problem of heights, and he was afraid of him. He was afraid of him. He said, that he should go to high places as often as possible in company of somebody and should gradually overcome the problem. However, a closer scrutiny of the case proved that what this man was afraid of in reality was that a certain type of wishes might break through into his consciousness. He was a man who during his adolescence was exposed to a number of homosexual seductions, and at a certain time of his life, he began to feel a stronger pressure of the ideas and drives which are unacceptable to his consciousness. Did he say that? He was not aware of that. He was aware of a situation that he might commit suicide. If you investigate it closer, you'll find that this man was afraid that he might lose control over himself. That means that he might become insane suddenly. What he didn't know was that it was not a question of insanity. This man was absolutely free from any danger of insanity. But he referred to a certain specific condition, namely that something which was untenable, intolerable to his consciousness, might break through the barriers that he has established during his lifetime, and that he might be confronted with a situation for which he was not ready, which he didn't want to accept. From this case, you see that this man was suffering from something which referred to his past. He was not through with the past. Somehow the shadows of the past were still falling on his present life. And like this case, many other cases show on closer examination that these people were never able to think through, feel through, work through the problems of their past. and they threaten from within, they threaten in a way that the patient cannot deal with it because he doesn't know what he's dealing with. And here I come to a very important point. if this man knew what the real threat is, he could deal with it in some way or other. I'm quite sure he would have rejected it consciously. But this man did not know what was bothering him. This situation human beings cannot take. Men cannot take fear without being able to do something about it. And a part of our therapy of those and similar conditions is based upon the realization that the first thing the patient has to do is to recognize where the enemy stands, what sort it is, how strong, and then the actions will follow with greater ease. These people, because they have not solved their infantile problems, go on and daydream themselves into various situations where they can master or the situation or where the situation overwhelms them. Daydreaming in such cases represents a substitute for that action that is impossible simply because the people don't know what they are combating. What do they do? They withdraw their interests from the outside world. They have a tendency to concentrate on their own ego. They try to help themselves in many ways and the result is that they produce more possibility for further anxieties. There are two forms of thinking. One is the thinking that prepares for action. I want to go and buy something. The other is a substitute for action and that is the daydreaming. In daydreams many things are easily solved and you can master many situations which otherwise cannot be mastered. And it is one of the dangers of such cases that instead of doing something in reality they engage in daydreams. The reason why this man had the idea to jump out of the window was partly due to his desire to create a situation where he could do something about it. if he refrained from going to high places, if he surrounded himself with other people who would stand by and prevent him if danger should occur, he had the feeling something was happening, something that would lead to help, to solution. He was unable to do anything with a thought that remained completely obscured. Because he didn't do the thing right, the thought presented itself again and again, and what happened was what we call a repetitive pattern. Again and again, he was confronted with the pressure from his unconscious, and again and again he had to project it into the window situation and withdraw from the situation. What does man do to get rid of a fear? Without any outside interference, men show the tendency to either withdraw or to perform acts of aggression which are as general tendencies designed to do something to remove the object of threat or to think of removing the ego. Even suicide thoughts can come under such circumstances, although mostly these thoughts are completely harmless and not dangerous. But to remove oneself, he does many things which are very close and very similar to removing oneself, for instance, if the feeling of self is lowered, some people have not the feeling that they are themselves. This is in the line of the general tendency of the individual to remove the self as a target for any threat. All these ideas, all these ways out that the individual finds under such circumstances are wrong. The real freedom from fear is connected with the process of individual maturation. It is connected with the idea of insight, recognizing the nature, the character of the threat, the real character, and acting accordingly. One of my patients developed a great fear of women. men. He was a pretty handsome fellow, about 29 years old, and had great difficulties in making contact with the opposite sex. He tried to help himself. He did all in his power to improve his personality, took dancing lessons, and did many things which he hoped would bring him close to the opposite sex. But whenever the emotional factor was involved, there, all of a sudden, strong inhibitions sprang up, fears, and ultimately withdrawal under various rationalizations. He never was able to have a long lasting comradeship and palship with the person of the opposite sex. He was aware that he was somehow afraid of the women, and in the course of an investigation, it was proved that this man, who came from a family where the mother was a very dominating individual, somehow projected into womanhood in general, the feelings that he had received from his mother. father. I am simplifying these things as much as possible to emphasize that the difficulty in this case lay in his attempt to project past experiences, experiences of his childhood, into the present situation. In other words, in his attitudes, and of course in his dreams and day dreams, he did not live now and here. He lived in the past. He behaved as though he was living here, but in reality, he lived in the past, used the childhood patterns, used the childhood evaluations, and it was these patterns which caused a set of reactions today which were conditioned by the experiences of the past. What should this man do? What should a person of this type do? This man lived in a mistaken idea that the present derives its value exclusively through the standards of the past. He was not aware of his own potentialities to create a here and a now, to create a situation today by his own strength, completely independently of the patterns and influences of the past. He was still nursing the hurts and injuries that his dominating and frustrating mother has inflicted upon him. He was not well integrated and well balanced because strong pressures from the repressed material of hate against women in general and feeling of rejection and frustration were not dealt with. He transferred them as they were to the present without being able to deal with them. Therefore, a part of our job is what we call to foster insight, to turn the unknown factor into a known factor, to investigate scientifically what is the reason of his so-called fear, to find the real object of fear, so that he can deal with it. He can then realize much better the necessity for him to avail himself of the creative potentialities of his own ego, of his own resources to establish a new situation on his own terms where he is the boss, where he is the center of his actions. And it is our task to endow him with the perseverance and the strength to carry such a task out. One of the therapeutic agents is to combat the tendency for daydreams. How do you do that? By introducing more and more activity, by trying to deflect the man's interest, which was attached to the ego. Why was it attached to the ego? Because he was worried about his ego. He had to pay a little more attention. Deflect this energy to the outside world, to put him into a relation to the outside world as an active individual, person. And to establish a better relation to the group in which he lives. The gratifications that an individual can achieve under such circumstances are compensation enough for him to sacrifice the immature sources of pleasure, the immature conceptions which have been following him throughout his life without his conscious awareness. Summarizing this part, I'd like to say, if man who suffers from abnormal fears, fears which are not in line of our conscious awareness, or fears which prove to be somehow hard to understand, has projected into the outside world some of his own personal internal problems, it isn't the pigeon that this woman is afraid of, it is what this pigeon specifically represents to this individual. It isn't a question of the window, it's a question of am I or am I not capable of controlling myself, am I or am I not the master of my emotions. People have a strong desire to find some outside representation for something for which they have no words because they don't know what it is. We must make them articulate so that they can express what is the real threat and the real threat always will find some sort of solution. We can find some ways to combat it. It is the undiscovered threat, the silent threat, which we cannot deal with. We have no means of dealing with it except via symbolization and psychosomatic symptoms which also are symbols of our situation. if you look around our modern life today offers a great deal that threatens us. If you look back to our history you find that alongside with the progress emancipation of man the man has helped create his own limitations and his own threats. The human being grows more and more into insignificance. The big buildings, the big organizations, industrial and others, the big groups in which we live, make us less and less important as a unit. We have to adjust to so many factors. There are problems of increased threats, like threat of unemployment in crisis, other threats. among us, about us. And the individual, under normal circumstances, tries to meet these threats in various ways. He forms stronger groups which offer added strength to his own individual strength. people who organize his group defenses. He invents social systems which enable him to find representation, to find security by insurance, old age insurance, pensions insurances, work insurance, various types of external manipulations which would guarantee some modicum of security. Of course, in the process of this striving for increased security of man within a group, a great deal of his personal freedom is sacrificed. and there is a peculiar interrelationship between fear and freedom. The man is afraid of losing freedom. There will be a lot of microphone fear on Tuesday nights, not on Sunday nights, doctor. I've never been able to understand that. Sunday nights, we have people love to discuss it. Tuesday night, everybody wants me to read it. I don't know. Well, now we have a lot of questions that we know, doctor, that you could probably talk another lecture, say, on each one of these topics, but let's try to get over as many as we can in a short period here. Dr. Goodhow, will you explain how neurotic symptoms act as a defense against fear and anxiety? Let's take any of the common neurotic symptoms. For instance, a neurotic spell of mucous colitis, a neurotic diarrhea, which so many people have when they have to face an examination, test, or something like that. This symptom in a layman's eyes is an expression of anxiety. And yet, if you analyze it, you'll find that it is not only an expression, or not primarily an expression, it's a concomitant of anxiety, but that this anxiety that befell the individual was dealt with. Imagine what happens. There is an elimination of the contents of the intestines that takes place. This is an action, and it is a defense against something which did not get into the bowels, and yet is being removed out of the bowels. In other words, it is an act on the part of the individual to get rid of something and to defend himself against an onslaught of threat. threat. Not knowing what the threat is, he used a very susceptible system, in his case, gastrointestinal system, to discharge it. An example of how the anxiety is dealt with in the case of a neurotic symptom. Thank you, Doctor. In the fear of dogs that you mentioned, what makes the individual project his fear on that particular animal? Why wouldn't it be some other animal or some other object? Why the fear of a dog instead of something else? In a phobia of this sort, this usually is not a mere coincidence, although, theoretically speaking, any animal can be selected. I don't know of cases where the fear would switch, for instance, from a dog to a cat, because the dog has a specific associative connection with the patient, with the individual, and mostly it is associated with the first anxiety attack that such people usually experience. Most phobias are built around one particular attack, which triggers off the whole illness, and if, in this particular case, the dog happens to be the object of symbolization, the dog is usually maintained. Classical cases of the sort were described, for instance, by Freud, the phobia of a horse, a little boy who was afraid of horses. And many cases of the sort have been described where the dog or the horse had a specific symbolic meaning. In the case of the five-year-old boy, the horse represented the father. The problem was displaced from the fear of the father to the fear of the horse. Doctor, would a repetitive, compulsive act represent anxiety due to an unknown threat not related to the act itself? The repetitive pattern always bespeaks a futility. If I wanted to destroy an individual by taking this individual's photo and cutting or tearing this photo to pieces, this would be a symbolic destruction. But it would be a futile act. Nothing would change in my relation to this individual. Now, I would have the tendency under such circumstances to go ahead and destroy many of the photos of these individuals because the only real thing that could solve this proposition, namely my relating myself to the individual direct, has not taken place. Anything that we do on a symbolic level is a futile one, futile procedure, and tends to get into this perpetuum mobile. We repeat it. This, by the way, is to be seen in all cases of so-called compulsive obsessive neurosis. There are people who lock the doors 20 times, go back and test, and again and again do that. If they knew what they really are doing, one time would be sufficient. But since they don't know, they go on again and again, try to solve something in effigy, which they really never solved in reality. Thank you. Dr. Goodheil, how does one unmask hidden fears without outside help? That is, if the person can't possibly face the situation by himself, how can he possibly cure it or do anything about it? Well, that is a very unfortunate situation. Unfortunately, only very few, I would say, chosen people have done this, that they were able to analyze themselves to the extent of being able to find the hidden problems. Sometimes dreams help to unmask them, but usually we need other people's help, and it has happened that psychiatrists themselves developed some phobias, and they could not help themselves, but had to go to other psychiatrists and ask their help. Thank you, doctor. That's very honest of you to say that. You know, I thought all year that only other people had troubles. Doctor, how can one overcome the sudden, the shudder sensation of panic without having any reason for it? I think that's sometimes called, oh, a person says, oh, they shudder and say, a rabbit ran over my grave or something. I have a sudden panic, a little shudder feeling. Is that anything to do with fear or anything? It's a question like... I think the name panic is not correct for situations of the sort. It would be an acute anxiety attack. You speak about the shivers that run down your spine. These are various manifestations of acute, sudden anxiety. Panic are unorganized reactions of the type I mentioned, like startle pattern in children. If you enter a room where there is an infant, a very young infant, and say one word, a little louder, the infant is likely to startle and react as you would react to a sudden, very strong noise. The patterns of response have not been tuned enough to the situations. In other words, the infant is not yet adapted. The breakdown of adaptation is seen in panics, and mostly it is the lack of knowledge. If some, for instance, the typical panic is a panic in a theater when there is a fire. If every individual would see the fire and would see there is just a little smoldering something, they wouldn't get into panic. They would just turn around and leave the putting out of the fire to those whose duty it is to put out fires. But because you don't know, because you don't know the source, the extent, the character of the threat, all the anxiety-prepared alertness is broken down, and many people give themselves over to panic states. But what was described in this question is not a panic, but a simple sudden attack of anxiety. You mean when Mrs. Fairchild looks at me across the table and kind of goes this way, that she's had sudden anxiety about something? By the way, a similar reaction you can find in people whose vital capacity has been lowered, who are physically not up to par, who are run down, they have the tendency to react that way to telephone ringing or to other sudden noises, this sudden panic reaction. This always indicates that something more than the purely psychological factor is involved. Mostly people under run-down conditions who have some deficiencies, mostly calcium deficiencies, and other deficiencies which cause them to be so susceptible to those everyday noises to which we are well adapted. Thank you. You just saved me a lot of trouble there, Doctor, by adding that last part there. So happens I think she is short on calcium. She takes shots. I'll send you the bill on the first. Doctor, can a mature individual identify himself so closely with such a big thing as a country? Now can an individual identify himself so closely with a country or nation, so honestly fear for the safety of that nation? Can he honestly have fear personally as he associates himself with the fear of a big, great thing like a nation, or is this just a socially acceptable expression of his own fear or lack of security? this question probably is due to the fact that owing to my fragmentary treatment of the whole question for which I apologized at the beginning, I was not able to go into this question so as to satisfy the question asked. Now, whether we can identify ourselves to such an extent as to say that we are identified not because we are afraid for our own security and find ourselves safer in a large group, or whether this identification is beyond that, well, I think that such an identification is not only possible but also desirable. It is the ideals that form the feeling of cohesion. It is the individual that considers himself as a part of the team. This is the healthy expression of group life, in my humble opinion. The group life depends on teamwork, whether you are in a factory or in an office or in a school, wherever you are. You must have the feeling towards your fellow men that you somehow are a part of him, that you belong to the same team, speaking in terms of football. You are on his side. This feeling has something to do with ability to relate yourself to your fellow men. And in last analysis, it has something to do with the ability to love, to give something of yourself, and not to consider yourself as something, somebody to whom the world owes something. If you do that, you don't have to be forced into this position. You feel the way the group, the cultural group, and particularly if you speak about the country and the nation, the nation feels. There is, and particularly in times where a country is on the alert, the feeling of cohesion grows with the growth of the external danger. And I mentioned how important it is that we cultivate such things. Because if we want to master the situation and not be mastered by the situation, such a feeling of cohesion is, if it isn't present already, is to be fostered and increased. I have an idea, Doctor, that we're certainly living in an awful egocentric age. Most of us, or many people, not people here, are mostly concerned with their own things. I understand Christmas shopping is still going on while wars and other things are happening. Doctor, in our daily contact with a person suffering from anxiety, how should we approach them? How should we treat them? Should we kid them? Should we humor them? Should we be serious? Supposing a member of the family does have one of these things. What do you do about it? That's one of the most important questions. How do we deal with a fellow man who happens to be sick, what we call sick, who is really unable to adapt himself properly to the problems of the outside world and his inside world? How do we deal with such an individual? In my experience, we ought to avoid both cuddling him and brutalizing him. We must understand him. To understand him means this is an individual who has his problems. If I understand him, I don't have to change my behavior to such an extent as to be accused of cuddling him. In other words, give him a premium to his suffering. Just because he was unable to adjust, I can advise him what to do about it regarding treatment or other forms of adjustment. But I have no right to blame him for it because there is not a question of guilt involved. There are so many mistakes that have been made in his upbringing and in his own evaluation of the present and the past that these mistakes have to be corrected. Confucius said, not to learn from his mistakes means to make another mistake. And I think that is a very good way to think about it. These people are maladjusted. It's their problem to adjust. We don't have to give them pleasures for it, premiums or any other ways, but we want to help and assist them to get rid of their anxieties. Because in most cases, these conditions are curable, can be overcome, and there's no reason why they should be considered as a complete hopeless proposition for the rest of their lives. Thank you. Doctor, is anxiety experienced throughout life by a mother ever inherited or transmitted? Do you have an anxious father or mother? Is that necessarily inherited or how can it be avoided? Is it inherited traits? There is one anxiety that we all have, and that's the biological anxiety that I mentioned before. We are all capable of developing anxiety, and it is good so, because anxiety has a purpose to warn us and to prepare us. The inheritance of anxiety under such conditions is rather improbable. The anxious mother will surround her child with anxiety from the first day of the child's life and will naturally transmit it by contagion to the child. The mother who is so anxious the child shouldn't catch cold or shouldn't expose himself to infections or shouldn't play on the street. The mother who is overprotective will naturally condition the child into the situation. The child will grow up to think that the world consists only of threats and doesn't offer anything else, and the anxiety will be then established in the child for a long time. The mother who is overprotective will be the child's life and the child's life and the child's life and the child's life and the child's life and the child's life. The haveance, because the child is in the family of konse, the child, has ever finished inventory as a child quarter. The child is yet another person in my mind. But what about the baby? This is a child's self-defense thing. The child what about the child she lives in? So what about animal self-defense thing? What about the childと思います or experiences an alarm that she is now, and she is here today? And she is дальше- C4F. This is seen in animals, too, as you know. Those animals, particularly insects, that play dead in the face of a danger. The possum, for instance, or insects, most insects have the reaction to play dead. Now, we have a similar reaction in cases of neurotic fainting. I mentioned to you that the individual under stress has the tendency either to eliminate the threat or to eliminate himself. If the individual has a properly integrated personality, if the individual has the necessary strength to deal with anxiety in some of the ways, either by developing a system or by transferring it to this psychosomatic apparatus, then everything is fine. But some individuals don't have this ability, and they simply extinguish their ego for a moment. They turn off the light, so to speak. They aren't there, and therefore there is no object for an attack. It is a peculiar atavistic feature that we find in human beings as sort of a partial elimination of the ego. We have degrees of that. Many people who suffer from the so-called depersonalization, they are not fainted, but they lose the feeling that they are there, that the ego is there. These reactions to danger are well known and usually bespeak a certain weakness of the defensive apparatus. Thank you, Dr. There's a question here about animals, higher and lower animals. They're fearing the same. You have mentioned that just a bit. Is it normal for a four-year-old to have a fear of destroying his mother? Well, this is not normal, but this four-year-old has definitely been exposed to this type of overprotective anxiety which I mentioned before. Just imagine what happens in a case like this. He is not afraid of the mother or afraid that something will happen to him. He is afraid that he might destroy mother. That is a very mature fear, so to speak, a fear that you can find in grown-ups. And if a four-year-old child develops this, it is an artifact created by anxious parents. This does not grow on his own backyard. This has been transferred into his life. Dr., is there such a thing as a fear of God? If so, how would that be classified? Well, I mentioned that we have so-called normal fears. The fear of God is the acceptance of God as the source of justice and a source that is capable of meeting out punishment for the sins committed. Of course, there is such a thing as fear of God. And certainly those people who feel this fear to a greater extent, who have placed themselves in this relation towards God as the fatherly, rewarding, and punishing figure. Of course, I would prefer if the name fear of God would be changed in love of God because love of God would make this fear pretty much unnecessary. There is a gentleman who was a little bothered by the transition, sir, from anxiety to fear to pigeon and window. Could you go over that a little bit? Maybe some other people would like to have that transition there a little better. As I said before, I apologize. I had to cover this subject very fragmentarily, and each time the discussion gives me a chance to elaborate a little more on the subject I touched upon. I mentioned that this man was afraid of the window. He was afraid that he might jump out of the window. The uninformed physician went even so far as to try to get the patient used to the window. He treated the window as what the patient called it, as a window. In analyzing such cases, we find, however, that the patients work with symbols, that the problem is not what the patient calls that it is. You can take instead of window, there are many people who cannot handle knives because they are afraid that they will grab the knife and kill somebody, a mother, but she would kill the children. Or another person who cannot walk on streets because she's afraid that something might happen to her. Or other people who cannot travel in subways. Now, there are millions of phobias. There is not one thing that you take from everyday life that could not become an object of phobia. And yet, I can say, generally, that none of the objects named by the patient are the real sources of threat. that the patient is just as far from committing suicide as anybody else who is normal. He doesn't want to commit suicide. He says, I am afraid that I could commit suicide. That's a great difference. He does not want. But he's afraid that something might happen to him that would force him against his will. Now, when he starts talking about something that would happen to him, that would make him do that, he is talking about his drives and impulses. And he says, he tells us, that he's afraid that these drives, that something in him, might grow so strong as to overrun his defenses and his better knowledge of the situation and drive him into suicide. Under what circumstances could this happen? There are only two conditions under which a neurotic person, not an insane person, a neurotic person would do that. And that is, either he is totally drunk and doesn't know what he's doing, or he's insane. Now, what the patient really is afraid of is that he might become insane. If I can prove to this patient that he is not in the line of becoming insane, that his illness does not lead to insanity, I can do a great deal towards calming this person, because what he really is afraid is the breakdown of defenses which cannot occur unless these two conditions, namely drunkenness, which is a sort of a form of an acute insanity, or the big insanity affects him. So, in a case like this, we are dealing here with the distrust against his own moral barriers, defenses. And the window is a coincidence. The other person thinks that an insane person kills. The third person thinks that the insane person throws herself on the tracks of the subway. Whatever the patient names is always wrong. It has been elected in a need. The patient needed to express his inner fear outwardly. If he says he's afraid of throwing himself on the subway, this makes sense. But if he says, I'm afraid that my promiscuous feelings will get a hold over me, or that my hatred of my brother will be stronger than my inhibition, I'll go and destroy my brother and get hold of his part, his share in the business, these things don't come to the consciousness because they are too terrifying to be admitted to the consciousness. And in their stead, a symbol is elected to which the patient can set himself in a relation. There is a danger to throwing himself under the subway, so he doesn't go to the subway. And in this way, he has done something which helped him at least for this moment. Like this man says, they say, if you spit in the subway, you pay $500, he doesn't spit. Saves $500. Saves $500. Doctor, are fears and anxieties always so clear-cut as to be able to determine which category or particular problem fits? Can you always make these things clear-cut? No, they are not. They are not so clear-cut. I mentioned before that we call fears those reactions against threat where the threat is known, where we can identify. Doctor, are there any drugs or therapeutic treatment of any kind that can be used for this cure of fear? There are, recently have been introduced some drugs which are supposed to allay fear and of course most of the sedatives including opium and narcotics have some effect on fears. But you can imagine that as long as the source of the fear is not touched, the effect can be only very temporary, transient. How about depressions? What's the difference with relation to fear? Is it depression, deep depression, a form of fear or is it something else, a defeatist attitude or something like that? Depression is very often associated with fear. If you imagine a person who is exposed to fears and does not believe that anything can be done about it, such a person acting under such pessimistic conditions will be inclined to develop depressions. On the other hand, many depressive conditions conditions of a more serious type are associated with anxieties and it takes the doctor to make the right diagnosis. Doctor, I have numerous questions here. Possibly you could say something about them in general. Is there any hookup between shyness and timidity and heredity and fear? Other people want to know why are they afraid of meeting people? Why can't they talk with other individuals? Why are they afraid of riding in an elevator in no other place? I mean, is there any particular generality that you could make about these individual personal fears that people have like that? Some of these answers have been given already. A person who cannot drive a car or ride in an elevator or who is exposed to this or that fear can either explain or it is unexplainable. That means it has a specific meaning always connected with the problem of symbolization. The pigeons meant something. They represented to this patient that I was talking about the pigeon that the mother of the patient killed to prepare a meal and while she was looking at the pigeons in Central Park there was a definite association with instincts of aggression and murder directed towards the nearest closest family members. If you fit it into a plot then many of these fears become understandable and you can shift your interest. It is amazing how soon the doctor ceases even talking about the pigeons. He starts talking about hostilities family relations and it is there where the riddle the answer to the riddle lies and also the hope for a recovery. Doctor what is the significance of the great variation in distance between the symbol and the reality of a fear? The fact that we have a process in us such as for instance unbearable hatred towards let's say a woman's hatred towards her husband which is not permitted to enter her consciousness. The fact that she has a feeling which she cannot visualize because she is not permitted by her moral and her conscience to visualize forces her to use a mechanism which is preformed in our minds before we start thinking in concrete before our mind develops to this stage before the mind of humanity has developed into the stage in which it is now it operated a great deal with symbols if you look at the old Indian writings or the old Egyptian or Chinese or Japanese writings you will find a plethora of symbolisms because it is the language of the primitive man where these symbols are formed we all are primitive that is in our pre-conscious on the lower level the unconscious material has the tendency to express itself and the way it expresses itself is by symbols you can see this in our dreams for instance very clearly where most of our feelings achieve symbolic expression so it is normal a normal reaction of a human being who is exposed to drives that he does not dare face and these drives have a tendency to transform themselves either on the psychosomatic system or in form of symbols and behind all that is the desire to concretize them if he says I am afraid of a knife everybody can understand it this person is afraid of knives knives are dangerous can be dangerous but what is so hard to understand is that behind this knife an entirely different problem is hidden specific for the specific case which once solved makes the whole phobia obsolete one delle what should Whilstmt