As though it had been a gift of fruit, for lo, as he held his robe around the coals, never he nor the robe were burned, and the wicked baker was confounded. But now, listen to a miracle, still more amazing, for as Joseph carried the cleaning clothes toward the manger, from each dancing star were blossomed flowers, red and white and more lilies and berries and violets, as in the month of late, when nature is reborn. In that cold night, there bloomed for the first time our lady of the flowers. Once also, many dancing flames transformed into the wind and plumage of little birds, which is unguiling as they flew toward the manger. These birds and flowers, emerging from fire like a tenet, enlivened with their gaiting all the neighboring countryside, which, henceforth, was named the Field of Flowers. And thus, was the malice of the wicked baker, transformed into warmth and beauty for our lady. Having heard the news of the birth of Jesus announced by the angels, wants to go to Bethlehem. But it is a hard trip to take alone, and he would like his friend, Guillaume, to go with him, but Guillaume refuses. On the road, in a cold, windy night, an innkeeper denies him lodging. Further, the rivers have flooded the roads, and the boatman is not charitable enough to lend him his boat. But with the grace of God, the shepherd overcame all his hardships, and is well repaid for them when he can contemplate the beautiful child, Jesus. The soloists are Jeannette Girardet, Carol Johnson, and Eve Bennett. With his two nationalids in liberating pal Bishop, and Leo Montoya's at the end of peace. And also, when children are here Poilas, which Hoggarner, is like this is what they call it. Some Americans see up near the edgepost, with two empty houses tripelar decimal places, and many beautiful faithful fleeting objects with one half bunch of running Johnson, Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. thy is Try... There's memories of what they call Tigers Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Now the wise men come and learn of our Savior. Dressed in magnificent silks, they bring precious gifts to the divine child who will someday die for us on the cross. The whole group will sing this song. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Did K Is or or Now that homage has been paid to Jesus, everyone joins the Virgin in a song to cradle him to sleep. Dorma kolum, sleep my dove, the night is coming and I shall watch over you. Sing beautiful angels and lull Jesus to sleep. Sleep my dove, the night is dark and the cold wind blows, but the ox and the donkey will keep you warm. Sing beautiful angels and lull Jesus to sleep. Sleep my dove, my precious pearl, my flower divine. Sing beautiful angels and lull Jesus to sleep. Sigh de都 Sing beautiful angels and lull Jesus to sleep. Don't block all over you. Do not block all over you. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God.
