Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand considers a crippling condition affecting over 5,000 newborn babies each year. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the cleft palate problem and the kind of approach which should be made to this problem. Our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Frederick W. Merrifield, Professor of Oral Surgery at Northwestern University and Director of Plastic Surgery in the Children's Memorial Hospital. Dr. John R. Thompson, Professor of Orthodontics and Director of the Cleft-Palate Institute at Northwestern University. Mr. J. N. McComb, of the Public Relations Department of the Inland Steel Company. And Dr. Harold Wesley, my colleague I might add, Professor of Speech Correction and Director of the Speech and Hearing Clinic in the School of Speech at Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, I have before me a brochure of the Northwestern University Cleft-Palate Institute, in which I know three of you men are interested, which pictures a baby with a cleft lip. It is a picture of an infant, if I may say so, with a terrible facial deformity. The picture bears the caption, this child will hide his face all through life, unless, unless I take it he is given adequate care and treatment. Now, Dr. Merrifield, are these facial deformities typical in cleft palate cases? If the lip is involved, in addition to the palate, the facial deformities are typical. One case might be very much more severe than another. But if the lip is intact, there is absolutely no facial deformity, while the palate may be wide open. Dr. Merrifield, by palate, you mean roof of the mouth, do you not? Yes, it's the petition that divides the nose from the mouth. And I was about to ask how you would describe a cleft palate condition. What is a cleft palate? Well, the palate separates our nose from our mouth, so that they can work separately. As you know, we breathe through our nose and we eat with our mouth. If there is not such a divider as the palate or the roof of the mouth, the food we eat for nourishment, especially liquids, would pass out through the nose. Also, the air we breathe through our nose would pass out of the mouth rather than into the lungs where we need it. The soft palate, which is the distal or the rear portion of the palate, hangs down like a finger-like bulge called the uvula, and with other muscles which form the soft palate. It is commonly believed that this is an important part of the soft palate, which tends to close off more effectively the nose from the mouth in swallowing and in talking. And not only does the palate or the soft palate become involved there, but also the muscles of the throat, which are drawn together in the act of swallowing or speaking, as you might take an old-fashioned purse with a drawstring and close that drawstring up. Well, then the hard palate, doctor, is the entire roof of the mouth, is that correct? No, the hard palate is the front portion of the roof of the mouth, which is of bone. The rear portion is of soft tissue composed of muscles and mucosal... Well, now, we might describe that also not in terms of only how the structure is, but what happens. Now, for instance, in eating, it's important for us to keep the food in the mouth. If the food gets up in the nose, it causes all types of difficulties, and without having a good roof of the mouth, the food does get up where it doesn't belong. Now, one of the very damaging effects of that, besides not being able to eat well, and you have to eat, is that this food can get up near the tubes. We call the eustachian tubes. They're tubes that drain the inner part of the middle part of the ear. And having good, open tubes. These tubes connect the middle ear with the throat. And having these tubes in good condition is very important to hearing. The food may get up around these tubes, and we find that quite a number of these children, besides having difficulty in eating, have serious hearing problems that result from the fact that this roof of the mouth doesn't keep the food out of places in which it should not be. How is there a speech effect in Westlake? Well, just as we do most of our eating, I presume, through the mouth, most of our breathing through the nose, we do most of our talking through the mouth. Now, we have to get certain sounds out of the mouth. And without the roof of the mouth, the nasal resonance comes up, the voice doesn't sound very good. And for most of our consonants, we have to push air out of the mouth. For a pea, for instance, we have to push a puff of air. Now, if you have no roof of the mouth, instead of getting the puff of air out of the mouth, you get a snort out of the nose. And we would say that these children, or adults, probably not only sound rather unpleasant because of the nasality, but you can't understand them. I take it that, Dr. Thompson, that babies are born with this condition. Is that right? That is right. It is a condition that forms after conception and very early in the embryonic period of the infant. Are they to be regarded as abnormal children? We don't like to apply the term abnormal to these youngsters. They are rather unfortunate individuals, where in nature, in its complex process, the development of the face and jaws has made a mistake. Certain of the parts of the forming lip or jaw may fail to form. Now, it's not an unusual condition in that it happens on the average of one in every 700 births. Now, how- Go ahead and go. Excuse me. I was going to ask you, Dr. Thompson, is this true particularly among a certain race or a certain part of the Earth's surface? No, it's over the world, I think we could make that general statement. It's generally true throughout life. That's right. Through all races. It seems to get rich and poor, and people in all parts of the world with about the same incidence. It seems to be something that is not a part of an individual's affliction. It's something that's in the human race. Mm-hmm. We know very little about the cause or the reason for these developments. And it's true that rich or poor, they can be afflicted equally. Not only do cleft palates occur and cleft lips occur in the human race, but animals are afflicted. Horses, dogs, and many other animals are notably born with these defects. How do parents react to babies with these deformities? Are they likely to be rejected by parents? I think the reaction on the part of the parents is related directly to the type of deformity. If the deformity is such that it involves both sides of the upper lip and also the front part of the upper jaw, then the facial deformity is quite severe. Therefore, this will have a severe emotional impact on the parents. On the other hand, if we go to the other extreme, if the cleft involves only the soft palate at the back of the mouth, or a part of the hard palate or the roof of the mouth, then the problems that will be associated with this type of deformity develop gradually on the parents. In that case, you would hear the deformity rather than see it. In time. But the parents would have time to adjust themselves to the condition. How do youngsters afflicted this way respond to their associates? How do they get along in the world? I think they get along amazingly well. It seems to me that the adults react most and they impress the children. But the tolerance and the way children will accept other children is very, very impressive. I think that the parents of these children usually are very much more concerned. It's unusual for a patient or a parent to neglect such a child or to refuse such a child. It does happen, of course, but it's unusual. And these children are very often given more care in the family than would otherwise be so. Well, Dr. Merrifield, you've mentioned that you perhaps have these children given more care. I would suppose that over-concern by parents would be perhaps as bad as under-concern. That's very true, but at the time when the child is a baby, I don't think that matters so very much. I think that as the child grows older, he should be taken into the family as an individual. His deformity should not be stressed. As a matter of fact, I think it's much better to ignore it. And the child should, when he is old enough to understand, he should be reminded that other people have deformities. They have club feet, they have congenital hips and so forth. And the child should be trained or tuned to an attitude of mind which says, Yes, I have a cleft lip or a cleft palate. What do you have? That's right. Isn't there a point here when we speak of something being unfortunate and we speak of something being a calamity, don't we mean not the condition itself but what can be done about it? Now we have a responsibility. Now, Dr. Merrifield, you're wearing glasses. Without those glasses, you might be very unfortunate. And everyone might feel sorry for you and you might withdraw, you might be completely out of joint. But the very fact that we have learned how to refract lenses so that your visual problem means nothing to you. Then we say you are not unfortunate, no one feels sorry for you. And we have a responsibility to develop a plan so that we can do relatively as much for these children. I think that it would be a very fine thing if we could destroy all the mirrors so that we don't see our faces. That's the point. I've often thought of that, Doctor, if I may say so. That divides that deformity from the deformities of eyes and other parts of the body that aren't seen. I can understand the kind of loving care and affection that a mother would bestow on a child of this sort. It's unusual that you find another part of this. But the fact remains that we're not going to destroy all the mirrors and we're going to be walking down streets and we're going to be going to work in shops and factories and schools and everything else. And how do these youngsters fare in the social world that they have to face? There's a great deal of difference between children. Some children tend to withdraw and the other type tends to be very aggressive and very often objectionable, because they have something to overcome. A boy who goes to school with a cleft lip or some deformity which is a visual is teased by his playmates. They are cruel and very often a boy has to fight his way through school and that leads, of course, to the point where he decides, I'm not going to go through that anymore and he leaves school. He becomes a troant. I think we begin to see the problem that this condition presents. Remember I opened this discussion with a reference to this picture of a baby with a cleft lip. And it does, it is a terrific deformity. Now in this same brochure on the opposite page is a picture of this same child. I take it a lad of about two years of age. And he appears to be, to my untutored eye, a perfectly normal youngster. Now, can you normally make dramatic changes in the appearance of a person of the sort that is suggested by those two pictures? Very definitely so. And the surgical approach with ordinary good fortune and with skill and care can be brought to such a point that these children can be made presentable and their pallets can be repaired so that they can be trained to adequate speech. When do you close that pallet? I'd like to insert lip and pallet there because the two go together in probably 60% of the cases. The lip closure should be done as soon after birth as possible. And there are two reasons for that. One is that it puts the child back into circulation, so to speak, and the mother can show that child and be proud of it. And it would prevent his inferiority complex which might develop in early growth, it seems to me. That's right. Why don't you close the pallet at the same time? Well, the bones that make up the pallet and the face grow slowly with the child. And we have found as a result of our research that the time taken for the pallet to adequately grow occurs during the first five years. Between the fourth and the fifth year, probably five-sixths of the development of the bones has taken place. Well, it seems to me, if you're speaking, say, of five years old, the child has already learned to speak. Now then, Dr. Merrifield, is it a question of re-educating that child to speak in that you've not yet had that pallet repaired as of that time? May I answer that in this way? That I don't think that any child who has a cleft palate repaired can go along without some speech training. Now, I would enlarge a little further on that and say that I think that that might be applied to every one of us. I think all of us could profit by proper speech training. Well, I'm prepared to accept that, doctor. Well, in connection with this, now, the procedures now, you see, are to delay surgery. And these children are going for quite a few more years without having rules to their mouths, which is difficult for their eating, for their speaking. Now, we feel very strongly that the children should not just be left to go, but that dental appliances ought to be supplied so they do have a petition in these early years when they're learning to speak. And so that they can talk fairly well and can eat fairly well up until the time they operate. I think that is very true. And I think that is one of our research problems. I don't mean to infer that all pallets should be kept for five years before they are closed. The timing varies with the opinions of different men. I can say that probably between the ages of two and four or five is the time that is thought most acceptable. Dr. McBurney, I'd like to go back to another problem that we discussed just a moment ago because I think there is an important point to be made. And it's on this matter of social adjustment of the individual. Now, any person subjected to emotional stress, avoidance, teasing by playmates, overprotection by the family, will develop a restricted personality that does not approach his true potentiality. This will certainly then affect that individual's social and economic position and it is an unfortunate waste of what might have been a well-adjusted individual in society. Well, I certainly agree with you there, Dr. Thompson. As I am the layman here this morning, it occurs to me that anyone with a speech deformity in such a place as a steel mill, for example, cannot well be understood over a telephone. Now, that's just basic. In the main picture, I also can suppose such a person whose face is not like that of all his fellow men has, let us say, one or two strikes against him in his battle for survival. Well, now, we think of this very largely as human engineering. In engineering, you make an assessment and you find out what the potentials, what powers you can bring out of metal or any other type of resource. And human beings are the same way. Individuals can operate on a pretty good level or a pretty poor level. And we think that these people have potential abilities. And if they are not given attention, they are not as happy, they are disjointed in every way. And they aren't acting as citizens in the most constructive way. I want to be very careful, too, here. We don't want to make a genius out of every cleft palate case. Every cleft palate case isn't a genius. But we need a strong citizenry and a good engineer and efficient machinist and efficient farmer. Professor, there's no chance of becoming a genius as anyone else, then. Well, yes, they do. Well, yes, they do. Their potential is like that. After all of that, Dr. McBurney, it's been our experience that children with these deformities, provided that otherwise they are normal, are unusually bright. That's correct. It's an amazing thing. But that has been our experience. That they're smarter. They're more alert than other children. You, a gentleman, started out talking about babies. And a few minutes ago, you were talking about men working in the steel mill. Now, let me ask you this question. What is the oldest palate you have ever closed, Doctor? I have closed palates in patients of 30 years of age and one of 35 years of age. I have heard of a palate being closed at the age of 70. Now, I don't know that that is any more than a coincidence. Now, we're talking a great deal about surgery and we think it's a very important part of our approach. But isn't it also true, Dr. Merrifield, that we find that some of these cases aren't going to get their best adjustment. They might not have enough tissue for a successful operation. And that, uh, with some of these cases, uh, dental appliances or speech bulbs are going to be used. And, uh, they are the best things for those people. What is a speech bulb? I never heard of that. Well, you see, we talked about, uh, this whole roof of the mouth. The front part of the roof is the hard palate. The soft part, the back part of the roof is the soft palate. And the soft palate closes off. It's a muscular tissue so that it can move and it closes off the nasal cavity from, uh, the mouth. And, uh, now supposing you don't have the tissue, supposing you don't have something you can make into a soft palate there, you can project a dental appliance so you have a round bulb that goes back into the throat. And you can train these, uh, adults and children to grip that bulb with the muscles of the throat so that, uh, they can, uh, grip the bulb and they can close off the nose from the mouth. Is that what's that? Well, it's an artificial, uh, replacement of the soft palate. Of the palate? An artificial replacement. Yes. Is that the kind of work you're concerned with, Dr. Thompson? Yes, that would fall, or the construction of these appliances would fall in the realm of dentistry. And I might point out, too, that dentistry is also concerned, first of all, with maintaining the health of the mouths of these children. These teeth seem to decay more rapidly, uh, in the children with the cleft palate than in the average child. I wanted to ask you that very question, Dr. Thompson, what the effect was, because I don't think we've yet mentioned teeth, as they may come in, uh, improperly, if at all, et cetera, in the mouths of such, unfortunately. Well, in controlling tooth decay, the child should be seen at at least four-month intervals with the dentist, so that he can restore the teeth, and also apply the most modern methods of prevention of tooth decay. That sounds like some more money to be spent. Indeed it is. Secondly, the teeth will be, quite likely, be irregular. And the extent of the irregularity depends on the extent of the original deformity. So, these children will require a considerable amount of straightening of the teeth during their growing periods. And finally, that phase of dentistry that is concerned with making the speech appliance referred to by Dr. Westlake, which is an artificial replacement for the roof of the mouth and for the soft palate, which is missing. Now, we've got, uh, three, uh, medical specialists around the, the table here today. Uh, Thompson, what kind of, of, uh, professional services do you need in these cases, anyway? Well, it's rather a complex problem because of its nature. Therefore, in the proper treatment of these children, it requires a complex treatment program. In other words, the specialties involved are, of course, surgery, speech, hearing, uh, then the specialists involved in maintaining the health of the nose and ears and throat. The, uh, uh, specialist in dentistry concerned with straightening of the teeth. The specialist in dentistry concerned with filling of the teeth. The specialist in dentistry concerned with making the speech appliances. And, of course, we must not forget the general health of the individual. The pediatrician is an important part of a group approach to this problem. Well, how do you get all these people together? This sounds like a team to me, if you ask me. As if each of these men has his job to do and does it in a prescribed sequence. That's correct. Now, the team approach is relatively new in the treatment of the cleft palate problem. And there are very effective teams located throughout the country. We at Northwestern, while we are a team, we, uh, are certainly not the first one. Well, now, who's the boss of your team, for example? Well, we have about seven or eight bosses. In other words, the team works successfully when every individual participating respects the other man's viewpoint and takes it into account. Because there is no one final decision. Well, this is essentially a, uh, a project which, uh, necessitates the real interest of everybody participating in this team approach. If you're not interested in this, uh, approach or in these children... Well, isn't it a point of interaction? Now, Dr. Merrifield, uh, you could have some surgery. It would be fine from your point of view, but it might not be quite right for speech. And likewise, you can put in an appliance sometimes that looks well, but it might get in the way of a tongue. And we have to interact. Uh, twenty or twenty-five years ago, when I first got interested in this, uh, in these deformities, uh, the surgeon was called in when a baby was born with a cleft lip or a cleft palate. And after the, uh, surgery was completed, the parents were told, now your child will need, uh, speech training. You'd better see a dentist and have the, uh, decay taken care of, or you, uh, perhaps will later need to have, uh, an orthodontist who will straighten the teeth. Uh, with this team approach, surgery, while very important to get a, uh, good surgery, uh, good start on the case, uh, falls into a little of the background when we consider the multitude of, uh, various, uh, uh, specialties that come into this picture to get the results. Now, gentlemen, uh, a mention was brought up about the fact we have a team, and this is a lot of service, and I presume we get around to the problem of expense. I would like to say one thing with regard to expense, that, uh, I think we can say honestly, with a cleft palate case, that of all the areas of rehabilitation, a relatively small investment will bring you a more, uh, certain result. That is, uh, from a financial point of view, this is a good investment, a real return, on a relatively small outlay. Now, uh, Mr. McComb, you're in private industry. Uh, how do you think that, uh, such a thing as this ought to be supported? Well, clearly, gentlemen, I, as I attempt to represent the businessman here, we need more funds. That goes without saying. If we want to spread the gospel, not only within the United States, but within the entire, uh, realm of the world. Uh, to get money to do this, and it obviously does cost money, there are only two proper sources, uh, it seems to me. One is such contributions as corporate business could give, and I remind you parenthetically that, uh, the tax situation allows, you remember, I think up to 5% of federal tax, that is, deductible gifts, uh, 5% of the net earnings. Uh, whereas I also believe that only about 1% of the, uh, 5% possibility is being taken, uh, advantage of by industry in the United States. So, there's the question. What's the, what's the stake of the industry in this kind of a problem? Well, uh, I would say the salvaging of humans. Uh, we are so proud in this country, particularly, of our, uh, engineering ability with machines. But, uh, we don't spend very much time on the engineering of humans, and the salvaging or rehabilitation of men who could be, for all we know, the President of the United States. Uh, don't you think that it would be a fine thing if, uh, in your organizations, not yours, but other organizations too, uh, if the, uh, the employees who were unfortunate enough to have a baby born into the family with such a deformity, could feel that they had a place to go, perhaps your medical department, where they could get advice and encouragement and enlightenment on the subject. Well, certainly, uh, the, uh, peace of mind of a workman who knew that his child was being properly cared for in this connection would be mighty important to us from a safety standpoint and from a productivity standpoint. Mr. McComb, don't you think that corporations would be interested in knowing that such programs as ours go far beyond treatment? But we, as a part of a national university, are interested in promoting research so that better treatment can be brought about in the future. We further are interested in training students so that they, in turn, can go back to their individual communities and give these children their better treatment. Now, you assume a need for that type of personnel and that type of, uh, research. Is he justified in that assumption, Westlake? Very definitely he's justified in it. Uh, it's encouraging to see how this thing is growing through the country. But as yet, the supply in terms of personnel and facilities just can't begin to meet the demand. Well, now let me ask, uh, one question that's important to me. Let's say there's a youngster from a, uh, uh, a poor family who can't pay for all these elaborate facilities. What's he going to do? He'll get the same treatment if he had a million dollars. He's going to get, uh, as Dr. Thompson said, the same treatment. Uh, we have, uh, organized this group, uh, with funds that were donated by the, uh, Clara Abbott Foundation. Uh, through the, uh, interest of Mr. Alfred W. Bayes. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. And we start. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Cleft Palate Problem, a crippling condition affecting 5,200 newborn babies each year. We want to thank our guests for their appearance today. J.N. McComb from the Public Relations Department of Inland Steel Company, Dr. Frederick Merrifield, professor of oral surgery, Northwestern University Dental School, Dr. John R. Thompson, chairman of the Department of Orthodontia at the Northwestern University Dental School, and Harold Westlake, professor of speech correction, Northwestern University School of Speech, and president of the American Speech and Hearing Association. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's program, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe regularly to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next Sunday's program. During recent months, there has been much talk about issues raised by William Buckley, Jr. in his book, God and Man at Yale. We plan to discuss some of these issues next week on our program, God and Man in the Universities. We're happy indeed that author William Buckley is planning to apply from Mexico City to appear on our panel here in Chicago. Other guests will be Curtis D. McDougall, professor of journalism in our Medill School of Journalism, and Rockwell C. Smith, professor of church administration and sociology in the Garrett Biblical Institute, and president of the Evanston Council of Churches in Evanston, El Norte. We hope you will join us next week for this discussion of God and Man in the Universities. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the world's largest network. The movie stars are moving to the Mutual Broadcasting System.