The following broadcast was transcribed earlier. From the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria, your city station brings you the 10th Annual American Fashion Critics Award, in which four famous fashion personalities will be honored this afternoon. An audience of more than 1,000 are guests of Cote here at lunch in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria to witness the official presentation, the 10th since the award was founded by Cote in 1942. An elaborate fashion show will follow. And now to open the ceremonies, here is the Honorable Grover A. Whalen. Will the waiters please leave the room? We have, on behalf of the sponsor of the American Fashion Critics Award, Cote Inc. It's a great privilege for me to thank the members of the jury for the splendid and tireless energy they've put into the selection of the 1952 winners. Ten years is a long time. Some ten years ago, it occurred to some of us that perhaps a designer needed some encouragement. At that time, if you recall, the materials were very much curtailed, and the use of them required the imagination, and the great artistic ability of the designer to make a dress look good. And that was done in 1942 and all through the years. And so the jury, some 70-odd members of it, representing the fashion brains of this country, have met through these years and selected each year a group of people whom we are pleased to honor as our American designers. And so today, we have chosen a great American woman to make the presentation. She told me a story just a moment ago that I think is worth repeating. When she went to Australia, she went into a shop, and they shook their head after she asked for a dress, and they said, SSW. And she went into another shop, and they said, SSW again. So by this time, this gracious and wonderful American woman said to this Australian merchant, what does SSW mean? Small-sized woman. She's only small size in figure, but she's a great personage in all her fine and brave qualities that made her stand by her great husband, General MacArthur. When it comes time for the presentation, Mrs. MacArthur has graciously consented to make them to the winners, present them to the winners, rather. It's a pleasure for me to turn the program over now to Mrs. Elizabeth Madera, Chairman of the American Fashion Critics Award of 1952. Mrs. Madera. Mr. Whalen, I well remember the day ten years ago when you invited 29 fashion editors to lunch. I, for one, checked very carefully to be sure that it wasn't the beauty editor who was invited. We didn't know what it was about. But when we came there, it seemed very natural that you, because of your great interest in the fashion industry of this country, should propose an annual award to be given by an unprejudiced jury of editors. You told us that you were generously willing to underwrite the presentation and the awards, but that otherwise you would keep your hands completely off. I've served on the committee for ten years. I've seen it grow from 29 to 79. And in all those years, there has never been a season when you have not most loyally kept your promise. You have kept your hands off. You have handled all the details of preparation. You have given it international publicity. You have presented these fashion shows. Today, I believe that the reward has become a real mark of distinction to the designers who have received it. I know that for those of us who have worked on the committees, the interchange of views has broadened our knowledge of our own field. Mr. Whalen, on the behalf of our committee, I should like to present to you and Ducote this scroll in appreciation of what you have done for the fashion industry in America. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Whalen wants me to read the scroll. And it says, On the occasion of the 10th annual presentation of the American Fashion Critics Award, the undersigned members of the jury wish to express their admiration and gratitude to Grover A. Whalen, chairman of the board of Cote Incorporated, America, and Cote International Corporation for the vision and belief in American fashion represented in the sponsorship of the award. By making the American Fashion Critics Award possible, Cote has impressively enhanced the prestige of American fashion and widened public appreciation for the talents of our designers. And we all signed up. Thank you. Thank you, Thank you, Miss Madera. Thank you, Miss Madera. This shall hang in the office of chairman of the board of Cote, and it will be treasured by all of my associates as a compliment from a great group of very wonderful women. Thank you very much. Before we begin to tell you about the award winners in particular, the committee has asked me to salute the fabric industry of this country, not only for the marvelous developments in new textures, new yarns, new finishes, but also for the job of styling that has been done in the familiar and well-loved fabrics like silk and cotton and wool. Now for the awards. And this year, we have given two winnies, or main awards. And one of these is to the man of the year, the man whom we feel has been most in public eye for his collections of Spring and Fall 1952. And the other, and is for enduring influence on fashion. And there are also two special awards, one again for the collections of Fall and Spring 1952, and the other, and for enduring influence. The stories of all the award winners might have been written by Horatio Alger. There are stories of people who came up the hard way, who add to their flair for fashion a knowledge of basic construction that is second to none. And each one of these winners began as a poor boy. Each one has gone on to great success. And Mrs. MacArthur, will you present the awards to the winners as they come forward? Our first winnie goes to a man who is a very rare combination of artist and technician. He was brought to America from Central Europe as a child. He went to work very early, carrying parcels for a firm of dress manufacturers on Division Street. By the age of 20, he was the head of the cutting department of one of the best houses in the business. And there he developed his great eye for color, his feeling of the way that a fabric hangs and cuts, his superlative workmanship, all of which are his hallmarks today. For 23 years, he was in partnership in a very successful business. And then, in 1949, he began his own business, in which he heads up styling, workmanship, and selling. His clothes have the sort of perfection that's natural to American life. They're as beautiful in motion as they are when they are static. He tells me that when he begins a collection, he always thinks of his mother's sustained refusal to wear what she called old lady clothes. And that, I think, is why his clothes, for all their sophistication, are ageless. We salute the great new taste, the great new color that he has given to the tailored mode and his superlative workmanship. Mrs. MacArthur, will you give the first of our winners to Mr. Ben Zuckerman? Thank you. The staff of Still and Newsreel photographers are asking our first Fashion Award winner, Mr. Zuckerman, to pose with Mrs. MacArthur as she hands him the winnie. The winnie emblem of the award is a bronze statuette of a woman with a streaming cape behind her. They move to the center of the stage now for more pictures. Mr. Zuckerman and Mrs. MacArthur, of course, very obliging to the photographers. And I think our pictures have been taken now back to our cheerleader. The jury believes that an accessory can become important enough to change the face of fashion. And so our second winnie goes to a man who has set all America to walking lightly and comfortably. And his early years were something of a struggle for survival. He was born on the Lower East Side. At the age of 14, he went to work for a man who had made a business of making shoes for dancers and for stage people. From this cobbler, he learned his craft. At the age of 32, he was a vice president. On the death of the founder, he succeeded to the presidency of the business. During the 1930s, the dancers' cobbler began to make shoes to go with special clothes. American designers asked him to make shoes to complete their costumes. Presently, people wanted to buy the shoes. The young of the country took them to their hearts. Today, out of one million shoes produced annually by this firm, two-thirds of them go to the general public. And we salute Alwena for putting the grace and ease of a dancer's shoes into shoes for women, children, and today even for men. For giving us the great boon of comfort and high fashion on a low or a medium heel. Mrs. MacArthur, will you present our second winnie, please, to Mr. Ben Summers of Capizio? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And Mr. Ben Summers of Capizio is the second Clash Award winner for his design in ladies' slippers and shoes. He's being given a winnie now by Mrs. MacArthur, shakes hands with Grover Whalen, our chair lady, Mrs. Madeira, and now walks off stage. He has forgotten the little flannelette cover for the nude statue. The first of our special awards and for excellence of collections during the current year goes to a perfectly balanced manufacturer-designer team. The manufacturer began as a shipping boy. He got his first break and everyone else went out to lunch one day and a big customer came in and bought $40,000 worth of dresses from the 18-year-old shipping boy. Shortly after that, he started in business for himself. He survived the dark days of the Depression and 14 years ago his designer came to work for him. And together they turn out trim and charming street dresses in fine wools, silks, the newest of the synthetic fabrics. They turn out beautiful evening dresses in very luxurious and sumptuous fabrics lavish with handwork. And what's more, they have made these dresses available at surprisingly moderate prices for what they are so that thousands of women who would otherwise have been denied such glamorous clothes can have them. Mrs. MacArthur, would you please present the award, our first special award, to the manufacturing team of Karen Stark and Harvey Barron. This time, it's a couple, two winners, Harvey Barron and Karen Stark for the manufacturing award, development of new fabrics. They each receive a winning now and pose for the photographers. The award's being presented by Mrs. MacArthur. Our second special award goes to a man who got into the women's dress business almost by accident. He went through New York University, he wanted to be a writer, but the depression struck and like all our other winners, he became a shipping boy. He worked for a firm of men's sportswear manufacturers and it wasn't long until he began to design. Then he got a little bored with the monotony of the men's business and began to sell pink shirts for women. Soon people began to ask him for skirts to match the shirts, for dresses, and he found himself in the sepharists business. He was the first person to make the coordinated sepharists that are now a great thing in American fashion. He designs for the woman who regards clothes as one of the tools of proper living, like good grooming and pleasant manners, who wants to be well-dressed and then forget about her clothes. He is known, among other things, for his use of wonderful off-beat colors against a background of neutral grays and beiges, which constitute the major proportion of the line. We salute his ability to make sportswear always fresh and charming, to always give it a certain hint of the dramatic. Mrs. McArthur, will you please present our second award to Mr. Sidney Ragge of B.H. Ragge. Sidney Ragge of B.H. Ragge comes on stage now for his special award, an engraved plaque from the Fashion Academy for his work in sportswear and Lady Separates. One of the great tasks of this award is the presentation and planning of the fashion show. And I want, on behalf of all the committee, to thank the two co-chairmen of the fashion show, Mrs. Sally Kirkland of Life and Miss Muriel Maxwell of Vogue. I will now turn the meeting over to Mrs. Kirkland, who will tell you about the clothes as they appear. We are going to show you first a group from the fall and resort collection of B.H. Ragge. This collection is easy and so about. The fashion show itself is just about to start. We remind you now that you have been listening to the 10th annual American Fashion Critics Award ceremonies. Roe Bray Whelan, chairman of the board of Coteys, the founders of the award, was host and master of ceremonies and Elizabeth Madeira, fashion editor of Woman's Home Companion and chairman of the American Fashion Critics Award jury this year, presided for the jury. The presentations were made by Mrs. Douglas MacArthur. This has been a special public service feature of your city station. We return you now from the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system. rewarded for the show for the services on repeat and first and foremost this is all where it is and during the concert and last the учized of the and the upper of theark voices and all of the above and the gefunden