Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent, affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. First, an important announcement. Next week, January 7th, the Roundtable will be heard one half hour earlier. Today, the Roundtable discusses, Is There a Blackout of History? Taking part in this discussion are William Henry Chamberlain, author of the recent book, America's Second Crusade, Louis Gottschalk, historian of the University of Chicago, and Milton Mayer, magazine writer and lecturer for the American Friends Service Committee. Now to open today's discussion on Is There a Blackout of History? We present Mr. Gottschalk. After the great wars of the past, historians and other writers have tended to quarrel over whether the war could have been avoided, who was responsible, whether it was wisely conducted, and whether its outcome in any way justified its cost. Many of our listeners will recall the revisionists of World War I and the bitter dispute over the war guilt of Kaiser Wilhelm and Germany. Now, following World War II, another battle has begun among the historians. This time it centers largely around the conduct of American foreign policy with regard to Russia. The new revisionists contend that the so-called official or court historians have blacked out some of the important features of that story and have presented us with accounts of our World War II diplomacy that are essentially incomplete and untrue. Chamberlain, you are one of those who believe that the correct story has been blacked out, are you not? Yes, Gottschalk. I believe that American involvement in the Second World War and its consequences have been the most tragic failure in our national history. Not one positive war aim has been achieved. More than that, we find ourselves in graver peril than we experienced before we entered the war. Stalin is a greater threat than Hitler ever was. The Moscow-Peyping axis is stronger than the Berlin-Tokyo axis. And I submit that there is a historical blackout consciously or unconsciously designed to absolve the individuals, and especially President Franklin D. Roosevelt, whose illusions and blunders led to the present critical situation. The practice of writing official histories subsidized by government agencies does not make for candid criticism. The Rockefeller Foundation, in its report in 1946, reported the allotment of $139,000 to prevent what was called a repetition of the debunking journalistic campaign after World War I. The main organs of book reviewing are almost exclusively in the hands of individuals who regard any criticism of Roosevelt as little less than sacrilegious. Any book that is critical of Roosevelt's foreign policy is certain to be received with a compound of abuse and neglect and with a minimum of objective argument. Some score of reviews of my own America's Second Crusade, three or four at the most, gave any fair picture of the argument. It's hard to pierce through this blackout, although the bankruptcy of American foreign policy between 1939 and 1945 is tragically registered in every Korean casualty list. Mayor, do you agree or disagree with this blackout idea? I both agree and disagree. I agree that Roosevelt's policies were a deadly failure, but I don't agree that they were Roosevelt's. Roosevelt's policies were ours, the American people's, and Roosevelt was merely our minister. If he misrepresented our policies, we should have repudiated his administration. We did not. We ratified and continued it in 1940, in 1944, yes, and in 1948. If I were a Russian, I could pass the buck to Stalin, the tyrant. But I'm not a Russian. I'm a free American. And if I don't repudiate my ministers when they misrepresent me, I have got to take the responsibility for their ministry. This is the heart of democracy, it seems to me, and this is its price. I disagree with Chamberlain's belief that one man can determine the course of history as much as he implies that Roosevelt determined American policy from 1939 to 1945. And I disagree with your position, Mayor, that we, as a people in a democracy, determined what our leaders would do between 1939 and 1945. Let me add, Gottschalk, that I think that we, the self-governing American people who failed between 1939 and 1945, are still failing with the same overall policy of putting our faith in force. That's exactly my point. Both of you are thinking of history as if it were something that it was correct to criticize from hindsight, from what we know today about developments that the people at that time did not know. Every important historical event is an outcome of so many historical factors that the great man or great villain theory that you support, Chamberlain, or the prevailing climate of opinion theory that you support, Mayor, alone or even the two of them in combination, would be insufficient to explain the causes of a significant historical event. Other pressures and drives and emotions and interests play their roles. They did during World War II, and I can't agree that anyone in power at any time, especially in such a critical period, without the advantage of the hindsight that we now have, and having the overriding consideration that he must win the war, could have acted any differently from Roosevelt or our other leaders. There were some, Gottschalk, who were not in power at the time, you will remember, without any hindsight, who thought that the policies of the administration were fatal. Well, Gottschalk, I can't agree with what seems to me your fatalistic view that everything that happened had to happen. I would not saddle all the blame on Roosevelt. I do think he was mainly responsible because of the high office he held, but there's plenty of blame to go around among many people in and out of office in those critical pre-war and war years. But you blame people, and that's the thing that it seems to me is wrong with your theory. Well, I think it's the mark of statesmanship to avoid illusions. But American leadership during World War II succumbed to a host of illusions, which reasonably enlightened foresight, as well as hindsight, would have repudiated in advance. Chamberlain, it's leadership that you feel was guilty of these illusions, not the people of the United States. Well, I don't think the people had much chance, because in the election of 1940, President Roosevelt professed over and over again that he wasn't going to take the country into war, and in 1941 he did everything humanly possible to take them into war. Where does democracy work out of such conditions? How about, granted that for the sake of the argument, Chamberlain, how about the elections of 1944 and 48, which ratified all those policies? Oh, by that time it was too late, probably, to do anything. But I'd like to get on to my idea of illusions. I feel that never in history has a great war been fought for so many demonstrable illusions, and never has retribution for succumbing to illusions been so swift and so terrible. It was an illusion that the totalitarian threat to America could be banished by helping the oldest and largest totalitarian state in the world swell far beyond its legitimate frontiers. It was an illusion that a combination of appeasement and personal charm could melt away designs of conquest and domination that were deeply rooted in Russian history and communist philosophy. It was an illusion to believe that a powerful Soviet Union would play the role of cooperative do-gooder in a shattered and impoverished Eurasia. It was an illusion that a curtain of dollars would be a counterweight to a curtain of iron. It was an illusion to believe that the balance of power could be destroyed in Europe and Asia without setting the stage for World War III. It was an illusion that Chiang Kai-shek was worth backing to the limit against Japan and not worth raising a finger for when he was threatened by the Kremlin-sponsored Chinese communists. It was an illusion that these communists were nice agrarian reformers, Jeffersonian democrats who scarcely knew there was such a place as Moscow, and the fruit that is harvested from the seeds of illusion is always bitter. Chamberlain, I would like to suggest that it's possible that war itself is an illusion and that historians and other people who want more of it are all falling victims to the same old illusion. What I'd like to point out is that you have illusions at the time, and those are historical factors. They arise out of the circumstances of the day. The historian has to take into account not merely the illusions, but the things from which they arise. I don't believe that there's been a blackout of history regarding World War II. I would contend somewhat the contrary. Seldom, if ever, in history has a more honest attempt been made by a government than that which the United States government has long been making to get competent and reliable historians, to give them access to the official documents, and to allow them free reign to tell an honest story about World War II. I know most of these so-called official historians, Chamberlain, personally, as you do too, and I don't think that they are the kind of persons that would accept the role of stooge for any government or prostitute their historical training to render judgments of which they are not personally convinced. Their misjudgments, if any, are due, in my estimation, to their own shortcomings or to reasonable restrictions upon their revelation of secret data or to the inescapable difficulty of understanding human affairs. Granted, Gottschalk, that the historians are competent and reliable people, if some of them do fall victim to the illusions that Chamberlain has listed, isn't it possible that they do so because they don't always understand the nature of historical materials or of historical problems? For instance, Professor Morrison, the retiring president of the American Historical Association, said the other day, and I quote, historians are the ones who should have pointed out that war does accomplish something, that war is better than servitude, and that war has been an inescapable aspect of the human story. End quote. I'd say, Gottschalk, that these three propositions, which Professor Morrison is asserting as historical truth, are all of them false and none of them historical. The notion that war does accomplish something is an ethical, not an historical proposition. The notion that war is better than servitude is a metaphysical, not an historical proposition. The notion that war is an inescapable aspect of the human story is a religious, not an historical proposition. Let me hasten to add that in my opinion, these propositions are bad ethics, bad metaphysics, and an outright denial of the Christian faith. But this is what happens, I think, when historians try to be moralists, metaphysicians, and preachers. They can't help but fall victim to illusions. As that applies, let me remind you, to those who criticize, as well as those who approve the things that went on between 1945 and 1949. These are moral judgments with hindsight, the advantage of hindsight, and they're not efforts to set these things in their historical setting. I don't think we're going to agree on this subject. I'd like to raise the subject now about the illusions that Chamberlain has been talking about. He thinks there are certain definite points. Would you make those points clear on which policy failed? Well, I'd suggest four among a great many points, which I think most historians have not frankly recognized. First, there's not a single ideal of the Atlantic Charter or the four freedoms that has been realized anywhere in the world as a result of the war and the preliminary peace settlement. Second, American national security has not been enhanced. It's deteriorated as a result of the war. There, I would like to quote Winston Churchill who wrote three years ago, and I quote, we lie in the grip of even worse perils than those we have surmounted. Third, is there, I don't believe there is a single major decision of Tehran, Cairo, Yalta, or Potsdam that seems durable or desirable today. We are in great difficulties because we insisted on taking away Korea and Formosa from Japan. We're backtracking away from the disarmament of Germany and Japan as fast as we can. We're trying to slide out of the veto power which the big five powers enjoy under the original UN Charter. And fourth, I must say from my knowledge of history, I cannot think of any settlement after a great war that went bankrupt so soon. I'd like to suggest Chamberlain, if I can without being monotonous, that you shouldn't be surprised as to what happens as the consequence of war. We might be reminded here of the late Marshal Clemenceau's statement that war is not the worst of evils, but it is the cause of all the others. Isn't it possible that these evils had to follow? Well, the thing that bothers me about Chamberlain's statement is that he seems to think that this war is an exception in the history of warfare, that never has there been disillusionment to the same extent in the war, never have there been so many silly illusions in the course of a war. Now, it seems to me that in every war there have been illusions and a great deal of disillusionment following the war, and that that's one of the things, one of the important things the historian has to decide upon. You ought to acknowledge, Gottschalk, that it may be that war itself is the grand illusion. War is a grand illusion. You never solve any problems by war. You only raise different problems. The historian merely has to study the factors that bring about war. He doesn't create the wars. It's his business, however, to study the wars as well as he can, and he can't study war carefully without studying the illusions as well. But I do think, Gottschalk, that the failure of the settlement after World War II is infinitely greater. There's such a thing as relativity and history as in everything else. We don't know yet whether World War II has been a failure or not. But Gottschalk, I'll grant that we don't know yet and that history may be able to tell us 50 years from now. But the present won't let me wait, and it won't let you wait, and it won't let Chamberlain wait. As of five years after this victory, everything that Chamberlain says is true. And I have to decide now, not 50 years from now, whether my country can afford to win another victory like the last two. After two victorious world wars for democracy, there's somewhat less democracy in the world than there was before those wars began. Now, you and Chamberlain may say that we're not as badly off as we would have been if we had been conquered, but that merely means, it seems to me, that our situation worsens more slowly when we win than when we lose. I don't want our situation to worsen. I don't want democracy to die either slow or fast. And war is obviously killing it, whoever wins. Well, as far as I can see, it's an imperative of American national survival to escape as fast as possible from the trap of an abused victory and a bungled peace, and to get rid of the evil consequences of our wartime foreign policy as fast as we can. Toward the end of the Civil War, a northern soldier, viewing the tomb of John C. Calhoun in Charleston, said, the whole South is the grave of Calhoun. And unless we quickly reverse every major decision of Tehran, Yalta, and Potsdam, a time may well come when historians will write, the whole free world, including the United States, became the grave of the disastrous illusions and blunders of Franklin D. Roosevelt. But what you're saying there, Chamberlain, is something in the nature of a moral judgment. It's the same sort of thing that Mayor has just condemned in Morrison, who is exactly on the opposite side of your position, who thinks our policy was justified. Both you and Morrison are thinking in terms of decisions that the citizen has to make. You're not thinking in terms of what was the historical setting that these men had to operate in, what explains the actions that they took, and to what an extent were they justified or not. And any attempt to justify must necessarily be a moral and therefore a philosophical problem and not a problem of historical judgment. Gottschalk, I wonder if you and Chamberlain and Morrison, who isn't here to defend himself, wouldn't do well to remember the prediction of Dr. Goebbels, the Nazi propaganda minister. Even if we Nazis lose, he said, we will still win because our ideals will have penetrated the hearts of our enemies. I think that we might do well to remember that prediction when we recall that 33 years ago we went to war against Prussianism. Prussianism, the root evil of which, according to President Wilson, was peacetime conscription. We beat the Prussians. We beat them twice. And now we have peacetime conscription. The Kaiser and Hitler did succeed in invading America with their terrible ideals, but they were beaten and dead when they did it. It seems to me that history indicates, Gottschalk, that democracy is always lost from within, never from without, and that no harm that Stalin can do to us can be any worse than the harm we can do to ourselves. History indicates anything that any moralist sees fit to derive from it. What you forget is that Roosevelt had to contend with people like Goebbels who said we will win even if we lose. His major consideration was to see that these people do not win, and therefore he had to, the overriding consideration that he had to take into account was that we must win the war, and he had to find his allies where he could. Well, I think the wisest epitaph I've ever heard on the war was from an old journalistic colleague of mine whom I met in Paris a few years ago and who said, you know, Hitler really won this war in the person of Stalin, and I would like to ask you, Gottschalk, don't you believe from your own knowledge of history that it's all cardinal sin in this age of nation-states to wreck and destroy the balance of power? Wasn't that the tremendous error of our wartime policies that we left both in Europe and in Asia tremendous vacuums which the Soviet Union was simply bound given its character as a military garrison state with a messianic mission of world conquest was simply bound to fill. I don't think we can complain that Russia was an innocent, do-gooder type of state before the war and then suddenly changed its nature. It's been running absolutely true to form. I could quote dozens of citations. But the present situation is a continuation of the balance of power problem. At that time, the power problem was will Germany conquer Russia? Now the power problem is will Russia conquer Germany? And we're just involved in the same situation. And in both situations, we'll have to find allies to enable us to restore the balance of power. Gottschalk, you and Chamberlain both talk in terms of power and the maximization of power. It seems to me that as we maximize our power, we find it necessary to sacrifice our principles and that the sacrifice of our principles nullifies the power that we gain. We, of course, thank God that we are not as other men are and we assure ourselves that power won't corrupt us because we're not bad men. I don't maintain that at all. I'm afraid power will just corrupt us. And yet both of you, if I understand you correctly, regard the present situation as one in which we must maximize our power at whatever cost. That is, take any allies we can find. And I say, Chamberlain, I say that that is what Roosevelt did. In 39 to 45, he took any allies he could find and that all of the evils that you ascribe to Roosevelt and his administration, you are willing to have us embark upon now. No, there is a great difference, Mayor, a great difference between accepting as an ally and appeasing to the limit as Roosevelt did at Tehran and Yalta, a tremendously powerful totalitarian state and gathering up the very weak states and groups that may be on our side now. There's a great difference there, as I see it, in the balance of power situation as between the time of Second World War and the present time and I don't think that can be left out of account. Chamberlain, this is an interesting view. You think that immorality is all right as long as our associates are weak. I live 12 years in Russia, Mayor, and I have this feeling that an imperfect civilization such as we have and such as the peoples of Western Europe outside the Iron Curtain have is far superior to a perfect barbarism such as I saw in Russia and such has been carried over into every state that's fallen under Soviet domination. Chamberlain, the perfect barbarism which you ascribe to Russia and the Russians sounds suspiciously to me like the same perfect barbarism which Roosevelt ascribed to Germany and the Germans. Now, you may say, oh, no, Stalin and the communist leaders are much worse, but, my, I think we have to observe that it won't be Stalin and the Russian leaders that we burn and kill and torture and starve. it'll be the innocent people of Russia that the innocent people of America under conscription and under compulsion will murder and they, in turn, will murder us. I agree with Chamberlain that the risk of defeat is considerably greater. The risk to our ideals is considerably greater from defeat than it will be from war, but I don't want to underestimate the risk to our ideals that even a victorious war will mean, but what bothers me is that after this next war, if we should have a next war, there will be historians like Chamberlain who will say we had illusions and that this war should have resulted in a peace and it doesn't result in peace. The next war won't result in peace either. It will result in illusions and it will result in dissatisfaction with the peace. That's the nature of war. And yet, God shock, you are willing to have the next war. I'd rather have the next war than not survive, and I think that our chances of surviving are better if we can engage in a war with some chance of winning than they are if we don't engage in a war. But what do we want to survive for? Assuming that we survive with power and the power of survival and wealth as we did in 1945, what are we going to use our survival for? What will we do about the world revolution that is going on, which is a bad revolution, but is going on all over the world? If we survive and if we have the world's power as we did in 1945, what will we use it for? We will use it so that at another time three people can get around a round table and discuss whether the war was worthwhile or not. If we don't survive or if we lose and are crushed by Russia, there won't be any round tables 10 or 15 years from now. Furthermore, yes. I think time has come now for Chamberlain for you to make your statement as to what you want to carry away, the audience to carry away from this round table. Well, my view about the future, turning from the past to the future, is that we are faced in Soviet communism with a power implacably hostile to this nation and all its cultural and moral heritage and as unappeasable as a Bengal tiger. Retreat into this hemisphere or into continental boundaries of the United States. It would not save us from the necessity of resistance if we wish to exist as an independent nation. I believe that we had choices and made consistently wrong choices between 1939 and 1945. Now our area of decision is much narrower. We must organize the defense of what remains of the non-communist world as effectively as we can. We must put arms in the hands of states and groups and individuals whose interest places them on our side in Europe and in Asia. We must have mutual security treaties on a basis of full equality with Germany and with Japan. We must carry on energetic political propaganda warfare behind the Iron Curtain trying to drive wedges between the peoples and their tyrannical governments. It is harder to repair blunders than it would have been if the blunders had not been made. But we must try. If we value survival as a free people, we have no alternative. Mayor, what is your position on this whole business? Well, you gentlemen are both historians. So you know that the way of power has always been the way to war. You are both humanitarians. So you know that war has always been unrighteous because it compels the innocent to slaughter the innocent. You have both lived through the First and Second World Wars. So you know that war is now unrealistic as well as unrighteous. I think that the time has come to stop being unrealistic and to start being practical. War is utopian because it doesn't get us what we want. Since it doesn't get us what we want, we have got to find another way and take that way. Men are by nature free, however much the communists may deny it. And if they want to save their freedom, they have to act freely and not let any government act for them. There is another way, and we've always known what it is because we're a Christian country. The communists may not know what that way is because the communists are godless. Let me give you a description of a Christian country. Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you. And pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. That, gentlemen, is what a Christian country is according to Christ. I hope we can save a Christian country from godless communism. My own attitude is that when mayor says that war, win or lose, will spell doom for the Christian values and the political institutions that we cherish, I am more hopeful than he. And when he says that defeat in war will not necessarily destroy our most cherished traditions, I feel less hopeful. In short, I contend that total defeat is fairly certain to bring the end of the democracy even if total victory is not certain to make the world safe for democracy. Hence, we must avoid total defeat by diplomacy if possible by war if necessary. Thus, I am brought to agree but with no great enthusiasm with Chamberlain's opinion that our historical position now dictates that we will look for allies no matter how distasteful in order to strengthen our chances for survival. Though I have to add that we shall ultimately regret our new allies no less than we now regret our old ones. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on Is There a Blackout of History were William Henry Chamberlain, author of the recent book America's Second Crusade, Louis Gottschalk, historian of the University of Chicago, and Milton Mayer, magazine writer and lecturer for the American Friend Service Committee. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of Is There a Blackout of History contains the full text of the discussion and publishes important documents in the current debate on the re-examination of American foreign policy. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure a copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. Next week, the roundtable will present a discussion of Let's Join the Human Race. Today's program originated from the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The roundtable is directed by George E. Probst and is a public service presentation of the National Broadcasting Company. This is Charles Mountain speaking. And now, here's an important listening reminder. Next Sunday, and every Sunday thereafter, the University of Chicago roundtable will be broadcast one half hour earlier at 1 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. Be sure to consult your local newspaper for the correct time in your city. This is NBC, the National Broadcasting Company. This is NBC, the National Broadcasting Company. Please, you. Please, you. . . . . . . . . .