At this time, your city station is privileged to present a special broadcast in connection with the Fashions of the Times show, which begins a four-day run at Times Hall this afternoon. We ought to hear from two of New York's leading fashion authorities, who will discuss the show with the Municipal Broadcasting System's Director of Special Events, Lily Sapovey. Thank you, Fred Hendricks, and hello, New Yorkers. Everyone knows that New York City is increasingly one of the great fashion centers of the world, if not the greatest. Artistically and commercially, our town grows more important each year as a focal point in the fashion parade. Each year, one of the great displays of the current mode takes place under the auspices of the New York Times, whose fashion editor, Virginia Pope, is one of our guests today. Our other guest is Morris Haft, Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Fashion Institute of Technology and Design, co-sponsor of Fashions of the Times. Between Miss Pope and Mr. Haft, we feel they can tell you pretty much everything you'd like to know about the show. And traditionally, ladies first. So here's Miss Virginia Pope, fashion editor of the New York Times, who has first crack at the mic. What would you like our listeners to know about the show, Miss Pope? Well, I think I ought to tell them a little bit how it started. Don't you think I should? Good. First things first. Well, we began during the war years. You see, when Paris had dropped out of the picture and we at the New York Times felt that we should give the New York designers and the great New York industrial market a moral support. Because a great many people thought that all of our inspiration came from Paris. And we at the Times knew that our designers here have great genius and great inspirational ability and power. And so we set to work to put on this fashion show. You know, it's not run like ordinary fashion shows at all. It's not a walk-on show. It's a real play. It has a basic theme. I don't think I ought to tell you what our theme is this year. Let's not do anything that will interfere with the sale of tickets. Oh, my God. This is supposed to publicize the show. The house has been sold out. I'm really regretful to say it's been sold out for about four weeks. Because the show has gained such a reputation now that people engage their seats from year to year. I only wish we could take a much bigger theater and do it much longer so that more of New York's could really see if it helped, wouldn't it? Mr. Haft, I know we have to say something. Why don't you tell us a little about the show and let Mr. Haft say something about the school. Right. Well, we have about 40 models in it. And this year, I think there are some 60 designers, that is, milliners and dress designers and coat and suit designers represented. And of course, we have all the accessory people, gloves and shoes and stockings. You know, stockings are getting very important now that skirts are getting longer. People are going to pay more attention to ankles. And then we have, of course, we draw in to direct the show and to actually do the production of it, Broadway specialists. This year, we've got Mr. Abe Fader, who's doing the directing. And when I left the theater last night and saw the lights going up and the scenery moving in, I got terribly thrilled about it. I really think it's going to be a good show this year. And of course, there's never anything in it but pure design, American design. This year, we are showing 135 garments. And only one is from outside of New York and that's from California. Is that right? Now, I don't know whether you know that the New York Times has never taken one cent of the box office receipts. It's always gone to some big cause. And knowing what the industry means to the Times and to the city, this year, we thought that we would give our box office receipts to the Fashion Institute of Technology. We have a very special, basic idea in that, Ms. Silva, because in that Fashion Institute of Technology, young people are trained for the industry. And we feel that the industry contributes to our show, so we want to do something to help the industry in return. Is that leading into an introduction to Mr. Haft, who is chairman of the executive committee of the Fashion Institute of Technology and Design? I think that's tossing the ball to him. Well, I think it would be very interesting for our listeners to hear something about the school and its objectives. Ms. Pope, we are very grateful to you and to the New York Times for your graciousness in the fashion institute of technology and design this year because you are doing so much good, not only for the school and the students, but for the future of fashion, the future of our industry. New York City, as you know, is now the fashion center of the world. We in New York City, uh, keep, uh, design and, and keep, uh, uh, the women and children of America the best dressed in the world. And, uh, you are helping us to do it. Now, the money that, uh, we're going to receive, uh, from the New York Times fashion show will help, uh, the scholarship, uh, for our three hundred, some of our three hundred and fifty-three students that we now have. You know, Ms. Pope, and no one knows it better than you because you've been on our board from its inception that, uh, we started, uh, only a little over three years ago with just a hundred students. And now we have three hundred and fifty-three students. The Fashion Institute of Technology and Design will someday in the city of New York equal to what the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Design is in Engineering and Aviation. I'd like to ask a question, Mr. Haft. Naturally, our whole, uh, attitude is public service and so forth. How closely do you work with the Board of Education? Well, it is the Board of Education, of course, that gave us, uh, uh, that gave us the, the whole incentive and is working with us. The, the school is, uh, the college has, uh, uh, is run on a charter that we received from the Board of Regents. And, uh, the Board of Education has, uh, uh, uh, financed, uh, this, uh, with a businessman and management. We finance it together. This is the first time I was told by the, uh, chairman of the Board of Education that it is the first time that industry ever came to the Board of Education and said, here, we are ready to finance a college. And the, uh, needle industries, which is the most important in the city of New York and the largest industry in the whole state of New York, should have a college in our city, uh, that will keep our young, uh, men and women who are now training in our college to, uh, on a college basis, to be taught vocationally, uh, something that will, uh, uh, create, uh, style, fashion, both textiles and in, why, in our, uh, school there, you, if you'd walk into our fashion and arts department there, you would love, you would love to, some of those illustrations, Miss Pope. Well, you know, Mr. Haft, uh, I've been down there and I've been a judge at a great many of your shows and I am always, uh, thrilled and excited, uh, by the high quality of the work that your young people do. And, uh, this much I'd like to say that in, from the, from the, uh, point of view of design and, and, uh, the technique of production, I think your school rates, um, among the highest I've ever seen. And, uh, I remember the first day that I went through the school, how thrilled I was to find that they weren't only making dress designs and learning to illustrate, but there was a department that was devoted to furs. devoted to furs. I'd never seen a school where they actually taught young people how to handle furs. And then the boys were working at shoes, everything from children's shoes to men's shoes. I just wish everybody in New York could get down to see that school. I think they'd get a real thrill out of it. I wish one of you would stress again the point that the show, Fashions of the Times, benefits the scholarship fund of the school and just who benefits by that. Well, I think Mr. Haft's the one to tell about that. Well, the, the, uh, these 353 students are all on scholarship. Uh, many of them, uh, receive maintenance scholarships of $400 a year. Uh, therefore, the two-year course, it is $800. And they receive that to help maintain themselves during their college, uh, career. Otherwise, some of these bright, uh, young students could not afford to go to college. Uh, there isn't a student that comes to our college that has less than an 85 average. And we take about one student from every high school in greater New York who, who feels as if they would like to major in fashion. Then we also take many students from other parts of the United States. And you know, Miss Pope, that we even have students from Sweden and from Palestine. And we've had them from Hawaii and Peru. Uh, you know, that's, that's one thing that interests me because, um, we used to think that, uh, everybody had to go to Paris to study fashion. And now, uh, down there at the Fashion Institute of Technology, we see young people coming from the four quarters of the globe, uh, to study fashion right here in New York. Uh, which, of course, uh, which, of course, uh, bears out my contention, not that we, uh, exceed Paris in any way, but that we, too, are a great leader in fashion here in New York City. Uh, uh, that's, uh, coming from you, Miss Pope, we know that it's authentic because you are such, uh, an authority on fashion. However, we also, as you know, Miss Pope, uh, have, uh, a tremendous building that we're in, which this, New York City spent almost $5 million on. Beautiful building. And it's one of the finest buildings in the city of New York. And it's the, one of the finest in the country. We hope someday, because, uh, our civic leaders have been very much interested in it. We've had Mayor O'Dwyer and the controller of the city of New York, Lazarus Joseph, and some of the other high officials of the city visit our school many times. We had the honor at the last, at the first graduation of the college to have Governor Dewey with us. And he spent the entire evening and was very much enthused because he is very much interested in technological schools of, and higher schools of learning. We hope someday, the Governor will see to it, that we have another $5 million building right alongside of this high school. So that we someday will all be proud of what the state has done for the greatest industry in the city of New York. And the, and in the state. Well, I'm sure we share your hope. I'd like to get back to Virginia Pope for another minute or two of discussion of the show itself. Uh, do you think this year is going to be bigger and better than other years? Oh, of course I do. And it's going to be the most exciting year we've ever had. Because, you know, we've had a complete change of fashion during the course of the last few months. I was going to deliberately wait until we had only 30 seconds left on the air and then to ask you whether you'd like to predict. About longer search. Not exactly, just what was going to happen to the new look. But I didn't want to leave too much time for that. Well, I'm, may I tell you, I'm heartily for the new look. By all means, may we quote you? You certainly may. All right. The thing is this, uh, we still have a little more time. Uh, was there anything you didn't say, Mr. Haft, that was very much on your mind? I would like very much, uh, for you good people who are listening to us now to know that, uh, we are housed in the Central Needle Trades High School. The, uh, Board of Education has given us approximately 20,000 feet of space to use for our college. In this school, we have approximately 5,000 students attend every day. The high school students, there are about 2,500 of them, uh, attend day classes. Uh, about 2,300 attend evening classes. And we take care of about a, a thousand GIs that we are training right now for the needle trades. You never saw a finer group of young Americans in all your life as those boys and girls that are attending that school. And we look forward to the future in the fashion field and in the fashion industry with a great deal of hope. Because you know who they are replacing. Well, the thing that I'm so interested in down there is that practically every boy and girl that walks out of that school has a job, Mr. Haft. And I think there are very few schools that can say that for their students. There are almost five jobs for every boy and girl that graduates, and there are ten jobs for everyone that graduates our college. And someday, I hope we will be able to accept at least half of the applicants that apply to the Fashion Institute of Technology, for we can only take in as many that we have room for. He's gonna get another plug for that new five million dollar building. We, we, we will have it someday. He certainly needs to have it. Yes. Well, you have about 30 seconds to say anything you had on your mind, Miss Pope, that we didn't get to. May I say that we are very grateful to the times. Well, let Miss Pope say what she wants us to say. For what they have done for us, and to you, Miss Pope. Well, I can just simply say that, uh, we've had great fun cooperating on this. And, uh, I love the New York Times and its work, and I'm so, just so grateful that we are able to help this fine cause about what you've all heard this morning. We love the New York Times, too. Thank you very much, Virginia Pope and Morris Haft, and the very best of luck to the Fashions of the Times. You have been listening to a specially transcribed broadcast in connection with the Fashions of the Times show, which opens at Times Hall this afternoon. Heard on this program were Virginia Pope, fashion editor of the New York Times, and Morris Haft, chairman of the executive committee of the Fashion Institute of Technology and Design. Interviewed by WNYC's director of special events, Lily Sapovi. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
