A South African album of familiar melody. South Africa called. Zadafrika Rupio. Listen now to the strains of some of the loveliest music of one of our sister nations and allies, the Union of South Africa. Zadafrika Rupio. These transcribed tunes from South Africa feature some of her most outstanding and coming young artists. The music itself tells its own story. Herman Hertz conducts the South African Broadcasting Corporation Symphony Orchestra of 60 players. The famous Verdar Chorus contributes gay folk tunes. Henry Suzanne, Arnaud Malherby and their orchestras show us another facet of this happy, haunting music and John Fanon's distinguished baritone is our featured soloist. Now what have you seen in her husband? Why have you seen in her מחep episodes under veties? First, the Verde Singers bring us a medley of four sparkling little folk tunes. A Gay Song of the Trail, the Korn Song, Yan, Pyravid, and a Rollicking Song of the Jolly Farmer. The Fragment of the Trail, the Korn Song, Yan, Pyravid, and a Rollicking Song of the Jolly Farmer. Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh And now Henry Suzanne and his orchestra carry on in this happy mood with the frolicsome arrangement of a novel picnic song boomer leap Yes Oh mmm oh The End We all know that old adage, everybody loves a lover. And here's John Finoss, our featured soloist, to tell us in his own words how a South African lover sets about wooing his nain chi or sweetheart. I sing from you, with his eyes so blue, and with her kiss from Satine, lovely things are fine. Give me a little, with a little, and so beautiful. I sing from you, with a little heart and deep. As the sun is falling, and the day is still down, then I can't to say accepted, and since you are noi, and their night will be back. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. I'm a friend of mine, and I'm a friend of mine. Here's a real gem with the famous Kimberley Mines for its setting, a song written around the old Puffing Billy steam train of the Diamond Rush days in South Africa, similar incidentally to the Klondike Rush of the USA. So let's take a ride with Arno Malherby and his orchestra on the train to Kimberley, the vocalist Dirk Lawrence. 뭐가 that hit her boat with their minds ama their own acontecemoney Theïxion this is the famousуем nerd blazer by Jimmy Garner at training by Yam and一同 Sol. And this was called after the Governor eke key, and you look in your Ihren THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END So to our finale, as the Verdar Chorus sing a song of Daybreak. THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END THE END This is the pundled norm. The fourthetal is on here. The fourthetal is on here. The fourthetal is on here. The fourthetal is on here. Great Africa rouxbeau. South Africa cold. Tadsim, Salmay. Tadsim. This transcribed program came to you as a special feature service. The music was recorded in South Africa. The program written and produced in the United States by Eileen Borwell and Henry M. Moolman. Your announcer, Tom Carr. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. The music was recorded in South Africa. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ The 270 period null Is ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ Thank you. Oый день vê ihm another key for his friendаем The start on track when air is withdrawn只有 наつoted hijиковase the songthe Gospels The hip goes.... The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End
