Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand brings you The New Bible. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will consider the relation of The New Bible to previous versions, and will examine criticisms as well as favorable comments that have been made concerning it. Now, our moderator, Kenneth G. Hance, Assistant Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. Hance. The Revised Standard Version of The Holy Bible was published on September 30, 1952. The reception accorded to this new Bible has been little short of phenomenal. The initial printing of a million copies, for example, was sold out within two weeks. And since then, the presses have been unable to keep up with the orders. Now, exactly six months later, and at the Easter season, The Reviewing Stand notes the comment which this new Bible has evoked, and examines it as a scholarly document and as a literary composition. The participants in this analysis today are Dr. John Evans, Religion Editor of the Chicago Tribune, Dr. Floyd B. Filson, Professor of New Testament Literature and History of the McCormick Theological Seminary, Dr. Charles F. Craft, Professor of Old Testament Interpretation, Garrett Biblical Institute, and Dr. Alan Whitgrant, Associate Professor of New Testament Language and Literature of the Divinity School and Federated Theological Faculty of the University of Chicago. Evans, just what has been said about this new Bible since its publication six months ago? Well, you can't get very much behind the record of a million six hundred thousand copies sold as to its use. However, naturally, there will be objections to change. Here's a letter, for example, from a Fort Wayne woman to me. I simply could not live without my Bible. I read it every day and memorize many verses. Now I see they're changing it. Most of the verses I learned are changed in this new Bible, and I don't like it. Perhaps before we examine some of those comments, we might ask Filson, just what is this Revised Standard Version? Probably the best way to state that is to read the first sentence in the preface of this version. The Revised Standard Version of the Bible is an authorized revision of the American Standard Version published in 1901, which was a revision of the King James Version published in 1611. Thus, this version builds upon the 1901 version, but it seeks to capture in modern speech the vigor and style of the King James Version of 1611. Who worked on this version of craft, and for how long did they work? There were appointed 32 biblical scholars and churchmen. These biblical scholars were from 11 denominations and from 20 colleges and universities in the United States and Canada. The New Testament Committee worked for nine years, an Old Testament Committee for almost 15 years. Besides the obviously countless hours of individual work over the years, the entire Old Testament Committee, for example, in the last two years alone, spent 109-hour days in committee sessions. And beside these, there was an editorial advisory board of 52 persons representing the 40 cooperating denominations. Probably the major question before many of our listeners, Whitgrin, is, why was a new version regarded as necessary after all? Well, I should say, Vance, that there are three main reasons for revision. First of all, there are changes in the text from which the translation is made, that is, in the Hebrew and Greek, as new manuscripts are discovered and as progress is made in the study and restoration of the original text. In the second place, there are changes in the language into which the translation is made, that is to say, in this case, English, as the English changes its meaning from century to century. And in the third place, there is an increased understanding of the meaning of the original text. And that stems from countless historical and archaeological studies, which helped to restore the life of the times in which the books were written, and also from studies in the languages themselves, which give us a better knowledge of the Hebrew and Greek. In each of your comments, there is a suggestion of comparison. It's better than something else. It's built upon something else. This raises the question, how is this new version, so-called, related to specific versions that were in existence before? For example, how is it related to the King James Version? Philson? It, of course, is a revision. It is changed in part in the English. Some English words have changed their meaning. Let was used then when hindered was what was meant. Prevent was used sometimes where we would say precede. Conversation was used then where manner of life is the meaning. Quick was used then with the meaning living. So the English has changed, and a revision needs to recognize that. Knowledge of the Greek has increased through discoveries of papyri and study. And then the text has been better understood. The King James Version, as most people do not realize, was really the late medieval Greek text translated into English. Since it was made, more manuscripts have been discovered. And so now we can go back to third and fourth century manuscripts, instead of to late medieval manuscripts, and get a more accurate Greek text on which the translation may be based. Am I correct in getting the impression then that this really isn't a new Bible after all? It's in some ways an older Bible. Well, as a matter of fact, in a sense, it's the oldest Bible. Take for the Old Testament, for example. This phenomenal discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls of a few years ago gave us a copy of the book of Isaiah, which is a thousand years earlier than any that previously had been known. And the translators used 13 of its readings in this Bible. In the New Testament, too, we have sensational discoveries in the last 50 years. The B.D. Papyri, for example, have given us texts of the Gospels and the letters of Paul, which are from, oh, about within a century and a half of the autographs, which, of course, are all lost. I suppose everyone knows that. We do not have the original autographs of any of the books of the Bible, and that we have to reconstruct our text from copies. We might ask, how does this differ, if at all, from the American Standard Version of, what was it, 1901? It differs to some extent in the vocabulary limitation in the American Standard Version. The revisers of that version were expected to use a word in use in 1611, if at all possible. That made their language a little archaic, even then. And they were somewhat more literal. And I suppose the use of the word Jehovah, which is not an ancient word at all, was probably one of the chief criticisms made of that version. What about, yeah, Dr. Evans? I'm wondering about also the value of this text, the new RSV, from the standpoint of the language of the people. Probably Mr. Wilson can comment on that. We have learned from the modern speech versions of our time that the ancient New Testament, for instance, was written in the language of the people. Papyri have been found in the dry sands of Egypt. They are in the language of ordinary, everyday life. And this is pretty much the language of the Bible, except that the Bible is of a more dignified language than some of these private notes. Nevertheless, it was the common, everyday language in which the New Testament was largely written. And the Revised Standard Version trying to say the simple truth in words clear today is trying to do what the first century writers tried to do. Getting back to that American Standard Version, I think we should point out that the Revised Version did have a much improved text. Somewhere I picked up the statistics that there were about nearly 6,000 changes in the text and about 36,000 changes altogether, about four and a half per verse. But as Filson points out, it still preserves the archaic style and vocabulary. That's the American Standard versus the King James, is that right? Yes, that's the American Standard. Yes, and of course one of the main reasons you see then why the King James continued to be used is because of the fact that the style was similar and was much preferable in the King James. But one of the things that's important here is to recognize the fact that the Revised Standard Version has made additional changes that are necessary from the standpoint of our language, which the American Standard did not make. I have here the figures, for example, that of 222 cases in which words are used in the King James that would not now be understood, in the American Standard Version, there were 157 cases changed, but they weren't in 65 cases. And they've been changed in all cases in the modern version of Revised Standard. Some of us may be familiar with the so-called Goodspeed Version. How is this different, if at all, from the Goodspeed Version, Whitgrin? Well, the Goodspeed and other versions of this type are really modern speech versions in the sense that the Revised Standard Version does not claim to be. It claims to be intelligible and modern in that sense, but also to preserve, as was stated, as much of the traditional vocabulary as is possible, consonant with a modern idiom. But the Goodspeed Version is a modern speech version, which departs completely from any traditional style and vocabulary, and is also a translation into a modern American speech. In addition, I think one might say that the Revised Standard Version is a revision, rather new translations such as those, and it is a cooperative work in which Goodspeed, Moffat, and others of these who have produced private translations have cooperated. Yes, and it's interesting that Goodspeed and Moffat were both members of the Revised Standard Committee. Yes, exactly. These men were quite clear in making their private versions that they were providing something for personal use and study. The purpose of this Revised Standard Version goes beyond that. It seeks to provide a work that will serve the purpose of the Church in public reading as well as in education and private study. A few minutes ago, Evans suggested that since September 30th, in these six months, he's received several comments, some favorable, some unfavorable. What are some of the adverse comments, especially? Well, there's the conservatism of the pew, the objection to change. A man from Oak Park writes to me that the these and thous are missing from the RSV, and why do they want to tamper with the only one solid thing we've got left, he asks. After reading the Bible for 50 years, I don't see why our pastor should inflict this new Bible on me, and now in church services for private use, they can have as many new Bibles as they want, but not for church. And then there are pamphlets. Of course, calling to the most famous of all the changes, Isaiah 7.14, where the mother of our Lord is called a virgin in the King James Version, and in the RSV she's called a young woman. And then the thee and thou for God and you for Christ seems to one pamphlet writer to assail, at least by indirection, Christ's co-equal nature with God, thus making the RSV an unwitting proponent of Arianism, or Unitarianism, as pamphlet goes on to say. But I think the main criticism is conservatism of the pew, the same as they had to invent a miracle for the translation of the Hebrew Bible into Greek, and how the objection of St. Jerome to Pope Damasus when he was commanded to translate the Bible into Latin, and so on. Just how valid, I wonder, is such a criticism as this, this objection to change, Kraft? Well, I'd like to speak especially with reference to this matter of Isaiah 7.14. This is the famous passage which has caused some folks to tear out pages of the Bible, or even to burn it. As a matter of fact, the question should be raised, what were the translators to do? They are simply to translate as accurately as they can the language which is to be found in the original. The word there in the Hebrew is Alma, used seven times in the Old Testament, and usage very clearly indicates that it means simply a woman of marriageable age. If the writer had intended to say virgin, he would have used the word Bethula, which appears some 50 times in the Old Testament and always obviously means virgin. As a matter of fact, of course, the question here has arisen in the basis of the matter of the virgin birth of Christ, but that rests entirely upon the New Testament translation of this quotation, in which obviously the New Testament uses the word virgin, and so does, of course, the Revised Standard Version. While we're speaking of these matters of inaccuracy or accuracy in scholarship, I'd like to introduce a question. One of the reviewing stand listeners in Cincinnati, Ohio, when he heard last Sunday that this was to be the subject, wrote asking, why was the commandment, thou shalt not kill, used instead of thou shalt not murder, which is, he says, the term used by the Hebrews. And to him, to murder and to kill are different matters. Now there is a matter of scholarship. How accurate is the RSV? Well, may I speak to that? It seems to me the question simply is involved as to what the word harak in the Hebrew means. It is translated kill, probably because, as it is used throughout in the Old Testament, it normally means every act of killing where human beings are concerned. And since the term murder very frequently seems to mean premeditated, and kill, after all, is a simpler term, that is probably the reason why the word kill is used both in Exodus 20 and in Deuteronomy 5, where the Old Testament gives the Ten Commandments. The idea that people are tampering with the Bible assumes that the 1611 version was the original Bible. Actually, the Bible was written in Hebrew and Greek in ancient times. What we use is a translation. And this raises many problems. For instance, you were asked this question about you as over against thee or thou. Now, in the Greek, the same word is used in all cases. There is no difference between a common conversational term and a more reverential term of prayer. We don't say thee or thou in ordinary speech today, and so these revisers, quite obviously, tried to reproduce the ordinary way of speaking of our time. Whenever Jesus was in conversation with people, and people were talking to him as a person in their group, they are represented as saying you. But whenever prayer is definitely, explicitly involved, the new version says thee or thou in references to Christ or to God. This is a difficult decision to make. It is a little bit artificial because the Greek doesn't make it at all. It's just an attempt to preserve the difference between conversational language and prayer language. Philson, you made the statement that the people think of the King James as the original. That is, they are probably misled partly by the statement, the authorized version. For many people do not realize that there were two other authorized Bibles before the King James, the Great Bible of 1539, and the Bishop's Bible of 1568. Now, it's interesting that the King James Bible, as we intimated, received similar criticisms. In fact, all translations, as Evans pointed out, the Vulgate of Jerome received. And there was originally, of course, a preface in the King James Bible which attempted to combat this opposition. I have a copy of that here. It might be interesting to read two or three statements which come from this preface. The preface started out, zeal to promote the common good, whether it be by devising anything ourselves or revising that which hath been labored by others, deserveth certainly much respect and esteem, but yet findeth but cold entertainment in the world. For he that meddleth with men's religion in any part meddleth with their custom, nay, with their freehold. And though they find no content in that which they have, yet they cannot abide to hear of altering. And they go on another place to state, many men's mouths have been opened a good while, and yet are not stopped, with speeches about the translation so long in hand, or rather perusals of translations made before, and ask what may be the reason, what the necessity of the employment. Hath the church been deceived, say they, all this while? Well, was their translation good before? Why do they now mend it? Was it not good? Why then was it obtruded to the people? Here we see, of course, a reference to the previous translations. In other words, even the King James Version was subject to much adverse criticism. And furthermore, it was not really accepted for fully two generations, although many people now would think that the King James Version had originally been the way in which it was actually written centuries and centuries ago. Interestingly there, it was the Geneva Bible, not an authorized version, which was the popular Bible. It was the Bible of the Pilgrim Fathers, the Bible of Shakespeare, the Bible of Milton, and in fact, it was the Bible of King James himself. Yes, and isn't it true that even our most conservative folk, in talking about the inspiration of the Bible, refer not to the King James Version, if they really know what they're talking about. They refer rather to the original text. And that, the point then is that the New Bible, as it is sometimes called, should translate as accurately as possible in our language for us to understand the original. In that connection, it's interesting to note that the King James Version was revised five times in the first 160 years of its existence. This shows how difficult it is to produce something that will stay up to date and satisfactory. In that connection, some persons have said, have they not, that this new Bible, so-called, is deficient in terms of what we might call literary merit. It may be accurate, all right, perhaps, but it just isn't as good literature. How about that? How valid is that comment? It's difficult to judge that so soon after the publication of a new version. The King James has had all these generations in which to make its impression upon people. And it has gotten into the minds and hearts of many people who know it well. We can't expect those people to change their attitude and give their love to a new version immediately. Probably to the end of their days, the King James Version will speak to them with a power that no new version can afford. We have to recognize that the King James has attained the position as the literary classic of our language. So that the question is not between a version which we want to criticize and a new version. This is a great version from the past. And I think people who know it well are not really in a position to judge the literary merits of the new. But you know that the King James Version is frequently called the greatest monument of English prose. That itself neglects one of the most important facts about the Old Testament. Namely that some 40% of its poetry both as printed on the page and as translated. Even in the Psalms in this new version it is magnificent literature it seems to me. Of course time will tell as to how it is received popularly. You have made a special study of Hebrew poetry craft. I think isn't it true that these discoveries of the nature of Hebrew poetry are really relatively recent within the last century. Quite so. None of them were even known at the time of the King James translation and the prophets were not recognized as poetry for the American Standard Version. Reference was made a moment ago to some persons in the conservative tradition. we realize that several of the adverse comments that have been made have perhaps come from such persons. Wickgren, have you discovered any favorable comment especially favorable comment from persons in that tradition? Well Vance there have been a number of letters to newspapers and the Christian century and other periodicals both pro and con. It is interesting that a number of statements in favor of the translation have come from what we would call conservative bodies because the statement has been made that the translators were liberals or that they obtruded theological viewpoints into the translation. Here is one such statement which combines the views issued by the Louisville Presbyterian and Southern Baptist Theological Seminaries. Shall I read a few lines? Would you read it? Just a part here. A statement which is signed here by Duke McCall and it includes this statement It ought to be received that is the version ought to be received as a serious undertaking of devout and noted American Christian scholars to give us a translation that will be at once more accurate and in more understandable English than previously produced. This we believe the translators have done. This is not to say that the translation is perfect or that the need for another will not arise but rather that we have here the fruit of expert knowledge of the Greek and Hebrew sustained by sincere Christian faith and purpose. We believe that the Revised Standard Version is an invaluable contribution to the understanding of the Bible and that its value will be established as we read it and compare it with other versions. We commend it to all Bible readers. It appears that it has literary merit that it's as accurate as possible in scholarship and that it hasn't tampered with basic texts. Evans, I'd like to ask this question. In your judgment how useful is this in public worship for example? It will become very useful as time goes on but it will take a long time. At the present time there is that conservatism of the pew which I mentioned earlier. People want to hear the Bible read the way they've always read it and content of what is liturgically read in services that is to say worshipfully read in services is not nearly so important as the feeling. Like the nice old lady the old, old story tells about who said she just loved the blessed word Mesopotamia. It's so satisfying. That's the way it goes in our worship services. Now give it time. Give it time. Philson, this question is important perhaps. How useful is this RSV likely to be in the educational work of the church in your judgment? I believe that in the long run this may be the greatest appeal that it will make. It must have a dignity and vigor for use in public worship but in private reading and especially in educational work it must make a contribution. In the Protestant church we believe that we must teach our gospel. Our children must be trained. Our young people must learn our heritage. And that means it must be in language which children and young people understand. And any version therefore which becomes unintelligible to children and young people labors under a heavy handicap. This is a life and death matter for Protestant Christianity. Is this likely to be a better version for this purpose than other versions in your judgment? I think that it is. Is it more accurate? Is it the matter of the language? What is there that gives it this a special genius in your judgment? I think that on the whole it is accurate. Of course there are many things about which we cannot be certain. Translations sometimes are questionable or alternate translations are possible. but it is I think on the whole a good and it is a clearer translation. And for that reason it makes it more valuable as an educational tool. Yes. What is likely to be the future of this as you men see this and see the other versions? For how long do you think this popularity is likely to continue? Evans you spoke of the million copies the million six hundred thousand copies. How long is this likely to be popular do you suppose? Well of course the first blush will be very great as it has already demonstrated and then the natural conservatism and the purchasing of new Bibles will take place and of course at the present time I think you will find that the King James Version is selling just about the same as the RSV or nearly so. With the RSV over a million the King James Version is still still selling tremendously. Isn't that significant? Yes but it seems to me the most significant thing here in a sense is that the word of God now and in the future must be in the language that men can read and understand and I'm impressed by the fact that in the future when the dust cover has long disappeared from our copies that the names of individuals who have translated will no longer be there but simply their dedication as indicated in the last statement in the preface. It is our hope and our earnest prayer that this revised standard version of the Bible may be used by God to speak to men in these momentous times. I'm sorry gentlemen but our time is up. You've been listening to a transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion on the New Bible. We want to thank our guests for today Dr. John Evans religion editor of the Chicago Tribune Dr. Floyd V. Filson professor of New Testament literature and history of the McCormick Theological Seminary and member of the Standard Bible Committee Dr. Charles F. Craft professor of Old Testament interpretation of the Garrett Biblical Institute and Dr. Alan Wickren associate professor of New Testament language and literature of the Divinity School and Federated Theological Faculty University of Chicago. Next week the reviewing stand will ask what does Africa want? Our guests will be William Bascom acting chairman Department of Anthropology and acting director program of African studies at Northwestern University Pius Okibo from Nigeria West Africa a graduate student in economics at Northwestern University Calvin Stillman instructor in the Department of Social Science University of Chicago and William Kijuvi from Uganda East Africa a graduate student in geography at the University of Chicago. We hope you'll join us next week for our discussion What Does Africa Want? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual Your announcer Jerry Coffer This is the world's largest network the Mutual broadcasting system cooperation continues Band of Subtitling and Internationalmbot