The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, is now host on Fifth Avenue at 64th Street in the reviewing stand to a magnificent pageant turned out by the New York State American Legion, which is concluding its convention here in New York City today. The actual formalities of the convention concluded last night under the chairmanship of Louis Dragold, and seated beside the mayor is the newly elected State Commander of the American Legion, the Honorable James Desmond. In this beautiful pageant here today, we get the real thrill of Americanism. The American Legion is one of the great organizations within the gates of our city and our nation as well, that unequivocally stands for that which is American and fine and hopeful for the future. The American Legion has just concluded its convention in New York City, and it had a most interesting time. At a rather damp time, the weatherman didn't prove to be a very good Legion man since we had rain all the way through. These drum corps that take part in these pageants on Fifth Avenue certainly ought to get an award for the magnificent turnouts of their uniforms and equipment, and they certainly add color and beauty to these pageants. The mayor of the city of New York marched uptown with the American Legion parade and took his seat just a few moments ago in the grandstand here at 64th Street. On this beautiful sunny Saturday in New York City, we are indeed happy that we're able to give a proper exposition to this beautiful demonstration here today. Yesterday, the mayor of the city of New York placed a ferry boat at the disposal of the midshipmen from Annapolis. These midshipmen, of course, come from all over the United States. That is the delegation included in yesterday's trip around the 530 miles of New York's bulkhead line. It's always a pleasure when these people from other parts of the country come to New York and make us New Yorkers realize what a great and wonderful city it really is. And we never realize it so much until we have a delegation of this kind who have an opportunity to see New York for the first time. We who have grown up here and seen its development and its growth from the small dwelling to the huge skyscrapers, as one of the boys called it in the youth convention in City Hall a week back, when he called it the tallest city in the world, that was quite a phrase and an epitomizing phrase at that. And when these strangers visit New York and get the thrill of this city for the first time, we sort of relive our own experience. Some of us have had the happiness of seeing most of this development. And when we have time to reconsider the facts from the busy, we might say, the vortex that the present scene catches us in, we really stop and realize what a great and wonderful city it most truly is. New York City has everything that any other city has to offer, and we never realize it until a group of people come from other parts of the country and see the city for the first time. Possibly one of the worst qualities that can develop in our consciousness or our appreciation of things is to become blasé. I don't think any of us really are. Some of us get a little tired, and we don't like to enthuse anymore because it's an extra effort. Well, we shouldn't feel that way about it because it is that constant enthusiasm of other people that keeps the city what it really is. The American Legion today is certainly most happy in its turnout here on Fifth Avenue, and they content themselves with the fact that they have an undivided loyalty to these United States of America and all that comprises the government of the United States of America. We'll have the privilege of presenting some of the guests here before the mayor of the city of New York speaks in the final part of the program. But we never really realize what a beautiful avenue this is with the facades of these wonderful buildings, the apartment houses that are rapidly taking place of the residences that used to be the tradition above 59th Street. Well, every parade that takes place here on the avenue witnesses a change in the use of the real estate in this part of the city. And one by one, the individual mansions are disappearing, and the apartment houses are taking their place where a greater number of people may enjoy the great open spaces of Central Park, a forethought of our forefathers in the creation and beautification as near as commerce and industry would permit of this very valuable city. The most valuable thing in it, of course, is the ground we tread on. And because of the expense of that ground, we can't always move as fast as we'd like to, because the amortization of the debt and expense required for these improvements is a matter that keeps the budget commissioner, Mr. Patterson and the mayor, in a constant state, shall we say, of incandescent effervescence. Here's one of those famous locomotives. Do you hear the bell? It's Ontario County's turnout. Engine number 322, if that means anything. 40 and 8. 40 men and 8 horses. We spoke of the mounted police when they led this parade, and it's always a pleasure to note these beautiful animals as they lead and conclude any pageant here in New York City. The horses themselves bear themselves so proudly that they seem to realize that they're part of New York City. Of course, anyone who has ever owned a horse, and I might even use the term lived with a horse and a dog, knows that it's the most wonderful trio in the world. A man, a horse, and a dog. When you have a horse of your own, I speak with experience, because before I got in radio, I owned a saddle horse. I've never owned anything since I got in radio. That's not a beef of any kind. It's just merely an experience. But I remember that horse got so after a while, it knew all the other places that we'd stop in as we'd climb the Orange Mountain and pick up other riders to go for a ride through the great South Mountain Reservation there on the top of Orange Mountain. And that horse really knew enough to bow to people as he came into the different places, and it was treated like a person and very often given a piece of sugar. I was always afraid of the horse getting diabetes, so I kept down on the sugar item, although the horse liked it and expected it. I used to ask them to exchange an apple. I didn't know then that I was heading into the health education broadcast of the city station. Here's some music. Here's some music. That bugle call was from Tioga County, Oswego, New York. Oswego, rather, isn't Tioga County, as you know. They're turned out in white trousers with gold stripes, beautiful orange-colored coats and gold trimmings, and white hats with orange-colored cockades. These drum and bugle corps add a magnificent touch to these parades here on Fifth Avenue. Now there's another musical organization coming up from 63rd Street. Maybe you'd like to get that approach of the music somewhat as we do in the entrance of the Sirdar and the Apollotov-Ivanov composition. The approach, the full force, and then the fading of the music. Thengar, the stance there's another musical too. There's another musical that we can dance and you'll see all these The End The End The stars and stripes and the various banners of the different companies of the American Legion lend a color and beauty to this pageant here in the avenue. And there's a great deal of music. I never saw so many bands and so often in a parade as there is in this Legion parade here today. The mayor himself is receiving a great deal of salutation from the street as they march up. Here's a group coming up in double time. They must have lost their place at the parade. Another beautiful outfit of a bif and drum corps, a bugle corps I should say. hiring a new generation. black and silver uniforms with bright red sashes and red pipings on the uniforms if they put the names on the drums we'd give them credit for who they are maybe they're modest they like to serve without notoriety which is the greatest form of service public honors can be as dubious as they can often be honorable there seems to be a lift to this parade everybody seems to be on the covive the crowds along the curb and in the reviewing stands are certainly enjoying every moment of it maybe they're enjoying the privilege of drying out too after all the rain this week i suppose if we tell you to conserve water anymore you'll laugh at us but there may be months ahead yet when we'll have long dry spells and eight million people using that water and the millions of visitors that come into our city naturally creates an anxiety for the commissioner of water supply so when we ask you these things please don't be a wag cooperate as good citizens we may sound funny at times but preparation is a matter of advanced viewpoint yeah it's connected to the county is coming along now their drum major is quite a baller i shouldn't say ballerina should i i should say ballet dancer he's doing quite a drill with the drumsticks he caught it that's the tallest leader i've seen in a long while he looks to be about eight feet tall well schenectady should be good it's one of the pioneer cities in the development of electricity and the general electric is one of the greatest concerns and one of the greatest assets the united states of america has among many assets when an emergency of any kind develops and we all know what they're capable of developing there the splitting of the atom and much of that experiment took place in schenectady in thomas a edison the great pioneer of electricity and who promulgated so many of the fundamental facts about electricity that finds us in the development in which we are today he was a very great factor in the founding of the general electric as well as the lampworks at harrison new jersey and uh the famous old laboratory there at west orange which succeeded menlo park i'll sometime understand the reason why the state of new jersey permitted all the edisonia to be removed from uh the state of new jersey where it belonged to dearborn michigan now this is no reflection on anybody it just seemed to me to be a lack of uh new jersey patriotism and inferentially national patriotism in not making the shrine at menlo park where these tremendous world shaking events took place in the great simplicity of the character of thomas a edison it was my privilege to know him and work through the early developments of the edison storage battery and for a man of his greatness and stature in the scientific world i don't think there was a more simple and direct personage in the world he'd even ask you if you didn't feel well if you seemed a bit draggy when you came into work in the morning because he had intentions of working you possibly it'll pass midnight and he wanted to be sure of your endurance but it was always so interesting and so wonderful that it was a lesson in greatness true greatness to understand that the greatness as mr edison knew was in the thing itself the individual well he had his own ideas about that too he had one remarkable expression that i never forgot when someone asked him how he can do so much he says i don't do so much he said i furnished the inspiration and put the perspiration on the payroll here comes the magnificent bugle corps now all in white and green and the stars and stripes and the legion flags flying high above their heads we wish we could bring you the actual picture because i'm afraid my description isn't quite adequate to transmit the color and quality of this outfit here being irish i never object to the color green that post is from geneva new york they're in beautiful white uniforms pipe in bright green and their drum majors and leaders in bright green uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... outfits their leader was a very tall man the thing i like about that he was able to display a great deal of green uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... uh... that great old revolutionary town of Mohawk. The next delegation passing now is from Mohawk. Remember that remarkable book, Drums Along the Mohawk. The book itself was a beautiful, inspirational writing about the early days of the revolution and the forts at Herkimer and the surrounding country there in the Mohawk Valley. I regret to say that Hollywood massacred the book. It's a good thing to smile and laugh but we don't think that the qualities of patriotism are a jest. One of the distinctive features of this reviewing stand today is the magnificent head of white hair that was always a notable factor of former police commissioner Enright. Commissioner Enright was the commissioner of the city of New York when WNYC was founded and he was the third speaker on the program of the opening program of the station. The amazing thing is that was 27 years ago and he doesn't look remarkably different from that day. He had beautiful white silvery hair then and he has plenty of it right now. He was a good commissioner and it was a wonderful town at that time. He also served under Mayor Walker as well. This outfit is in white ultramarine blue and gold. We were going to have some interviews here but nobody seems to want to talk. They're all interviewed. They're in different parts of the parade. We'd like to the persons we'd like to bring to the microphone and yeah and as soon as they get to where we can capture them for an interview we're going to ask them to give us a little cross-section of the state of New York from the different provinces of that great and wonderful state. We've watched the delegations from the different parts of New York State pass and the Mohawk Valley is always an inspiring flashback to the early histories of New York State and the part it played in the revolutionary history. Revolution has its quality too. Now these ladies are in beautiful silver gray and orange colored blouses and white hats with blue cockades. Why wouldn't they? They come from Monticello, a well-known province of New York City. I say that because so many New Yorkers go up there. Those orange blouses are very, very beautiful. It's really less of an orange than a deep golden yellow. Cockades are an equal yellow. Blue trousers, silver pipings. I insist on the reviewing stand. Now a beautiful color guard. The city of New York has to handle so many problems that develop in relation to its commerce and industry. And those of us who think straight realize that it is commerce and industry and the activity of the businessman, the man who creates a payroll that makes this one of the tallest. To use the statement of that boy in City Hall last week on the Youth Congress, the tallest city in the world. It's all right to have isms and ideologies if we sort of practice them as a, we might say, a diversion. And we don't divert the real and true purpose of development in the world scene. And if any of us read history at all with any concept of verity, we do know that it is commerce and industry that builds up the great empires of existence. I use the word empire to properly illustrate the force and quality of beauty and accomplishment. This city, of course, has to meet situations such as no city in the world is called upon to do. Our midshipmen yesterday aboard the boat said they were utterly amazed at the variety of things that are just an integral part of the city of New York. Some of the young engineers aboard had been around the city since the battleship Missouri and the destroyers that carried them on the tour were here in New York. And they said that they expected to see things, but the actual demonstrations of technical, mechanical, and other amazing apparatuses within the gates of our city was certainly a feast for an engineer. And a shortcut to many of the problems that in the abstract he found so difficult in the study hall. And yet to see them in operation here in New York, where he was able, and one engineer spoke, he said, everything I have wanted to see demonstrated, I have been able to find a specimen of it here in the city of New York, in actual operation as part of the maintenance of this city. And he said it's really a wonderful, thrilling thing to come to New York with a purpose, with the idea of understanding what is taking place here and what is back of this great city. That wonderful city, Poughkeepsie, located as it is at one of the historical spots of the Hudson, is now the next delegation. Here's their music from Poughkeepsie. And a magnificent array of the stars and stripes and legion banners from Poughkeepsie. You ever stop to think of what the young fireman and the young policeman has to know when he takes up service now with the city of New York? It's not like the old Dutch settlement when he carried a lantern with a candle in it and cried out at midnight and other periods of the night, all's well. Behind the severe and plain facades of these buildings is some of the greatest and some of the most dangerous technical apparatus in the world once it gets out of control. And for that reason, the fireman and the policeman has to be trained to meet the situation scientifically and technically. Rockland and Westchester County are now coming along with a magnificent array of flags of the Legion and our own stars and stripes. Rockland and Westchester County. One good thing about the organization of the city of New York and its government is the fact that the Department of Buildings, in licensing the purpose for which a building is to be used, has a full plan and a chart of everything that takes place in that building. These informations must be placed at the disposal of the police and fire department. And men within the precincts of those buildings have to make a study of the contents of the building so they know how to meet the emergency. Okay. And now, ladies and gentlemen, there's a little bit of a lull in the music, and we think at this time we'd like to present the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm here at the reviewing stand at 64th Street and 5th Avenue, reviewing this perfectly wonderful parade of the American Legion of the Department of the State of New York. On my left is the past State Department commander, Dr. Horne of Buffalo, New York, and he was very proud indeed when he saw his Buffalo contingent walking by, and he had every right to be proud because they made a wonderful appearance. On my right is the new State Department commander of the American Legion, my friend Colonel Jim Demarest. To those of us who've seen this parade go by, American Legion units representing every county in the state of New York, it would thrill anybody as it has me to see these American heroes of World War I and World War II march up Fifth Avenue on this warm August day, demonstrating to the people of our city and the people of this nation that as long as we have men in our country who are willing to take up arms in the defense of our country in time of war, that America is safe, and if anybody thinks any otherwise, let them stand up and watch this kind of parade, which is only a prelude to other parades that demonstrate that the people of the city of New York are Americans' first, last, and at all times. You've just heard the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, in his tribute to the magnificent pageant of the American Legion here on Fifth Avenue. We'd like to ask the commander to speak if he would like to. We'll have to ask him first because we haven't arranged to do so. Mr. DeProspo is conferring now with State Commander Desmond, and if it's yes, we'll put him on the air. A man who has been very busy here today and been of great assistance to us in coordinating the factors of this great American Legion demonstration on Fifth Avenue. Wait till this bugle corps passes, please. It's very difficult to talk against that wonderful music, although we want the music in the worst kind of way. And now we'd like to present the adjutant of today's outpourings here on Fifth Avenue, the Honorable Maurice Stembler, who will give his impressions of the American Legion parade here today. Maurice Stembler. I should like at the outset to thank the mayor for placing at the disposal of the American Legion the great facilities of this great broadcasting station, WNYC. Typical of every other facility that the mayor has put at our disposal, made these three wonderful days possible. I wish all of you people could have been at our convention sessions, been at our bugle and drum corps and band competitions last night, and then to see this great parade marching up Fifth Avenue. We are fortunate to be one of the few organizations that can parade up Fifth Avenue. Well, any facility that we can ever give the American Legion, Mr. Stembler, we'll be most happy to do so. And that is one of the things, one of the preliminary factors you can always count on when the Legion comes into New York City. The mayor's committee and the radio, as a means of expression, will always be at the disposal of that great American institution, the American Legion. The demonstration here today has been most beautiful and inspiring, and we figure now that there are other and regular programs to take place on the city station, and the description of this parade would be possibly nothing but a reiteration, unless we had all the state counties tuned in, and they'd like to hear descriptions of their own individual counties. Well, we doubt if that's the situation today. So with a tribute to the American Legion, and one of the great organizations that has no fear whatever about standing up and being counted as American, we hail them and we salute them. If a man will not declare himself, there is no way of knowing his quality. And if you do not know his quality, you cannot possibly classify him. And none of us with real hearts, real bloods, and real desire for existence can hope to do so without quality. And now we conclude at 64th Street and 5th Avenue as the music of this Roman Bugle Corps passes the reviewing stand. Good luck to the American Legion, long life and continued prosperity and happiness to them and their loved ones. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you for деся GLO en trike. We have time, good luck to the studios. We look пл stitches, and we return to our room for a beautiful project. We look at the corrections and movies. This is the wakes going to be final as the Japanese language. We subscribe to our channel as for no matter the most. This is the寂 gal. We've taken part the next day of the event. The Wilco of Wellington is having many new videos
