Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today the Roundtable discusses the present crisis and the American economy. Taking part in today's program are Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, Richard Weil, president of R.H. Macy and Company, and Roy Blau, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers and economist of the University of Chicago. And now to open today's discussion, Mr. Blau. I believe there is general agreement in this country that the nation must rearm. But I believe also that there are misgivings about the effects which this rearming may have on the American economy, both immediately and for the longer run. Senator Taft? I fully agree, Mr. Blau, that we're going to at least double our military preparation. The question that I raise is whether we have a sufficiently definite plan. Up in Congress, we can't decide what to do about drafting men, about levying taxes, until we know approximately what the plan is and what it's going to cost. There is a budget figure, but that seems to be a mere estimate. I've been figuring that we might have to have a total budget of $75 billion. Now Mr. Wilson comes along the night before last and says that he's going to spend $50 billion for equipment alone every year. That would mean a total budget running up to $70 billion for the Army and $100 billion for everybody else. Seems to me the time has come for all these people to get together, our economic mobilizers and our military people, and sit down and give us an intelligent guess. Of course it's a guess, but we ought to know it. Otherwise we can't make this plan that ought to be made to cover the tremendous emergency program that we face. Mr. Weil, you're a businessman. How does business look at the problem of re-arming? Business, of course, supports the program and will do its part in producing and in meeting these problems. Business, I would say, has certain understandable fears in connection with this program, on which I hope we will spend some time in discussion. It has fears having to do with money, fears about taxes, fears about margin squeezes, fears about squeezes if the prices are set and wages go up. Then they have fears about goodwill, having to do with manpower shortages and their difficulties in rendering proper services. And lastly, they have fears about their economic independence. They have reached their present high level in this country and the resulting standard of living through enjoying certain rights of business. And they would like to feel sure that the rearmament program will not unduly endanger those rights. Well, granted that the rearmament program is not as well defined as it will undoubtedly be in the course of the next few weeks and months, we must recognize that a great deal has already been done to define it. And whatever the size is within the anticipated magnitudes, we are going to have a problem of adjusting our economic system to it. Our problem is to deal with this emergency without permanent impairment of the system. How can we do this without hurting ourselves needlessly? Now you've mentioned some fears, Mr. Wilde. What specifically do you see as the dangers which the rearmament program can bring to the economic system? I think the biggest fear, Mr. Wilde is a part of all of us is inflation. I think inflation is more than a bugaboo. I think the American people understand better what happens if the purchasing power of the dollar is eroded and diminished. And I think whatever controls and regimentation are going to be necessary to avoid inflation or to minimize inflation, if we can satisfy ourselves that they are effective in combating inflation, are something that are eminently necessary. There is one other danger, I think Mr. Wilde, that is that we do not get in the state of being a perpetual military mind, that we don't make ourselves into a great imperialist nation, as many nations have in the past. I think we must realize that this is a temporary matter. Well, you think that controls and regimentation are also feared by business? I gathered from your earlier remarks, Mr. Wilde, that you consider that fairly serious also. Yes, I think there is no question about that, Mr. Blau. The difficulties that were experienced with price controls alone during World War II, and the technical difficulties of drafting the present control order, indicates that it is always possible, with the best intentions in controlling prices, to drive people out of business, to create black markets, and to run into very serious evils of that sort. Even more than that, today thousands of people start new businesses with new ideas every year, and this business of control practically chokes that initiative. You don't have that great bargain. Many of those things fail, but many of them build themselves up into new ideas and new businesses. Don't you think, Senator, that the price control problem hurts new businesses less than the tax problem? New business always wants a special tax base in wartime, and understandably, I think. Yes, but they, by the time you get through, they have to have allocations and things. It's awfully hard to start a new business if you have these controls in full effect. Well, we've learned a good deal since, in the last ten years about how to handle an emergency situation. But in some respects, our problem is more difficult even than it was at the beginning of World War II. For one thing, we have had a high level of employment in production, which gives us somewhat less room in which to expand our production as needed. And in the second place, rather than looking forward to a short, sharp crisis, after which we would presumably have peace, full peace, we're looking forward to a long period of tension. And most of those things, it occurs to me, make it more difficult at this time even than it was for a much more, a much bigger effort at the beginning of World War II. Now, our purpose here today is to talk about the policies by which these rearmament needs might be met, and yet the economy might be protected. I'm sure you've given a lot of thought to that, Senator Kef. Would you like to run through very quickly them as you see? Well, in the first place, I think it's important that we don't assume to do more than we can do and still keep some basic principles in our economy. So I think we've got to examine the magnitude of the program with great care. I have, for instance, just as a suggestion, it seems to me our military establishment is unduly wasteful. In time of war, you can't do much about it. If it's going to last for ten years, it'd be 70% of our budget. Somebody ought to make a thorough examination to study it and see if we can't get the same results with less money. Then, of course, I think we have to increase, do all we can to increase production so that we can take care of the civilian economy on the basis we want to do it, and also take care of this war program at least after we build up the preliminary equipment that's necessary. Third place, of course, we want to prevent inflation by limiting credit, by balancing the budget, by levying necessary taxes. I think we can't levy too high taxes, myself, though, without creating the very inflation, I think, is a limit even to taxation, even though you can balance the budget. And finally, I think we ought to do it in such a way as to always look forward to a return to a normal economy. Well, let's take these particular points that you mentioned up in the order you've mentioned them. Now, you mentioned the, you talked about greater economy and efficiency in the military effort. Of course, in addition to that, you have the whole question of how large the military effort should be. And there is obviously some weighing that has to be made. Do we dare sacrifice military security to reduce the risks which the expanded program would have on the economy? Mustn't the economy really support whatever is necessary for military security? Well, in principle, yes, Mr. Blah, but what is necessary for military security? That's about as elastic a figure as anybody can dream of. Complete military security would probably require us to spend $150 billion a year, be on an all-out war status, and put ourselves into a, into a garrison state. I don't think we can do that now because we're facing the possibility of peace for 10 years. We've got to get a program as opposed to a war program that people will stand for, for, for 10 years. Uh, now people will pay high taxes, uh, in the middle of the war when the boys are fighting and when they think, uh, it's going to be over in a year or two. Uh, but when it comes to paying them for 10 or 15 years, uh, there's going to be a tremendous protest. I'm wondering, Senator, uh, how you would treat in that connection a problem such as radar protection for both of our coasts, which costs several billion dollars, which isn't complete security even after we have it, and which is a good illustration of the kind of thing you were just commenting on. Well, the relative importance of these things, of course, is, I admit, a military question, uh, as far as the, what kind of things will defend us and what will not. But, uh, I, my, the only point I'm trying to make is that this military security is, is a, is a judgment, is in the judgment of people. Uh, you take the same thing, will people in the war time be postponed the construction of all school buildings? Well, I don't think people are going to be willing to postpone that for a period of 10 or 20 years. Uh, we're willing to choke new businesses off for a short time by controls, but we've got to alleviate them somehow to let people, new people, come in and share in raw materials and so forth. Uh, black markets, uh, are much more likely to arise in peace time. People will stand for price and wage controls in war, but it's going to be a tough job to impose those controls in time of peace, so that not only is, is the military security elastic, what you need for military security, well, take right now. Uh, is it necessary for our military security that we're spending billions in Korea, that we have a hundred, over a hundred thousand soldiers in Korea fighting? Is that necessary or not? Everybody agrees, for instance, that, uh, we're not apparently going to send soldiers to Indochina or Tibet. Uh, that's something that, uh, probably help our military security, but we can't afford it. In other words, this military security thing is a relative thing, and I don't want to raise the question generally, but that's why I have taken the position that we ought to emphasize the sea and the air, and that we ought to go very slowly on high land commitments in Europe and Asia. Well, Senator, I don't feel that I'm qualified as a military strategist as to what will give us security. Uh, but I don't think that it's, uh, purely a question of any man's judgment, one against another, as to what will give us security. It seems to me the problem here in connection with the economy is that we want the maximum security for the long pull. It's a question to a considerable extent of how soon our maximum effort might be required, and for how long a period of time we must be prepared to give that maximum effort. And within the economy itself, uh, we obviously, uh, shouldn't concentrate our effort too greatly on, uh, actual military expenditures, uh, if it will actually reduce our, uh, total security. But I can't agree that security is simply a matter of judgment. Oh, the things you do for security are a matter of judgment, certainly. Uh, to how far is, how far is the protection of Western Europe necessary to the security of the United States? We have all sorts of opinions. Somebody has to make up their mind. It isn't a military question, ultimately. It's, uh, it's really a civilian question. And, uh, somebody has to decide that. My only point is that we cannot go too far, uh, and wreck the economy. In the, in the last, um, war we spent about 50% of our total national product on war. And I think we could do it again in another war. The, the scope of the present program seems to be about 25% of the national economy, about half what we did in actual war. And yet, I think it is sufficient to assure as much military security as we can hope to have in time of peace. Well, obviously, whether we can get agreement on, uh, the, the point, uh, it's clear that part of our economic problem is to increase the total production of the country. Uh, how can we increase the total of the production, Mr. Blau? I felt, Mr. Blau, during World War II, that there was one question that was often discussed, but never squarely enough put up to the people so that they, uh, voiced their opinion on it. And that is the question of which they prefer. A longer work week, whatever the week may be, 44 hours, 46 hours, whatever, and at whatever pay. Or the other sacrifices that they have to make in shortages of goods which aren't produced if they don't work longer. I would like to see, as part of our present rearmament program, a more elaborate and more comprehensive effort made to find out what people really think. Not just managements of business, not just heads of labor unions, but people. I'm quite uncertain in my mind as to which they would prefer. I have no proposal to make as to which would be better for the country, a longer work week or more, uh, shortages of goods. I think people should be, uh, uh, given a chance to become articulate. In the last two years, uh, Mr. Weil, I've been, I walked through, oh, several hundred plants in Ohio. I've come to a pretty, much more of admiration of a 40-hour day than I had before. I think it's awfully hard in an industrial plant to raise this hour over 40 hours. I don't say it can't be done. It can be done in wartime. But I think it ought not to be approached with any light idea that we can just increase the hours of labor without some substantial damage to the morale of the people and the, and the health of the people. I thoroughly agree that it can't lightly be done, and I agree further that it might not be desirable. I think it's something on which attention should again be carefully focused and the reactions analyzed. I have one other point that, uh, I had in mind in connection with production. Part of increasing our production is creating new plants. Some of the new plants have to be created in critical industries, and some of those industries are reluctant to put up this added plant capacity. I think we can view some of these added plants as industrial cadres, a term which became very familiar to most people during World War II, as nuclei in the armed forces from which they could rapidly expand into larger numbers of armed men. I think if we have nuclei or cadres in the industrial system for defense, and then if we give some of these critical additional plants which we call cadres, special advantages in taxation and government financial support so that we can have a mothball fleet, if you like, of plants as well as of ships, that might help to solve our problem. The, uh, the increase in production in any event is a pretty important part of meeting the needs of the emergency without, uh, too much control and too much restriction of the economic system. And the failure to get larger and larger production will, of course, be reflected in a number of different ways, and certainly one of the ways in which it is going to be reflected is in inflation and lack of stability in the economy. The, uh, uh, uh, increase of production obviously is not the only way to try to fight the problem of inflation, and in fact it's not fully successful because people's incomes increase along with the production. But it, everybody recognizes it to be important. But now there are other ways that we can, uh, attack this problem of inflation, which in many people's minds has come to be one of the most serious of the present time. Suppose we examine for a little while what can be done about inflation, or is enough being done? Is the situation being taken care of? Well, Mr. Blonde, General, it seems to me we ought not to permit people to spend money they haven't got. That is to say we ought to limit, uh, limit, uh, credit. And we ought to prevent the government from spending money it hasn't got. In other words, we ought to balance the government's budget. And, uh, number one, you ask, you, the best way to do that? The first thing to look at is to cut the government expenditures as much as they can be cut. I certainly don't think we ought to undertake any new programs, uh, many of which are included in the present budget. Uh, I think that there are various respects in which we can cut down on the personnel. Uh, I think we can, for instance, uh, I said I don't want 40 hours, more than 40 hours in industrial work, but it seems to me that in office work, the extra four hour, and I think it ought to be, ought to be undertaken in the government, the same personnel. And, uh, and finally, as I suggested, I think a very fundamental study under a civilian with military and naval advice ought to be made to cut this tremendous expense of military preparation. I think we ought to be able to get the same results with less money. Well, I've seen very few people, talk to very few people, who would not be very happy to see, uh, government expenditures, uh, non-defense expenditures, uh, further reduced. Uh, it's a lot easier to talk about reducing it, uh, than it is actually to get it reduced, because, as I understand it, the budget is based pretty much on what appear to be a minimum public, uh, public demands for the services of the government. To cut his expenditures, and that's what we're doing by increasing the taxes on him, at least during this temporary period of very heavy, heavy production. Seems to me fair to ask the government also to cut back on some of the things that's been doing. Well, if the citizens are willing to have those cuts made, that's the real problem. Well, I, we're going to cut their own expenditures, whether they're willing or not. We, it seems to me, we might just as well tell them that they're going to, I think they'll rather have the government expenses cut than they will their own, as a matter of fact. I certainly agree with you, Senator, on that. I think it's rather difficult for the citizen, as an individual, to express himself on what parts of government expenditure should or shouldn't be cut. But I think we can be sure that they would all be delighted if non-defense expenditures were cut, and the burden, therefore, was reduced in taxes. Well, my observation is that they'd all be delighted to have the expenditures cut, which go to benefit somebody else, but not the expenditures which benefit them. And don't let's forget that the expenditures of government don't go for the pleasure and edification of the government, therefore the service of the public, and its public programs which will be cut if these expenditures are cut. But don't let me suggest that I'm against cutting expenditures. I'm in favor of cutting them, except I am not too optimistic about its being done. Well, that's the expenditure side. Now, taxes, obviously, it's already been mentioned here. We ought to have a balanced budget, balanced budget through taxes. And the administration program is to do that. We've had two tax increases last year. The Secretary of the Treasury and the President have asked for new taxes this year, $10 billion to be passed as soon as possible, and the balance necessary after it's clear just what that balance will be. Is that in harmony with what the business community is thinking about this? Did you say, Mr. Weil? I find myself somewhat puzzled as to how to speak to the entire business community because I've never known them to be unanimous about anything. I think that this added tax burden, whatever it may be, which should be paid, raises at least in my mind one question which I want to discuss here. I think it would be possible with this heavy added tax burden on personal incomes to consider a program of a certain portion of that tax being refundable to the individuals who paid the tax at some considerably later date when the inflationary dangers were substantially less. I'm thinking of that not just as an emergency measure but as a permanent measure in our tax program and one on which I'm not prepared to express a final opinion except to say that I know that the individuals who pay the taxes would pay them with greater alacrity if they knew that they were going to get some of it back at some later time. Sounds to me like compulsory saving, Mr. Weil. Is that what you mean? That is not exactly what I mean in terms of what was proposed in the Treasury in 1943 although I agree with you that there is some relationship between the two proposals. The Treasury didn't propose compulsory saving. It suggested the possibility of a refundable tax which I think is about what you're suggesting. But an extremely large one we could talk about excise taxes on durable goods as a method of cutting down consumption and production of such goods and we could talk about the excess profits tax and so on. But moving from taxes to the credit area, Senator, you've already indicated the importance of not having credit expansion. Is there anything you could add to that? Well, just looking over the figures, consumer credit this last 12 months in spite of some controls toward the end increased about over $3 billion. That means those consumers spent $3 billion they didn't have to spend. The banks have increased their loans and private securities about $12 billion. A billion a month, that's four times anything they've done in past years. And that money has been spent when people didn't have it to spend. So that you put a big purchasing power in against the same old production. The production only builds itself up very slowly. And obviously it's a material factor in the increase in prices that has occurred. It seems to me that there should be the selected controls on consumer credit. Housing credit's probably increased $5 or $6 billion. The government is taking steps in that direction, correctly so I think. I do think that the Federal Reserve Board ought to be given the right to refuse to buy government bonds from the banks at par. I think they ought to let those bonds go to their natural level, which may not be much blow par, as far as I can see. But in any event, it seems to me that if the banks cannot cash in every government bond, practically the present policy permits them to monetize the government debt. And that means that they can increase their reserves without restraint. And I think it would be a substantial check on government lending if these bonds were permitted to drop, let's say, to 95 or so. Senator, I find that an extremely technical and difficult subject to handle in a few seconds. And I simply raise the question as to whether you really will get less monetization of debt under that program than under the program that has been followed in the past. But I'm sure we would all agree that a reduction in bank credit, or at least the holding down of increases in bank credit, would be very helpful in this anti-inflation program. In a general way, Mr. Bligh, it does seem to me that if we can balance the government budget and prevent any unreasonable increase in credit, we ought to be able to hold prices without controls once this distortion of the new military production program is over. We really haven't mentioned price and wage control. They certainly have an important part in any stabilization program. But I gather from the emphasis that we've been putting on it that we look upon price and wage controls as being a relatively minor long run part of this. Or is that a correct inference? I don't think it's minor, Mr. Bligh. I think that the one thing that should be said about price control is that, at least in my opinion, it must be on all segments of the economy in order to work at all. And we must have it in order that I believe we must have it. And we can work at the anti-inflation program. Well, coming back to our general question, what can we do now to make it easier to get back to normal when this emergency is over? Well, of course, we ought to do the things we've said. And above that, I think we ought to create the psychology that this, after all, is a temporary thing we're going. We're not going to change our economy permanently. We're going to stick to the free system. I feel, for instance, that when we pass these various laws, they ought to be laws that definitely turn higher three, four, five years from now, and we can take up the question whether it's necessary to resume them. I think we must maintain the fact that we are going to stick to the American system and get back to it as soon as we can. I agree with Senator Tapp on that, and I think that nothing we've discussed cannot be discarded when the emergency is over. Well, it seems to me we've had a good deal of agreement here that we can do a great many things during this emergency period and to keep the economy from getting permanently out of line with the system that has been accepted by all of us as most desirable for the long run. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on the present crisis and the American climate. You heard Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, Richard Weil, President of R.H. Macy and Company, and Roy Blau, a member of the Council of Economic Advisers and economist of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion of the present crisis and the American economy contains the full text of the discussion and special materials on the problems of maintaining a healthy American economy during the Rearmament and Defense Program. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the Roundtable presents three leading scientists in a discussion of flu and the common cold. Today's program originated from Station WRC, Washington, D.C. The Roundtable is directed by Georgie Probst and is a public service presentation by NBC, the national broadcasting company.ным Theoden coincidental