and general overseas service of the BBC. The climax of today's celebrations inaugurating the year of office of the new Lord Mayor. The climax comes in the traditional banquet held in Guildhall and attended by the Prime Minister. We're taking you to Guildhall where, in a few moments, the new Lord Mayor, Sir Leslie Boyce, will propose the toast of His Majesty's ministers. To this toast, the Prime Minister, Mr Winston Churchill, will reply. Over an hour to Guildhall. We can't have any coffee. There's going to be coffee, but I've shown that we can have the coffee, but at the same time, wait, wait, we can slurries once in front of the BBC. Two helpful investments. Four feet fromCI. Two feet from constexing town. portal. There is a disproportionate municipality in fact. We've added two carcassons. One mile seven mile seven mile six wiser long. This is what Andy Stanton did for you. Thank you. All right, all right. Are you okay? Mr. Prime Minister, your answers, my Lord's leaders and gentlemen, please your glass of the charge and praise silence for the right honourable, the Lord Mayor. Your grace, your excellences, my Lords, ladies and gentlemen, it is my great pleasure and privilege to propose the toast of His Majesty's ministers. Thank you. The tradition of holding these banquets has persisted through many centuries, since the time when my earliest predecessor, Henry Fitz Aylwin, took office in 1189. Tonight, however, is of special significance in that we are celebrating the 450th anniversary of the first of them to be held in this ancient and historic, our battle-scarred and beloved, Guildhall. 450 years is a long time. But I do not believe that in all those years or in the 450 that preceded them, you'll find one name which outshines that of the man whose name I have the honor to couple with his toast tonight the first of His Majesty's ministers. Thank you. Mr. Winston Churchill, who excels the like in the making and in the writing of history is of the company of immortals who have made this country and our empire great. Thank you. Thank you. In his reply to this toast, the Prime Minister of the day has for generations past made an important declaration of policy to the world. The time for such a declaration has never been more opportune than at this moment. A time of critical importance to the future of this country a government has just taken office. On its policy depends nothing less than our survival as an independent nation. of this country and the future of this country is the of this country and the future of this country is the sixth occasion on which we have welcomed Mr. Churchill on Lord Mayor's day as Prime Minister. Thank you. It's the first occasion on which we have welcomed him as Prime Minister in Guildhall. On the five previous occasions which fell during the war he on each of them said at that time that they marked a milestone on our journey to ultimate victory. As the head of a government which represented all parties in the state you informed us faithfully and with no concealment of the truth of the progress of the war. and we in our turn gave and renewed our firm assurance of the city's loyalty and support in defense of these islands and of our ramparts. When my predecessor in 1945 proposed the toast of His Majesty's Ministers after the final victory had been won and under your unfaltering leadership Mr. Prime Minister we had forced all our enemies to unconditional surrender it was to the astonishment of the civilized world not to you that we raised our glasses. I feel therefore that tonight we must try to repay a debt that is long overdue. That is long overdue. In your reply to this toast, you will be afforded an opportunity to write an epilogue to those five great wartime speeches from 1941 to 1944 in each of which you sent on Lord Mayor's day a message of defiance and of hope to a world in distress. His Majesty's government, whatever his party complexion, can in the measures that it takes to strengthen the defences of the country, count upon the ready cooperation of this city. I repeat that assurance tonight. To me, coming as I do from our empire overseas, it seems to me that the city of London has one proud boast which surpasses all the rest. Today, as for so many centuries past, we stand the very heart and the centre of the British Empire, still the greatest empire the world has ever known. It is foolish to be over-modest in this matter, and such folly can be dangerous. In one of your speeches at the Mansion House during the war, Mr. Prime Minister, you struck a note which echoed in all our hearts. You had not, you said, been called to your High Office to preside over the liquidation of the British Empire. Tonight, you can give an even more inspiring message to the world. Within our family of free nations, which has found in loyalty to common ideals, a bond stronger than treaties and arms, and whose reserves of spiritual strength are inexhaustible, there lie potentially the richest territories on the face of the earth. Once developed, what riches they could pour into the lap of a hungry world. The city of London, through all the changes of the past centuries, has maintained its special connection with succeeding governments, not by reason of its size, the square mile that is neither square nor a mile, but by reason of the influence it exerts on the affairs of the nation, throughout the empire, and in the world at large. That influence derives from the part that it plays, the vital part, in maintaining the life of the nation. The activities of this city, if they cease tomorrow, the daily toil of many millions, far removed from here, would cease to bear fruit. Still the heart, and the lifeblood of the nation and the empire, would cease to flow. Deprivent of its vitality, and the creative energies of the people, would be stifled. Since Queen Elizabeth opened the first royal exchange, deprimat of its vitality and the creative energies of the people would be stifled. Since Queen Elizabeth opened the first Royal Exchange, it has not been only the preeminent position in the world of commerce which has given the city the right to speak with authority in affairs of state. At many of the most critical times in our national history, it has been the influence of London and, if I may say, of its Lord Mayors who have turned the scale in favour of the people's liberties. There were even times in the 18th century when the city of London turned the scales against the House of Commons in the defence of freedom. In these considerations, it is these considerations, Mr Prime Minister, which taken together constitute an overwhelming and irrefutable case for the separate representation of the City of London in the Mother of Parliament. We have recently been deprived of that representation. And no one, no, no one, Mr Prime Minister, condemned that act in stronger terms than did you in the course of the debate in the House of Commons. After I had had the honour and company with my brother Sheriff, presenting the petition on behalf of the city at the borough of the House, it was in the House of Commons that you declared inexplicit language that you and your party could not accept the treatment of the City of London as a permanent settlement. We look forward to an assurance from you tonight that if not immediately, at least during the life of the present Parliament, the separate representation of the City will be restored. For six and a half centuries, the voice of this city was heard at Westminster. And it is to its undying credit that it always spoke in the name of freedom. in the name of freedom. It is time that it was heard again. We realise that the tasks which confront, the tasks which confront your government, Mr Prime Minister, are almost alarming in their complexity, their gravity, and their urgency, and the dangers which threaten if they are not performed fearlessly and immediately. We ask only that you and your ministers be not deterred by them. You yourself, sir, are a man to whom the nation is accustomed to look for great things. You will therefore not be daunted by the task which I propose to you tonight. It is no less than to banish the word crisis from our current usage. So that a hundred years hence, schoolboys will have to look it up in the dictionary where they'll find it described as archaic, last used by the Lord Mayor of London, 9th November 1951. Crises occur when events take control of men. Let you and your ministers take control of events. Give back to the people the conviction of their country's and their empire's greatness, and the awareness that it is on their individual efforts, of each one of them, that that greatness depends. Release their spirits and their energies. Encourage their enterprise. Reward adventure. And there is nothing, nay, nothing, sir, that this country cannot achieve. That is the message of hope, of confidence, of encouragement, and of support, which the City of London gives to you, Mr. Prime Minister, and to the members of your administration tonight. Thank you. Mr. Prime Minister, and to the members of your administration tonight. Thank you. The term says, His Majesty is Minister Lowe, wait a minute for Mr. Prime Minister. I am sorry. Hello. We have a Typical vision... the fine is non-m ничего. A Sir? He can't Tracy? Sh Floor with Abby House. The men are board members. The pros andível Daily exha. Good evening. Good evening. My Lord and Mayor, for your grace, for your actions, my Lord, leaders and gentlemen, pray silence that the righteous Winston Churchill is a primary star. My Lord and Mayor, for your grace, my Lord, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you very much for the all too complimentary terms in which you have referred to me and to my former visits here. Though I have very often, in the last 40 years or so, been present at your famous Guildhall banquets to salute the new Lord Mayor, this is the first occasion when I have addressed this Assembly here as Prime Minister. The explanation, my Lord Mayor, is convincing. When I should have come as Prime Minister, the Guildhall was blown up. And before it was repaired, I was blown up. I thought at the time that these were both disasters. But now we are all here together in a union which I hope will bring good luck. I am sure we wish the Lord Mayor, every one of us, wishes him a successful year in his arduous office. I share his regrets. We mustn't go into party politics tonight. I share his regrets that we have no member for the City of London in the House of Commons. I know you will excuse me if I do not make any definite pledges at the present moment. It is an error, however, on the general question of the abolition of the representatives of the city. It is an error to believe that the world began when any particular party or statesman got into office. It has all been going on for quite a long time. And many movements and parties will rise and decline. And I trust many politicians, rising politicians, will catch the fleeting glint of popular acclaim and the same before the long, unrolling, unfolding continuity of our island life. It cuts asunder or fades slowly away. The Lord Mayor, it is only by studying the past that we can foresee, however dimly, however partially, the future. And it is, and it may well be, that it is only by respecting the past that we can be worthy of the future. I cannot help feeling the impact of these thoughts in this war-scarred hall. Its battered monuments remind me of other struggles against the continental tyrants of the past, the past, in generations long before the supreme ordeal of 1940, which we all endured together, was carried through to a victorious conclusion. I am so glad, my Lord Mayor, looking at this end of the building, I am so glad, though I do not see them there at the present moment, that you have decided to replace the effigies of God and Magog. You cannot get on with them, you know, without them, you know. They are an essential part of the apparatus and panoply of the city of London. It was, to me, a very painful blow when they were burnt to ashes by Hitler's bomb. But they will look fine when they come back in the gallery up there. Indeed, I think that they are not only ancient, but up to date. It seems to me that they represent none too badly the present state of world politics. World politics, like the history of Gog and Magog, which I took the trouble to read up in the Encyclopedia Britannica. World politics are very confused and much disputed. Still, I think there is room for both Gog and Magog. On the one side is Gog, and on the other, Magog. But be careful, my Lord Mayor. You have a very critical year. Be careful when you put them back to keep them for colliding with each other. For if that happens, both Gog and Magog would be smashed to atoms, and we should have to begin all over again. And begin from the bottom of the pit. We'll give you that understanding. Thank you very much. Pure assurance. That you will be very careful. Yeah. Whatever are the differences between Gog and Magog, at any rate, the Lord, ladies and gentlemen, they are in the main, made out of the same materials. Let me tell you what the materials are. Vast masses of warm-hearted, hard-working human beings, wanting to do their best for their country and their neighbours, and longing to build their homes and bring up their children in peace and freedom, and with the hope of better times for the young when they grow up. That is all they ask of their rulers and guides, and their governors. That is all they ask from them. And that is a dear wish in the hearts of all the peoples of mankind, their spontaneous desire. How easy it ought to be, with modern science standing tiptoe, ready to open the doors of a golden age. How easy it ought to be to grant them this humble, modest desire. But then there come along, all these tribes of nationalists, ideologues, revolutionaries, class warfare experts, and imperialists, with their nasty regimentation of academic doctrinaires, they are all striving night and day to work them all up against one another, so that the homes, instead of being built, are bombed, and the breadwinner is killed, and the broken housewife is left, to pick the surviving children, maimed and scorched out of the ashes. There is the structure, that is the composition, which Gog and Magog, express them how you will, have in common, and there is the fate which both will suffer. If you, my Lord Mayor, and it's on you tonight, see? If you, my Lord Mayor, and others concerned in our city affairs, and some of those who deal with world affairs in this country and others, do not act with ordinary common sense, and keep Gog and Magog from falling upon one another. and breaking each other to pieces. I assure you they will. Somehow or other, these ideas about Gog and Magog seem to have some suggestive relationship to the discussions which are taking place in Paris at the present time. But we must not let our thought be complicated by our imagery. So here I leave Gog and Magog, I hope to see them some other year, when perhaps you will invite me. Yes, thank you. Yes, I hope to see them there. So here I leave them, hoping indeed that I may have the chance to see them in their places, as you now promised me. What is the world seeing? Presented to us today. Mighty forces, armed with fearful weapons, are baying at each other, I hardly say glaring, but baying at each other across the Gulf, which I have the feeling tonight, neither wishes and both fear to cross, but into which they may tumble, and in tumbling drag each other into their common ruin. There is the world scene. On the one hand, stand all the armies and air forces of Soviet Russia, and all their communist satellite agents and devotees in so many countries. On the other, are what are called the Western democracies, with their far superior resources, at present only partly organized, gathering themselves together around the United States, with its possession of the mastery of the atomic bomb. Now, my Lord Mayor, there is no doubt on which side we stand. Britain and the Commonwealth and Empire, still centering upon this island, are woven by ever-growing ties of strength and comprehension, of common need and self-preservation, come home to us all. We are bound by all these to the great republic across the Atlantic Ocean. The sacrifices and exertions which the United States are making to deter, and if possible to prevent, communist aggression from making further inroads upon the free world, are the main foundation of peace. A tithe of the efforts now being made by America, would have prevented the Second World War, and would probably have led to the downfall of Hitler, with scarcely any blood being shed, except his own. My Lord Mayor, I feel tonight a deep gratitude towards our great American ally. The United States have risen to the leadership of the world without any other ambition, but to serve its highest courtes faithfully. I am anxious that Britain should also play her part, and I hope to see that gathering all her Commonwealth around her, she will present a revival of her former influence and initiative among the Allied powers, and indeed among all powers. It must not be forgotten, my Lord Mayor, that under the late government, we took peculiar risks in providing the principal atomic base for the United States in East Anglia, and that in consequence we placed ourselves in the very forefront, of Soviet antagonism. We have therefore every need, and I think every right, to seek and receive the fullest consideration from Americans, for our point of view. And I feel sure this will not be denied us. In order to regain our position, we must do our utmost to re-establish as quickly as possible our economic and financial solvency and independence. We were shocked and surprised by the situation with which we were confronted after accepting responsibility exactly a fortnight ago. This resulted partly from world causes, but also partly from the prolonged electioneering atmosphere in which we have dwelt for nearly two years, and especially in the last two months. We have, uh, we are newcomers after six long and eventful years, and for years. But we have certainly, as it seems to me, at first sight, have been left a tangled web of commitments and shortages, the like of which I have never seen before. And I hope and pray we may be guided, we may be granted the wisdom and the strength to cope with them effectively, in the months, and perhaps in the years before us. But if these conditions of furious political warfare are between the two halves of our party divided, not naturally divided, not kindredly divided, but party divided, Britain, if this is to continue indefinitely, and we are all to live under the shadow, the perpetual shadow of a third general election, it will not be at all good for the main life interests of the British nation, or good for our influence in world affairs. Nevertheless, the Lord Mayor, whatever way things may go, may go all sorts of ways, whatever way they go, and so we shall not fail to do our duty, however unpopular that may be. It is not, it is not cheers that we seek to win, nor votes we are playing to catch, but the respect and confidence of the nation as a whole that we desire. This cannot come from words, this cannot be gained by words alone. It can only come from action, which proves itself by results. Results cannot be achieved by a wave of the wand. Yes. Time is needed for a new administration to grasp and measure the facts which surround us in battling and menacing array. more time is needed for the remedies we propose. And will propose. There are a lot more remedies coming. Yes. Time is needed for them to produce their curative effects. Nothing would be easier than for this country, politically rent-asunder as it is, to shake and shatter itself into bankruptcy and ruin. But under grave pressures in the past, we have always proved ourselves to be a wise and unconquerable people. and I'm sure we shall succeed. No doubt, Miss Majesty's Government will make mistakes. We shall not hesitate to admit them. I made many in the war, but in the end we got out of it all right. You see, however, always a comfort in times of crisis. You said we must never use the word crisis. All right. I will endeavor to banish it. But not to banish it from our vocabulary before we'll banish it from our daily routine. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. We always are comfort in times of crisis to feel that you are treading the path of duty according to the light that I granted you. One then need not fear whatever may happen. It was in this spirit that we all came through our worst perils eleven years ago. And I have a good and buoyant hope that the great mass of the nation will give us its ungrudging aid in all matters of truly national importance. Yeah, yeah. If this happens, they may feel, in two or three years' time, that they have not been led on wrong courses. And that Britain stands erect again, calm, resolute, independent, the faithful servant of peace, the valiant champion of freedom, and an honored member of the United World Instrument for preserving both. The Prime Minister, Mr. Winston Churchill, was speaking at the Lord Mayor's banquet at Guildhall. He was replying to the toast of His Majesty's ministers, proposed by the new Lord Mayor, Sir Desley Boyce. From the House of Commons in London, England, you've heard a speech by Prime Minister Winston Churchill. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System. The Municipal Broadcasting System.
