The End The End The End The End The End And now we're speaking to the Honorable Grover A. Whalen, the Chairman of Mayor Impelitari's Reception Committee for this big day here in New York City. Mr. Whalen, what are the plans for this morning, sir? Well, we're on board the Coast Guard Cutter as Mayor Impelitari and British Ambassador Franks, the British Consul General, and Ambassador Simmons, Chief of Protocol of the State Department, and Mr. and Mrs. Beecham. Mrs. Beecham, as you may recall, is Sarah Churchill, and she's going down to meet her father. She told us a short time ago that she hadn't seen the father since the election. The day is not a very pleasant one because of the cloudiness in the fog, but we hope that it will clear up by 11 o'clock when the Prime Minister expected to take off from Floyd Bennett Field. I think we ought to hear from the mayor now about how he feels getting up about 5 o'clock this morning and going down the bay. It's a little new experience for Mayor Impelitari, but those of us who are sea dogs have had this experience before. Now, Mr. Mayor, how do you feel about getting up at 5 in the morning? Mr. Whelan, ladies and gentlemen, it's no unusual experience for me to get up at 5 in the morning. And on this occasion, instead of it being a task, I consider it a real pleasure. As you know, Mr. Whelan, I've never missed a boat. That's getting back. On the serious side, it's a great pleasure and an honor for me, representing the people of the city of New York, to go down the bay to meet the distinguished Prime Minister of England, Winston Churchill. I had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Churchill here in the city of New York some three or four years ago, right after he made that very prophetic speech at Fulton, Missouri. The things that he said at that time have proven to be pretty near correct. So today, I'm very happy to renew my acquaintance with Mr. Churchill and to greet him warmly on behalf of all the people of the city of New York. Thank you very much, sir. It always gives me great pleasure to come to the United States. I passed a large portion of my life before I came here at all. The first time was in 1895, October 95. And I've been back several times since. And I've always been treated with the very greatest kindness, with the courtesy which you always show to foreigners, and even perhaps a little more. Because I do not feel myself entirely estranged. I hear my American ancestors on my mother's side going quite a long way back. But now I've come over here when, at a rather late period in my life, I have undertaken again to bear the heavy burden of these troublous and, in a way, bewildering times. I've come over here not to make all kinds of agreements and arrangements and interchange all kinds of diplomatic documents. I've come over here to see again some of the friends and good comrades of the great wartime days through which we passed together. And I think that it is of great importance when a new government comes in, as it has done in our country, that those who have the responsibility for guiding it, like Mr. Eden and myself, should get in touch from an early stage with their American friends and colleagues. Many we have met before. But there are others that I have not yet had the pleasure to meet. But it is not to make positive and definite statements that I have come to see you here this morning because I really don't know whether I should be right to go and anticipate all the matters which we shall have to discuss at the conferences. But this I will say, that the two governments, British and American, must understand each other's point of view and must try to do all they possibly can to help each other in the common cause. And I trust that we shall build up again something of that intimacy at the different levels and at the service levels as well as in political spheres which did enable us to go through so many dangers and perils in the past and without which I do not believe fair and easy settlement of the new problems will be reached. Therefore, you must not expect too much of this conference. You must not expect a lot of decisive or startling conclusions. It will be a question of creating that friendly atmosphere which does enable so many difficulties to be overcome and to get ourselves a little above the paper level where so much correspondence passes in these days and thus make easier the discussions of all the difficult matters and events which will arise from month to month in the next few years. But I hope it will not be so long as that before I come back again. I thank you very much for your welcome. It is the first time I have received military honors on landing in the United States either in peace or war and I greatly value that. I thank you gentlemen all very much for coming out. I am so glad you were spared the rigors of the journey out to the Queen Mary. but I hope nonetheless you will feel satisfied with such reception that I can give to your much valued compliments. Thank you sir. Thank you Mr Churchill. I would ask Mr Eden to address you if you will be so kind. This is an occasion not I think entirely the first in my public life in which I find myself in complete agreement with every word that Mr Churchill has so happily said to you. So much an agreement that that is not a great deal that the Foreign Office could ask. Perhaps I could just say two things. The first is that fortunately for myself in July and August last year I was able when out of office to pay a visit to this country and to a number of states in the United States and so I feel I have had some recent contact and it was a very friendly and enjoyable contact. That of course was without the responsibilities of office. Now I come back to you with Mr Churchill with less freedom and more responsibility. I'm not quite sure that I like that quite so much but there it is. The second thing that I would like to say perhaps I might mention Prime Minister is that before we came here we did pay a visit across the channel to Paris and we had a very useful two days conversation with our French friend the facts of which have been fully and frankly recorded in a statement which was then made. I mention that because I think it's fair to say that we come after a most useful understanding in Paris and in the confidence that on that foundation we can build even more usefully a further understanding here in Washington. Thank you very much. Thank you.