This very service is a true way between the New England states and our capital in Washington. There's no question about it. It is the connecting highway, and it must be recognized not as anything local, but something that serves the nation as well as the 200,000 people of Staten Island. And one of these men that don't, or one of these agencies that don't seem to recognize the importance of this service to the nation is our budget director. Only recently, after these three ferry boats were put in service, sisters in service today, they took off, or at least deducted from the expense budget the operational cost for a standby ferry boat. Where every free enterprise system in the nation, every bus, private ferry boats, and this service, and no money in the budget for the standby ferry boat. And I hope that will be corrected. Now I merely point this out. So we'll not hear any more in the future about spending money improving this Staten Island ferry service. In Richmond Borough today, we have a population of 200,000 people. If we were a city, we would be 42nd in size in the United States. We would be almost the size of some states of the Union. And yet when it comes to improved conditions in our borough, we're considered as the tail of the dog and the little fella. But here is a community of 200,000 people. And we're growing more rapidly than any of the other boroughs outside of the borough of Queens. Now I don't mean to take away from a single word of praise for the construction of these three ferry boats. But unless they were constructed, there would be chaos. Now, we must have the completion of the St. George ferry terminal if the nearest bridge is to be deferred for many years. We must have a greater approach here at Whitehall Street if we are to be denied the construction of the nearest tunnels for many years. This facility is outloaded. I pointed that out to the city construction coordinator some months ago. We must have greater facility here to get on these ferry boats. Now in conclusion, I'm delighted, delighted that this third ferry boat was named after the great explorer, to whom we owe so much, Verrazontal. And I want to compare this ferry service to that old story and old song that we hear, Old Man River just keeps rolling along. My admonition of it is to the, those that operate the ferry boat from the standpoint of a Staten Islander is, just keep them rolling along, but keep them rolling along on time. I thank you. In times of stress and strain, frequently small things are ballooned and developed out of all proportion to their importance. This can be important and it can be constructive. But in the process, some of the greater, more important events that take place in our lives are overlooked. In our great municipal government, the policy of the mayor has been to conscientiously, honestly, and with the fullest integrity of the available, make all his decisions in the best interest, not of the few or of a group here or there, but all his decisions, difficult ones, difficult ones and some not so difficult, in the best interest of all of the people of the city of New York. He has worked long hours, week after week, in carrying the heavy burden that the office of mayor places upon his shoulders. We certainly can say that the results he has obtained have done well to credit him with a leadership that has not been here in a long time. In all his efforts, he has been, as far as I can see, in the important part of the city of New York City. He has been here in the city of New York City. So I will not charge him with partiality. But if visitations and interest in a particular borough are some clue to affection, I certainly think we are safe in concluding that the mayor holds the borough of Richmond very, very close to his heart. It is a real honor to present the mayor of the city of New York, Vincent R. Pelleter. Commissioner Cavanaugh, Reverend clergy, Burr President Wagner, Burr President Hall, distinguished guests, Mrs. Impelletary, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to adhere to the admonition given by the distinguished borough president of Richmond. He addressed it to the crew of the ship, but I think he really directed it at me. Because he knew that if I took too long after all these other addresses, the crew would not be able to get this ship out on time. So, Neil, I promise you that I won't do anything to hold up the exit of this ferry boat on its initial trip. I'm very proud and happy to be here today because I lived through all those days that Neil Hall talked about. As president of the council in those days, we had a great deal of difficulty in getting started on this program to build three ferry boats here in the city of New York. And we're very proud and happy that we did that. I attended the launching of all three of these ferry boats. And frankly, I think today that it should be Mrs. Impelletary who should be up here speaking for the city because she was over there that day, breaking the bottle of champagne over the stern of that ship on the day that she was launched. And if you'll recall it, it was really a very cold, windy day. So today, naturally, we're all happy to be here. We're thankful to the Bethlehem Shipping Company for the wonderful job they did in delivering this ship on time. We're thankful to both management and labor that made it possible for that delivery to be effectuated on time. Of course, this is not one man's job. The people of Staten Island, I know, are thankful to every member of the Board of Estimates who voted the appropriation that made this ferry boat service possible. So on this occasion, what more have we to do than to say that we're appreciative of your cooperation? Because after all, it's you people who pay the bills in the last analogy. You pay the bills and it's up to us to provide the service, whether it's in Manhattan or Staten Island or in the Bronx or in Brooklyn or in Queens. It's our job to see to it that the people of our city receive the kind of service that they should receive in return for the taxes we ask them to pay. That's our job. Today, this is only one other evidence which we have day after day demonstrated by today by the opening of this new ferry service. Only a few weeks ago by the opening of the Brooklyn Battery Underpass. On another day, the opening of a hospital. It's all calculated to give the people of our city better service. So today, this is only another link in that chain of providing that kind of service for the people of all the city of New York, but today directed principally to the people of Staten Island. Let's get on, Neil, with the exit of this boat. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. The Mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeleteri, with Commissioner Cavanaugh and Father Bridgman from Trinity Church, are now proceeding to the ferryboat Verrazano, where it will be blessed by Father Bridgman from Trinity Church, with the color guard of the American Legion. The occasion is the mayor of the city of New York accepting from the Bethlehem Steel Company the ferry boat, the triple deck radar equipped ferry boat, Veritano, which now goes into service to the people of the city of New York after a short trial run on the Hudson River. Immediately following which it will start in its service between the Battery and St. George Staten Island. That is all from Pier 5 Whitehall Street. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletari and a distinguished company are here in the very historical end of New York City at the Whitehall Terminal for the acceptance by the mayor of the city of New York and the Department of Marine and Aviation of the new ferry boat, Veritano. It's about 290 feet long, 69 feet wide and 20 feet deep. It has a speed of 18 miles an hour under ordinary conditions but has made as high as 19 on its trial run. And now may we present the chairman, the Honorable Erwin Zeltner, who will act as chairman and present the regular order of program. Mr. Zeltner. Ladies and gentlemen, as secretary of the Department of Marine and Aviation, I have the pleasure of welcoming you here today. This occasion is another historic event in the history, in the long history of the famous ferry service which is under the jurisdiction of the Department of Marine and Aviation of the City of New York. We have a program that will consume upwards of 40 minutes or so. And without further ado, I'd like to introduce to you, your master of ceremonies, Mr. Cavanaugh, Commissioner Edward F. Cavanaugh of the Department of Marine and Aviation. Mr. Cavanaugh. Mr. Mayor, Mrs. Pelletieri, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, we of the Department of Marine and Aviation are truly sensible of the importance of this occasion. The presence here this morning of leaders of government, leaders of business, leaders of diplomacy, leaders of labor, attest that the work accomplished has been work that should be rewarded by an understanding on the part of everyone of what goes on in a municipal government. We are here today to accept the third of the three new ferry boats of the Department of Marine and Aviation. About four months ago, the mayor presided at the launching ceremonies of this vessel, and we were honored at that time to have as the sponsor of the vessel, the first lady of our city, Mrs. Vincent R. Pelletieri. Today that boat will take its rightful place in the fleet of boats of our municipal ferry system. It will carry out under the hands of a competent captain and crew the policies of the mayor that we ought to provide the most efficient and safest ferry service in the world. That boat in itself, ladies and gentlemen, is truly a magnificent vessel. It is 290 feet long, 69 feet wide, and has three decks. It is equipped with all modern devices, radar, radio telephone, as a six-cylinder, uniflow steam engine, which gives it 4,000 horsepower at normal speed and 5,000 horsepower at maximum speed. The boat is fireproof throughout and can make 19 knots. The vessel has been built by a free government, free enterprise, and free labor, and stands in the last sense of the word for everything that we have espoused under our form of government. It is my pleasure to point out that this vessel has been completed through the efforts of the civil service employees of the Department of Marine and Aviation. Those people, through their energy, their experience, and their loyalty, have brought this vessel to completion at a time when they were also engaged on projects involving the two other huge vessels, when they were engaged on a project which meant the construction of a $25 million ferry terminal just across the river from here, at a time when they had completed, after great effort, with constant attention, $18 million in port improvement and construction contracts, which were part of the mayor's overall program for a $58 million development of this harbor. Those people, it seems to me, are too frequently overlooked on occasions such as this. And it is my pleasure to have stopped for that moment to mention that we appreciate from the bottom of our hearts their attention to duty and their abilities. I would also like to express grateful appreciation to Mr. Kendlin, the naval architect for this vessel, to the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Company, whose efforts and assistance have brought the completion of the vessel about so speedily, to Captain William McGuire of our ferry service, to Mr. Sid Rose, President of Local 12 of the Marine and Shipbuilding Industrial Union, and to all the members of that union and all labor who are engaged on this vessel. In naming this vessel, ladies and gentlemen, we have stopped to honor a man whose name the pages of history has made illustrious. Giovanna de Verrazano, the cosmographer, navigator, had many exploits to his credit, not the least of which was the discovery of Staten Island and the lower part of our bay. Historians differ on whether or not navigator Verrazano discovered the Hudson River, but the pages of history reasonably indicate that he was the first of those great foreign navigators that came to our shores to reach the mouth of that river. He was an Italian, born in Florence, Italy of Italian parents, and like many others of his race, who down through the ages from his time have brought light and credit on the world, we now find that he stands out as a figure in history to us. Conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, so not to delay these proceedings, I know I express the wish of all of you when I wish Godspeed to this vessel and wish it many, many years of happy sailors. Thank you. A few months ago, when the mayor was here at the acceptance ceremony of the ferryboat Cornelius Calk, as he approached the terminal, it was necessary to come through considerable disorder in mud and new construction. That work was being carried on with the policy of making Manhattan more modern. They were building an underpass out here to take the heavy traffic away from the terminal proper, and they were starting to tear down the elevator so that we might have a more sunlit vista in front of the terminal itself. That work was being carried out by one of our more aggressive and efficient public servants, the Borough President of Manhattan, who takes care of this side of our ferry transportation system. I'd like to present to you the Borough President of Manhattan, Robert F. Wagner, Jr. Commissioner Cavanaugh, Reverend members of the clergy, Mr. Mayor, Mrs. Impelletary, Borough President Hall, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen. I deeply appreciate this opportunity to participate in the acceptance of another link between the Borough of Manhattan and the Borough of Richmond. Just last week, I returned from a quick trip to Europe where I represented the mayor in opening up a new air route to Bremen, Germany. And during the course of our trip, we had an opportunity to see a good deal of the construction work and the reconstruction done over in Germany as a result of the bombings received in the last war. And coming back here, not only is one happy to return and realize what a great town New York City is, but to be able to participate in ceremonies such as this, where we're not reconstructing anything as a result of bombings, but adding another link in our chain to make life a little better and more comfortable for the people of our city. And I know all of us are proud of the work that's being done here by the Department of Marine and Aviation under Ed Cavanaugh and under the leadership, of course, of the mayor in bringing to our people more comfort and better service. And as Ed Cavanaugh mentioned, I'm sure that all of us here in the Borough President's Office appreciate the patience of so many of the people who've used the ferries in the past few years because of the work that's been going on here. But we hope in the very near future to have it cleared up so that you will be proud of it as well as ourselves. Because I know, Neil Hall and I agree, that the boroughs of Manhattan and the Borough of Richmond are closely allied through the many friends who live on the both boroughs. Many people from Manhattan have gone to Richmond to find happier homes, more ground, and the beauties of that borough. And I'm sure some have come from Richmond, even if it's only for the day, here to Manhattan to participate in our wonders. And I know here today, we're all glad and proud of our city, proud of the fact that we're naming this ferryboat, have named it, after a great Italian navigator and discoverer. Because so many others from that great land have come to America here to lend so much to our culture and to our American tradition. I'm sure that this is just another step in the progress of New York and the linking of the boroughs of both Manhattan and Richmond. Thank you very much. For the reason that a great deal of the work of the Commissioner of Marine and Aviation is on the Richmond side of this harbor, his lot would indeed be a difficult one if he could not be assured of the assistance and counsel of the first citizen of Richmond. During the time I have been here, and I am sure during the time of my predecessors, we have always been assured of the unstinting assistance, counsel, and advice of the borough president of Richmond. With great effort, personal sacrifice, beyond the normal hours of duty, he has conferred with us, he has given us tips, and he has helped us in every way possible. It's my pleasure to present the first citizen of the borough of Richmond, Cornelius A. Hall, borough president. Mr. Mayor, Mrs. M. Pelletieri, Commissioner Cavanaugh, Admiral Olsen, Reverend Clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I have not prepared an address. I prefer to talk briefly on the history of these three ferryboats and of the Staten Island Ferry Service. Now, you have all heard time after time the phrase, what's in a name? Well, I learned that there is a great deal in a name, especially after it became known in my borough that the Board of Estimates approved an appropriation for three new ferryboats. Hundreds of applications poured in asking that I advance their request to name one of these ferryboats after a grandfather or the like. Now, we in Richmond are very proud of these three ferryboats and of the names of the three ferryboats. One ferryboat that George F. Merrill represents not alone a local war hero, but a national hero, the winner of the Congressional Medal of Honor. The other ferryboat was named Cornelius G. Culp, and Mrs. Culp is on the platform, his daughter. Cornelius G. Culp was one of the most outstanding civic workers in this city, not alone in our borough. And the third boat is named after the explorer, Verrazano. Now, there is a lot to be said about this explorer of Verrazano. He was denied his rightful place in history. But I appreciate, and I know the people of Staten Island appreciate, that the mayor of this city, Vincent M. Pelliteri, saw to it that he would, from now out, gain a place in the history of our city. And today, we are honoring this explorer, the memory of this explorer, Verrazano. It took Dan Santoro and the Staten Island Historical Society to bring it out. They made the application, and I advance it to City Hall. But the only one who can name a ferryboat or give the nod to the naming of the ferryboat is the mayor of the city of New York. That has been the history of naming of ferryboats since the consolidation. Now, what about this ferry service? There are a number, a great number of people in this city, civic organizations, citizens' union and the like. Think only of this ferry, Staten Island Ferry Service, as a local service between the great borough of Manhattan and our borough, Staten Island, Richmond. Now, it is, that's not the real history of this ferry service. Talk to Chris and get one Ensuitevik
