A salute to you and your Red Cross. A specially transcribed salute with Elliot Lewis, Anne Whitfield, Janine Roos, yours truly Bill Foreman, and starring Alice Faye and Phil Harris. Now, here's Phil. There's them that does and them that don't and them that says they will but won't so if Satan tempts you, hold on tight cause you can't do wrong doing right. There's them that shall and them that chant and them that wish they could but can't but it's them that does that sees the light cause you can't do wrong doing right. Look at that gal Delilah. She had them all in a spin. She clipped the mighty Samson but she got caught when the house fell in. So you see, there's got to be just one road for you and me. Let old Satan know he's lost the fight cause you can't do wrong doing right. You gotta do right. Well, make me know it. Yes, you gotta do right. Well, keep on a preacher. If you wanna see the light. Oh, tell it, brother. You can't do wrong when you're doing right. There's them that's good and them that's mean and them that's somewhere in between but it looks to me from what I've seen that you can't do wrong doing right. There's them that's meek and them that's full. Now, don't ask me but I've been told it's the meek that plays them hops of gold cause you can't do wrong doing right. Look at old Big Goliath ragging about his side digging on little David but he got his right between the eyes and so you see, there's got to be just one road for you and me. Let old Satan know he's lost the fight cause you can't do wrong doing right. You mustn't do wrong. That's right with me. No, you mustn't do wrong. That's philosophy. If you wanna get along. Oh, I believe it now. Don't you never get along if you're doing wrong. Now, they threw Daniel to the line. The king had it done. He's the law. But it wasn't long till Daniel had all of them cats drinking milk out of straw and so you see, there's got to be just one road for you and me. Let old Satan know he's lost the fight. You can't do wrong doing right. No, you can't do wrong doing right. Cause you can't do wrong when you're doing what is wrong. Keep on doing right. Friends, the Red Cross is more than an institution. It's the heart of America reaching out wherever trouble or disaster strikes. It's your sympathy, your understanding, your generosity for your neighbors across the street or across the nation. Think about that when you make your contribution. Today, as we look in on the Harris's, Alice is preparing to wash the lunch dishes and Phil has just returned from a band rehearsal. Hiya, honey. Hello, Phil. How did the rehearsal go? Fine. I was in great voice. I was hitting those low ones like a bell, honey. Hey, where are the kids? Oh, they're in school. And Phil, when they come home, I wish you'd talk to them. They were very naughty and noisy this morning. They were doing things... Hold it, Myrtle. Hold it. Now, don't start on me this early in the morning. My kids ain't naughty. They're as refined and well-behaved as I am. And they ain't noisy either. I've taught my children to be quiet and docile. Docile? Docile? Don't mess with it, honey. It's too tough for you to handle. The trouble with you is you don't know how to manage them. I let them know who's boss. I don't let them start... I did not. You pushed me. I'm gonna tell Mommy I'm gonna tell Mommy. I don't care. Wait a minute. Wait, wait a minute. What's going on in here? Your docile children have arrived. What are you girls doing home so early? The teacher sent us home. Why? She's got a grudge against us. Yeah, she didn't like the record we brought to music appreciation class. Why not? I gave you Brahms' Lullaby. That's a beautiful melody. Oh, she liked that one. But she didn't think the one Daddy gave us was classical enough. And what record did your daddy give you? The Dark Town Poker Club. Oh, Phil, how could you give them a record like that? It's not even a song. It doesn't have any melody. Well, maybe not, but it has an exceptional recitative. Recitative. Recitative? Let it lay. That'll give you more trouble than Dole Time. Girls, was the teacher very angry with you for bringing that record to school? She was kind of mad. But she really blew her top when Phyllis and I sang it. You sang Dark Town Poker Club? Oh, stop it, Alice. You children don't even know it. Oh, no? Hit it, Phyllis. Bill Jackson was a poor old dub who joined the Dark Town Poker Club and cursed the day he told them he would join Red, da, da, da, da, da. He's a bad boy. Well, Alice, did you hear that? Do you want your children to be expelled from school? What was good enough for their father is good enough for them. The teacher wants to see you, Mommy. Here's a note she sent to you. I was afraid of that. What's she got to say, honey? Dear Mrs. Harris, I would appreciate your dropping in to see me at school this afternoon. I would like to talk to you on a matter of vital importance. Sincerely, Miss Williams. Oh, so she wants to talk to us, huh? Well, there's a few things I want to tell her, too. And I'll be glad to go to school with you and straighten her out. Yes. For the sake of the children and the morale of the school, please come alone and don't bring old do-what-diddy. Oh, dear. Now I'll have to go to school with the children this afternoon and it's all your fault, Phil. Okay, so I'm sorry. I wouldn't mind, but I have the dishes to do and I wanted to wash out a few things. I'll take care of that for you. I'll do the dishes and I'll put your stuff in the washing machine. Go ahead. Go with the kids. Now be careful, Phil. Don't mess up my washing machine. And here's Alice with a song for you. Down among the sheltering palms A honey, wait for me A honey, wait for me Don't be forgetting We've got a day Out where the sun Goes down about eight How my love is burning Burning, burning, burning How my heart is yearning Yearning, yearning To be down Among the sheltering palms A honey, wait for me Down among the sheltering palms A honey, why don't we go Where trees are shady Watching the lovely Hoola ladies We've got a little date We should keep Out where the moon Is never asleep While my love is Waiting, waiting, waiting Why should you be Always hesitating To be down Among the sheltering palms Oh honey, wait for me Down Wait up Among the sheltering palms They tell me How would you like To be my honey Hot with skies Are nice and sunny We'll know What pretty moonlight is for We'll see the ocean Kissing the shore I'll be glad For all the love We started If you're not Then I'll be broken Harder to be down Way down Among the sheltering palms Oh honey, wait for me Now before we continue With the story of the Harris's Here's Phil with a real life Red Cross story He was only a kid And a little scared As he walked in to see the chaplain Because in the army You don't lose important papers And that's just exactly What Don had done Left his leave papers And all his records In the car of a total stranger All he knew about him Was his name And that he lived in Kansas But this was New York And Don was traveling On proceed orders Supposed to pick up Air transportation For the coast that afternoon Even the chaplain Thought it was hopeless But he called The Red Cross field director anyway Don sat there Dying a thousand deaths Too scared to even hope Then things began to happen The Red Cross called Their local chapter In a certain town in Kansas The chapter traced the man And got the New York Address of his firm A call there located him And where his car was parked Don was on his way Within an hour And was he a happy guy Does he think the Red Cross Cares about helping a fella In a tight spot I leave it to you Now back to Phil And his domestic problems He's determined to show Alice He can take care of the dishes And the washing for her Now let me see Alice has two slips here And uh I wonder if she wants This girdle washed Yeah Might as well put it in I often wonder Why Alice wears one She's so slender Hiya, Curly Oh, hello, Frankie What are you doing? Gonna wash out a girdle Oh Shall I turn around While you take it off? I'll be a wise guy I'm doing Alice's laundry Why are you doing it? For a very simple reason Alice is going to school Because Miss Williams Don't like the way I sing Dark Town Poker Club So I'm doing her laundry Alice is going to school Miss Williams Don't like the way You sing Dark Town Poker Club So you're doing her laundry Curly, I feel slighted Why? I don't like the way You sing it either But you never do my laundry Look, if you want to Hang around here Be quiet Don't carve Now look We got a lot of work To do After the washing We got to do the dishes Yeah, but if we do it What do you mean we? Look, Remley It ain't going to be hard It'll be fun We'll make a game out of it I'll do the laundry You do the dishes And we'll see who gets through first Oh, goody, a race Yeah Sounds like loads of sport I bet I finish before you do What makes you so sure? Because I ain't going to do no dishes Come on, Frankie Be a pal Do the dishes for me, won't you? No I can't wash dishes Man in my position Can't afford to have Red on sightly hands Why not? Because my fellow musicians Just voted me the guitar player With the softest hands in the union Look, Fluffy Fingers If you don't do my dishes There won't be no need for you To belong to the musicians' union Now get going there While I do the dishes All right But it ain't fair You got a washing machine To do the laundry with I got to do the dishes by hand And that Washing machine Hold it Just quiet down a minute there, Henry What's the matter? You can't do no dishes in the Bendix Why not? It doesn't have any paddles Nothing keeps turning around To break anything The water just keeps swishing around Just swish? That's all It does? Sure It works just like a dishwashing machine It's based on the principle Of centrifugal force Which radiates through A diametric gravitation I never thought of it that way before Hey, Ramblin What? Hey, let's try All right I wonder why Alice never thought Of doing dishes in it Yeah, well You know how women are They always do things wrong Yeah They're not like us men When we do things We do them right Well, Curly I got all the dishes In the washing machine And I got the water And the soap chips there All I got to do now Is turn it on Uh, yeah Well, hold on a minute Before you start Look You sure this thing works On that principle Of diabetic aggravation? Curly, please Now just stand back And let me do this Your dishes will be finished In no time All you'll have to do Is put them away Well, here we go Hey, listen to her Yeah Hey, Frankie She's really working Ain't she? Well, of course I know what I'm doing Every minute Yeah Hey, this is a swell way To do it Sure Besides that It don't take long Now shut it off now There Now Curly Your dishes are finished I'll just open the door And let Hand And hard water will do it every time You too can help through the Red Cross. It's a neighbor-to-neighbor appeal. It's the heart of the nation. Here's your invitation to give through your Red Cross. And this is Phil Harris saying so long and thanks for giving. Today's Phil Harris show, a transcribed salute to you and your Red Cross, starred Phil Harris and Alice Faye with Elliot Lewis, Anne Whitfield, Janine Roos, and yours truly, Bill Foreman. The program was made possible through the cooperation of the Hollywood Coordinating Committee, the American Federation of Radio Artists, the American Federation of Musicians, and the Radio Writers Guild. A salute to you and your Red Cross. A specially transcribed salute starring Jack Benny, with Murray Livingston, Rochester, Phil Harris and his orchestra, and yours truly, Don Wilson. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we'd like to take you out to Jack Benny's home in Beverly Hills. At the moment, Rochester is busy in the kitchen, while Jack is in the other room polishing the silver. Phew. Oh, boy, what a job. Oh, well, there are only four pieces left. Three dimes and a quarter. Gosh, look how they shine. They were green when I took them out of my pocket. I'll never wait that long again. Quiet, Polly. And remember, Polly, now Daddy's giving a very important dinner party tonight, so remember what I taught you. How do you do, Mr. Coleman? How do you do, Mr. Coleman? That's right. How do you do, Mrs. Coleman? Hiya, toots. Polly, I wish you'd pay more attention. Oh, boss? Yes, Rochester? What time are Mr. and Mrs. Coleman coming over for dinner? Oh, they'll be here about 7.30. Good, that'll give me time to fix some hors d'oeuvres. Oh, yes. What are we going to have, Rochester? Cheese and crackers, anchovies and sardines. No, uh, no hard-boiled egg? No, Polly didn't come through this week. Oh, uh, oh, she didn't, eh? Rochester, hand me that Halloween mask. Here you are. Polly. Boo! Boo! Oh, my goodness, look, Rochester, the egg broke. You sure scared her, boss. It's a double yolk-er. Yeah. Yeah, two yolks. My son, my son. Ah! It'll be all right, Polly. You're young yet. You'll have more. Rochester, you fix the hors d'oeuvres. I'll go out in the yard and pick some flowers for the table. You sigh, the song begins. Just speak, I'll play my violin. It's magic. Gee, look at that backyard. Everything's growing so nicely. I wish I were a little luckier, though. Tomatoes go to 60 cents a pound, and I'm stuck with an acre of beans. Oh, well. Last spring, I made money on my pigs. See, what kind of flowers should I get for the table? I think I'll take some of these bluebells. They match my eyes. Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! I'll take... I think I'll take some of these roses, too. There. That ought to be enough. You sigh, the song begins, and then I play my violin. It's lousy. La, la, la, la, la, la, la. Oh, Rochester. Rochester, get me a vase for these flowers. Yes, sir. And say, boss, while you're out, Polly laid another egg. Another egg? Yeah, she said it was a repeat for the West Coast. What? She was holding it for a release at this more convenient time. Rochester, stop being so silly and start setting the table. Okay. Oh, boss. What? Are we going to use napkins, or shall I put on a long tablecloth? We'll use napkins tonight. What about those on the buffet? The man brought those this afternoon. Wait a minute. These are funny-looking napkins. That's what I thought, so I asked the man to leave his phone number. Here it is. Good. I'll call him up. Hmm. Never seen napkins like these before. Hello. Naps diaper service. Say, this is Jack Benny. Did you leave some napkins for me? Sorry. Wrong number. Well, Rochester, do the best you can with them, will you? Come in. Oh, hello, Mary. Hello, Jack. I came over as soon as I could. Oh, did you stop by the market and get those things I asked you to? Yeah, but tomatoes were 60 cents a pound, so I bought beans. Beans? I got a backyard full of them. I supply the market. I could have bought those beans for myself and cut out the middle man. Heavens to Boston. All right, so I made a mistake. Put me in irons. Mary, it isn't that, but... Oh, hello, Polly. Polly, Polly want a cracker? Polly want a rye crisp. A rye crisp? She's on a diet. Oh. Mary, would you like to... Mary, what are you laughing at? Well, Polly being on a diet reminded me of something Mama wrote me in her letter. Oh, you got a letter from your mother? Uh-huh. Would you like to hear? Yes. What does Plainfield's answer to Halloween have to say? Well, just a second. I'll read it to you. Okay. My darling son, Mary. Son? Mama wanted a boy. Oh. Mary, dear, we're all feeling well and hope you are the same. First of all, I want to tell you that your cousin Louis went on a diet and lost a lot of weight. It's a very strict diet. For 30 days, they wouldn't let him have anything but bread and water. Your mother will say anything for a laugh. And Mary, it was awfully sweet of you to send your sister, babe, that French bathing suit. However, babe tried the bathing suit on yesterday and something's wrong. Either the manufacturer left something off the suit or nature left something off babe. I knew she couldn't do it. I'm inclined to think it's her fault as she hasn't much of a figure. Babe is so bow-legged she can wear two different stockings and you never notice it. Mary, you remember your Uncle Oliver. Well, Oliver got himself a job in a local bakery as a pretzel bender. He's pretty good, too. You ought to see Oliver twist. Hey, Mary. Hey, Mary, your mother's pretty good. That's a swell gag. Please read that joke to Jack as he's jerk enough to like it. Well, maybe I am. I don't know. That's all the news. So best regards and let us hear from you soon. Your loving mother, Charlie. Charlie? Her mother wanted a boy, too. Well, Mary, they can say what they want to about your mother. And most people do. Now, Mary, would you like to help me set the table? I want it to look nice when the Coleman's get here. Sure, Jack, but you know it's still pretty warm. Why don't you serve dinner out on the patio? Say, that's a good idea. Oh, Rochester, we're going to have dinner out on the patio. I got the table all set, Mr. Benny, but I'm having a little trouble with the napkins. With the napkins? Yeah, I keep folding them into squares and they keep folding themselves back into triangles. Well, don't worry about them and you better check on the dinner. Okay. Oh, say, by the way, Mr. Wilson came in a while ago. He wants to see you. He's in the library. Oh, Don Wilson? Oh. Oh, hello, Don. Well, hello, Jack. The sportsman couldn't come over, so they asked me to talk to you about the commercial for the program. Oh. Friends, the Red Cross is more than an institution. It's the heart of America reaching out wherever trouble or disaster strikes. It's your sympathy, your understanding, your generosity for your neighbors across the street or across the nation. Think about that when you make your contribution. Well, Mary, the table's all set. Looks nice, doesn't it? Especially the decorations. Oh, Jack, you always overdo everything. The last time I had dinner here, you had the table covered with flowers, ferns, leaves, and everything. So what? So what? Trying to find the mashed potatoes was like looking for Chloe. Looking for Chloe. Looking for Chloe. I like the table as it is. Now, let's see. I'll put Vanita's chair next to me, Ronnie's chair next to you, the high chair next to Ronnie, and... High chair? In case he brings his Oscar. Isn't it? Now, let's, uh... Oh, boss! Mr. Harris called a while ago and said you promised to lend him your tuxedo tonight, so I laid it out on the couch. Oh, yes. His didn't come back from the cleaners. Oh, I just, I just thought of something. Rochester! Yes, Mr. Benny? Now, Rochester, I want this to be the classiest dinner that I've ever given. So get the candlesticks off the mantelpiece. I think it would give it just the right touch of continental flavor to have dinner by candlelight. Uh, wait a minute, Jack. I, I'm not dressed for such an occasion. If you're gonna eat by candlelight, why didn't you give me notice? The electric country, country didn't give us none. What happened this morning? I just stepped out of a hot bath when the man came. Not only turned off the heater, he blew cold air on me. Here are the candles, boss. Uh, put them in the center of the table. I still think it'll be too dark. Well, okay. If you want electric lights, I'll go out to the switch box and connect the wires myself. Come on. Switch box is out in the service porch. There it is over there. Boss, here's a pair of pliers, a screwdriver, and a roll of tape. Thanks. This won't take long at all. Mary, hand me my rubber gloves. Yes, doctor. Don't be funny. Jack. What? Maybe you shouldn't fool around with electricity. I know what I'm doing. Here, hold this flashlight. Okay. Now, let's see. I'll take this wire and connect it over there. Did the lights go on, Rochester? Uh-oh. Oh. Well, I'll take this wire and put it over like that. Did that do it, Mary? Uh-uh. And I better take these two wires and hook them onto the bottom two wires like this. Did that fix it, boss? Boss? Boss? Boss, speak to me! Gee, I couldn't let go. Mary, when I touched those wires, did that do anything? Yeah, one of your eyebrows has a Tony. Now, here's Jack. This could have happened to your child, or mine, or the boy next door. Instead, it happened to David. Central High was playing boys' prep that Friday. Now, what a basketball game it was going to be. David had a gang in his car, and they'd almost reached the gym. The kids say the truck came out of nowhere. Anyway, David almost died that night. But he got a break. The hospital where he landed had an adequate blood supply. He needed immediately ten pints and transfusions before they could operate. Five pints while he was on the operating table. And five pints more during the week that followed. Yes, David was lucky, all right. You see, less than one-fourth the hospitals in the country have blood banks with blood immediately available for cases like David's, where time is running a race with death. That's what prompts the Red Cross National Blood Program. Ultimately, and with your help, communities hope to have a sufficient supply ready, available for use by physicians for their patients whenever and wherever needed. Today's Jack Benny show, a transcribed salute to you and your Red Cross, starred Jack Benny with Mary Livingston, Dennis Day, Rochester, Phil Harrison, his orchestra, and yours truly, Don Wilson. The program was made possible through the cooperation of the Hollywood Coordinating Committee, the American Federation of Musicians, and the Radio Writers Guild. The Leadership Planstellen,VERSť and the Radio Writers Guild. The Leadership Plan raining