This is Admiral William F. Halsey speaking. The Salvation Army has invited me up here on the top deck for a moment. I was glad to accept because, like a lot of Americans, I think a great deal of this fine organization. You and I may not always see the merciful work that it does. We don't often get to the places where that work goes on. But we do know that it goes on, day by day, in the places where people need a friend, a helping hand. Sometimes you and I may forget how hard life can hit the other fellow. There are men and women, boys and girls, trying to make a new start. There are families where tragedy is struck. People who are poor and lonely. People whom life has forced to the wall. These people need a friend. For people like that, the Salvation Army is always at battle station. I hope when you get a chance, you will help the Salvation Army. Thank you. Hello, everybody. This is Lowell Thomas speaking, but not in my usual role. This time, I speak rather haltingly as a friend of the Salvation Army. I wonder if the Salvation Army people are not just about the greatest linguists on this planet. That is, when it comes to the language of trouble. They listen and listen, and they always seem to understand, and then do something about it. They hear the story sobbed out by a troubled girl. The plea of a drunk, sodden man on the Bowery, halting words of the prisoner in his cell. They hear these stories in good English, broken English, and in many languages. They always seem to understand, and then play their important role. So let's all contribute what we can to the fine work of the Salvation Army. How better can we do something for those who speak the language of trouble? Here's to the Salvation Army, and so long. My name is George D. Cronin. That will mean little to you, so I can talk to you as one average American to another. It happens that I am chairman of the Salvation Army's local service unit in Manhasset, a suburb of New York City. I am doing what I can for the Salvation Army because I know of no better way to help those who are in trouble, such trouble as you and I may not often see. Through the kindly, constant work of the Salvation Army, you and I can stretch out a helping hand to those who need it most. As I told you, I am an average American, and whenever the Salvation Army asks any average American for help, I am sure we should all respond generously. Thank you. This is Ray Murphy, a former national commander of the American Legion. I speak on behalf of the Salvation Army. The Salvation Army needs your help now. We are sometimes confused about the best way to help the man or woman who is in trouble and misery. We can be sure always that what we give to the Salvation Army goes to those who need it most. Our feeling toward the Salvation Army is not a matter of denomination. If you were in trouble and went to a good friend, he probably would not ask you many questions. The Salvation Army asks few questions. And so I feel there should be no question about our willingness to help when the Salvation Army asks for help. They ask it now. Let us give and without question. This is Fanny Hurst, and I speak to you about an old friend, the Salvation Army. You know, if I were an artist and asked to draw a poster symbolizing the Salvation Army, I would think in terms of a steady light burning through a long black night. I'd think in terms of willing hands ministering to the needs of someone stricken. And I'd think of drawing the head of God looking down upon the Salvation Army and brightening the glow of the countless torches of hope that the Army carries among the suffering. And finally, I would picture you out there everywhere, you the masses of all races, creeds, and color, reaching deeply into your hearts and pockets to help the Salvation Army help you. Oh, reach deeply into those deep hearts and deep pockets of yours and give to the Army. Friends, I am a member of Alcoholics Anonymous. Consequently, I know that you will understand if I do not identify myself. I am speaking to you as an individual on behalf of the Salvation Army, which is also fighting to help the man or woman enslaved by alcohol. Down on the skid rows of the country today, there are men and women who are desperately trying to find a way out. Down there with them, trying to help, is the Salvation Army. As one who knows all the misery, all the terrible defeats of alcoholism, I want to ask that you give to the Salvation Army's appeal. Who knows but that that kindly gift of yours may be the means of bringing a man or woman back to God and to lasting sobriety through the help of the Salvation Army. Thank you. How do you do? This is Harry McNaughton speaking and sending you a word about the Salvation Army. And when we talk about the Salvation Army, it does not pay to be ignorant. Suppose you knew of someone in desperate trouble who needed help and that there was an organization able to give that help quickly and effectively. Now let's suppose that that organization came to you and asked you to lend a hand. Would you do it? I think you would. There are thousands of these troubled people whose misery is often no fault of their own. There's the lonely old man or woman, the girl who is wayward. The prisoner who needs a faithful friend when he walks out of the prison door. Someone to take his parole. Then there's the boy whose poverty and surroundings never gave him a chance. The Salvation Army is always alert to help such people. Let's keep this fine work going. And when the Salvation Army solicits your support, please give them as much as you possibly can. Thank you. This is Gene Tunney, and I would like to speak to you in my capacity as commander of the Theodore Roosevelt, Jr. post of the American Legion in New York. General Theodore Roosevelt, Jr., for whom our post was named, was a warm friend of the Salvation Army. I am sure that he would have approved anything I do to help this good organization. This Army of Mercy has endeared itself to millions of us in uniform during both world wars. When we needed the Salvation Army, they were there, and the tougher the going, the more likely we were to find them. The same spirit of cheerful and unselfish service to others marks the work of the Salvation Army among us in time of peace. Where there is need and misery and degradation, there in the thick of the battle against trouble is the Salvationist. Today, the Salvation Army is asking for your help. I hope that you will respond. When you do, you will be helping some man or woman, some child who desperately needs a lift. Hello there. This is Ted Malone speaking. And as some of you know, I do get around. Wherever I go, I generally manage to see something of the work of the Salvation Army. I've always been pretty close to the Salvation Army. They've never asked me to do something for them that I didn't consider it a privilege to do. Why? Well, because I know it's being done for the other fellow, the fellow who needs help. Two years ago, the Salvation Army had what they called a Christmas tree caravan, when merchants in many stores erected a Christmas tree, beneath which were presents for kids who might not otherwise get one. When they asked me to have a part in that, all I could think of was those kids. People feel like that about the Salvation Army. You're not doing it for them, but for the other fellow. And so I'm glad to ask you to give to the Salvation Army. You'll be giving to someone somewhere who needs a good Samaritan. Let's not pass up a chance like that. Thank you. This is Benjamin Cohen, Assistant Secretary General of the United Nations, speaking from Lake Success. I am always happy to say something on behalf of the Salvation Army. All over the world, the work of this merciful organization goes on among the troubled and the fallen, the needy and the forsaken. This action of the Salvation Army corresponds to the very aims and many of the activities of the United Nations directed to create better social conditions for all peoples, particularly those who are destitute and suffer through no fault of their own. The Salvation Army's work of human solidarity proceeds, at this very moment, among homeless girls in Mexico, among the leper colonies of India, and in practically every country and non-self-governing territory of the world. Because of these important contributions to human welfare, the Salvation Army deserves the support and encouragement of all those who believe in the brotherhood of man and who realize how important it is to foster this feeling in order to create solid foundations for understanding among peoples and thus strengthen world peace and cooperation. This is Dale Carnegie speaking. If you have an excellent memory, you may possibly recall that I once wrote a book entitled How to Win Friends and Influence People. Now, I'm not going to talk about that book. I want to talk to you about an organization which does win friends and influence people. The Salvation Army. Day after day, the Salvation Army wins friends. You and I are its friends, but more important still, its friends are among the poor, the friendless, and those whom society may have forgotten. These, I think, are its best friends. And as for influencing people, the Salvation Army influences people only for good. To the girl in trouble, it points the way back. To the man in the bowery, it reaches out a helping hand. Forever, the Salvation Army influences people towards God. Friends, I ask you to give generously when the Salvation Army comes to you for your help. You, too, will be winning friends and influencing people far better than you know. Thank you. This is George Sekulski speaking. Sometimes you and I hear people talking about brotherhood, but too often what we hear is lip service to a fine ideal. It is acknowledgement of the brotherhood of man under the fatherhood of God, but without immediate and direct application. But I know one organization with which brotherhood is no empty word, and that is the Salvation Army. It makes no difference whatever to the Salvation Army what your faith or condition may be, nor how far down you may have fallen. What they want to know about you is how much help you need. Men in prisons, for example, can sometimes feel that they haven't a friend in the world. Then along comes a Salvation Army officer with a cheerful smile and a genuine desire to make a friend of you. He's honest about it. The Salvation Army needs help in this work. I suggest that you contribute what you can to the Salvation Army, now and generously.