Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hey, Chief, do you smell something burning? They don't smell anything, no. But I'm afraid there'll be an awful smell about this party. A fireman likes a dull one. Sometimes it may bristle. If you pack a salt in a firehouse and someone blows a whistle. Fun is fun, but when it's done, if the commissioner crawls, you'll go there, you'll not be getting such frills and frills as whiskey and hoes, siren blows on bottles and holes. We'll all retreat to Great Jones Street where plenty of logs are flowed. Curtains down, we'll go to town where we laugh and joke instead of eating smoke. And we'll pour in those bottles and holes. We'll bring in the women. They'll brighten up the spots while the glasses jingle, jingle and the party's getting hot. No one can see. There'll be no leaves we can carry on till dawn. We'll cut loose where we can use those nice cold glasses with fancy mixed drinks. And we'll pour in those bottles and holes. In a firehouse trimmin' with women and women, you're bound to click with a fancy chick. The fire belt can go to hell. It will be swell with bottles and holes. The very distinguished governor of Bavaria, Councilman Keegan, was the soloist in bottles and holes. Martinis, Manhattans and pussy cafes, Jackeries and sidecars and white mint frappes, Juleps and stingers, Bronx cocktails and brews, Canadians, Manhattans and Irish, not stew. Mix them with ladders and helmets and foam. All the contraptions that drinkin' men known. Brandy, old fashioned, an angel's kiss. Tom Collins or a toddy or a cute gin fizz. Any old thing that the bartender knows, we'll pour in with bottles and holes. Say, Chief, I heard today that O'Dwyer has a plan for getting rid of false alarms. Ah, that means the end of the unicorn. Come on, boy. Come on, boy. How long are we going to? Say, Chief, where did we get the money for this party? I'd say it was a neighborhood affair. A neighborhood affair? Yeah, the boys picked up the money around the neighborhood. If you ask me, it's a violation of the rules. I wouldn't worry about that, no. Don't you know that this department lives by overlooking violations? Let's have quiet a minute. Let's have quiet. There's something comin' in. WNYF. Go ahead, please. Over. Engine number 71 reporting. We'll be there on time. We're just passing 125th Street. What's the matter? Is there a fire or something? Straight out the mall's cut, boys. These are some new fire extinguishers. And here come the volunteers from Flatbrook. Here comes the volunteers from Flatbrook. We have fires out in the six boys. We just roll and put them out. We don't have what you call thick boys. What the hell is this about? Quail and the Japanese. How about the? Quail and the Japanese. Quail and the Japanese. Quail and the Japanese. Another guy they got on a pan is deputy commissioner jim moran he should work with the bmt if you want a transfer he's the guy to see another guy who stopped his nose in with former secretary rosen he got in through the cio everybody knew he was so what's going on here comes commission now i'm a guy who likes a party and i also like a joke but i don't like to mix them up with fire and smoke yes i blew my top and i got a little sore but then i went around and something else that i forgot there were screams from the veterans and the newspapers too but there was nothing left for me to do i'm the fire commissioner but after all commissioners take their orders from the city hall now one lad from mayo can make it very rough but with two lads from mayo it can get very tough so go on with your knocking i don't need your praise the whole damn mess was in the lap of judge bay's the boys from truck number nine are here i know get up at the astra raffling off an automobile i suppose you heard old wire has made implications of irregularities in this department i did indeed and it's proving very embarrassing to a fine body of officers and men to bahrol forelnic honesty how are we doing with gasoline station permits for this oh we're doing very well with those things oh we're doing very well with those things are the av realmente inspectors all on the job oh they are very much very much how we doing with the insurance business oh that's running ahead of last year too sir thank you thank you Thank you, thank you. Corligan, Corligan is our accountant. He's a fine fellow. Has a lot of relatives in the electrical appliance business. Chief, this is going to be a great party. I suppose you heard Maeve West is coming. If she's coming, we'll have to get this place painted. That's Judge Baze and his whitewash. Here comes Maeve West now. Charlie Gannon gives a wonderful impersonation of Maeve West. Hi, I'm not sure. It's really beautiful. Firemen, put that out. You want me to read your orders to your boys? Frankie and Paulie are brothers. Brothers of Mayor Old Wilde. Frankie raises western potatoes. And Paulie goes around for a hire. He was their man. But he done them wrong. Bill will take many vacations. Paulie was running for Congress. Both in the spring and the fall. Both in the spring and the fall. When he goes west to see Frankie. He gets away from Brother Paul. He was their man. But he done them wrong. But he done them wrong. Paulie was running for Congress. Way up on Washington Heights. The Irish up there didn't want him. Cause he slept with the Wallaceites. He wasn't their man. He wasn't their man. But he done them wrong. When it got down to election. The voters began to compare. Javits, he won the election. Cause the Irish gave Paulie the air. He wasn't their man. But he done them wrong. Once or more, you hot nozzles. Now Paulie's a label attorney. Always defending the reds. Bill, though he doesn't like commies. So they're sleeping in different beds. He was their man. But they're not too old. He was their man. He was their man. He was their man. He was their man. But they're not too old. He was their man. But they're not too old. But they done him wrong. Now Bill was for Ike last election. Frankie said, do we would win. Paulie supported Hank Wallace. And Truman got elected again. He wasn't their man. So they all guessed wrong. You want more? Paulie had one great ambition. To be the New York surrogate. He only won part of the title. And that part was the gate. He wasn't the man. So they all guessed wrong. So they all guessed wrong. Now this is the end of a story. The end of a story in rhyme. To Frankie and Paulie and Bill home. Come and see me anytime. I'm a sociable gal. But don't get me wrong. football. And Tully's the guest That навíd a song. So they all guessed wrong.子供 in a most marvelous makeup of black satin and pink gave this impersonation in the singing of this song here at the inner circle dinner at the hotel astor hold everything please hold everything wnyf responding go ahead over engine 71 we're now passing 42nd street hang on we'll be there i can't understand why 71 is in such a hurry mulligan come here are you sober enough to hear me out i think so that hook and ladder that you bought last week was delivered yesterday yes well yes it had no hooks and no ladders hey how do you like being a member of the fire department sometimes i think it's when you don't remember everything it's a dog's life one of those famous dalmatian hounds smokey has just come on the stage when they mentioned it was a dog's light and smokey is acting very intelligent as she hears the bell ring giving a signal from one of the fire boxes in the city of new york and smoky is very much at attention now waiting to see what the orders are the dalmatian hound the firehouse is on fire yes what do we do what are you asking me for what the hell do i know about putting out fires 71 might save us somebody call 71 calling engine 71 last scene passing 42nd street calling engine 71 over 71 responding we're coming as fast as we can there's a fire right here in this firehouse at 42 great jones street near the bowery folly please hurry step on it over a fire we can't be bothered with fires this is the commissioner's truck we're delivering eight cases of scotch to commissioner quail's christmas party hey keith there's a fire in this firehouse right now sliding down the poles with several ladies along with the firemen on the way to the fire the fire drink drink drink drink drink go away a quail and bay let's roll drees burn let the whole damn city burn there'll be a hot time in the old town tonight drink drink drink drink drink again to a happy day drink drink drink go away a quail and bay drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink drink and so we brought you the firehouse scene here in the inner circle dinner tonight and uh in this very interesting scene and interpretation the duke of bavaria charlie keegan who rendered such wonderful service in the overseas uh forces in the european scene of the war sang his topical song so marvelously jerry daly did his part as well and uh charlie gannon as may west sang the topical song he wasn't by man well we've had this very interesting first scene now in the inner circle dinner may we explain to you that as these scenes transpire the inner circle dinner is between courses they uh part the curtains and another scene of the interpretation and uh the utilization of the lampoon is uh in its full force here in the grand ballroom of the hotel aster and as we said at the opening of the program this evening the lampoon disrespectful as it may seem is one of the most guiding spirits in the matter of guiding those concerned with the matter of government in the reaction of the public to the government scene years ago in paris centuries ago i might say when louis 11th went down into the taverns of paris to find out what was going on and he made the acquaintance of the poet francois vian he asked vian one night a certain question because it was before the assembly of the royal auspices then in france at the time and francois vian gave him the perfect answer and then louis the 11th nobody of course dreaming that the king of france was there in the inn said to francois vian he said in god's name he says where did you learn wisdom and the poet said in the realms of hopes deferred the world of the hotel aster from the very beginning of radio and broadcasting and interesting events has been one of the focal points in the city of new york and tonight one of the outstanding occasions of the year anytime any year is the inner circle dinner and performance in the hotel aster when the president of the united states very often the governor of the state and the mayor of the city is represented in the presentation of this delightful lampoon on the subject of politics and political relations to the social scene well to prove the aptitude of the inner circle this evening the performance is operating under the general title of firemen hide my drink well let's give some credits fred curran president of the inner circle presided and made the opening address as you know from listening to the introduction to the program then howard a scheidler who has been with the inner circle uh organization from its very inception at least 22 of its presentations although this is the 30th and is the dramatic director of the of the evening mr howard a scheidler now philip d hoyt richard f mawr and charles e keegan our assistant directors and james f o leary is the stage manager and thomas pennell the assistant stage manager well if you were backstage here at the aster you would see one of the most amazing scenes in the world where these men of the newspaper world are doing their very best to imitate the art of the theater in presenting this delightful lampoon here at the aster on the subject of pertinent news items as they have appeared in the news since last year's presentation of the inner circle dinner the next feature will be act two and the title of that scene is wild about harry well let's tell you who's wild about harry the delegates uh murray snyder thomas f uh turner albert e park and jerry daly our very efficient secretary of the board of transportation we can't bring you television but the very charming maid in a makeup that defies description male or female is richard d lahey and the alternates are james o'connor george daly and joseph sternlacher well these uh various lampoons pick up the news items as they transpire and in just a moment the curtains will park and you will hear the factors about wild about harry the mayor of the city of new york the hon. william o'dwyer has a table about in the third row from the stage which gives him a perfect perspective of this delightful lampoon this evening and uh sitting at his table is a perfect representation of his cabinet because every member of the board of estimate is at his table along with the fire commissioner and the police commissioner and it's interesting to watch the reflections on the faces of these various men as the lampoons occur on the stage a little further over a table between but the third table from the mayor is the table of governor dewey and the distinguished members of the government at albany it's very interesting to know that later on in act three we're going to get some reminders of the early dutch settlement in the general presentation of act three under the title of getting in dutch but that's not our concern at this time because act two is our next act and the title of which is wild about harry i do think in my own humble opinion as a citizen and observer at the time the president truman's visit to the city of new york and the wonderful arrangements made by mayor o'dwyer and the uh pageantry of the police department in protecting the president of the united states never shall i forget the wonderful motorcycle escort as it came down lafayette street roaring sirens we might say and as the motorcycles passed at the angle to us we saw the red lights in the jewel lanterns of the motorcycle and then as they swung around city hall park the white lights as they faced up broadway as they might approach the city hall and turn in at city hall plaza and in the very center of this island of police protection was the president of the united states and the inner circle dinner is here tonight to tell you how wild they are about harry in our next scene act two the middle school department had dinner this may be on the affected Конечно ma retro north ac mummy that's gonna be where we are right times you now sarau sarau enjoyै Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Maybe. I'm more than I ever did. Call me when the convention's over. Mr. Rowe, didn't you promise to nominate Mr. Truman? Ha! That guy? Never! Tell him to cast this team votes for Jim Rowe. Mr. Mayor, somebody's gotta nominate Truman, it might as well be you. Truman! If I called to stop the Truman caucus tonight, it's time for Douglas. Go away. Good morning, I'm going to go to the next level. I'm going to go to the next level. I'm going to go to the next level. I'm going to go to the next level. I'm going to go to the next level. Boss! Boss! Boss! Even if you didn't want him, please get up and go through the motion. I'm not going to get up and vote for Truman. But what about our local ticket? Ah, they can't win either. You don't think we nominate those bojos if they should win, do you? Frank! Frank! Wake up! Three o'clock and you haven't voted. I'm not going to vote. Go on, get up. Go on, get up. Jim! Jim! Jim! Wake up! Frank! I'm not going to vote. I'm not going to vote. Go on, get up. Jim! Jim! Jim! Jim! Jim! Wake up! Jim! Jim! Jim! Jim! Wake up! The polls are nearly closed and you haven't voted! What? Sam! If I vote I'll vote for Tom doop! Hey, general! Wake up! Wake up! You've got to vote for Truman. You can't sleep all day... Son of a whole... Well, I haven't done it yet... Well, you've got to get up and vote for Truman. Truman! The first boy told me to put me in this carriage around. Get up! Get to the boat! Up! Up! Now we have the flash on the screen that Truman wins in spite of the indifference of the very interesting sleepers who have just been awakened by their constituents on the stage here at the Hotel Laster in the Inner Circle dinner. January 20th, 1949, inauguration. That's what the screen says. Let's see what happens. And of course we all know what happens. Everybody makes a new act of faith. And here it is. Now the banners are crossing the stage. He's our man. We put him over. We told you so. We knew he'd do it. And now the curtain's going up on the next scene. And we'll find out the boys who put Truman over after he went over. We read the papers. We read them every day. We read them every day. We read them every day. We like to keep a count of what you fellas do and say. And we'll find out the boys who put the boys in the middle of the night. We read them every day. We like to keep a count of what you fellas do and say. And if you will allow us, we'll tell you of a few things. We'll find out the boys who put the boys in the middle of the night. And we'll find out the boys in the middle of the night. And we'll find out the boys in the middle of the night. We read the papers, we read them every day. We like to keep a count of what you fellas do and say. And if you will allow us, we'll tell you of a few. Of the funny papers, of you and you and you. I see by the papers and read it with some relish. The best three men would give the balance to son and father Mellish. As pacifists and liberals, they've played at disassembling. But it is pretty plain, each has a gremlin of the gremlin. I see by the papers there's a trial at Foley Square. The commie lawyers make the rules and furnish the hot air. The reds on trial have lots of fun. They all are free on bail. Would those stolen chaps be stolen if they had to sit in jail? I see by the papers that very few survive. Of Mayor O'Dwyer's cabinet of 1945. Some left by resignation, some with a little loose. But most of all, they flitted out on Bill O'Dwyer's booth. I see Frank Hogan's gonna run. Once more he'd be DA. He feel the thing is in the bag since he got that okay. We take you now to Republican headquarters. We regret that signals from Republican headquarters are so weak that we cannot bring them to you at this time. Flash. President Truman, in a complete upset, has been elected by three million pluralities. Correction. Three zillion pluralities. Now we're back in the early Dutch settlement. We'll hear what they say about von Truman. He's gonna go back. He's gonna go back. And back his mind to stay. For I made him wish again. And he stayed in Michigan. Back on the farm. Well, boss, it was a famous victory. I know it all the time. I know it was a sin. Didn't you follow it? No! What about you, Bill O'Dwyer? It was in the bag all the time. I wonder what's become of Dewey. Dewey. Dewey. I wonder what's become of Dewey. I wonder what's become of Dewey. Dewey. He's a real pal of mine. Dewey. He's in Albany. In Albany are up in falling. Building up his stock. Giving taxpayers a shot. They say that when he starts, he always sees it through. I hope that he will run. I hope that he will run. In 1952. I wonder what's become of Dewey. Dewey. Dewey. That real pal of mine. I wonder what's become of Dewey. Dewey. Dewey. Dewey. Dewey. Well, my boy. I, if we can move back. But only. Be only. Building up his stock. Giving taxpayers a shot.得 safe a shot. He'll pray that when he starts, he always is it through. I hope that he will run. In 1952. I wonder what's become. Of Dewey That royal pal of mine I wonder what's become of Dewey A real pal of mine On his shoes just a trifle screwy His popular appeal was negative I feel But what he did for me I never will forget If it hadn't been for him I wouldn't be here yet I wonder what's become of Dewey A real pal of mine I wonder what's become of Dewey A real pal of mine On his shoes just a trifle screwy His popular appeal was negative I feel But what he did for me I never will forget If it hadn't been for him I wouldn't be here yet I wonder what's become of Dewey A real pal of mine A very interesting picture here because with the most apt application of scenic detail In rather meager form we might say they really reproduced the atmosphere of the early Dutch settlement under the general title of Act Three Getting In Dutch in which we heard the takeoff and the lampoon on the recent election in which Governor Dewey was severely lampooned in the song I Bet He Wishes Again He Was Back in Michigan back on the farm. Now Dewey was impersonated by Albert E. Park, Mero Dwyer by Arthur Koza Idala and Charles E. Keegan was Mero Dwyer in a makeup that looked very much more robust than Charles Keegan presents when he stands up in the city council to defend the democratic rights of all democratic principles in our city. And now we come to act four under the general heading of who could say no. And there's two subdivisions here manhunt and jockeying for position. Now that's going to be the next scene in the inner circle dinner here at the Hotel Astor. And it's quite amazing within the confines of this wonderful ballroom here at the Astor which has been the scene of so much of the historical in the presentation in the best of every form of entertainment, music, art, opera, play or whatever it may be, epitomized in the perfect presentation by the inner circle of the political lampoon which is a yearly event in New York City comparing of course with the gridiron dinner in Washington D.C. But we'll stick up for New York and say that no doubt about it New York knows how and in this next scene the fourth act who could say no and the first scene Manhattan we're going to have some interesting factors and reiterations of the political scene and its relation to the social scene. There's two scenes in this scene one is Manhattan of course which we'll all recognize. Manhunt I beg your pardon. Manhunt. Well that's Manhattan. Manhattan has been one of the greatest Manhunts in the world. And jockeying for position is the second scene of act four which will come to you in two scenes. And now we just wait for the stage to be set for act four of the inner circle dinner at the Hotel Astor. A magnificent lampoon. A magnificent lampoon. A magnificent lampoon. Everybody gets a beer. Do you see Bill O'Billow? That's the kind of stuff we're up against. Now tell us once and for all what's it going to be. Well I want to know my final answer. Here it is. I'll run again. Maybe but I'm not sure. Maybe the Senate is better for me. Maybe the governor I'd rather be. Meantime. Meantime. You sit and wait. Wishing for my yes or no soul. Maybe you'll ask me to run once again. And maybe I'll say maybe. Maybe I'm tired of you. And maybe you're tired of me. And maybe the leaders of Tammany Hall Don't like a mayor who just wants to stall. Meantime. You want to know. Where we all go from here. And maybe I'm in it. And maybe I'm out. And maybe my answer's clear. Looking on the back of the mayor's nightshirt as he came down the stairs of Gracie Mansion was the name of our Commissioner of Commerce, Abe Stark. And now the curtains have folded. We'll see where we go from here. We've seen the scene in Gracie Mansion where Mr. Corsley, the Republican candidate, came over and looked over Gracie Mansion with the idea of living there. And here's some more people. Let's hear what they have to say. I see by the papers the mayor goes away. He goes to California to spend a little stay. It's always most surprising. To me it's very clear. He goes for West Coast lemons. And his lemons are right here. I see by the papers there's a brand new labor bill. The Wagner Act is wanted. The Taft-Hartley they would kill. But I doubt that Congress really cares for labor or its gains. And they're giving labor now some old-fashioned labor pain. I see by the papers. I see by the papers Dewey spoke on Lincoln's day. He talked on state finances, higher income tax we pay. But he forgot to say How a 600 million safe less vanished last election day. The Taft-Hartley and Keegan sort of saw by the papers, but they're back again. I see by the papers there's a brand new Tammany Hall Going in for social services, civic betterment and all But don't let that deceive you That's only for crackpots The good old Tammany Tiger Will never change as much I see by the papers O'Dwyer runs again But who will they find to oppose him Among Republican gentlemen Why, there's only one opponent O'Dwyer has to speak His name is Mayor Billow And right there in the seat So, Cochran and Keegan leave the stage with a very great compliment to Mayor O'Dwyer Who is sitting here with the members of the Board of Estimates At the third table back from the stage at the Astor Ballroom And we're just waiting now for the final part of this scene As the orchestra plays an interlude The gray velvet curtains will soon part And you'll hear the rest of this scene We're at the Inner Circle dinner at the Hotel Astor And the newspapermen of New York City are staging this delightful lampoon That covers the entire situation in the political scene for the past year Since the last Inner Circle dinner a year ago And on this Saturday evening, March 5th, 1949 The Mayor of the City of New York The Governor of the State of New York And officials from all the nation's capitals The capital itself, Washington And some of our capital cities nearby Because I've seen gentlemen from Connecticut and New Jersey here tonight And Massachusetts as well Well, I wouldn't dare start to enumerate the distinguished audience here in the Hotel Astor Because it presents an extremely remarkable scene As we look from table to table And see faces that you see every day in the newsreels, the newspapers And the news that you see by the newspapers And we're just waiting now for this musical interlude to conclude Before the curtains part And we continue the scene We've had this delightful lampoon from the Hotel Astor And you yourself have heard the glittery remarks The lyrics, the songs, and all the other factors That do so much to guide our governors And here they are Here's Conklin and Keegan back again with more newspapers to see by By this time you must realize we're having a little stage difficulties I see by the papers that railroad on L.I. contends that it is bankrupt It's milked the region dry The railroad raised its rates too much to gratify its thirst Too late to find the passengers have all gone bankrupt first I see by the papers Truman's going on tour He's going to tell the people his congressmen are poor He said the 80th congress was the nation's worst We often wonder what he thinks about the 81st I'll take this here I see a brand new scheme has dropped to get rich quick and whole These pyramid saps are hoping they'll be raking in the gold It shows how stupid people are They never learn at that Cause all the politicians make a pyramid look flat Conklin and Keegan can't make up the mind The New York Times and the New York City Council We've had this delightful reading of the papers And now the curtains part on the next scene Let's listen, it's a telephone booth Let's see what happens I've been waiting here for half an hour What the hell are you doing? One minute boys and we'll be thrown One minute He's not even talking on the phone Don't interrupt We have a full house Interrupt what? This meeting is a fusion committee of five million Now children Today we are going to take up a study of the government at Washington You know, any one of you might grow up to be president someday Now for the first question Johnny, can you tell me what U.S.A. means? I don't know, Peter Well, we'll try another Billy Can you tell me what C.I.O. means? I don't know, Peter My, we have an awful lot to learn Freddie Perhaps you can tell me What does S.O.V. mean? I don't know, Peter Ever in the United States knew that one And you've just heard this very interesting school scene In a series of tableaus under the title of Jockeying for Position And the curtains are still there The footlights are up And we'll wait for the next scene These are all topical renditions of the news as it transpires in your daily newspaper And the inner circle is not losing the slightest opportunity To bring you up to date in this delightful lampoon At the Hotel Astor in its great ballroom The scene of so many wonderful entertainment factors While Bill Conklin is writing a few more, I'll give you one or two I see by the paper that Wallander is through He got a better offer just like a fuse he went and blew The mayor wanted whaling, Arthur said in quite a hoff We had one whaling here before and that's been quite enough Hello, boys How have you seen here? Haven't seen you a long while, how you been? And who are these two birds? Friends of mine, ex-judges Judges are in prison strikes We're nine little judges Who strayed one night Hought, hought, hought We were out for some fun And to see the sight Hought, hought, hought Racketeers, chiselers, and punks we deplore Giving us contracts on the copas' dance floor There ain't any justice in law anymore Hought, hought, hought We're nine little judges And we're supreme Hought, hought, hought We were out for some fun And to see the sight Hought, hought, hought Hought, hought Caught with our robes down Our cheeks were red Here in a shakedown Should've stood in bed Maybe politically Maybe politically We'll all be dead Hought, hought, hought Hought, hought Tonight, little judges We don't know why Why, why, why We're wearing short robes The price was high Sky, sky, sky High We know the folks Who make the law We just carry on Though some deals are raw We'll go to the copa Oh, nevermore Nevermore Supreme Court Justice Walter Brown was his soloist And now Mr. Corson As Costello Takes over the mic And we're still at the Copacabana Although we're really at the Hotel Astor For the Inner Circle dinner And now a photographer Has come into the Copacabana And the judges are all Sitting at tables And all of a sudden We'll hear the photographer Ask pictures, pictures And all the judges Dive under the table Woo! There go the judges Under the tables And the photographer Retreats And Frankie Costello Comes back to the microphone Well, brother and sister Yous all know what you're here for Yeah, yeah, we know Frankie You're right Happy birthday to you Happy birthday to you Happy birthday dear Frankie Happy birthday to you Why, you bums Today ain't my birthday Yeah, we know that But this is the 34th anniversary Of your conviction Now listen, you guys I want you to get this And I want you to get it straight From now on Rocketeering's out If you get it Out It's gonna be charity Charity, charity There ain't gonna be Nothing but sweet charity From now on In Tammany Hall Do you dig me? Gee, boss I don't like to say this But I think you're sick I think you need a free manual Shut up, Sidney Mousers But dear Mr. Costello Think of the Tammany Hall Brownstone flood building And think of the wonderful advisory committee Of the people of Stout Johnny Coleman Ambassador Gerard And banker Shenahan Listen, Hugo Don't let those guys kick you They didn't get to be bankers By helping anybody And furthermore There ain't gonna be No new clubhouse Okay, boss Okay Let us show The dear leader That we too Can get religion Hey, what was that? Somebody dropped something on the floor And foodist-style Frankie Costello Thought that his shot had been fired And now the Salvation Army is entering And don't miss a bit of this Because it's really remarkable Because the Salvation Army lassies Are going to epitomize this wonderful scene For you here At the Copacabana At $100 a plate Although we really were at the Hotel Aster For the Inner Circle dinner Frankie Costello We're engaged In a fine and a noble voice There are hundreds of guys Like us Right here in New York City Who should be joining up With this great Costello charity movement Here comes the Salvation Army lassies And don't miss the bitterness Whatever you do Welcome Welcome Welcome Welcome Sister Neil and Brother Stan Recruits from our army And believe me They came right out of the gutter Tell me Sister Neil and Brother Stan Did you get any Make any Convert Did you save any sinners today? Now We're all in your army We played for two hours In City Hall Park And couldn't get a politician To join up Couldn't you run into our dryer? He's a wise guy We're standing on our plan He comes down out of City Hall Looks at us Rushes back in Locks up every damn thing in the place Now don't worry Don't worry Take it easy Next week Next week Next week we'll get Plenty of sinners We're going to gather At the National Democratic Club And the week after that The week after that We'll get thousands At the New York A.C. We're going to gather But seriously Fellas sinners We are engaged in a great and a noble way Why Right here at this Inner Circle Dinner There are plenty of more guys like us That should belong to this here army Why We ain't fussy We take guys We take guys From all walks of life And we turn them in A fine upstanding citizens Some of them honest too Take Miss Sister Mancuso here for instance Sister Mancuso Led a wicked life As a Tammany district leader She handled sinful contracts And was always ready to condone evil With Tammany politicians But today Today brothers and sisters Take a look at her bright and shining face She's been saved Look at them sparkling eyes Sister Mancuso Loves her new wife Here in this army Sister Tell them about your new wife And tell them Tell them what you do all day Now All I do Is bang this goddamn drum Put a hundred on the plate And be saved And be saved Put a hundred on the plate And be saved And be saved You'll give to charity Just to build up Tammany Put a hundred on the plate And be saved Put a hundred on the plate And be saved And be saved Put a hundred on the plate And be saved And be saved If you're looking for salvation Or for just the nomination Put a hundred on the plate And be saved Put a hundred on the plate and be saved Put a hundred on the plate and be saved Don't insult a real good fellow Join the army of Costello Fifty grand on the plate and you're made Put a hundred on the plate and be saved Put a hundred on the plate and be saved Now the judges like the sport At the Copa they were caught Put a hundred on the plate and be saved Joe Lascauza kept a date unafraid Though his contribution still isn't paid Frankie's in an awful stew Hold the joey's IOU And it looks like no, he never will be saved Bill O'Dwyer stayed at home all that night While some of the commissioners were getting tight Now they're having palpitations For he's seeking resignation Now they'll never, never, never be saved All the Republicans arrived there in a bus Put a hundred on the plate and be saved Their presence created an awful fuss When the check was passed around Not a Republican couldn't be found To put a hundred on the plate and be saved Now come along and don't you dare resist A hundred or more you'll ever miss If you ever miss that boat In the Hudson you will float Put a hundred on the plate and be saved During Siouxams
