Do you think the war in Korea can be ended soon? What do you think of General Eisenhower's suggestion for ending that war? For a transcribed discussion of these and other issues, this is Gabriel Pressman bringing you the WNYC Campus Press Conference. Throughout the month of October, the editors of college newspapers in New York have been interviewing the candidates for United States Senator. Our guest today is John Cashmore, candidate of the Democratic Party. Here to interview Mr. Cashmore are Jack Freeman of the Fordham Ram, Mrs. Estelle Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Irwin Chapkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin at New York University, and Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post. All right, panel members, are you ready with the first question? Mr. Deutsch? Uh, Mr. Cashmore, here in the closing days of the campaign, who do you think is going to win the presidential race, Mr. Stevenson or Mr. Eisenhower? Well, before I answer that question, Mr. Deutsch, I'd like to say that I'm happy to be here for many, many reasons. First, today is a big chapter in the life of the Cashmore family. We only have one child, and he's 21 years of age today, and he's a senior in Williams College. And he's also the newspaper editor of the college newspaper in Williamstown, Massachusetts. And his training before that was he was the editor-in-chief of the Polygon. Now, maybe you never heard of the Polygon, but the Polygon is the official newspaper for Poly Prep Country Day School. So he's already had seven and a half years of training. So I'm very, very grateful for being here. Kind of appropriate that you should be meeting with college editors then on your son's birthday. Well, I believe that it's a very important thing, and I'm grateful to see so many young girls and boys taking an active interest in the part of our government, and also to get out the vote. And I think they're greatly responsible for getting out the vote throughout the United States. It's people such as you that have gathered here today that make me say that America can't be great one day and small the next when we have college students such as you. Now, what was your first question, now? I'd just like to know your opinion on how the presidential race is going to come out. Well, now, on the presidential race, naturally you may feel that I'm a little bit biased. But I've covered the state of New York with President Truman from Buffalo to New York. And just on Saturday morning, I finished the trip with 17 whistle stops with Adley Stevenson, whom I really and truthfully believe will be the next president of the United States. Now, Stevenson is a man who has met all the issues very strongly. I mean the major issues he met. He's met them strongly, and he's met them forcibly. And he's spoken the same way in the south as he would in the east or in the north. He hasn't hedged and he hasn't picked out spots where it would just be a favorite in a certain area. On the other hand, you take a man like General Eisenhower. I honestly can't say this. I like General Eich. I like him very well. I think he's a great military man. I know him personally. But if I were to ask you who would be the greatest general to send in, I would say General Eisenhower. If I wanted an administrator, I certainly would say Adley Stevenson. Now, he's met these with a great deal of courage. I mean Stevenson. And he's talked of all the issues, the important issues, social security, the McCarran immigration law, the veterans' benefits. And he's covered them throughout the state. And when you see the faces of these people as we have left and the trainers pulled out, you can see the enthusiasm. You can see the older people in the group thinking of social security. And that's my honest opinion why this popular vote may be very close. But when you take the electoral vote, I'm positive that Adley Stevenson is going to be the next president of the United States. You've just gotten that feeling no matter where you've gone in the state. I see. Well, supposing we throw that question of who's for whom right back at the panel. Have you polled any of the students at your colleges, any of the editors here? Well... Mr. Freeman of Fordham. How are things up there on Rose Hill? Well, our political clubs have just conducted a poll of the students of the college in Eisenhower won it two to one. Although several of the faculty members have expressed disapproval. They've written letters to different newspapers supporting Stevenson. To the college newspapers or to the... No, to the Metropolitan newspapers. I see. They express disapproval of the students, Stan. That's right. How is it over there at City College? I see you have your hand up, Mr. Deutsch. Well, at City College, in a poll taken by the Observation Post, Mr. Stevenson came out a strong five to one. I see. Well, there's certainly quite a difference of opinion between Fordham and City College. Mr. Chapkin, you want to get back to the general issues of the campaign? Yes. I think we're going to spend the bulk of this program talking about the national issues. But before we do, I want to ask Mr. Cashmore about his role in the campaign here in New York. Now, there was quite some controversy surrounding his nomination. Let me ask first, Mr. Cashmore, why does your party believe that you're the best qualified to represent the state of New York over your two major opponents? We've had politics ever since Lincoln died. That's an old expression. Now, let's take a look at the record as Alfred E. Smith would say. I was born in Brooklyn. I received a normal school education. Then I received three years of Knight College. I studied corporation law, business management, and finance. When I finished that, the outbreak of World War I, I went in the infantry as a volunteer. And when I came out, I lived in a neighborhood that had never elected a Democratic assemblyman, a senator, or a congressman. But I loved public service. In 1922, I received the nomination to be the candidate on the Democratic ticket for the assembly. Didn't have much chance according to all the figures, all the rules, all the regulations. But luck does play a part in everyone's life. 1922 was the Alfred E. Smith landslide. And I became involved in the Alfred E. Smith landslide. And on election night, I found I was elected to the New York State Legislature. And serving with that great governor, Alfred E. Smith, that's when we started to work on the all-age pension and the widow's pension. That was really the start of Social Security. From there, I went on. And I served 12 years in the old board of aldermen. When that board was abolished, and very few people in the city of New York know, how was the old board of aldermen abolished? It was abolished by honor voting machine. Shall the city of New York have a new city charter? A referendum. And that was a referendum, and the people voted overwhelmingly for it. That was about 3,200 pages in that bill. Very few had ever read it. But when it passed, they found out that the oldest legislative body in the United States was abolished, and in its place was the new city council. Now, I was elected the first vice chairman and the majority leader. I'm the man who wrote the rules and the regulations that govern that body today. And then in 1940, Raymond V. Ingersoll, the Republican borough president of Brooklyn, passed away. And the council nominated me for the balance of that year to succeed Raymond Ingersoll under the law. In 1941, I ran as a Democratic representative. And I've been the borough president ever since. Now, what is being the president of Brooklyn? You're not only the president, but you're one of the eight men that run the city of New York. We have three million people in Brooklyn. We have the greatest waterfront in the United States. Do you realize that during World War II, almost 67% of all the munitions that were shipped were shipped from the Brooklyn Piers? What are some of the specific things, Mr. Cashmore, that your work as borough president has given you to fit you for a job in Washington? Well, in the first place, you have to know the desires and the wants of three million people. When you represent the state of New York, there's more than just one or two issues. It's knowing your people. You're not voting for corporations. You're voting for and you're representing 15 million people in this state. As the head of three million people with 12 years of experience and also helping to run a city that has eight million people and you have two out of the 16 votes, I believe that's enough qualification for any man. Show me any man in the United States Senate who has a better background or has had more experience with handling people than the president of the borough of Brooklyn. Miss Siegel? What is the essential difference in platform between you and Mr. Ives? When you elect a man as the president of the United States, and I have said for 30 years holding public office, you never elect a man and then you tie his hands by giving him an opposition legislature. I'm an intense Democrat. I'm running on the Democratic platform. I was adopted at the Chicago Convention. That is my plan. That is my policy to support the president of the United States. And Adlai Stevenson, when he's elected, will need men like Herbert Lehman, who is the junior member representing the state of New York after being the four-time governor. If I'm elected the United States Senate, Lehman will not be the junior governor. He'll be the senior governor of the state of New York. Senior senator. Senior senator. And I'll be the junior senator. And Lehman and I have known one of the governor, at least I've always referred to him as Governor Lehman. Senator Lehman and I have worked together for almost 20 years. Senator Lehman knows my ideas. He knows my willingness to work. And that's one of the reasons I like to go to the United States Senate. Mr. Deutsch, did you have a question? Well, yes. What are your views, Mr. Cashmore, on such controversial measures as the McCarran and Taft-Hartley bill? Well, supposing we break that up and start with the McCarran Act, since you mentioned that first. Well, the McCarran Act now, on this law I stand squarely with Senator Lehman for its repeal. I believe that the McCarran law is discriminatory and it's restrictive. I favor the Humphreys-Lehman bill, which not only avoids the evils of the restrictive McCarran bill, but would permit worthy immigrants to come to this country and keep family units together. I see. Mr. Chapkin? Well, it seems that the Democratic platform is going on the road, not just with Stevenson, but with Mr. Truman, and he has made himself the center of controversy by his slugging attacks on Eisenhower. Now, do you think that these attacks are going to make friends or lose friends for the Democratic Party and its candidates? I think it's one of the greatest things that this country has ever experienced to see a man who is not going to succeed himself giving of his life. And I know what it takes out of any human being to make a campaign for six or eight weeks when all he would have to do would be to sit in his office in the White House and let the fellow who's nominated by the Democratic Party do the work. But when you take Harry S. Truman, the President of the United States, not going to succeed himself, but to want to make sure that the policies adopted and the great advancement that we've made since 1932 are really carried out, then you can understand that I think he has made, and you also must realize, no man has ever drawn greater crowds in his whistle stops or in his presence in any one of the large cities than Harry S. Truman. Were you referring, we were discussing the McCarran Act, were you referring Mr. Chavkin to Mr. Truman's attack on General Eisenhower for supporting certain senators and representatives? That's right. General Eisenhower has given his support to such a senator, rather senatorial candidate Rebricombe and Senator McCarthy and the rest of them who supported the act, while Governor Stevenson just the other day went back on Senator McCarran himself and practically read him out of the party. But the question on Truman is, not that it's good to see him on the stand, but is his strong attacks on Eisenhower, practically imputing to him the motives of those he supports, are these attacks too strong, so strong that they're going to lose vote? Well, I think what Mr. Chavkin is driving at is from a practical political viewpoint, do you think it's going to help Stevenson or do you think it's going to hinder him? Oh, it definitely has helped Stevenson in every way possible because in the first place, President Truman has been the advanced guard and brought forth the issue. And after you bring forth the issue, then you can see both Governor Stevenson and you can see General Eisenhower then debating the subject that Truman was able to bring forth. Mr. Freeman? Getting back to this McCarran Act. Now, it seems to me that the McCarran Act was passed by a Democratic Congress, written by a Democratic Senator, passed by a Democratic Congress. How would the election of Stevenson and another Democratic Congress, how can we be sure that they will actually change it? Well, now, you take in the first place Rule 22. While I shouldn't speak about Rule 22, that's the filibuster. In the Senate? In the Senate. Now, if you've got enough men in the United States Senate who are willing to amend or abolish Rule 22, then you can have open and fair discussion. Now, you take this McCarran Act. Take just any one nationality. Take the Italian nationality for Americans of Italian extractions. They want to get their people to come here. That bill favors the northern part of Europe. Just picture it this way. 65,000 English people are allowed to come to the United States. Now, they have no desire to come. They don't want to come. On the other hand, Italy is a country that's overpopulated. They can only have 55 to 5,600 in any one year. Now, if the English don't use that quota of 65,000, it should be transferred over to England, to Italy, and the other countries. But it's not transferable. And here, this great nation of ours has been built up and founded by immigrants, the whole country. I'm the son of an immigrant. When you figure it out, who built all your highways, your roads, your buildings? Who's added to the culture? We're all immigrants, more or less. And you've stopped all that. Until today, look into the future of the whole world. People, everyone has got their eyes on the United States. You realize in some of these countries, it'll be 2,067 before any one of their people could ever come into the United States. Does that answer your question, Mr. Freeman? Well, no, I will agree with Mr. Cashman that the McCarran Act is a bad thing. But the question that I raised is, why should the Democrats reverse themselves this year when they just passed the bill? If you ever take a look at the painting of Leonardo da Vinci at the Last Supper and you'll see the Lord sitting down with the 12 disciples, well, you'll see that the Lord made a mistake and one of them ran out on him. Now, we don't have all true perfect Democrats, but at the same time, if we have enough men that will stand up and be ready to fight and give an impression in the United States Senate, certainly we may be able to convert some of these reactionary Democrats. We don't have all the greatest Democrats and the Republicans are all bad. We have them on both sides. And it's my strong opinion that we can convert some of these men to if we can't repeal the McCarran law, we can at least amend it. Thank you, Mr. Cashmore. Miss Siegel, you haven't been heard from in some time. Well, speaking of McCarran, I would like to know what Mr. Cashmore thinks of the investigation of the teachers by the Senate Subcommittee here in New York and the use of 903 of the city charter. I'm not familiar enough with that, Miss Siegel, to answer that question accurately. I'd have to get into it more thoroughly, but I am a great believer. When I don't know what the subject is, I generally go to the experts whom I have confidence in and listen to them, and then I make up my own mind. I'm sorry I can't answer that question, although I'd like to. Mr. Chapkin, Mr. Cashmore has been going down the line, we see, on issue after issue and bill after bill with the liberal side of the Democratic Party. Now, in view of that fact, why was it that this liberal party refused to go along with this candidacy? Well, I wish I could answer that question, but I'll give you my knowledge of it. And that is this. Before I went into this race as a candidate for the United States Senate, that Abel Harriman in Chicago, after he didn't receive the Democratic nomination, went on radio and television and said he was not interested in the United States Senatorship. He made two public press releases saying that he was not interested. Then he also had lunch with me and said that if he was drafted, he wouldn't even serve. Now, you take a man that he's worried. Mr. Harriman is an absolute gentleman, and I believe that. The Liberal Party told Mr. Paul Fitzpatrick, the state chairman... Of the Democratic Party. Of the Democratic Party. And they also told Mr. Frank Sinnott, the county leader of the Democratic Party in Brooklyn, and they also told the ambassador, Mr. Aaron Jacoby, that if I were nominated, they would accept me. And they went back on it. The Friday night, the night before the convention, there was a judicial convention held in Brooklyn for the Supreme Court of the State of New York. There were three nominees. One of them was a Liberal Party member. After that judicial convention adjoined and went home Thursday morning, the morning of the convention, from what I understand, Mr. Rose and Mr. Dubinsky called on Mr. Paul Fitzpatrick and said, no, they couldn't accept me. I've never given any reason as to why they couldn't accept me. I see. You're referring to Alex Rose and David DeVince are the union leaders who are very big in the Liberal Party. Does that answer your question, Mr. Chapkin? I want to ascertain for certain that Mr. Cashmore feels that although Governor Stevenson could be drafted in Chicago, Mr. Harriman could under no circumstances be drafted for the Senate in New York. That's the impression that Mr. Harriman gave me and I believe he's a gentleman. I believe he's a man of his word. Mr. Deutsch. Getting back to the international scene, Mr. Cashmore, what do you think of General Eisenhower's proposal to go to Korea after he's elected, question mark, and end the war? Well, I think that if any man has any solution to how to end this war in Korea, he should bring it forth immediately if it cost him even the election. The life of one American boy is too important to be sacrificed to be waiting until after November the 4th. Now, I understand that Governor Dewey made a statement. He said that there was no solution that he could see of at the present moment. I understand that General Eisenhower has never told the President of the United States that he had any solution to winning this war. But on the other hand, Adlai Stevenson said that the solution to this war is not in Korea. It's in Russia. Mr. Freeman? Do you want to pick that up? I thought you had your hand raised. No, not. Miss Siegel, did you have a question? Well, yes, I wanted to ask... Mr. Eisenhower did say that they should develop the Korean troops and that it hasn't been developed to full capacity. And I was wondering if you had any opinion on that. Well, now, General Eisenhower has spent his entire life in the Army. Since he's been 17, he's been protected in every way by the United States by entering West Point. He certainly is a greater general in my opinion. But I do say that he's talked to General Ridgway and others that have a knowledge about the whole Korean situation. and only during a campaign, only a few days ago, after spending all this time being thoroughly familiar with Korea and just in a campaign prepared address which he delivered, it's the first time he comes out and says one of the first things he'll do will be to go to Korea. Then you doubt his sincerity, sir? I certainly do. I don't think he wrote the speech. I think somebody wrote it for him on a typewriter. Mr. Chapkin. I want to ask another domestic political question. Mr. Cashmore, it seems, has gone almost entirely on record in support of the administration. Now, there are several Democratic senators who have made a mark for themselves like Douglas and Keith Harvard to name two because of points where they differed from the administration. I wonder if you at the present time can see several areas or any areas in which you would recommend an alteration of administration policy. Well, take the FEPC. I'm for full FEPC. You think the Truman Plan isn't strong enough? I want to see it. I don't think that laws really force people to do the right thing, but if they're definitely on the statute books, it's a step in the right direction. Mm-hmm. I see. Mr. Deutsch. Mr. Cashmore, do you think the fact that we've had an increase in registration upstate, which has been, well, a Republican stronghold up to now, would that indicate that President Eisenhower is going to carry New York State? Oh, no. I'll give you my reasons if I may on that in just a minute. I have just covered pretty nearly 6,000 miles in New York State, and as you approach these large cities, three or four miles before you approach them, you'll see the construction of brand new little homes, and then you'll see the aerials on top. And these aerials are employing three to four hundred thousand men and women in television business. And then when you go into these plants, you'll see youth, you'll see youngsters working in these plants, and a great deal of them weren't born in those communities. They've migrated to those communities. And I really feel that they're democratically inclined because they're smart enough to realize what they've received from the Democratic Party. I'm sorry to interrupt, sir, but in other words, you feel that the Democratic Party is served by this increased registration upstate. It's not a Republican omen. It's not a Republican omen by any means. I see. Thank you very much, Mr. Cashmore and panel members. I'm sorry to interrupt now, but that's all we'll have time for. During October, the WNYC campus press conference has been transcribing interviews with candidates for United States Senator from New York. Today's guest was John Cashmore, running on the Democratic ticket. And here to interview Mr. Cashmore were Jack Freeman of the Fordham Ram, Mrs. Estelle Siegel of the Brooklyn College Kingsman, Erwin Chafkin of the Washington Square College Bulletin, and Martin Deutsch of the City College Observation Post. This is Gabriel Pressman inviting you to join us again every week for the WNYC campus press conference. Thank you. Thank you.