Your City Station presents a talk by a member of the Office of the Housing Expediter on the Federal Rent Law. This transcribed program is just one of the many presented by your City Station in the public service. If you have a question about rent control, ask the rent office. They'll be glad to give you the answer or to help you with any problems concerning rent control. Because of the importance of information on rent control to so many of our listeners in New York, WNYC brings you another in the series of public service programs called Ask the Rent Office. Today, our guest is Mr. Albert J. Haas. He's the Federal Rent Director of the Bronx Area Rent Office. Mr. Haas will give us the answers to questions landlords and tenants have asked at his office. So, what do you have on your list for today, Mr. Haas? I'll tell you about a tenant who paid a $300 bonus for an apartment, about a veteran's family who were told by the landlord that he was going to evict them, hasn't been rented before. I also have a question about repairs. One, about paying for heat, and another, about taking in additional tenants. Well, I'm interested in that question about paying a bonus to get an apartment. I've heard of several people who've done it. Here's the letter from that tenant. He says, I have just obtained an apartment for my family. But in order to get the place, I have to give the landlord what he called a bond of $300, which I don't get back. I also have to pay six months' rent in advance. But the rent law gives tenant protection from paying like this. Well, the law does prohibit bonds or bonus payments, doesn't it? Any kind of bonus payment. Whether you call it a bond or any other name, it's illegal. The regulations clearly state that any payment in excess of the legal maximum rent is prohibited. What about the landlord requiring the tenant to give him a television set or a new car? Any bonus is illegal, whether it's in the form of cash or merchandise. Well, you said this tenant paid out $300. Now, what can be done about it? Can he get his money back? If he actually paid a $300 cash bonus, he can bring suit against the landlord to recover the amount himself. And if it was a case of willful violation of the law, the tenant can bring suit for as much as three times the amount of the overcharge, plus legal fees and court costs. But suppose the tenant doesn't want to take action himself. Can you help him recover the overcharge? Yes, we can. Of course, we always give a landlord a chance to tell his side of the story. But if it's clear that the tenant has paid a bonus over and above the amount of the maximum rent, then we require the landlord to refund the amount. If he refuses, we proceed with whatever legal action is necessary. And our agency can bring suit for as much as three times the amount of the overcharge. Well, what about that payment of rent in advance? Aren't there some cases where a landlord can collect more than one month's rent in advance? In general, the regulations do not permit the collection of more than one month's rent in advance unless the particular house or apartment was rented under those terms when the maximum rent was set. However, since April 1, 1948, a landlord has been permitted to collect rent for not more than one month, in addition to the amount he is otherwise authorized to collect in advance under the regulations. Well, does that apply everywhere? No, it does not. It applies only in those areas where it wasn't an accepted rental practice before March 1, 1943. Then in this case, the landlord was wrong in collecting six months' rent in advance. Yes, he was. Now, what's your next question, Mr. Haas? This one is on the eviction of a family with an invalid son. Here's the letter. Dear sir, we have just heard that our son will be released from the veterans' hospital next week. Since he is paralyzed and will need constant care, he will live at home with us. But we have been renting half of a duplex, and our landlord has told us that he needs our place for someone in his own family. Can you tell us whether we have to move? And if we do, how much time do we have to find a new place? Well, that sounds like a kind of a tough problem. It is. But before we go into the details, I'd like to make it clear that our office always makes a special effort to help any family, and particularly the families of veterans who are faced with a serious rent control problem like this. Well, in this case, the federal regulations give the tenants a certain amount of protection, don't they? Yes, they do. But let's take the case one step at a time. All right, you go ahead. In this particular case, the landlord must obtain a certificate from our office before he can evict. Well, what's the reason for that? This landlord says he wants to evict the tenant in order to let a member of his immediate family move in. That's one of the grounds requiring a certificate. If we find that the landlord actually intends to move in a member of his immediate family, we issue what we call a certificate relating to eviction. But this certificate states in plain language that it is not an order for the tenant to move. Well, then, just what is its purpose? It informs the tenant that the landlord is proceeding according to the regulation. In the cases I've described to you, the certificate protects the tenant from any action on the part of the landlord to evict for a period of three months. After that time, if the tenant has not vacated, the landlord could take action according to local law to evict by additionally filing an application with a temporary city rent commission. Then the federal regulations would give this family at least three months to find another place to live. Right. And as I said before, our office also does everything possible to help a tenant who has serious problems like this one. Well, I'm glad I don't have that kind of responsibility. We get used to it, but all of our cases aren't so serious. The next question I want to tell you about is a fairly simple one. This is from a woman who wants to rent out an apartment that has never been rented before. Here's what her letter says. We have decided that we will get along without a maid and will rent the maid's apartment over the garage. It has a complete kitchen and bath, but it has never been rented since it was built ten years ago. Can you tell me if it will be under rent control and what rent we can charge? Well, since this isn't a new apartment, it'll be under rent control, won't it? Yes, it will. New dwelling units are not under rent control, but this apartment was completed before February 1st, 1947, so it's under control. And what does the landlord do when he's renting a place like that for the first time? The first thing we suggest is that the landlord come in to give us some information on the place. We need to know how many rooms there are, what services the landlord expects to give, and a few other details. On the basis of this information, we can advise the landlord what an equitable rent would be for the place. Well, how do you figure that out? We compare it with rents for other accommodations at the same time. Kind. Well, can a landlord set the rent himself? Of course he can. But it must be a reasonable rent, which compares with rents for similar dwellings in the neighborhood. Now, suppose the landlord boosts the rent too high. Then we have to reduce it. But the landlord can avoid that problem by checking with us in advance to see what amount can be allowed. And what if the landlord improves the place in some way before putting it on the market, and he feels that he ought to get a little more rent than the average unit of the same kind? We take those facts into consideration in establishing any maximum rent. That's why we suggest that a landlord should get in touch with us before setting the rent on a unit that hasn't been rented before. Also, we can give him the necessary information about registering. I guess every unit under rent control has to be registered. Yes, that's right. A place that's being rented for the first time must be registered with a local rent office within 30 days after it has been rented. Our office sends a copy of the registration to the landlord and a copy to the tenant. He gives the amount of the rent and whatever services are included. You mean the registration shows whether your rent includes the cost of the lights and heat or whether you get the use of a garage for your car? Yes. If there's ever any dispute about the rent inclusion, we also refer to the registration. Do you have many cases where you refer to the registration to see what's included in the rent? We have cases like that almost every day. I'll give you an example. We had a tenant who reported that he was moving into a duplex house and that he didn't know whether he was supposed to pay for the heat or whether the cost of the heat was included in the rent. He said that the landlord told him the rent was not included in the rent. But the tenant living in the other half of the duplex house said the heat was included in the rent. Well, what did the registration show? In this case, the landlord was wrong. The registration stated clearly that heat was included. But we have had cases that turned out the other way. In some cases, the registration will show that an order adjusting the rent has been issued by our office. Also, if there's any change in services, we post it on the registration. I understand. That's a protection to both the landlord and the tenant. Yes, it is. Now, what's your next question, Mr. Haas? Here's one from a tenant. He says, The roof on my house leaks badly and my landlord refuses to have it repaired. The rain has already leaked through into the living room and damaged some of our furniture. Can the rent office do anything about it? That sounds like another emergency. What can you do to help? In a case like this, we asked the landlord to make the necessary repairs because the tenant is obviously entitled to protection from the weather. And what if the landlord doesn't comply? We advise the tenant to report this condition to the city authorities as a violation. Is there any other way in which you could help the tenant? Yes, we could issue an order reducing the rent if the landlord did not repair the roof. He would not be giving the tenant the normal services which should be included in the rent. Well, I think if my landlord refused to repair the roof, I'd try to mend it myself. But could I get my money back for the cost of materials and the labor? You'd have to work that out with your landlord. We could take the steps I've mentioned, but if you wanted to make your own repairs, that would be a personal matter between you and your landlord. I suppose that's based on the fact that the property belongs to the landlord. That's right. I have another question here that I want to take up today. This is a letter from a landlord. He says, I recently bought a two-story house that is rented to two families, one family on each floor. But I need to get more rent from the building. I figure that I can rent the same space to four couples without making any changes. Two couples can live on each floor and share the bath and kitchen. Can you tell me how much more rent I can get by doing this? Well, that wouldn't be very fair to the tenants who live there now, would it? The regulations take care of that. Well, how do you mean? A tenant cannot be evicted simply because the landlord wants to increase the number of occupants in order to get more rent. If the landlord planned to break those two floors up into separate living quarters for four families, could he evict the present tenants to make the changes? Yes. Under certain conditions, he could. But he would have to show that he seeks in good faith to evict his tenants for the purpose of making substantial alterations for continued use as housing accommodations. And he would have to make up alterations which could not be done with the tenants living there. He'd also have to comply with local laws concerning alterations and remodeling. Well, thanks very much for being with us again, Mr. Haas. This transcribed series of programs on the federal rent law has been presented in cooperation with the Office of the Housing Expediter. about 3-partQueur. And we try to Cottom to construct a other function wants to increase an income of homeless 60 D impresion percentage as missing a child that зан lasts for many years. The Dead è fully our Laughd and these departments on ourquisites the proprietors would issue about a mysterious呼籍 andري胸 alternatively that ensures that we're here