Charlie Silver, Dr. Belkin, the Levy, General Foley, Judge Pecor, distinguished gentlemen of the dais, ladies and gentlemen. Sometimes people would ask me why I would ever want to be the mayor of the great city of New York, and tonight I think is a perfect example of one of the reasons I wanted to be mayor. When on a night like tonight, we gather together in a civic-minded endeavor to promote a great American university that has a very deep, steep Jewish tradition. And on a night like tonight, with its Jewish tradition, you ladies and gentlemen permit a man by the name of Fari, another gentleman by the name of Pecor, another gentleman by the name of Impelitari to be your guests and your speakers. That's one of the reasons I wanted to be mayor. Because, frankly, there's very, very few countries in the world or any cities in the world that exemplifies that kind of democracy. When on a night like tonight, again in that vein, you have as your chairman a distinguished gentleman like Charlie Silver, who tonight is the chairman of this worthwhile endeavor. And on another night, in the same ballroom, other people representing a completely different religious faith also selects Charlie Silver to lead the drive of the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation. As the mayor of this city, events like this have a very deep, personal appeal to me. Here in our city, we have great universities. And the fact of the matter is that most of our American universities are institutions of learning. But going away back in the life of American history, you will find that practically all of our American universities have a very deep and abiding religious side. It's a great inspiration for me to know that here in the city of New York, we have a wonderful university like Yeshiva. It's wonderful, particularly in these days, to know that, of course, in the average institution of learning, the boy or girl receives his ABCs. He learns that two and two are four. And then as you go on in advanced education, they learn all the material things that are necessary for the boy or girl to prosper in subsequent life. However, in Yeshiva, you have that. You have an institution that awards degrees in the liberal sciences. Your students receive the degree of AB, BS, and further up. But in addition to that, your university teaches what is most important today. In addition to the material things of learning, your students learn the moral law. That today, as always, but particularly today, is most important. Here in our city, we have a great number of wonderful universities. Your university is something different. It's something different because although most of our educational programs, and I'm talking now particularly of the educational programs that are financed either by the city or state, must be carried on exactly that way. They're carried on by the taxpayers. But unless we had civic-minded people like yourselves, who are interested in their community, who are interested in the future leaders of tomorrow, it would be absolutely impossible to have an institution of learning like Yeshiva. Because Yeshiva depends entirely on the civic consciousness of men and women like yourselves. It's you that make Yeshiva possible. I venture to say that unless we had people in our community like yourselves, a great number of our municipal endeavors would be bound to fall. And that goes in whatever field of progress that we know here in our city. To give you one or two examples. We have a tremendous municipal hospital plant in the city of New York. And it does a remarkably good job. But were it not for the voluntary hospitals of the city of New York, your municipal government, your municipal government, and going beyond that, your federal government, would find it absolutely impossible to take care of all the sick and needy. It's civic-minded people who support our voluntary hospitals that makes it possible for us to take care of all the sick and needy. It's in exactly the same vein that men and women like yourselves come forward and make possible an institution like Yeshiva. I'm so happy that tonight Borough President Levy and the other speakers, particularly General Fowley and Charlie Silver, have referred to the great necessity of establishing as part of Yeshiva University a medical school. I know of that problem from first-hand knowledge. I know it in sort of a pathetic way. I know it because, peculiarly, most people in the city, and sometimes very intelligent people in the city, somehow or another have an idea that all the medical schools in the city of New York are under the jurisdiction of the city of New York. You'd be amazed how many people think that. The fact of the matter is that there isn't a single medical school in the city of New York that's under the jurisdiction of the city. I say that I refer to that in a pathetic sort of a way because, Jim, I receive thousands of letters from disappointed mothers and fathers that would like to see their children enrolled in medical schools. I'm happy to say that the state of New York, in cooperation with the city, has taken a forward step within the last year. And at the present time, the state of New York has already opened two medical schools, one here in the city of New York and another one in Rochester, which will make available a great number of seats for young men and women who desire medical education. But we need a great deal more. I'm personally familiar with it because we had a councilmanic investigation of the medical school system some two years ago. And we found that there was a quota system. No matter how you dress it up, it was still a quota system. It applied to all types of people. We found that in the great medical institutions of learning, the average class, and this amazes most people, the average class was limited to approximately 100. The largest medical schools in the country only take in each year a freshman class of approximately 100. And when the leaders of those institutions were asked to explain this so-called quota system, they gave their explanation. They said that they wanted to dispense medical education all over the United States of America and its territories, so that in the average class of students entering a medical school, in this class that I told you of, of approximately 100, the student enrollment would be distributed all over the 48 states and sometimes to Hawaii and the Philippines. the students who lived in the city of New York and who had wonderful scholastic records, the students who were not able to get in. So I'm very, very happy as your mayor to know that as part of your program, you have plans afoot to establish a medical school here in the city of New York. We certainly need it. And I want you to know that as the mayor of the city of New York, representing the people of this city, I shall always endeavor to give that particular branch of your university my enthusiastic and wholehearted support. May I merely ask you this? this is essentially a civic enterprise. As all civic enterprises, it depends upon civic-minded people to make the wheels turn around. You have demonstrated your enthusiasm and your support for yeshiva by your attendance here tonight. May I ask you to continue to give this wonderful institution your cooperation, to give it your support, to give it your understanding, because it's only through your support that this institution, which has gone a very, very long way in its rather youthful existence, can possibly continue to achieve the goals which your leaders would want you to have for Yeshiva University. May I plead with you to continue to give it your wholehearted support. Thank you very much. Mr. LaGuardia, Mr. Morris, ladies and gentlemen, it's a great privilege for me as the mayor of the city of New York to, first of all, greet you this morning on this very important occasion in the life of the city of New York. New York. We purposely selected this date because, as Newbold Morris told you, it marks the birthday of Fiorello LaGuardia. We selected this particular place for the unveiling because we felt it was the most representative place in city hall. To see the mayor and leaving his office to go either to the council chamber or to the board of estimate chamber had to come up these steps. So we felt that this would be the most appropriate place to have the unveiling. Later on, with the help of the municipal art commission, I assure you that this portrait will hang in a conspicuous place in city hall where all people who visit city hall will be able to gaze upon this perfectly wonderful portrait of Mayor LaGuardia. On this occasion, of course, this very audience transcends politics. There's no politics in this meeting, and I know that none of us would want to have it otherwise. Here in this audience, as Newbold has pointed out, are some Democrats, very few members of the experienced party, some Republicans, some Fusionists, but today none of us are thinking in that type of term at all. We're here to honor the memory of one of the most distinguished mayors that the city of New York has ever known. Although I was never of the same political party as Mayor LaGuardia, I was always a great admirer of what he stood for in public life. As a matter of fact, the first time that I met him was when he was a congressman and at the same time acted as counsel in those days for Sidney Hillman and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union. And my first meeting with him was in the office of the district attorney. When he was there representing the union on a very justifiable complaint, I was assigned to handle that particular prosecution at his request and at the direction of the district attorney, the mayor of the district attorney, so that I knew him as a congressman and as a lawyer long before he came to City Hall. Here at City Hall, I don't have to tell you, he did a remarkably good job for the people of the City of New York. In this past election, Newbold, I'm happy to tell you that I also had the enthusiastic support of many of the members of Mayor LaGuardia's official family. I look with pride to succeeding to this very high office held by many distinguished gentlemen. During the three years that I shall serve as your mayor, I expect to be the mayor of all the people of the City of New York. And time and time again, when I pass this portrait, when I see what that portrait really stands for, when I know from my own personal observations, in the period of time I have been here in city government, of the marvelous achievements of Mayor LaGuardia, may I say to you, Newbold, to all the members of the team that work with Mayor LaGuardia, that in the time that I expect to be at City Hall, I shall ever try to exemplify what Mayor LaGuardia stood for as the mayor of the great city of New York. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.