From his desk in City Hall, in the presence of the members of the Board of Estimate, Mayor William O'Dwyer discusses the city's fiscal and legislative program. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mayor of the City of New York. Ladies and gentlemen, when I took office in January 1946, I found the facilities and services of our city depleted and run down, chiefly as a result of the long war years. Construction had been brought to a standstill. Maintenance of public buildings and services were at a minimum. There wasn't a single department, not a single city service, that didn't cry out for essential and long overdue repairs, replacements, improvements or additions. Pay raises were overdue for thousands of city employees. We have made substantial progress towards rehabilitation. We have done much to improve conditions, but much more remains to be done. To add to our difficulties came the rising tide of inflation with the cost of living and of everything else going higher and higher. No new school had been started since 1941. This year we are building 18 schools and during my four years in office, I hope to build 50. The cost of building a school has more than doubled. We can only build one now. For the same money we could have built at least two and a half before the war. This year's budget was one billion 31 million dollars. Next year, the city will need an additional 161 million dollars. The city will need an additional 161 million dollars. Naturally, you have a right to know why we need that much more next year. Let me tell you. Consider our hospital situation. Our city hospitals are in a deplorable condition. We are dilapidated, understaffed, and overcrowded. Until this administration, no new hospital was started since 1939. The cost of operating our hospitals has increased enormously. Personal services and food bill costs have doubled in seven years. It will take 20 million dollars more to operate our hospitals next year than it did this year. Take our health service. To protect the health of our people, you have to have well-trained personnel, especially trained doctors, nurses, researchers, and adequate facilities and equipment. We need more district health centers. Cancer clinics are of major importance. The field of mental hygiene needs improvement and expansion. We need more tuberculosis clinics, venereal disease clinics, and other health facilities to give the city reasonable health protection. Now, let us take a brief look at welfare. There are, at the present time, over 300,000 unemployed in our city. Many are on relief and require food, shelter, or clothing. Many are on relief and care. Our share of the burden in this respect is great, has risen each month since the end of the war, and is still mounting. That, too, means more money for next year's budget. Health, charitable institutions, welfare, and education will require about 27 million dollars more next year than this. Health, and health, and health, and health. Now, look at our transit problem. The city owns and operates the largest transit system in the country. It carries over two and a half billion passengers annually. This system cost the city a billion dollars and has been largely responsible for its growth and development. Last year, I appointed a committee of five outstanding citizens to study the question of wage adjustment for the transit employees. The committee recommended a wage increase averaging about 20 cents an hour. Spread among the 35,000 transport workers, this amounted to about 18 and a half million dollars. As a matter of justice and in the interest of good management and the protection of the people, we agreed to give them this 18 and a half million dollars. The first operating deficit in the history of our transit system. Prior to that time, the fare was sufficient to cover the operating costs. Since the costs of operation have increased generally and are increasing almost daily, it becomes obvious that these operating deficits will continue and increase. In any event, the city will have to include in next year's budget at least 26 million dollars more for transit operating deficits. Now turn to sanitation. The public demands a clean city. The public health requires it. Outlying sections of the city are expanding rapidly and must be serviced. The department needs 1,500 more men and much new equipment. The sanitation and the water supply department will require over 12 million dollars more next year than this. Another important item is the police department. 15 years ago, there were over 19,000 men on the police force. 15,000 men on the police force. When I took office in January 1946, the force was down to 15,000. Provision made will bring that up to 18,000 by the end of this fiscal year. We need a minimum of 2,000 additional men during the coming fiscal year. The police, the fire, and the correction departments must have 11 million dollars more next year than this, if their essential services are to be adequately provided. If each employee of the city were given an increase just to meet the cost of living increases since January 1947, the city will need approximately 45 million dollars. However, the city doesn't have the money to give its employees an increase. Unless the city obtains from the state all the money we are asking for, it just cannot grant cost of living increases. It is impossible in this brief talk to go into details as to the various additional costs for pensions, health insurance, repaving, and other essential items amounting to about 20 million dollars, which, with the items I have mentioned, make up that additional 161 million dollars required next year. That is our immediate need. Where is that money coming from? As mayor of the city, one principle guides my planning. The services the people of this city have been receiving must not be curtailed, but rather expanded and extended in line with the city's position as the greatest and most progressive city in the world. With that idea in mind, I want to present my plan to you. The city is the greatest contributor to the state's treasury. At the same time, it performs a great many state functions for which it doesn't get a just or fair contribution. Hence, my first approach is to the state. We are entitled to receive and demand from the state the following adjustments. First, with respect to education. The state dominates education. It determines the organization of the whole school system and the character of the educational program. The state is a great way to do. It fixes the teachers' salaries and makes it mandatory for the city to pay them. True, the state does make contributions. But while the law requires the city to pay its teachers the highest amounts in the state, the state to determine the aid allotted to the city uses a uniform formula for all communities in the state, large and small alike. That is unfair and unjust to New York City. The city's budget for education increased over $44 million between 1935 and 1947. Yet, and here is a startling fact, the state paid to the city for educational purposes $100,000 less this year, 1947, than it did in 1935. The state must revise its educational formula so that the city will receive about $30 million more than it is receiving now. Second, with respect to hospitals, the state reimburses the city up to 80% of the amount the city pays to a person on relief. Strangely enough, when such a person must go to a city hospital, relief stops and the city pays all expenses. Similarly, if a person not on relief goes to a city hospital and is unable to pay, the city again pays all expenses. Although both of these classes of persons are medically indigent, the state doesn't make any reimbursement to the city. The same situation obtains in regard to the aged and infirm placed in institutions by the city. The state makes an artificial distinction between these cases and other relief cases and refuses to reimburse the city. It should do so. Such reimbursement would give the city $32 million more annually. The state includes in its budget appropriations for charitable institutions for the care of delinquent, neglected, and dependent children. The state recognizes the necessity for such care by requiring the city to provide institutional and foster home care for children who cannot be cared for in their own homes. But the state assumes absolutely no financial responsibility for them. The state is the necessity for the state. Instead, it takes the indefensible position that reimbursement will be made only when a child is cared for in its own home. There is no logical reason for this distinction. The state's responsibility is equal in both types of cases. The state is entitled to reimbursement. And if the state made such reimbursement, the city would get an additional $8 million per year. Fourth, with respect to the Moore formula. The state collects through general taxes more than it needs for all of its purposes. Some of the money the state doesn't need, it returns to localities on a per capita basis by what is known as the Moore formula and retains the balance as a surplus. The state has been a surplus. In fact, it has and is accumulating such tremendous surplus and reserve that for the past few years it has been remitting substantial portions of income taxes. This mainly helps the big income group. This does not help the people who need help most. New York has not been treated fairly by this formula. New York City and the other cities should receive vastly greater sums than they are receiving at the present time. The Moore formula must be revised so that the city will receive at least $14 million more this year. The city is entitled to it. The city is entitled to it. We demand that money. And with your cooperation, we can get it. Now, while we're on the subject of the state's share in solving our problem, there are a few other considerations which should receive its attention at this time. The city's capacity to deal with its financial situation is drastically limited by the state constitution and by state laws. Some of these restrictions were imposed over 60 years ago. The fiscal jacket which was designed to fit our 19th century needs has become a straitjacket which stifles us today. The city can do nothing to overcome these barriers unless the state legislature and the people act. Accordingly, we propose a comprehensive program designed to alleviate current needs and provide for long-term improvements. This further program, which we will submit to the state legislature in January, provides for the following. One, increase the city's present debt limit from 10 to 12.5%. That will make it possible for us to expand and extend our capital improvement program. Two, raise the limitation on real estate taxes from 2 to 2.5% of the assessed valuation. Three, place bonds for the construction of sewage disposal plants outside the debt limit. Four, exclude the city's educational appropriation from the 2% tax limit on real estate. Five, exempt from the debt limit, bonds issued to cover the cost of constructing a 2nd Avenue subway. A 2nd Avenue subway would materially relieve our transit congestion. It would tie in at DeKalb Avenue in Brooklyn, with the Queens Tunnel at 59th Street, and with the East Bronx. Six, permit New York City to get from the state 50% of its hospital construction costs, as all counties outside of New York are now permitted under existing law. The estimated costs of immediately needed hospital construction are $150 million. The state's share of $75 million should be paid to the city during the next three years. Now, to return to our immediate problem of the $161 million additional dollars. If we got the $84 million dollars from the state, we would still be $77 million dollars short. short. This amount we will have to raise right here in and from the city itself. Now how do we do that? We propose to raise about 13 million dollars from additional real estate taxes, about five million dollars by placing a five cent tax on each taxi cab ride, about five million dollars by imposing a tax of ten dollars on trucks and five dollars on automobiles using our city streets, and about two and a half million dollars by a tax of one quarter of the state fee for liquor licenses issued in this city. But having tapped all these reservoirs, there still remains about 51 million dollars that will have to be obtained somehow to complete next year's housekeeping budget. Reluctantly, I have come to the conclusion that at this time, whether we like it or not, we must not let our transit operating deficit upset and stand in the way of the city's other vital needs. The operating deficit is the amount by which the fares collected the cost of the transit system. Until 1946, there never was an operating deficit. And then it arose as the direct result of the necessary increases in wages and the cost of operation. Next year, it will be necessary to provide more than 51 million dollars to cover operating deficits. That means that the city would have to pay that deficit out of its treasury, rather than use that money for other essential purposes, such as hospitals, health, health insurance, public welfare, and other vital services. As long as the city treasury continues to pay this transit deficit, it can only do so at the sacrifice of other essential services. An increase in fare of not more than three cents is estimated to be sufficient to cover the operating deficit. Large speculative and investment realty interests have for a long time have been agitating for a self-sustaining fare on our transit lines. What they sought to accomplish was to make the traveling public pay the entire cost of the city's transit system. They wanted the riders to pay the debt service. Do you know what the debt service is? It is the amount of money paid annually for principal and interest on the monies the city borrowed to pay for the transit system. A system from which real estate is the chief beneficiary and from which it has derived the maximum benefit. The realty interests have been insisting that a ten cent fare would solve all the city's financial problems. Last February, we had a three-day public hearing on the question, quote, would a self-sustaining fare solve the city's financial problems? End of quote. At the end of the quote. At the end of the hearings, it was clear that it would not. It was merely a device by which these large real estate interests wanted to place the burden of the Debt Service on the riders. I was against that then, and I am just as strongly opposed to it now. I am recommending to the legislature that the fare on the city's transit system be fixed by the Board of Transportation at a rate sufficient to cover only operating costs. In asking this adjustment, I am at the same time taking every precaution to provide against the possibility of ever saddling the traveling public with any fare higher than is absolutely necessary to cover operating costs and nothing else. Let me read the provision which I shall insist be inserted in the law. Quote, The Board of Transportation shall not be empowered to fix and adjust the rate of fare so as to provide revenues sufficient to pay all or any part of debt service unless there shall be submitted to a referendum of the qualified voters of the city the following question. Quote, Shall the rate of fare in New York City include X cents for the payment of debt service? End of quote. I shall also insist that school children shall not be required to pay more than a five-cent fare. And I shall insist that the Board of Transportation make public detailed financial statements monthly and annually. I shall insist that the proposed change will take our transit system and the question of the fare out of politics and place it on a fiscal and rational basis. This, in brief, is the program I propose. In arriving at this program, I have given our problems great consideration and deep study. This program is designed to further the health, the well-being, and the happiness of our citizens. With your help, we will see it through. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Good night. Mayor William Woodwire has discussed New York City's fiscal and legislative program. The mayor spoke to you from his desk in City Hall in the presence of all the members of the Board of Estimates. We return you now to our studios.