The sitting station joins with the nation's networks to bring New York listeners an address by Prime Minister Churchill, an address being carried by shortwave radio to the people of the British Empire and the world. We take you now to the nation's capital for the Prime Minister's message. The Trump Hill. I have felt for some time a great desire that a critic could be paid throughout Great Britain and in Ulster to the faithful, unwary and absolutely indispensable work done by the Home Guard month after month and years. And year after year. Accordingly, next Sunday, military parades and religious services will be held throughout the land to associate the nation and the Home Guard in the celebration of its first three years of life. As we move through these tremendous times, without such succession of formidable or glittering events, we must not overlook or consider as matters of mere retreats those unceasing daily and nightly efforts of millions of men and women which constitute the foundation of our capacity. to wage this long-term and the world to wage this long-term and the world to be held in the last year. As we move through these tremendous times, with our swift succession of formidable or glittering events, we must not overlook or consider as matters of mere retreats those unceasing daily and nightly efforts of millions of men and women which constitute the foundation of our capacity to wage this long-term and the world to be held in the last year. It is in the last year. It is in the last year. To be held in the last year. To be held in the last year, we must guarantee the power to be held in the last year. To be held in the last year, we must not guard you, but the I am on. All of the British war energies depend upon the unfailing defence and adequate nourishment of our small island home, which lies only 21 miles from the German batteries and only a few minutes flight from the Airfield. from the RRP. Great Britain is the advanced fighting base of the United Nations and is still under constant siege and assault by air and steam. It was in a very large measure the powerhouse and directing center of the whole of the British Commonwealth and Empire. It is the source of a vast output of war equipment. It is the home and cradle of the natives. Once forts fail the convoys which carry forth the expeditionary armies, and to them come the food and supplies by which our sense of ordinal, vibrant life is sustained. In this home, there burns the light of freedom. Guard is well, home guard. Our eyes are fixed upon the future, but we may spare a moment to glance back to those past days of 1940, which are so strangely imprinted on our memories that we can hardly tell whether they are near or far away. In those days of May and June and July, in that terrible summer when we stood alone, and with the world thought forlorn against the all-powerful aggressor with his vast army and masses of equipment, Antony Needy and Secretary of State for War, called upon the local defence volunteers to rally around the first strike position. shotguns, shotguns, sporting rifles, stubs and staves were all made to find for weapons. It was not until July that we ferried safely across the Atlantic, the million rifles and one thousand field guns with ammunition proportionable, which were given to us by the government and people of the country. by an act of precious and timely sucker. You will remember how we had the special trains waiting to carry the rifles to all the home guard areas and the troops. and how you worked night and day to clean them from the Greeks in which they had been stored for a generation. You will remember how we hardly dared to fire around the branches. My tire was stringent. But this was the great turning point in your story. And I ask that your name should be changed, and that you should assume the proud title of home guard. Then, forward at any rate, you had military weapons in your hands. Then forward, when imagining the horrors of a Hun invasion, the road, that lost and slowly fought a unslavable man, you can always take one with you. Very different in our condition today. We are an armed fleet. The strength of the home guard has risen steadily. Clothing and equipment are complete. Instead of the shotguns and homemade bombs, most now have rifles or stem guns or machine guns or serve in the anti-tank or anti-aircraft team. Ammunition, long-coated gear, is now sufficient to allow each man to practice with his own weapons. We have just authorised a substantial increase for firing practice. Since 1940s, many of the home guards have joined the regular forces. Some older men have retired, having done their duty in the hour of need. Younger men owe to them the experience and leadership they have inherited. Nearly a year ago, compulsory enrollment was introduced. And the direct equipment, as they are called, have proved as good and as willing as the original volunteers. With them paid the lads of seventeen. Many already trained in the Army Cadet forces. New units have been formed for special duty. Many hundreds of hatch-hack guns are manned by the home guard. Scores of batteries have been inact and have acquitted themselves worthily. Women have paid an ever larger part at the guns. The coast defense and motor transport units, which have been formed, will grow in efficiency throughout the year. Credit to June, not only to the home guardsmen themselves, but to all who helped them. To the employers and management, who make it easier to fit in home guard duty. To the men's employment. To the wives and mothers, who have made home guard service easier in so many ways. And to the voluntary women helpers, to whom we have now given, in official recognition, a badge of service. We have now nearly two million resolute trained and equipped men. All of them do their daily work in Caesar factories. And add to it, we, greatest and for nothing at all. The last and proudest duty of a citizen of the Empire, and a soldier of the King. The people who note and mark our growing mastery of the air, not only over our island, but penetrating into ever widening zones on the continent. The people who are asked whether the danger of invasion has not passed away. Let me assure you of this. Back until Hitler and Hitlerism are beaten into unconditional surrender, the danger of invasion will never pass away. The degree of invasion danger depends entirely upon the strength or weakness of the forces and operations gathered to meet him. The larger the army that must be brought across the seas to attack and subjugators, the greater the difficulties of the operations. And the better the start of it, which will be opened to the Royal Navy and to the British and American air forces on the spot. You home guardmen are a right part of those forces. You are specially adapted to meet that most modern form of overseas attack. The mass descent of parachutes too. The home guard might well share the motto of the Royal artillery. You fight with, for they are everywhere. And if the Nazi villains drop down upon us from the skies any night in rage or any attack upon the key production centers, you will make it clear to them that they have not alighted in the poultry run or in the rabbit farm or even in the sheepfold, but that they have come down in the lion's den of the zoo. Here is the reality of your work. Here is that sense of imminent emergency which cheers and inspires the long routine of drills and mustards after the hard day's work is done. But I have more to say to you than this. I am speaking to you now from the White House in Washington, where I am staying with my honored friend, the President of the United States. These are great days. They are like the days in your shattered times, at which it was said you had to get up very early in the morning, not to miss some news of victory. Ah, such victory is no conclusion. Even final victory will only open a new and happier field of valiant endeavor. The victory is gained by the way. It must be at spur. We are gathered here, now, with the highest professional authorities in all the fighting services of the region. Two great English-speaking nations. The plans well ahead of the army, who are moving swiftly forward. It is no good having only one march ahead laid out. March after march must be planned, as far as you and I can see. The nine and forethought must be our guides and heralds. We owe it to the fighting troops. We owe it to the vast communities we are leading out of the dark places. We owe it to heroic Russia, to long-tormented China. We owe it to the captive and enslaved nations, who beckon us on to their prison bars. At present, we have strong armies in Great Britain. And it is the assembly base for the United States Armies of Liberation coming across the broad Atlantic. But this is not the end. We must prepare for the time which is approaching, and will surely come, when the bulk of these armies will have advanced across the seas into deadly grapple on the continent. Just as it should say, just in the same way as the Home Guard render the regular forces mobile against an invader, so the Home Guard must now become capable of taking a great deal of the burden of Home Defence onto themselves, and thus set free the bulk of our trained troops for the assault of the strongholds of the enemy's power. It is this reason which, above all others, has prompted me to make you and all Britain realize, afresh by this Home Guard celebration and demonstration, the magnitude and lively importance of your duties, and of the part you have to play in the Supreme Court's now gathering momentum as it rolls forward to its goals. That is the end of the Prime Minister's broadcast. Thank you. Through a specially made transcription, your city station, joining with the American networks and British Empire stations, has brought you an address by Prime Minister Winston Churchill. In closing, we'd like to remind New York listeners of another very important program this weekend. At 3 p.m. Sunday, Vice President Henry A. Wallace will speak at I Am an American Day ceremonies on the Mall in Central Park.
