A Look at Australia To the tune of Australia's popular song, Waltzing Matilda, Henry Milo, Authority on World Affairs, presents the regular transcribed series, A Look at Australia. A Look at Australia is a program designed to give you an intimate glimpse into the lives of the people down under. Through the men and women whom Mr. Milo brings to you in this series, we hope you will come to know Australia with a new understanding and hope too that you will have a new appreciation of its customs and its way of life. A Look at Australia is heard regularly over this station and is produced with the cooperation of the Australian News and Information Bureau, a Commonwealth Government Agency at 636 Fifth Avenue, New York City. So, let's join Henry Milo for an informative and authoritative insight into a land which is already well known to many of us. In short, let's take A Look at Australia. And now, ladies and gentlemen, here is Henry Milo. How do you do, everyone? Well, I have an unusual treat on this program for the friends of A Look at Australia. No less than the famous Australian motion picture actor Ron Randall is my guest. And for those who have seen Mating of Millie with Glenn Ford and Evelyn Keyes and that other famous Columbia production, Ritter Hayworth in Loves of Carmen, I guess you have a pretty good idea of just how important an actor Ron Randall is. So, without any further introduction, I'm going to pile him with questions about himself. And where were you born, Ron? I suppose in Sydney, because it seems that almost all the Australians that have had on this program do hail from Sydney. Henry, may I take advantage of this small pause to say, hello, America? You know, I've always wanted to say, hello, America, and it's so rare one really gets an opportunity of saying that, you know. Well, you go right to it. I'm sorry, may I answer your question now? You come from Sydney, I suppose. That's right, Henry, sure. And when were you born there? I was born in 1918. Ah, that makes you quite an old man, doesn't it? All of 30 years old. You know, we were friends when we started this program, Henry. And I suppose you were educated there, too? I was educated partly in Sydney and partly in Melbourne. That's in the state of Victoria, which is south of Sydney. Did you serve in the armed forces, Ron? Yes, I did. I was in the 17th Battalion. Well, that's fine. I suppose you met a great many Americans, D.I.'s, too, while you were there. I did, certainly. And did you do much in the theater while you were in Australia? Henry, it seems like all my life was spent in the theater, it seems, to me, anyway. I, from the age of 14, I've been playing in the theater in Sydney and Melbourne and generally around Australia. Then you're an old trooper. Well, if there's that old word cropping up again. Well, I'm a young trooper. Not old in years, but an experience. But let me ask you this. How long have you been doing pictures in the United States? Just about next week, Henry. I will be here two years, in which time I've made eight pictures for Columbia Pictures and Covary. That's quite a record, isn't it? Well, it's a record for me because I've only made two pictures before that prior to coming here in Australia, you see. Well, now, of course, one of the most recent, I think the most recent, is this very delightful production of Loves of Carmen with Rita Hayworth. Tell us about her, will you? Well, Henry, I can, we got a few hours, I can rattle off a few things about Rita Hayworth. We have an enemy. You know what that is? The clock. The clock, unfortunately. Well, what I can say is that it was a great thrill meeting Rita for the first time and a greater thrill working for her. I'm sure it would have been for me. I don't know whether I was working for her or with her there for a while. But she is a very, very glamorous lady who looks, I don't feel the films ever really do her justice in her looks. She has great appeal, as I'm sure the rest of the male population of America will agree with me. In fact, the world. We had a very, very enjoyable time. I played her first lover in The Loves of Carmen. That was the part of Andres. This, as you know, the story is not the opera story. Andres never appeared in the opera. He was written in to the film version. And, unfortunately, I lose Rita, or Carmen, that is, to Glenn Ford. Isn't that too bad? Well, it's too bad for me, but it's good luck for Glenn. Well, tell me, what about this other picture that you did recently, too, this mating of Millie with Glenn Ford? How was that? Well, we had a lot of fun on that. That was a comedy. And Evelyn Keys and Glenn and Willard Parker and I, more or less, carried that show through. And we had an awful lot of fun making it. Do you like Mr. Ford? I suppose you do. I like Glenn very much. Uh-huh. Nice to work with? He's very nice to work with. I've worked in two pictures with him, and we've enjoyed each other. I hope I've enjoyed him, in any case, in those two pictures. You know, we have a very large audience of young ladies who are always interested in very fine-looking and distinguished gentlemen, such as yourself. Well, and I just must ask you one question. Are you married? Well, Henry, I'm glad you asked me that, because I am married, and only recently married. And I'm very proud to be married, and to an American girl, incidentally. Oh, isn't that wonderful? Yes, it is. That makes you really, uh, even closer tied to America, doesn't it? Ah, yes, and I hope even closer than that. Well, I, someone told me that you were a bachelor. I think it was Lloyd Clark. Well, it seems that I've been a bachelor for so many years that it's beginning to follow me now. I have to break that. People are beginning to ask questions. Gee, you know, uh, radio friends, I've really got to cut in here and just describe this young fellow to you, because he really is very handsome. And thank you for calling me young fellow at last. I've been kicking you in the shins there for 15 minutes. I know. What a blister I'm going to have. I'd also add that he's 5 feet 10, and that he has curly brown hair and eyes, and that rare quality of enthusiasm that you can observe, and I don't know how much bigger, so much that, well, I'm just floored. Thank you, Henry. I love the way you say, you say 5 feet 10 as if it sounds like 6 feet 4. Thank you very much. Oh, wonderful. But now also, uh, someone told me that you were interested in, uh, publishing a song or something. Is that right? Uh, well, I am a part-time composer, Henry. I, um, I got this little talent at one time back in Australia when I used to go for walks with my dog, and I found myself composing songs, and I've had a couple published in my own country already. And I would certainly like to get some published in this country, but I'm rather lazy about it and just haven't gotten around to it yet. But you sing, too. A little bit, yes. Now, don't you think it would be a good idea on this program sometime... Don't ask me to sing, no. ...to go around here to sing one of your own songs? Uh, one time, yes, perhaps so. Unfortunately, I didn't bring my music. Tell me, how do you like working for Columbia Pictures? Well, I am very fond of Columbia. I've, I've, uh, it's the only company I have worked for in this country, and, uh, I've got to know most everybody in, uh, in the studio back in Hollywood and most of the people who work in New York. Mm-hmm. I like them very, very much, and I feel they like me. And, uh, I, I hate making changes, you know? When you like people and they like you, I, I sort of like to go on to build from there rather than change about. That's the way I feel about the Australians, too. I've been doing radio programs for them for three years, and I don't like making changes. I think they're fine people. Well, thank you very much. Uh, I'll accept that on behalf of, uh, the seven million of us down under. Good. If I may. Uh, tell me, what do you think of, uh, the possibilities of, uh, motion picture expansion down under in Australia? I think it's very good. Uh, there is a, um, a sort of enthusiasm among the people who are interested in motion pictures down there, which should, uh, carry it, uh, along very well if given half a chance. Unfortunately, uh, building operations and so forth throughout the world have restricted, um, uh, the motion picture industry, um, in Australia to date. But things are improving, and with, uh, the American interest and the British interest that is, is, uh, is down there now, I don't doubt that within two or three years, uh, we'll see great improvements. You know, we Americans have indeed been very, very fortunate because we have, uh, imported a great deal of Australian talent. Uh, not only yourself, but, uh, many others in various fields of the theatre and entertainment, such as John Dudley, and, oh, I don't know how many, many others here. Errol Flynn? Yes. We've just taken so many. I wonder if there are any left, uh... Yes, yes. There's, there's a great deal of talent in Australia, a great deal that I'm very, very proud of, and I do hope that they get over here or in England and, uh, get known internationally very soon because, uh, I'm very proud of what we have down there. I understand also that you Australians are theatre-minded along the same lines that we Americans are, and that you are a people who think and live about as we do here, and that we'd all feel very much at home in your country, as most of you do here. You would. I assure you, you would. Um, I was going to say something on your first question. I'm afraid my, uh, my mind is getting a little mixed up. What was your first question? You were talking about Australia there, Henry? Well, I thought about your being, uh, the possibility of a motion picture progress there and also, uh, about what you do in your theatres there, your motion picture. Oh, yes, that's what I wanted to say about the theatres. I'm sorry for my vagueness there for a moment, but actually Australia was a great theatre country for touring companies from America and from England one time. Particularly, I think every, practically every great American star has at one time toured Australia some years ago when the theatre was really booming and come back with a lot of that green stuff that you were very fond of and so we, and also left a very popular name down there. I think we used to send entire vaudeville companies there as well as road companies of dramatic and musical shows. That is right. Of course, you still send vaudeville acts there now, but, uh, it's been some years since we've had the great plays. The John Barrymores and people used to go down there one time and which, uh, the Australian public actually is crying out for now. They would love to see your great, your great artists down there. Well, we have not too many on the, on the dramatic stage right now to spare, have we? Not as many, apparently, as you people have in Australia because we get so many of you... You're very kind. It just seems there are so many. You were working for the Australian Ministry of Information here. No, but I really mean that. You've had some very fine ones. There's, uh, that fellow Rafferty there, remember? Oh, he's a very, very good friend of mine, yes. He's just finishing a picture. He did a program on the series here. Uh-huh. About that very famous, uh, film that he made. Yes. With all the, uh, cattle and so on. Yes, it was. I enjoyed it very much. Uh, unfortunately, uh, I, I, I, I'd like to have been in it, but I was working in a picture at the same time. What picture was that? It was made on the life of Sir Charles Kingsford Smith and released by Columbia here called Pacific Adventure. It was, uh, the first of, uh, the big features, uh, made in Australia after the war. We were both making them at the same time. It sort of crossed each other. I, uh, believe the Australians say, uh, other Australians who've talked with me and told me about your great success, that you were linked, your name was linked, uh, some time ago, years ago, perhaps, with the Australian actress Shirley Ann Richards and also with Nancy Carroll. Is that so? Well, uh, with Shirley, linked in which way with, uh, Shirley? Oh, I don't know which way, but they just said... Well, I don't like the way you say it. Although I'd like to be linked with Shirley. Shirley is a very good friend of mine and a very, very nice girl and doing extremely well in Hollywood. Uh-huh. As for Nancy, who I'm very fond of and been a very good friend of mine, we did a play when I was in this country in 1943. We played opposite each other in a play called Mr. and Mrs. North Oh, yes. at the Hibley Theater in San Francisco. Uh-huh. Ann, I have never had, uh, and I've never played with. I'd like to. There is a possibility, as a matter of fact, we may someday, but, uh, not to date. I might ask you this. Uh, do you... This is not your first visit to New York, is it? No, uh, this is my third visit to New York. And you're... Each time is hurried. I, I, I come here and I get a little frightened when I come in. Uh, sometimes I've driven over the Pulaski Skyway, you know, into New York and it seems a little like another world. It's something that I've never seen before and it rather scares me until I get to know the people here and find the, the warm-heartedness of the people in New York. Uh, that you've got a sort of, uh, it's not, uh, so clear at your first glance, you know, with the sort of bustle-bustle that goes on in the city. But they are very, very warm-hearted and full of hospitality, I've found. Well, they tell me that New York is a very, uh, that rather Sydney is very much like New York, only smaller. Well, it's a little New York, yes. And, uh, has tall buildings and, uh, has plenty of bustles. And narrow streets and all that sort of thing. That's right. It has the bustle that is, uh, reminiscent of, um, New York, too. Uh, I found just before I came away I was rather sorry to leave Sydney because, uh, things were beginning to bustle. It was all sort of hum, like the hum of New York, you know, coming up. Well, it's been fine to have you here, Ron. And I certainly hope you'll have time to come back again on this program. And radio friends, you've been listening to Ron Randall, a very well-known Australian actor who's just appeared in the Columbia production Loves of Common with, uh, Rita Hayworth. I hope those of you who have not seen it but have now heard Ron will go and see him. It's been a fine picture. Thank you. May I say it's been a pleasure to be on this program with you, Henry. Well, thank you. To be able to talk to the people of America. Thank you. And I would like to come back again sometime. Well, I certainly hope you will have the time. We'd certainly be glad to find the time for you on this program if you will have the time to come back. And this is Henry Milo saying goodbye for now. You have been listening to a transcribed program, A Look at Australia, brought to you each week over this station. This broadcast was presented by Henry Milo with the cooperation of the Australian News and Information Bureau in New York City. Write to Henry Milo, care of this station, for an attractive 32-page illustrated magazine about Australia. And this is Stanley Burns inviting you to listen in at the same time next week for another in the series of A Look at Australia. A Look at Australia. A Look at Australia. To the tune of Australia's popular song, Waltzing Matilda, Henry Milo, authority on world affairs, presents the regular transcribed series, A Look at Australia. A Look at Australia is a program designed to give you an intimate glimpse into the lives of the people down under. Through the men and women who Mr. Milo brings to you in this series, we hope you will come to know Australia with a new understanding and hope, too, that you will have a new appreciation of its customs and its way of life. A Look at Australia is heard regularly over this station and is produced with the cooperation of the Australian News and Information Bureau, a Commonwealth Government Agency at 636 Fifth Avenue, New York City. So let's join Henry Milo for an informative and authoritative insight into a land which is already well known to many of us. In short, let's take a look at Australia. And now, ladies and gentlemen, here is Henry Milo. How do you do, everyone? These are days when people in radio are looking both ahead and behind. The rapid strides that have been made in television in recent months are calling for an entirely new type of programming, and there are a lot of people who believe that television is going to open up a new era for the grand old troopers and the vaudevillians. The husky young trooper I have with me at the microphone is certainly no old-timer, although he's spent his time in the theater since he was knee-high to a grasshopper. His name is Clifford Guest, and he's a guest in more ways than one. Clifford is another visitor from Down Under. At present, he is making a number of stage and radio appearances in the United States. And before we're through with him, I'm hoping that we'll have a chance to hear something of the exceptional talent that has made him an overnight hit in New York. But first of all, Clifford, we want to hear a little more about you personally. Now, where did all this begin? Well, I suppose the real beginning is in North Carlton, Victoria, because that's where I was born. And North Carlton, for the benefit of those who don't know Australia quite as well as you do, well, it's a suburb of Melbourne, the capital of Victoria, isn't it? That's right. Now, Cliff, I know that your career in the theatre started at a pretty early age. Supposing you tell us a little about it, will you? Well, right from the time I was a nipper, I wanted to go on the stage. I'd never thought much about Bordeaux, of course, but, well, I just had a terrific desire to be an actor. I read everything I could get hold of that had anything to do with the theatre, and, well, I began playing when I was about 13. Well, that's certainly getting away at an early start, all right. Yes, and I made the most of it. It wasn't too long before I was playing juvenile roles with repertory companies, and almost before I knew it, I was on the road with a stock company touring the outback towns of Victoria. Well, I take it that in those days, you were a straight actor then. Straight is right. But, of course, when you're travelling with a small company, sometimes there were only four or five of us in the whole show, well, you learn to become pretty versatile. A company of four or five sounds pretty small to me. How on earth did you ever get around to filling the pots and the cast? Well, I'll admit it was rather difficult, but most of us had to double in different roles, of course. We frequently had to modify the script so that we were able to cope with it. Well, just the same, I'll bet it was a lot of fun, though. It was tough, but it was a wonderful experience. And it was while I was with one of these road companies that I put my talents as a ventriloquist to further use. Mm-hmm. Right from a child I've been a ventriloquist. Well, it sounds a rather unusual development for a young actor, though, doesn't it? Well, I'd often amuse folks with impersonations, impressions of that kind of thing in my spare time. And one evening, the leader of our company suggested it would be a good idea if I put my neck to some practical use. Ha-ha. You know, there's always something of delay between scenes when you're playing under those conditions. And he thought I might be able to help keep the audience amused while the scene change would work. And so that's how it all began, huh? Well, your particular knack, as you call it, has carried you a long ways from there. Just how did it all happen? Well, around about 1930, I found that people were getting more interested in my side act than they were in me as a straight actor. So I went back to the cities, but had the usual hard time trying to forge ahead with something that I thought was really new. And so you decided to go farther afield, huh? Yes, I thought that London seemed to offer the best prospects, so I gambled. Everything went ahead there. Good. I know that just what a successful opening you had there. And I guess it wasn't too long before the prophet, who was without fame in his old country, was on his way back home, huh? Well, it didn't happen quite as quickly as that. It was 1937 before a booking agent discovered me and asked me to tour Australia. I must admit I was just looking for the chance to get back there. There's just no place like home, you know. And I have no doubt that you had a pretty wonderful homecoming, though. It's always a great experience to get home after you've been away that long. I played radio in the theatres and returned to England just before the outbreak of war. Well, I understand that you already had been booked for return engagement, though. Is that right? Oh, in more ways than one. And in the meantime, I found myself a very lovely wife. Oh. We both returned to Australia and began two of the same circuit. Then, of course, the war really began. Well, I'm afraid I wasn't destined to become one of the war's heroes, but, well, I joined the USO. Oh. A United Service organization and devoted the next few years to entertain the troops in Australia and the South Pacific. And with the war over, then what? Well, we hit the road again, this time to New Zealand. And now, well, here we are in New York. And mighty glad we are to have you over here, too, Cliff. Thank you. Well, before our time runs out altogether, I'm going to ask you if you won't do one of your famous little acts for us. But before we get round to that, there are a few things I'd like to ask you. Now, as a veteran trooper of the outback in Australia, what sort of audiences would you say these people make? Well, of course, the advent of a theatrical company in most of these towns is something of a real event. The audiences themselves are marvellous, but I'm afraid that in the past, they have not been given quite the fare they're entitled to. By that, I mean big theatrical companies are not prepared to take a full cast and equipment to lots of places because the, well, the populations there are just not sufficiently large to make the proposition of paying one. But I understand that the Commonwealth government is now getting ahead with its plans to establish a national theatre that will make adequate provision for that sort of thing, huh? Yes, that's true. Mr. Leslie Halen, who was a journalist member of the federal parliament and who I believe was on this same programme not very long ago... That's right. ...is the sort of spirit behind the movement. Perhaps you could refresh us a little on the whole deal, could you, Cliff? Well, the government has very definite plans for ensuring that the country folk are no longer isolated from the highest forms of culture where the theatre's concerned. Its plans include, for instance, the establishment of theatrical trains. Well, now, just what do you mean by that? Well, companies will be formed with really top talent and sent out on the road by train. State governments will provide the rolling stock to carry not only the company but all the scenery and the technicians that would go with the leading theatre performance, city leading. Mm-hmm. And would these people live on the trains? Just how would the company operate? Well, you know, living out of suitcases and skipping from one hotel to another has always been one of the bugbears of the one-night stand. Sure. Now, these trains will be fitted up so that they really become apartments on wheels. Well, that still doesn't avoid the one-night stand, though, does it? Well, under this scheme, it will. You see, the companies will set up incentives and take a repertoire of perhaps, well, half a dozen plays. In other words, every centre will resolve itself into a sort of short season. Well, you mean that just as we have at the country fair time here, so that the government really is planning a sort of county theatrical festival, is that it? Well, that's the general idea. Of course, where possible, visits to centres will be made to coincide with the local show, or as you call it, the country fair. Or county fair, too, sometimes we call it. Yes. And I understand that this isn't going, though, to be limited to the theatre in its pure sense, though. No, provisions being made for opera, symphonies, and, of course, vaudeville. Oh, and how. And now that you've mentioned vaudeville, Cliff, I think it's high time that we sent you into your act. Well, if you think you can stand up, I'd like to give you an impression of a military officer giving orders to his men, and the crunch of marching feet, and the crowd cheering. Uh-huh. And all done vocally, huh? I think that I should emphasize to our radio friends, Cliff, that you haven't any mechanical gadgets of any sort to help you. In fact, you're not just a one-man band without an instrument, but a one-man parade as well. So go ahead, Cliff, will you? Well, the military men, military officer, giving orders to his men at the crunch of marching feet. Come on, Cliff! Come on, Cliff! Come on! Hey! Please! No! Come on! Well, that was wonderful, Cliff. We have just a few seconds more time. Will you give us just one more sample of something that you can do? For just about a half a minute. One more sample? Yes, one short one. That was so wonderful. Well, perhaps a impression of one little thing I'm doing at present at the music hall. Oh, wonderful. The fox hunt. Oh, fine. This is the impression of an English fox hunt. If you imagine the galloping of the horses and the baying of the hounds and the calling of the huntsmen. There they go! Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, yeah! Oh, yeah! Bye. Oh Over there! Gee, that was swell, Cliff. You're a great guy. And it was certainly really something for us to hear. And radio friends, you must understand that Cliff has given us this entertainment without any instrument or gadget in his mouth simply just by getting before the microphone and making noises to us. It's hard not to understand why you haven't been in this country long before and not hard to understand why you have been bringing down the house here in Radio City. And thanks a lot for coming here. And I know that I'm speaking for all our radio friends when I say we wish you every success in the United States and around the world, too. And radio friends, you've been listening to the distinguished Australian radio and stage star Mr. Clifford Guest, telling something of his experiences in the theater down under. And this is Henry Milo saying goodbye for now. You have been listening to a transcribed program, A Look at Australia, brought to you each week over this station. This broadcast was presented by Henry Milo with the cooperation of the Australian News and Information Bureau in New York City. Write to Henry Milo, care of this station, for an attractive 32-page illustrated magazine about Australia. And this is Stanley Burns, inviting you to listen in at the same time next week for another in the series of A Look at Australia. A Look At Real É whichco efter啥 desec profounds WILLIAM A LIBT ENGRE UNTIL É dan Auld É areの yet well congratulations ìn Thank you.
