Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. The Reviewing Stand will present many problems of unusual interest. We invite you to listen. Today by transcription, the Reviewing Stand asks, How much can we learn from history? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the old question, Does history repeat itself? How can we use history in meeting current problems? Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Gracie Boyce, Professor of History at Northwestern University. Louis Gottschalk, Professor of History at the University of Chicago, and Kim Boon Young, Professor of Sociology at Northwestern University. As a nation and as individuals, we are faced with difficult and baffling problems. Where should we turn for directions, for guideposts, in making decisions? Today we ask the question, How much can we learn from history? In other words, to what extent can we quantify past experience in making decisions for the future? How do you answer this question, John? Well, using history in a very broad sense, we do and must profit by experience, both as individuals and as a group. But as to how much we may learn from history, in a more restricted meaning of the term, history is quite another matter, which I take it we are here to discuss. What can you add to that, Gottschalk? I would like to underline the difference between experience and history, speaking of history strictly. But at the same time, it seems to me there is an element of connection between the two. Every mature judgment on the part of an adult human being is based more or less upon his personal experience and his formal education. And formal education is based largely upon the experience of others. Hence, good judgment is essentially derived from one's own experience and one's knowledge of other people's experience. In other words, decisions regarding present and future conduct, to the extent that they are the results of reflection rather than of emotion or thoughtlessness, are influenced by one's personal or vicarious experience and history is a common form of vicarious experience. Unfortunately, there may be, as Jung says, a wide divergence of opinion regarding what the lessons of history are. Equally reputable and well-intentioned historians have come to strikingly different conclusions regarding what is to be learned from the same historical episodes or developments. That certainly is true. Well, now, you, you, uh, raised the question, what is meant by history? When you talk about learning from history, what do you mean by history, Bois? That's a very good question. It's one I think that we have to try to answer in some way. There are so many definitions of history, I'd like to choose one, at least for consideration. It certainly is a record, and it is a record of the deeds and the achievements, and I would add, and the failures of men living in society. And I should like to emphasize that phrase, living in society. However, I think that there is something else that we must keep in mind, and that is that when we deal with what we call history, we really are dealing less with a subject in itself than a special dimension of all other subjects. History has no matter that is exclusively its own. It does, however, have a method of approach. What do you regard as the primary purposes of the historian? Is it to provide a, a record of the past? Or is it to provide a, a basis for prediction and a guide for conduct for both? I would say in one sense that what he does is that he must use the record of the past. He will provide it, of course, in one sense, but he uses it. His primary purpose is to interpret the records of the past. I would say that the historian ought to do both. That is to say, he ought to study the record of the past in order to determine as nearly as he can what happened in the past. But at the same time, if he can, he ought to be anxious to provide himself and other people with a basis for prediction, or at least for guessing what the future may be, and to guide people in their conduct in the future. Well, I think the, the most important question we have before us is the extent to which you can rely on history as a guide. The extent to which you can take the history of past civilizations, past individuals, and rely on that, on that history as a, as a guide for conduct, as a basis for prediction. I wonder if we might not get at it by looking at some examples. Take one in your field, uh, Boyce. Can you draw any conclusions about our own country from an understanding of the history of ancient civilizations? Rome, for example? Of course, they would say, can you draw any conclusions? That is, if you mean that you can get an exact pattern in the past, and then try to transpose it, and apply it to the future, I would say possibly no. However, I do believe that any historian would insist that you, by studying the past, and studying, let us say such, a large subject as the history of Rome, the Roman civilization, that you will be able, by studying a civilization in which you can see the beginnings, and you can see the ends, then you may be able to ask yourself some very good, and some very searching questions about your own civilization. And having asked good questions, you then may be able to answer them. The trouble is that historians wouldn't agree as to what were the important things about Rome, or why Rome rose to greatness, or, or declined. And that consequently, there might be different lessons that different historians might want to tell about the fall of Rome, and different comparisons, therefore, would want to draw with our contemporary civilization. In other words, I think just as people differ with regard to what lessons they can draw from their own experience, they are likely also to differ with regard to the lessons that they can draw from history. That doesn't mean that there are no lessons in history, but it means that there are different lessons for different kinds of people. Does that mean that you have any generalization possible in history? That, as Becker put it once, every man is to be his own historian? I don't quite see any scientific value in history, if it is a matter of that kind of unique interpretation that you're in part of it. Well, the point that is contained in an assumption like Carl Becker's, that every man is his own historian, is that every man can look upon history from his own values. That doesn't mean that he is entitled to make up his own history. After all, he has to abide by the evidence of the past. Now, there is such a thing as a truthful interpretation of the past, even though the truth may not necessarily be... Well, in other words, you might say that the Marxists, for example, would have a completely different view, I would say, of the changes in the Roman period, than a person of a different political position. The history might be thought of as the same, but the interpretation would be different, is that right? That's exactly my point, that just as you might derive from a fire in a hotel at which you were present, one lesson, and I might derive another lesson, you might derive the lesson not to go back to that hotel, and I might derive the lesson not to go to any hotel, so that people might easily derive different lessons from the same historical episode, not in their immediate past, but in some remote past. Young, I think that we should emphasize what Mr. Gottschalk had said sometime before, and that is that every historian looks at the past and asks there those questions which interest him. In our present civilization, we are very much interested, for example, in matters concerning economy, or concerning the social pattern of life. We therefore would ask questions which would not be those asked by a man in the midst of the 19th century, who would be interested in constitutional and legal developments, or perhaps more interested in those. And assuming that these men had all been equally respectful of the truth, they might get at answers that were right, and yet different, because they were asking different questions. What I would say was the scientific value of history, in so far as history is a social science, is that you could get a number of different answers from the same kind of data, all of which might be true again in the future, although it might also be true that none of them would be true in the future. In other words, examination of the historical event in the past might give you a number of answers, any one of which, or none of which, might be anticipated for the future. It would give you the opportunity to anticipate possibilities, rather than prediction of a necessary event or outcome. In other words, any use of history would have to be a use made within the framework of a contemporary problem which had some resemblance to the situation in the past, but not necessarily identity. Any use of history as a social science. History, of course, has its own use, which is the understanding of the past. But any use of history as a social science would have to either draw parallels to some present situation with a past situation, or a continuation of some past development into the present and possibly into the future, with a view to trying to anticipate how that future development will work out. Now, we're discussing some of the limitations of history as a guide for prediction and conduct. Let's see if we can explore those a bit more specifically. You often hear, Professor Boyce, the old statement that history repeats itself. Does history ever repeat itself? If you want a categorical answer, I would say no, it does not repeat itself, because history deals with the unique. It deals with the particular. And you've got to remember that you're dealing with time and space and change. Which suggests, of course, the weaknesses that are involved in these historical analogies. Well, but while I agree with Boyce that history is unlikely to repeat itself exactly, nevertheless there are things in history that have remarkable resemblance one to the other. We do, for example, know that there have been dictatorships at various times, that there have been revolutions at various times, that there have been wars at various times. We can establish a certain set of categories in which we can put certain events in history. And that we can ask, not only what is unique about these, what makes them different from each other, but also what makes them similar, so that they're all called wars, for example, or dictatorships. And it's quite conceivable that we might be able to generalize about them to a certain limited extent. Seems to me that unless we can do that, we can't learn anything from history in the sense in which we've been discussing up to this point. We do have a problem in science of recurrence. Now that recurrence may be within certain limitations as just indicated. But in the case of dictatorships, or the case of the cycle of revolution, if you want to use that term, we do find some amazing parallels. The question would come up, can we learn anything from this in interpreting, let us say, some of the contemporary situations and dictatorship and so on? Well, I think we can. It's a grave question among historians as to whether it's the business of the historian to do these comparisons, or to point out contrasts, whether it isn't the job of other people using historical material. That's what I think Boyce meant when he said that history was essentially a method which anybody could use, and not merely the historians. But it does seem to me that even the historian, if he wants to, he wishes to become a social scientist to that extent, can point up these similarities and try to indicate what similarities are to be expected in the future. Well, now when he undertakes that job, what dangers do you see involved? What precautions would you suggest he observe? Well, for one thing, it would seem to me that there are certain things that are definitely qualitative in nature, certain things that you can't easily measure and about which you have to exercise judgment. So that when you talk about categories, for example, like brotherly love, as some sociologists do, and try to measure them, you're going to have a very tough job. I would say that there are some things that you can measure, like populations and like prices, that the historian can very well give you information about, and other things that you can't measure and that have to be used very carefully if you're going to draw any kind of comparison. I certainly would agree with Gottschalk and with Young when they're talking about categories, when they're talking about dealing with these various large peers or large ideas in history. I do think that we should emphasize, however, that we must realize that we are dealing with probabilities, and that we are not like the scientist who can, with reasonable assurance, know what he is going to get when he puts certain elements together in a laboratory under similar conditions. And may I add that you're dealing with probabilities of thinking human beings who, as soon as any generalization might become true of them, are likely to want to avoid it if it's something they should avoid, or to emphasize it, and therefore act that way more regularly if it's something that they should emphasize. Now there's another aspect of that too that interests me. It seems to me that there are some time limitations, you might say, upon what use you can make of history. Take the case of the relationship of population to resources. Now we've got lots of recurrences in history where the population is pressed upon the resources of the country, and you've had changes coming about. But unless you circumscribe that in terms of time, in terms of, let us say, the ancient Greek or ancient China or even happened in Rome, within that framework, then you could say, well, other things being equal, and they approximate that, you're likely to find this kind of condition developing somewhere else in another area of the world. Now it seems to me you can do something with that kind of prediction in use, but that itself has a certain historical limitation to it. Well, I think what you're saying, Young, is that history, like all the other social sciences, goes on the assumption that human beings have been much the same throughout the course of man's knowledge, and as a consequence that they can be expected to react under similar circumstances in much the same way. Well, as far as the test of motivation and the basic, what was once called the psychic unity of man, I think we have to start with some such premises there. After all, we've had conflict, cooperation, what sociologists call differentiation in every society, a different, and a particular form these take, however, will be determined rather by historical than by psychological factors, so it seems to me. I think you're right that they will be determined by the situation at a given time, in other words, a historical setting. At the same time, I don't think that makes it easy. I wouldn't contend it makes it impossible, but it certainly doesn't make it easy to prognosticate what's going to happen because of similarities, seeming similarities, of a present situation with something in the past. For no other reason than that the present situation has not yet worked itself out. Otherwise, it wouldn't be a present situation, it would be a past situation, and the past situation is finished. And it's hard to compare an unfinished situation with a finished one. Well, I don't know what you mean by a finished situation, but I think if you mean in the sense of the contemporary changes going on, those certainly cannot be foretold. In the case of the use of atomic energy, for example, is a good illustration today. We don't know what the potentials are for technological change, say nothing that would be useful for these things for weapons. Well, that's a situation I find very difficult to handle, largely because it is a technological situation. But if you're dealing with persons, for example, dictatorship, which we mentioned before, if you were trying to find out what would happen to Stalin, for example, because he's a dictator, it seems to me that there you have many possibilities in the past. He might be a Caesar, he might be a Robespierre, he might be a Cromwell, he might be a Napoleon. But which one he was going to be would depend upon what, in fact, was going to happen to him. You couldn't tell what was going to happen to him from the comparison that you might choose in the future. In the past, you might choose one or several comparisons. It seems to me that the good deal of what you've been saying has been elaborating upon the acceptance of this presupposition that men are fundamentally alike. I certainly myself would want to accept that with good many reservations. I'm wondering, supposing we took such large categories as Oriental civilization and Occidental civilization, could we have reasonable assurance that an Orient, men in an Oriental civilization would react in the same way to similar stimuli? Well, I think there's no doubt about that in terms of the basic fundamental motivations of men. I think what happens, of course, people learn and they learn within these given historical and spatial circumstances. But people have to eat in the Orient and they make love and they have children and they have to rear them. There are all kinds of common universal factors that you can't get away from. But take an attitude towards such a fundamental thing as the value of human life. There we have a great difference amongst Oriental peoples and Occidental peoples. But those are learning differences. Those are differences that one learns. Fundamental human nature must be the same if the historian is going to be able to understand evidence. That is to say, he's got to assume that a normal human being will testify in a certain fashion, otherwise he has no way of judging the value of any evidence. And it doesn't make any difference whether that evidence is by an Oriental or by an Occidental, whether it's by an Eskimo or a Hottentot. As long as he's human, he ought to be able to report what he sees and hears and smells and tastes, etc., like anybody else. You say he ought to be able to. My question is, will he and does he? Well, I think he does, or at least you understand him well enough so that you can make allowances for the different things he's learned, for his ethical and learning status. Young, let me ask you this question. How do you think this historical method we've been discussing is related to the experimental method? Well, I should say that from the point of view of science, that has some, they have something in common. As I understand the historical method, at least as some people have used it, it might be thought of as an attempt at reconstruction. And using the concepts of cause and effect for the moment, you could trace then the relationships of some prior events to some subsequent ones, in other words cause and effect. And by reconstructing what's happened in the past, you might be able to arrive at some, at least, probable or possible generalizations about it, for projection into the future. In this sense, the experimental method and historical method are not too unlike. Well, there's a point that it seems to me is pertinent in this connection, and that is that the historian frequently engages in what he calls the ifs of history. That is to say, he tries to reconstruct history as it might have happened if you took out an important element. For example, what might have been the history of Europe if Waterloo had been won by Napoleon instead of lost by Napoleon. Of course, that's very unsatisfactory because different historians will make even wider divergent guesses, more widely divergent guesses there than they will with regard to what actually did happen. But yet it does come close to being the same sort of thing that happens in the laboratory when you drop out one important element in order to discover what the result would be without that element in your experiment. And it's perfectly legitimate, it seems to me, at least, in laying out the function of history to indulge in this kind of thing within the controls that are possible. And the fact that so many historians are likely to agree, despite wide divergences, as to what might have been the case if something that did happen had not happened, that would seem to indicate that the method is not altogether fantastic. It is not fantastic, and it's frequently very suggestive, but of course, again, we have to remember when you make reference to the laboratory that the historian cannot perform his experiment and test it over and over. It is a hypothesis that it cannot be tested in the way it can be in the laboratory. Yes, but the recurrent factor in history is, in a way, the test, and that is limited, as indicated here already, as we well know. But it isn't completely impossible within certain limits to find some repetition or recurrence in history. Otherwise, it seems to me you cannot draw on history very effectively for scientific generalization. Well, we remember the limits. Aren't the men who make use of history likely to forget the limitations imposed by these limited recurrences? Well, yes, you either get the extreme of Henry Ford who says history is bunk, or you get the person who completely depends upon it in a somewhat fantastic way by accepting everything as predictable. In other words, is a man who relies on history likely to take sufficient account of change and relativity and limitations in these recurrences that Young is talking about? Well, the trouble with McBurney is that nobody relies on history. What happens is that people come to a historical, to, to, with certain questions that they ask of history, and they usually look to history for arguments to support the ideas and prejudices that they already have. You mean they use it only for rationalization? They use it for rationalization and for rhetorical purposes. And they don't actually try to learn from history. And for that reason, history is rather in a sorry position when it comes to teaching lessons, because while it probably has lessons to teach, there aren't very many people, there aren't very many people who are willing to learn from history. I think with McBurney's question, there might be another aspect of this that we might consider. And when you say, the person who relies upon history, if you are thinking of a man placed in the responsibility of determining or helping to determine foreign policy, for instance, if he is to be successful, it seems to me that what he must do is himself become the historian, as he becomes truly oriented in an historical sense. And he is himself a good historian trying to do the historian's work as best he can. Do you think his knowledge, for example, of the diplomatic relations and others between this country and Russia, would help the present Secretary of State to handle the Russians any better? Yes, because I think he would understand the Russians better, and that is most important. I might point out that generals are more likely to use history successfully and well than statesmen, because generals make, or officers and war colleges make it a business to study previous battles. I recall a statement by one of the leading biographers of Napoleon Bonaparte that he almost never went into a campaign without studying the history of previous campaigns in the area in which he expected to go. Well, it seems to me that's a very good illustration. At this point I tried to make a little while ago, the limited factors that have to be taken into account. Now, in every staff school, you know, they do go into the history of battles and so on, and they deal with those strategy and tactics. And there is a recurrence in these. And when you've got the same terrain, for example, you've got a lot of additional factors of this kind. And here's a good illustration of some usefulness of history. But of course, what you're dealing with when you're dealing with battles is something that you can measure, that is to say casualties, and which army retreated and which army stayed in the field. And therefore, you know what the end is that you're trying to achieve when you're dealing with a battle, or with prices, or with populations. But when you're dealing with foreign policy, for example, or with revolutions, you've got ethical problems there. What is good and what is bad? And people will differ as to what is good and what is bad, and therefore as to what they should learn from a previous example, as to whether the previous example is desirable or undesirable. Do you accept those limitations, Boyce? The suggestion that there are certain areas or situations in which history is more useful, relatively more useful than others? Yes, I think that is something that we'd all agree on. It seems to me in terms of the moral order, you just have very definite limitations as to what you can learn from historians in that sense, because every man, again, is going to make his own interpretations. And we have to reckon with that, and I think that's very good and well illustrated in our relation with Russia today. Their particular position and point of view is different than ours in terms of values. And one of the problems of communicating with them is dependent itself upon this. That would be true not only of what you might call the moral order, it certainly would be true of the economic order, because people who would have a very different attitude towards what is an ideal economic situation. And of the philosophical order, because they have an altogether different attitude toward history than most of us. Do you think history should be used for the purpose of developing attitudes, Gautschel? No, if you're talking about history in America, I would certainly say that I think that the purpose of history, as taught by historians at least, ought to be to try as nearly as possible to find out what was truthful. Oh, but I disagree with that. It seems to me that in terms of the great mass of people, history's function in part has been to induct people into the value system of their particular society. And I don't anticipate that the teachers of high school history are going to suddenly jump into courses in historiography and the examination of evidence, so that people will be able to look into their own world. It seems to me that you can't get away from the value aspects of teaching history. Well, there is a value there, that is, you can have your teacher of history, particularly for the younger student, explain the nature of the society in which he lives and the background of that society. There is a difference, though, that you've got to be very careful to emphasize between authoritarian interpretation, between history as propaganda and the value of history. I don't think you can get away from history as propaganda in the value system. I just think you must. I don't think you can. If Young is talking about what is likely to happen, I would say he's using history well to prognosticate. I think he's right in saying that we won't get away from propaganda in history. But the question you asked me, MacBurney, was what do I think ought to be done? And I say what ought to be done is to teach history as truthfully as possible. I don't think that you can ask people, for example, to not to detect the errors in their own past because if you, if you would have... Let me take a tiny case. Now, we'll now have time, Young, for you to take that concrete case. May we close on this interesting and somewhat controversial note? Thank you. That's it. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, How Much Can We Learn From History? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Gracie Boyce, Lewis Scott Chalk, and Kimball Young. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the role of the artist in a technological society. Our guests will be Thomas M. Foles, Chairman of the Department of Art at Northwestern University, Alfred Frankenstein, author, music and art critic with the San Francisco Chronicle, and Egbert Jacobson, Director, Department of Design, Container Corporation of America. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the role of the artist in a technological society. Remember, copies of these broadcasts may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs only $1 for four months, $2.50 for an entire year. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.