From a particular area or several particular areas, hasn't we found, as a matter of fact, Ms. Scott, that there have been instances throughout all areas in the city of New York, and in all areas on all economical and educational levels? That's correct. Well, now, let me ask you this. The good... That was why, Mr. Douglas... Well, have you... Have you got this report? Yes. We've asked all the principals at the end of the month to send you such new known cases as have come to their attention. Yes. And don't they send it from you, sir? They send a copy to Dr. O'Brien. So that you do have received this report now of six known cases in between with Clinton and I, though. It's just a fine sort of receiver. Now you want to change your estimate again. You have these six, don't you? Mr. Goldstein, we gave you an estimate as of May 7th. Now you gave us correct figures, not an estimate. We gave you correct figures. I stand corrected. We gave you correct... We gave you exact figures as of May 7th. May 22nd, sir. No. There was a tabulation in the schools as of May 7th. You got it on May 22nd. But this was the total of the cases as May 7th. Now we know and we have been sending you the fact that there have been additional cases discovered constantly. And that's why these letters to you... We've tried not to lie to you. Let's see whether it's true. Yes. Well, Dr. James, Junior Richmond High School in the borough of Manhattan doesn't appear on your report at all. Well, if it doesn't appear on that, then Dr. O'Brien apparently receives no report of any cases. No report. Of any cases, that's right. If I give you, Dr. Jansen, that I have a report from the police department, juvenile aid bureau, that they received from the principal of Junior Richmond High School a report that they had seven cases. And if that report came to the juvenile aid bureau in March of this year, would you say the jury estimated figure or your figure of 154 is correct? No. If that's a fact, then there's something wrong. That's true. Now, Dr. Wait, may I ask a question about that report? Is that a report that was known to the principal? I said made by the principal too, the juvenile aid bureau. Then it should have been included in this report. But obviously it was not. It was not, apparently. That's right. Now, Dr., in addition to that, I'd like to ask you whether you have listed anywhere on your report, Long Island City High School. Not at that date, no. And I would like to advise you that immediately received a report from the police department, juvenile aid bureau, that Long Island City High School reported through their principal through the juvenile aid bureau that they had three cases prior to the time of your campus. Well, now, Mr. Tartikoff, let me say a word about these reports to the juvenile aid bureau. You mean they're more important than the reports to the juvenile aid bureau? No. No. Not every case that is reported to the juvenile aid bureau turns out to be a real narcotic case. What a real narcotic case? A user. We have had a number of cases where we suspect them to be narcotic users, and we report them through the health department to the juvenile aid bureau. Now, I don't know why that report is not included here, but this is one possibility. It is a possibility that at the time those cases were reported to the juvenile aid bureau, it is entirely possible that at that time they were not known to be positive cases. And I think that in a way, and I say indirectly because this was before their own actual hearing here in New York, and as far as I know, they haven't concentrated on the narcotic situation. They expect to do that. But I think in the overall picture that they helped the thing, but I don't say that they're responsible for in any way for the probe itself. How do you feel about the work of this probe so far? What do you think has been accomplished? Well, I think that they've done a marvelous job. I think the Attorney General has outdone himself in the way he's handled this. The effectiveness of his probe, the haste by which he is proceeding. He's not losing time. He's not having a lot of wasted fanfare and dramatization of it. He's going about it in a realistic manner. He got all his facts together, and he's conducted many executive hearings. And in two months, I don't know of any probe, I don't know of any investigation or inquiry that has accomplished as much and laid the groundwork for an effective program. Along those same lines, Senator Halpern, we note that come July 1st, three new laws on narcotics will be passed. Were you instrumental in helping to pass any of those laws? Yes. Those laws are all part of a coordinated legislative effort, which about four or five legislators took part in. And we sponsored, all told, about ten bills in particular, dealing with various phases of the narcotic situation. And some of them, because of technicalities, didn't get through, but four of them did. Three, dealing with penal law amendments, and one, establishing this commission. And I wouldn't say the ultimate answer is, but I think it all adds up, and I think it goes a long way toward establishing fear and cracking down on the... so-called pushes of narcotics. I don't necessarily mean it will stop addiction. But if the supply is limited and the supply is cut down by stiffer penalties and by clamping down on those who are selling it, well, then naturally, the temptation for teenagers to use it and the availability of it would be lessened. And I think that the ultimate answer, of course, is that, plus a program of rehabilitation and hospitalization and an overall program for cures and methods of handling the situation. Thank you very much, State Senator Halpern. I see that we're just about ready to begin again. The interview has been a splendid one. And now we're going back to the rostrum once again, and the New York State Attorney General, Nathaniel Goldstein. The interview has been a long time.ienten mone for time. Please, no. Right, Dr. J Hugut. Dr. Jansen, you told us before that this problem was brought to your attention about the spring of 1950. That's correct, yes. May I ask you at this time, what, if anything, you did in the spring of 1950 and right through to the end of 1950, to instruct the principals or the teachers in the various schools throughout this city for how they could detect uses of narcotic drugs? Well, when we found that the use of narcotic drugs among teenagers was uninclusive... I'm talking about 1950, Judge. Yes, in 1950, we had several conferences on the matter, and we decided to gather the information which would be helpful in trying to eradicate the evil. And so we decided that in the fall, we would work along on several fronts. Namely, we would work with the police department.