The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What do our teenagers think of America's future? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand welcomes four high school students to our microphone. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the issues which these young people regard as the factors affecting the future of America. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. The four speakers on the Reviewing Stand today are students in the National High School Institute, conducted on the campus of Northwestern University each summer. The current institute is the 21st of its kind. Each summer, we like to give these teenagers an opportunity to express their views, their hopes, fears, aspirations, and recommendations concerning America's future. We believe that these young people should be encouraged to discuss national problems, and we believe that their opinions are important in shaping future policy. You will hear from Dmitry Nabokov of Ithaca, New York, who attends the Holderness School in Plymouth, New Hampshire. Marie Chisholm of Independence, Missouri, from the William Chrisman High School. Kay Arand of Miami, Florida, who attends Miami Jackson High School. And Gordon Schneider of Gary, Indiana, from the Horace Mann High School. Now to open the discussion, I should like to ask each of you what you consider the most crucial issue affecting America's future to be, and what your attitude is toward this issue. How do you see this, Dmitry? I believe that not only the most crucial issue of the day, but the issue which is either a stepping stone to a free and democratic future, or the path to utter and dismal destruction, is the problem of Korea and the other areas of the world, where communism now is extending its deadly tentacles. We must solve this problem, and the future of the world depends upon our solution. Kay, how would you state the issue? Well, I consider the internal problems because the simple reason they tie up so much with the international problems. We have to have everything safe on the home, I might say, before we go out and start curing the rest of the world. Gordon? I'm inclined to be sort of a compromise between the two. I agree that there is no question that our foreign policy must be correct. But also, regardless of how perfect or how correct our foreign policy is, if we fall apart at home, everything will fail with us. Where do you stand, Marie? Well, I believe that the crucial issue is our foreign policy, specifically in today's Korea. I believe that America's future lies with our strength and our diplomacy in Korea. Of course, we must work at home. That's necessary, too. But I believe that the whole tomorrow of the entire world depends upon our united strength in Korea and our entire foreign policy. Well, I think you all will agree that our foreign policy is certainly one issue of primary importance. And you've been mentioning Korea, as well you might. How do you regard our present policy in the Far East, specifically in Korea, Kay? Well, I definitely agree that we're doing the right thing and taking a firm stand, because by taking this firm stand, we can show the rest of the world that we really believe that world peace can be achieved. Gordon? Well, I would like to have you clarify just a little bit what you mean by firm stand. I think that we can go too far with our firm stand, too, if we realize that the main thing we're trying to keep from is another war, a world war. And just what do you mean by this firm stand? Well, I believe, and I think that Kay agrees with me, is that by firm stand, we mean a position where we have the upper hand in case another war should come. I think we're just doing things along with the United Nations right now. We're being the police force of the United Nations, supporting it in every way, and I think that's just what we should be doing, to support the United Nations. Well, sure, we should support the United Nations, but what gives us the right to be the force to go out and say, we are the almighty, we are the ruler, we say it goes, it goes? Well, if you remember, a lot of the government of Australia and England also are giving us a great deal of support, and Korea, not a great deal, but they're giving us a lot of support, too. And I think that since we are the strongest nation in the world, it is up to us to take care of a lot of the rest of the world. It's necessary to fight force with force, and we're the only nation that has force, so I believe that's why it's necessary. Well, I don't agree with you there at all, Marie. I don't see, let's look at it at the basic issue. What are we trying to prevent all the way around? And the thing is war, a world war, and by going into war and forcing ourselves upon the world, how can we stop another war? I agree with Gordon perfectly that it would be wonderful if we could prevent a war entirely. But in my belief, although maybe a bit pessimistic, is that in all probability an eventual war will come. And the question is, and the problem is that we must solve, is whether this war will come when the communists have achieved sufficient strength and established sufficient strongholds to win that war, or whether by that time we have curbed them sufficiently to win that war ourselves. I'd like to kind of direct this at Gordon. What is the object, I mean, what is the Organization for World Peace? Naturally, the United Nations. And they're supposed to have a police force to enforce the law, but there's supposed to be no war. How can there be law if there's no force behind law? Well, I don't think the objective or the strong point of the United Nations is the ability to make a law and say that they can force it upon the rest of the world. I think the United Nations is good because it can discuss, just like we're discussing today, it can bring before the world the issues that are at hand and let the world see them in the right light and decide right from wrong, because I believe the power of public opinion is the thing that can stop the war. You believe then that we shouldn't be fighting in Korea today, Gordon? Really, it's just fighting a larger war is what we're doing right now in stepping in for the United Nations. It's a nice way to bring about peace by a little war. Perhaps it doesn't sound good to stay away from a large war by a small war, but I believe it's the only thing we can do. Now let me ask you two questions here, which I think will clarify the situation just a bit. Why are we in Korea in the first place? What are we after there, as you see it, Kay? To me, it's to try to prevent another war, in my opinion, and also there's been a lot of policies throughout the world that if a person, a certain country, wanted to rule themselves a certain way, the right of self-determination, they should be able to. And the South Koreans wanted democracy. North Korea invaded South Korea, and therefore they're trying to affect their self-determination. I think that is one reason, too, because the South Koreans want democracy. But why are we interested in Korea? It's a long way from us. Because Korea is so near Japan. Korea is very strategic to our location in Japan. Korea represents one of many possible battlegrounds between the two ideologies of the world today, communism and democracy, and we have proof of the fact that the Korean communists are no more than puppets of the Soviet government in that when this situation arose, the revolution of Korea, we asked the Soviets to help us to put down this rebellion, and they refused. They refused to put down this clash at their very doorstep. Do you think this struggle between Russia and the United States, as it's epitomized in Korea, is essentially an ideological struggle? Is it an economic struggle? What are the issues involved between these two powers? Well, I think it's just this. True, we are different in our economic ideologies, but I think the main reason of the trouble is that the people who are at the head of the Russian government, who are forming the Russian policies, have certain idealistic aims. In other words, they're trying to press the Russian government upon the rest of the world. In other words, they're trying to force their selves upon the rest of the world, and we are trying to stop it because we fear communism and what goes with it. Is it communism that they're trying to press on to the rest of the world? Yes, I believe so. I agree with Gordon. It's just a step toward bringing about communism throughout the entire world. They're using force in Korea. However, we've been brought to mind that they're not using force in the United States, but little underworld activity and communism underground. Well, I think that Russia is using communism definitely as a tool to forward Russia. I mean, I think that Russia is the primary importance. I mean, no human being can say, well, I believe in my heart something is right, therefore I'll conquer the world and press what's in my heart upon the rest of the world. I mean, they really want Russia upon the rest of the world, and communism is simply a tool to do so. Of course, that isn't the story that Russia tells her own people in her own press. They make accusations against us, which sound very much like the accusations you young people are making against Russia, that the United States is the imperialistic nation, that we're trying to move into areas far away from home. But unfortunately, young people in Russia do not get the chance to express their opinions as we are today, and that, I believe, represents the basic difference between communism and democracy. It certainly is a basic difference, believe me. Now, Gordon over here seems to place considerable faith in the United Nations and would hope through the use of the United Nations to avoid war, even a small war in Korea. You think that's impossible? I would like to ask Gordon, does he believe that the Russians will depart from their vicious ideals of communism, which they are using, as we, I think, almost agree, to conquer the whole world? Will they depart from that merely because the United Nations doesn't think it's right? I think they will depart from it if they realize, if they come to realize that the rest of the world disagrees with them, that they are not the ones that are correct. In other words, they may keep communism for themselves, but eventually, if they realize that everyone disagrees with them, they may keep communism to themselves and not try and force it upon the rest of the world. It's not a matter of who agrees with who in communism. I don't believe that the people in the United States right now have a good feeling toward communism, and yet they're certainly trying to oppress it upon us. They're trying to oppress it upon the entire world. It's their object to conquer the world as a planet, as an entire earth, merely because it's the world. Well, I think Gordon has something there about public opinion, because if you remember, when it was brought up from the United Nations about the Russian troops being in Iran, there was not much done about it, but still, when the whole assembly was against Russia having our troops there, and Russia knew about it, they moved their troops out. That was public opinion. But do you think the United Nations can be effective without Russia, Gordon? Well, no, I don't. I don't think the United Nations can move along without Russia, and I think also that Russia can't be effective without the United Nations. I think the United Nations is Russia's tool, as it is our tool, for showing the world what communism is, and I don't think Russia dares to stay out of the United Nations for any long period of time. Are you saying in substance that, in your opinion, the United States and the Western powers have not made as an effective effort as they might to get along with Russia, to work with Russia, to talk things over with Russia short of war? Yes. Is that essentially your position? That's exactly it. I believe that Russian participation in the United Nations so far has been nothing more than a farce, and they don't intend to be serious about it ever. I believe that the United Nations must be used by us as a tool to unite all the democratic and those nations who would be democratic of the world against communism. In other words, you're just preparing for this next war. You're using the United Nations as one-armed camp in opposition to Russia's. In fact, every point that you've brought up seems to be in preparation to make sure that we're going to be ready for Russia in that next war. Well, I'm inclined to believe that if there's a possibility that the war should come, we would be much better off if we were prepared for it. But yet, we're overlooking the prime purpose of the United Nations. The prime purpose was for world peace. And if we're starting to divide and make alliances, this isn't world peace. We just, well, just throw out the United Nations. Well, that's really what they're trying to do. The idea is they can all get together and talk things over. Maybe we haven't always agreed on the things we've talked over. It's a lot better than not agreeing and having no place to talk them over and taking it out with bombs. I definitely agree with Marie because the United Nations should be an intermediary body between all the nations to work out their problems. And Russia has to be in on this. All the countries have to be in on it to work out all the world's problems. That's just logical reasoning. Gordon, what is your attitude toward the Marshall Plan as it's worked out in Western Europe? Is that in line with your recommendations? Yes, I think the Marshall Plan is just exactly the tool that the United States needs to show the world what democracy is. I don't think that we can stop Russia through force without getting into a third world war. And I think that's what we want to keep away from. The only way we can keep communism from spreading throughout the rest of the world is by showing the rest of the world what democracy is and that democracy is good. Now, I think the Marshall Plan is just doing this, that it is giving aid to the rest of the world and showing them that we are right. And there's one other thing and that's the point in Truman's program that says that we should send other types of aid besides just food and clothing to rehabilitate the Western powers. You refer to President Truman's point four program. Yes. Which is designed to rehabilitate underprivileged countries and send in American capital with our government guaranteeing those loans, send in American engineers and experts. You go along with that as well as the Marshall Plan. Well, I think it's all very fine and dandy that we give them things, but it seems to me we're sending too much food and things that they could produce themselves. It seems that we should send them farm implements and factory machinery and seeds that would be the real weapons of peace so that they could build their own lands up again. There are now more parasites upon the United Nations rather than depending on themselves. I believe that we must help them to help themselves. I agree with Marie perfectly that it is a very good policy to help the fallen nations of the world to help themselves and to assume a position of importance in the world again. But I also believe that Russian communism will stop at nothing to gain control of the world. And if they feel that war is the only means they will use war and no peaceful means in our part will prevent that. But our giving these people food isn't really helping them to have such a good outlook on us after all. They're thinking of us more as just giving them things and depending upon us, not really working with us toward any ultimate goal. Well, I believe the world is a much better place after we've had the Marshall Plan for a certain length of time and I believe that it also serves a twofold purpose because unless we get all these nations back on their feet, what will we have to trade with? What will we have to manufacture for except just for our own internal needs? Now, in the event this thing in Korea develops, as Dimitri thinks it well may. I'd like to ask you, young people, what you would think about the use of some of these great weapons that we have developed. What's your attitude toward them? I'm talking about the atomic bomb and the hydrogen bomb. Dimitri, what would you do? I believe that we should go all out in our use of the best weapons we have as a culmination of the progress of humanity. The caveman started with a club and progressed in the last door to the blockbuster and finally to the atom bomb and we should use the atom bomb. We should use every weapon which would not be injurious to ourselves as the hydrogen bomb would be as has been shown by scientific surveys. In other words, you draw the line at the hydrogen bomb. Merely because it would harm ourselves also. Use anything that wouldn't hurt us. In other words, if you're going to fight this war, you're going to fight it tooth and nail right now to the finish. How do you feel about that, Merely? Well, I say absolutely not the hydrogen bomb or the atomic bomb. I don't believe that it will be used. I remember in the First World War they used gas, certainly to the great detriment of those who lived through it. And they used the atomic bomb in this last World War and found out how really terrible it was. But I don't believe that it will be used in the next World War because both Russia and the United States have the atomic bomb. They both realize that to use it is to destroy perhaps much of either country. And it seems to me that anyone with any foresight would realize that it would be the destruction of the world to use these bombs. Now, do you object to their use on moral grounds because they are so frightfully destructive or do you say we shouldn't use them merely because they might use them against us? Well, really on both. It's that they're destroying civilization and that it would be so futile to drop a bomb in Russia not knowing just what was going to come of it and they would throw one right back at us and we'd be just playing pitch and catch and destroying the whole United States and Russia and doing so. Well, I believe that everybody doesn't want a long war. I know the last war was so long and everybody just wished it would end. We want to take the quickest means of ending any war and the atomic bomb would be the quickest means. I go all out and say that we should use the atomic bomb. I don't know too much about the hydrogen bomb but I think that if that's the way to end the war quickly, it should be done. Oh, but I can't see how you would really end a war. It would just be just be blowing up the centers of it would be blowing up our steel industries and all of our major factories and all of Russia's major factories and there wouldn't be anything else to live for. Well, there's no question. I don't believe in anyone's mind that it was the atomic bomb that ended the Second World War, Marie and I think I have to agree with Anne and Dimitri who say that definitely if we're going into the war we've got to go into it wholeheartedly and end it because there's no question about we should end this war. Now, here's the man you see who is opposing the the Korean incident and holds high hope for for world peace through discussion through the Marshall Plan saying that if we do get into it let's go the whole way which I think is a perfectly consistent position. Well, that's just exactly it. I say stay out of it if we can but if we get into it then really go into it and do the job right. But I'm quite certain that if that war should come we would be at a greater disadvantage if by that time the communists had control of Korea complete control of China control of Yugoslavia Persia and all the little countries that they are now striving to get control of then if we put a stop to it now nipped it at the bud and didn't let them go any further. You think we can put a stop to it now Dimitri? I feel that by going all out right now we can put a stop to it. But this is the place to draw the line. Yes. Might it have been better had that line been drawn someplace in China long before that? I believe that it would have been much better. But yet not getting off the subject but when you go back to China there was no organized government really for us to give aid to. We gave aid to Chang and everything and I definitely believe that if he was organized he could have done something but still to be able to be effective in China we would have had to go in and completely reorganize the government almost and we didn't do it. In my opinion I think we should have acted not in support of any organized or disorganized government but that we should have acted all out against the communists. In other words step in ask the United States and say well China you can't handle your own affairs big brother United States has got to come along and take care of it for you. I believe it as the greatest power on earth we it is our obligation to represent democracy. We are the greatest democratic nation on earth and it is our duty before mankind to represent this democracy and to fight for it. You remember that if we had China to do over again we would do that we would probably go in and help them but then matters weren't as crucial as they are now and then we didn't realize that what all the communists did want and we thought well if we're going to do this and do that the debt will be pacified but now we know different but we didn't then. I believe that if we had China to do over again we'd probably do just about the same thing. We had no one to give our support to we gave them money nothing happened to the money there was no support we could have given that really would have done any good because China was so disorganized in its fighting. Well now early in this discussion at least two of you expressed the feeling that some of our domestic issues were fully as important as the foreign issue which we've been discussing and which your views I think are by now fairly clear. if I were to phrase this domestic issue to which you referred earlier this way what would you say Dimitri to what extent and in what way should government enter into the economic and social life of the nation? In my estimation the government should help those people who cannot help themselves in the situation where the local community or the state government cannot help them. In other words I believe that people shouldn't be just left lying in the streets and suffering in slums merely because that represents an evil trend. I believe that those people should be helped but I believe that the trend towards socialism is dangerous and we should not go any further than it is absolutely necessary. Now you've introduced the term socialism. You hear a lot about that. You hear a lot about the welfare state. Do you think we're moving in that direction? Are you afraid of that trend? We are moving in that direction and I am afraid of that trend and I feel that we should go as I have said no further than absolutely necessary in that all measures which can be handled by state and local governments should be done thus. I agree with Demetri about the things that the local communities can take care of should be taken care of by such but when you come right down to it the government is proposing measures that could be taken care of by some states and some local communities. I mean you come right down to it the government is overrunning both sides. I mean they're going to take control or administer help to those who can help themselves. It seems to me that we are going in quite a dangerous trend toward socialism. I believe that the beauty of a democracy is in the individuality of the people of the districts and if we had all of our main projects toward one central government we're taking away of this individuality of the people the right of private enterprise which is so necessary. True. One of the bases of our government is the right of private enterprise but I believe that can be carried too far too because we have to realize that there are people in the United States as there are people all over the world who are unable to help themselves and I think it's the duty of the government not necessarily the federal government either the federal the state or the city or whatever one necessary to take care of these people that can't help themselves. But still there has to be a line drawn somewhere because sometimes the government starts taking on all the social problems of the people the initiative for solving these social problems must necessarily pass from the people to the government also. Definitely that's just what I meant I agree that the government can carry the thing too far I definitely don't believe that the government should take over business for example I believe that there are certain things the government should do to protect the people but it should not carry the thing too far. Well just looking at some of the things that the government is trying to do now this government housing project it's taking away part of the individual's rights to their own private enterprise and centering it into the national government and in the valley authorities that they're setting up it seems to me that it's rather odd that the government will operate these projects operate them at a loss and then tax the people for their losses. Well Marie I believe that the reason which supports all these valley developments CVA, TVA and so on is the fact that the government it's the government's duty to step in where a private operator shan't or the state government is incapable of and in such cases the government it's the duty of the government to help those people and to establish developments until some private operator can take over. Yes but in most of them it's not the fact that the smaller can't take care of it but just that the national government is. It seemed to me however that the state government could do the job just as efficiently and much more cheaply to the private individual than could the federal government. Well in some of those cases it runs into interstate affairs for example and then it's no longer the duty of one state and I believe it is agreed that interstate affairs do belong as a duty of the national government as interstate commerce or any of those. We're discussing here a very fundamental trend obviously some of you some of you fear that trend toward government interference in quotation marks with business and industry some of you think it's the at least one of you seems to think that that's the direction that we ought to take. We've talked about the international scene and we've said just a little here about the domestic scene. In conclusion I'd like to ask you and I'm enormously interested in your answers are you optimistic or pessimistic about America's future? That's what we're discussing here today. I don't dare hope for a bright and glorious future without any action taken to provide that glorious future. I believe that I would be very pessimistic if I knew that we would stay out of Korea and would let the communists advance and I would be very optimistic if I was sure that we would come in and show the Russians that we made business and put a stop to communism right now. Well I must take just the opposite stand. I would be very optimistic on the grounds that we don't force ourselves that we depend on the United Nations but I would be very pessimistic were we to take the stand and try and force our way. Well I'm optimistic that we really want a Christian bill for a future. I think we'll have one. I take sort of the same stand that Gordon does and yet the same stand that Dimitri does. I'm optimistic and yet pessimistic. It seems to me that we must watch and wait and see just what would be the most the best way to take as to how our affairs work out. Do you people think that Americans generally have a strong moral fiber conviction in the individual strength and independence as they were credited with having in the past, Gordon? Well morals have changed year after year or century after century. Just look today we had a disagreement on the morals of the using of the atom bomb or the hydrogen bomb. That was also a question of morals and it depends on the individual but to make a generalization I think the people as a whole are as strong as they ever were and as long as they don't have to fear their government and can depend on it that the government will last. Thank you. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion What do our teenagers think of America's future? Most of you know that you can secure a copy of this broadcast by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Many of you however may not realize that the reviewing stand also has on hand copies of all discussions broadcast in the last two years. These two are available for 10 cents each. A listing of more than 100 is now available. You can check this list and see what topics interest you most. It will be sent to you without charge if you address a postal card to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Kay Arent of Miami, Florida Marie Chisholm of Independence, Missouri Dmitry Nabokov of Ithaca, New York and Gordon Snyder of Gary, Indiana. Now our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program. Do you know what interests you? Next week the reviewing stand examines one of your most valuable attributes your interests your likes and dislikes when we ask the question what are your real interests? Our guests will be Irvin A. Byrd Professor of Psychology at Northwestern University Blanche B. Paulson Coordinator of the Bureau of Guidance and Counseling for the Chicago Public Schools and Lyle Spencer Director of Science Research Associates Incorporated We invite you to listen next week when we discuss your real interests. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Frank Sweeney speaking this is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
