And now a message from his eminence Cardinal Spellman. In this time of national crisis, we know what it means to be alerted to the need of strong defense. Defense of America and our heritage of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. We know our duty as patriots, but as true patriots, it is also our duty to protect America against the ravages of enemy number one to the health of our nation, heart disease, the enemy which is the cause of 10 out of every 23 deaths in the United States. Therefore, do we gladly cooperate with the American Heart Association in its efforts to support and extend research into the causes and cure of this dread scourge. We should remember that the heart which we help to save may be our own, or the heart of a loved one, or the heart of our neighbor. And in the war against disease, every human being is our neighbor. Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt. In these troublesome times, any good news is gratifying. Any new hope for social progress is both welcome and needed. This is especially true of heart disease, the greatest health problem in America today. And there is good news. Our doctors bring us new hope for hearts. Their confidence is based upon recent advances in medicine and surgery, which are pointing to the eventual control of diseases of the heart and blood vessels. That is the purpose of the Heart Fund, to provide research, education, and community heart programs. In this way, everyone can receive the benefits of new knowledge in the prevention, care, and treatment of diseases of the heart. I urge you to give as generously as you possibly can to the Heart Fund. Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. This is Bob Hope, the Lemon Drop Kid. Do you mind if I talk about hope for a minute? No, I'm not talking about myself. I mean hope for hearts. Today advances in our knowledge of prevention, care, and treatment are bringing new hope for the eventual control of heart disease. But the way is long and hard. It takes constant research. It takes education. And it takes community heart programs all over this country to fight heart disease. The Heart Fund helps our scientists and doctors in their fight. Our dollars make their task easier and the goal can be reached far more quickly if we help. Heart disease is everyone's business. It attacks children as well as grown-ups. It is our country's leading cause of death. So let's bring new and more hope for hearts, yours, mine, and everyone's. Let's all give to the Heart Fund. Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Fred Allen. There's an old saying that a stitch in time saves nine. And there's a new saying that a dollar in time may save a heart. Yes, the Heart Fund needs dollars in the fight against heart disease, this country's leading cause of death. The Heart Fund needs dollars for heart research. It needs dollars to keep professional groups, as well as you and me, informed on the latest scientific knowledge in the heart field. And it needs dollars to organize community heart programs so that everyone can get the benefits of the new advances in the prevention, care, and treatment of heart disease. Folks, there is new hope for hearts. We can help control heart disease a lot faster if we help our doctors to help us. So how about that dollar? Those dollars, if you have them, as a gift to the Heart Fund. Now don't put it off. Do it right now, please. Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart. H-E-A-R-T. Heart New York 17, New York. This is Frank Sinatra, reminding you that this month is dedicated to the Heart Fund. Some folks don't have to be reminded, because they are the relatives and friends of 637,000 men, women, and children who died of heart disease last year. Heart disease is this nation's leading cause of death. We can reduce death and disability from heart disease by supporting research, education, and community heart programs. We can protect our own hearts by giving our doctors and scientists our financial support. Just a few years ago, some types of heart disease were almost always fatal. Today, new knowledge gained from research is reducing deaths from these forms of heart disease, and bringing new hope for all hearts. Our contributions in the past have helped make these new advances possible. So let's not stop now, and so much more remains to be done. Let's all back up the Heart Fund with every dollar we can afford. Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. You will now hear a message from Rabbi David de Soler Poole. In our intense living of today, we may well heed the words of the Book of Proverbs. Above all, guard thy heart, for out of it are the well-springs of life. It is a religious behest to keep the heart from hurt. Therefore, we ask you to give generously to the Heart Fund. Your gift will support the program of research, education, and community service of the American Heart Association and its affiliates. By giving, you may help yourself and your family, and surely your fellow men. Yours will be the reward of knowing that you are helping so many suffering children, men and women in the prime of life, to regain and maintain life with health and happiness. Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. This is Robert Montgomery reporting on a serious problem confronting our country. I mean heart disease. Last year, 637,000 men, women, and children died of diseases of the heart and blood vessels. This appalling casualty list must be reduced. We can help, you and I, by giving to the Heart Fund. Money is urgently needed for research into the causes of heart disease. Our scientists and doctors are doing more than their share in bringing new hope for hearts. The rest is up to us. We must help furnish the tools of research. We must support vitally needed community heart programs. New hope for hearts is already a fact, not a hopeful dream. So let's all protect our hearts against this nation's leading cause of death by getting right behind the Heart Fund. Let's give as generously as we possibly can. Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Jack Benny. This month, you are hearing a lot about the Heart Fund. How heart disease is everyone's business because it attacks men, women, and children at any age. And you are being asked to give to this worthy cause. Yes, your dollars and dimes are needed, greatly needed. But the goal of the Heart Fund is not just dollars. It's lives and the lessening of suffering. That's the purpose of your contributions. Your gifts will support scientific research. Your dollars will spread knowledge about heart disease throughout the country. Your dollars will maintain present community heart programs and establish new ones. So how about opening your heart and giving all you possibly can to fight heart disease? Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. Thank you. This is Henry Fonda. Do you realize that during World War II, the battle deaths of our country numbered close to 325,000, and yet during this period, 2 million men, women, and children on the home front were killed by diseases of the heart and blood vessels. Despite these tragic heart casualties, our doctors are confident that heart disease can be controlled. This feeling of confidence, this new hope for hearts, is the result of recent advances in medicine and surgery. However, before heart disease can be controlled, more intensified research is needed, and every one of us must be able to receive the benefits of new scientific advances through expanded community heart programs. This is what your dollars buy when you invest in the Heart Fund. You buy protection not only for your own heart, but for all hearts. Need I say more? Thank you very much. This is Norman Brokenshire. Please send your contributions to Heart, H-E-A-R-T, Heart, New York 17, New York. Thank you.