The acting mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Joseph P. Sharkey, acting for the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletere, who by a happy coincidence is on a friendly visit to Italy as the Prime Minister of Italy, His Excellency Alcide Gasparri, is being received here at City Hall today. The Fire Department of the city of New York is now addressing the steps here with the magnificent silk flags of our own United States, bound in gold fringe, which is a declaration that is part of these receptions at City Hall on each occasion when a distinguished guest is received by the City of New York. The Honorable Joseph P. Sharkey is now greeting the Honorable, His Excellency rather, Alcide Gasparri, and a few moments of personal introductions and friendly greetings is taking place before they proceed to the stand in front of City Hall. The plaza in front of City Hall has been devoted to seating capacity for the visitors who have been invited by the acting mayor of the City of New York to greet the Premier of Italy, His Excellency Alcide Gasparri. It's fitting and honorable that the City of New York should honor the Prime Minister of Italy here today because New York City has, without a doubt, the greatest Italian population, possibly as at least as many as any great Italian city. And it has always been a point of interest to the people of Italy seeking the freedoms and the development which they desired under new conditions to find a haven in this great and wonderful city, New York, and they have taken full advantage of it. The mayor of the City of New York is now about to conduct his guest to the rostrum and platform here in front of City Hall. Italy has been acknowledged as one of the great nations of the world as though it needed such an acknowledgement. We are happy indeed that a nation is never judged entirely by its politics because they are ephemeral. Art is long and life is short and Italy has contributed to the cultural values of the world along with classic Greece possibly more than any particular nation in the world because her civilization is one of the oldest. Italy has seen the rise and fall of every form of government in every expression from its greatest simplicity to its greatest aggrandizement and yet it has always sought that which is true and beautiful and has achieved it in different periods of history. It has been an inspiration and it is always an inspiration to read the history of Italy and know what has taken place there on the shores of the beautiful Mediterranean and the other waters forming the shoreline of that great nation Italy. God must have really loved a nation that he made as beautiful and endowed with so many beauties as Italy and we have borrowed very heavily from her cultures in law in art in music and in every known expression that the human mind revels in it has had found some form of that expression in the classical history of Italy and its development as a nation. Basically peace the people of Italy love the development of art and beauty and peace and pleasure and happiness and very often the catastrophes that face the world from time to time are the unhappiest moments that Italy has faced but she has come through them with the dignity and the honor and the beauty that has always been her tradition. In a few moments now the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception will conduct his guest here to the stand in front of City Hall where a huge audience is seated on this beautiful day in which the weatherman proves that he's a good Italian. We certainly should match the sunny Mediterranean in greeting the premier of Italy here today in New York City. The guests, the military and distinguished guests who are participating in this reception to the premier of Italy, his excellency Alcide Gasparri, are taking their seats now in the stand in front of City Hall and here is the formalities and Mr. Whelan will just in a moment take the microphone and present the guest to the Mayor of the City of New York, Acting Mayor Joseph P. Sharkey. As we said before it's extremely fitting and depicts the present scene that our own Mayor, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari, a son of that ancient and classical land of Italy, is now on a visit of friendliness to Italy, a nation that he has always been deeply interested in, after which he will visit the ancient land of Israel from which the cradle of all that is spiritual has come down to us through the ages. The union of Italy and Israel brings us everything that we can get in the spiritual and the secular side of life. Secular secularum. Now Mr. Gasparri is receiving a great ovation here in front of City Hall and in a few moments you'll hear Mr. Whelan's opening remarks when he asks for the anthem of the two nations, Italy and our own United States. There's still a few moments of greeting before we hear the voice of Mr. Whelan. It's extremely fortunate that we have such beautiful weather, but Mr. Whelan always does. Mr. Whelan has just asked for the anthems. Italian national anthem. Go. All right, maybe you're such a while at law. All right. Whether it is Voldemort Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on from Madonna. Here we go. You The End And now the Honorable Gro Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception, who takes over the formal part of the program. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, I have the great privilege and honor of presenting to you a very old and dear and valiant friend of the United States and particularly of the City of New York. His Excellency, Prime Minister Di Gasparri of the Republic of Italy. The Honorable Joseph P. Schaffer, acting mayor of the City of New York. Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency, Dr. Gasparri, Signora Di Gasparri, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am highly honored to greet you today on behalf of the eight million people of our city. You, Dr. Di Gasparri, are no stranger to us. Since your visit to New York in 1947, our people have followed your administration as premier of the Italian government. Your record as a leader of the anti-communist movement in your country has won for you the respect of every freedom-loving American. You were charged then with the responsibility of obtaining for Italy the liberty and happiness that we traditionally enjoy here. Your Excellency, we know you have won your fight. We of this city know and understand the problem confronting your country, for our people share this problem, a problem of fighting communism. We stand with you in dedicating ourselves to secure world peace. With unity among the freedom-loving nations of the world, we will have everlasting peace. The people of this city are happy to have learned of your successful missions to Ottawa and Washington. Your mission has served, among other things, to bind still more closely the strong ties of affection existing between the people of Italy and our own people. You have spearheaded the drive for freedom in your country. We are together in this crusade for freedom. I am confident, Dr. De Gasperi, that we will be victorious in this fight for righteousness because the democratic nations of the world are not shackled by the chains of fear and communist oppression. On behalf of Mayor Impeletteri and the people of the city of New York, I extend a cordial welcome and special wishes for an enjoyable stay in our town. Dr. De Gasperi, the city is yours. You have just heard the Honorable Joseph P. Scharke, Acting Mayor of the City of New York, greet His Excellency the Prime Minister of Italy, Alcide Gasperi. His Excellency, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Italy, Dr. De Gasperi. Thank you. Thank you. His Excellency, the Prime Minister of Italy, Alcide de Gasperi, is receiving an ovation and he's waving to the crowd. Now, here he is. Mr. Acting Mayor, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago, I was welcomed here in your city hall with a solemn and festive ceremony which New York has made into a tradition. Again now, have I been greeted by you in your cordial manner and I am indeed deeply grateful. Your great town once again impressed me as it did the last time I was here for besides its fascinating towers which this time I approached from the ocean. New York strikes a visitor with a universal element that seems to be part of its very nature. As the United States represents the most eloquent example of how people of different stocks can live, thrive and prosper together on a democratic system, so New York, the greatest of their towns, reproduces this characteristic of the country in the most imposing fashion. It is perhaps this universal element that accounts for your broad-mindedness as a people. Down in Battery Park, I again saw the statue of my countryman, Verrazano of Florence. The first to cast anchor off these shores. Dutchmen and Frenchmen followed while on the dome of your capital in Washington I saw the figure of an Indian, the first inhabitant of your land. It is this wonderful blend that gives you, as I said, broad-mindedness and that enriches your national character with such international talent. I find this particularly attractive because it reminds me very much of a character of another city, which is the capital of my country, Rome. There, too, we have this lofty and ancient sense of universal handed down to us from the empire and spiritual insight by Christianity. peoples such as ours must not let such talents be sterile. Let us together use this broad understanding we derive from our histories and place it as a service not only of ourselves but of others. Let us base on it our effort to bring about understanding and comprehension amongst all people so that it may lead to full cooperation amongst them. By this I mean full cooperation not only politically but economically and socially namely peaceful coexistence economic unity freedom of movement for labour full cooperation and that alone will eventually mean full employment for all. I had the good fortune the other day to hear President Truman's warm, hearted words at the memorial bridge in Washington when he spoke of relations between our two countries and said the cooperation by all was the only way to increase our living standards and counteraggression. I hearing him voice our own intentions and our needs I was encouraged in feeling that the citizens of America were with us. I thank you most cordially gentlemen for confirming in me that feeling with your generous and heartfelt reception. I thankyou for all in your honor and thankyou to all and that we you can make warm your with the name of waarom where leave the of the of the You have just heard the words of His Excellency, the Prime Minister of Italy, Alcide Gaspari, who has been received here at City Hall by Mayor Schalke. We salute His Excellency with a musical number. The Italian phrase, la-la-la-la-la, la-la-la-la-la-la-la. Every little bandina learns of the very first name. Every sweet signorina says it the very same way. These funny little words don't really mean a thing. It's just a phrase that nowadays Italians love to sing. Cosi, cosa, it's a wonderful word, la-la-la-la, when anyone asks you how you are, it's popular to say, Cosi, cosa, cosi, cosa. If a lady should ask you if you care, you don't have to start a love affair, say, cosi, cosi, cosa. Does it mean yes or no? Does it mean no? Oh, well, yes and no, cosi, cosa. Get together and sing, la-la-la-la. It's easy to say to try today and learn to say, cosi, cosa. Cosi, cosa. Cosi, cosa. Ah. The, ah, United States Post Office band will play the Recession No March. The Honorable Grove Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, has just asked for the recessional from the Post Office Band, which was the instrumental part of the reception here today by the Honorable Joseph P. Sharkey, acting Mayor of the City of New York, while the Honorable Vincent Arim Pelletieri was visiting his ancient and loved land, Italy. The Premier of Italy was received here today at City Hall with a magnificent turnout and possibly one of the finest and biggest parades ever held on Broadway to greet a guest. The President of the United States and the Congress of the United States have been most friendly and cooperative to this new republic in the European scene. And, ah, Mr. Gasperi has just come from Washington and has made his usual and formal visit to New York, which has been the scene of so many pleasant incidents in his life and struggle to preserve the equality of Italy and its greatness as a nation. Today he was greeted most cordially by the people of the City of New York in a magnificent turnout here in front of City Hall, where the weatherman proved to be one of the best Italians of all by sending us a regular Mediterranean blue sky and a warm sun that is indicative of the warmth and the love that we all have for the ancient land of Italy from which we have borrowed so heavily in the cultural values. Well, that is about all now from City Hall, and we return you to the studios and join the program, now in progress.