Does that sound familiar to you? Listen again. How many shovels of coal do you suppose you fed into your furnace? And how many times have you said to yourself, Oh, boy. Sometimes I think this furnace doesn't have a bottom good. The amount of coal I shovel in here every night. Well, why don't you get wise? You could cut your heating bill in half. Heat this house on less coal? Impossible. That's what a lot of people have said. But the University of Illinois has proved otherwise. Well, how? Stick around a while and we'll tell you how. Well, wait till I catch my breath. You go right ahead with whatever you're going to do and I'll be with you in a minute. You go right ahead. In the public interest, we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. And now then, suppose you tell me what this is all about. There's stuff about cutting my heating bill in half. That's no stuff. That's fact. Why haven't I heard about it before? Is it something new? Not at all. Its beginning goes back to the year 1918 when warm air furnaces being foundry products were priced by weight instead of heating capacity. Of course, there have been lots of changes in the last 30 years. I don't know. Haven't been any in furnace heating as far back as I can remember. Why, there have been great improvements in the whole problem of home heating. Let me tell you something. Today, it's possible to save as much as 50% on your heat bill if, that's if, you apply all of the facts proved by the University of Illinois. Well, tell me about it. All right. Listen to these figures and count them up for yourself. Tests have shown that wall insulation can save as much as 20%. 20% for wall insulation. Ceiling or attic insulation saves 15% of what's left. That's a cut of nearly 35%. And tight storm doors and windows, another 20% from that. Let's see. That's altogether nearly 55%. Figuring conservatively, we'll say all three together can cut the fuel bill probably as much as 50%. Well, that sounds fine when you say it. Sometimes it even looks good on paper. But I don't know. When it comes to putting it in practice, University of Illinois tests have proved that those figures are correct. Well, just what kind of tests? Not that I doubt your word or anything like that, if you haven't given me any factual information so far. That's all right. I'd be glad to explain about the tests in specific ways you can put them to use right here in your own house. Okay. Here, why don't we sit down here on this step while we talk? That'll be fine. Yeah, there. Now, go ahead. Well, about 30 years ago, warm air furnace manufacturers created a cooperative research project with the University of Illinois to study home heating. And Professor A.C. Willard, later to become president of the university, installed a plant in the mechanical engineering laboratory to test warm air furnaces. It was just sort of a skeleton of a house built around a furnace, with heat pipes leading to platforms, which represented various floors in this house. Now, up to that time, installation of furnaces was pretty much by rule of thumb. But Professor Willard's results were so startling, it prompted the American Society of Heating and Ventilating Engineers to build a special house to study home heating. That was in 1924, right on the Illinois campus. And it was the first home built anywhere specifically for the study of home heating under actual home conditions. Well, was there anything special about that home? No. It was an 11-room, two-story, colonial-type house. And the university carried on its research work there for 22 years. Not many people have 11-room, two-story, colonial houses these days. Oh, there are quite a few that do. But three years ago, in 1946, this was replaced by a new, five-and-a-half-room, one-story house, more typical of today's structures. This is just background information to give you an idea of the thoroughness of the project. Yeah, sure, I understand that. They worked with other types of buildings, too. In 1941, another house was built here by the Institute of Boiler and Radiator Manufacturers. That one was for testing boiler and radiator heating. Then there were some studies made in a basement-less prefab and in a small, one-story house with a basement provided by the Small Homes Council of the university. And then there was a special project, testing concrete floors. Sounds thorough enough, but how about the result? Every home heating installation made today and for many years past has been affected by these experiments and improved. Proven scientific knowledge has replaced the by-guess-and-by-gosh method. And your furnace, right over there, was installed according to codes based on the University of Illinois research. Well, what do you know? Uh, hey, where you going? Well, just thought we might go upstairs. Oh, sure. These steps are getting a little hard. Not only that, but I wanted to show you some things about your house that might affect your heating. Fine. Well, you see, there are four major things influencing your heating system. One, the heating plant itself, which includes the boiler or furnace, the distribution system, and the registers or radiators. Gosh, I thought that was everything. Oh, no. Only one fourth, actually. Another fourth is the house. Is it built tight enough to retain heat, or does the heat pass out quickly? Those are two fourths of it, then. Yep. And equally important is how your heating system is installed. If it isn't done properly, then it may be inefficient, and you have higher fuel bills. The last, but not the least, is the way in which the plant is operated and controlled. All of these things, if working properly, combine to use practically every calorie of heat. Well, here we are. Go ahead. Thank you. Harvey. Oh, that's my wife. Yes, Alan. I thought you came upstairs long ago. Oh, this gentleman and I were talking. In the basement. Yeah, that's quite all right. Quite appropriate to our topic of conversation. You see, Alan, we were sort of talking about heating problems and how to cut down on lots of heat and save on fuel bills. That is, we were going to talk about that. I'm coming to them. I wish someone would find out how to save heat and money. According to him, they already have. Now, let me tell you some of the facts the university has discovered regarding the boiler-type heating plant. First, it proved that a single one-inch pipe gives an adequate amount of heat if the forced circulation hot water system is used. Remember? Previously, a pipe twice that large was thought necessary. Naturally, this discovery saves in the cost of pipe and also improves heating. I've never heard that before. Well, now, here's something you should have heard about. Or at least, the people that built this house should have known. What's that? This chimney's been built on the outside of the house. It isn't something that can be corrected now, but you should remember it if you do build a home in the future. Why bother to heat the outdoors, too? No, I never figured I was. Well, you do that way. Even the chimney helps heat when it's built inside the house because at least one-third of the heat of gases which go into the chimney is transferred to the house structure before the gases reach the outside air. Now, here's something else. It seems like a small thing, but radiators painted with oil paint will transmit 10% more heat than those painted with bronze or aluminum. Then, two, more heat results by the use of enclosures for your radiators, which cover only the back and top and leave the front, ends, and bottom open. Before we came upstairs, Ellen, he was telling me that it's possible to save as much as 50% on our fuel bill for using ceiling and wall insulation and storm doors and windows. I know a storm door would help the kitchen. I've been after Harvey to put one on. Oh, well, I just haven't gotten around. There's an awful draft that comes in under that door. Seems warm enough out here now. Well, you just fired the furnace. It ought to be. Say, by the way, do you keep it this hot all night? Oh, we try to. Why? Well, if you'd keep your house at a comfortable and even temperature through the day, but reduce it 5 to 10 degrees during sleeping hours, you'd probably save another 5 or 8% of your fuel. Well, then why not reduce it still more and save more? We'd probably freeze today. And besides that, that isn't practical. As a matter of fact, it would take so much fuel to bring the temperature back up in the morning, you wouldn't save any more than if you reduced it only the 5 or 10 degrees. Oh, I see. Say, where's your thermostat? Thermostat? Oh, why, right there by that door. Oh, yes, I see. Right at eye level. What's wrong with that? Well, it's been proven that thermostats are best located 30 inches from the floor. Why so low? Because that's what we might term in the living zone of a seated person. You know, of course, that cold air hangs in the lower part of the room and the warm air rises. When you sit down, you're in that lower half of the room. If your thermostat's in the upper half where it's warm, that's not going to keep the room at a comfortable temperature for you. Maybe that's why the house has seemed so cold all evening, Harvey. Might be. Cold weather aggravates the situation even more. You know what I'm interested in is this baseboard heating we've heard about. We're going to build a house of our own someday, or at least we hope to. We will. I've heard that this baseboard heating is one of the latest things. Yes, it is. It's inconspicuous, easy to keep clean. You use it with hot water heating, of course, and put the heat at the base of the outside wall where the room is cold. That gives the warmest floors and the most even floor-to-ceiling temperatures ever achieved. Don't tell me the University of Illinois also proved that. Yes, it did. And it found that it was also excellent for basement-less houses with concrete floor slabs. Is there anything they haven't found out about heating? Oh, of course. Although they've been at it since 1918, those studies still go on. Well, I guess maybe research does pay off. You bet it does. It's sometimes hard to see just how it benefits, but it really does. For example, a very conservative estimate places the benefit per home heating plant due to this research at $5 per year. $5? That doesn't sound like much. Uh, do you want to give me $5 right now? What for? Oh, nothing in particular. Why, no, not without some reason. Well, then why give it to someone else needlessly? Yeah, he's got you there. On the basis of $5 per plant, the value of the research to the more than 1 million homes in Illinois means a saving of well over $5 million every year. Wow, that's a lot of money. Many of the developments of research may never come to your attention because they pertain to uninteresting, humdrum things that you've come to take for granted. And some of the ones you do hear about may seem negligible until you stop to think about them and realize their tremendous importance to an industry, to the state, or to the nation. Then those dollars and hours saved become important factors. Thanks to your university and research. Not only my university, Harvey, but yours. For every day, it's serving you and all the people. In this way, the university has erected another milestone in progress, made possible through the laboratories of your state university and the research carried on there. Research which goes beyond teaching. where's the university? We'll show you. Oh, you're so proud of you. We'll be here. Thank you, altså park, for every day, and we're doing well at home. And you'll be here on you, boy. Let's go. I think we'll talk to you. How's that? Let's go. Hurl up inoot! You can't see there from now, we're done with76, and we'll start to know where he needs to end and we're away getting above Thank you. Thank you.
