Now we're back at the wonderful mall in Central Park on this beautiful, sunshiny day to reassert our faith in the great American creed, I am an American. And the Honorable James Sauter, who is Deputy Commissioner of Commerce of the City of New York, is acting as Chairman. The Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, has just arrived. And now we turn the microphone over to James Sauter, beloved Jimmy Sauter. Ladies and gentlemen of our radio audience, ladies and gentlemen, Americans all here in Central Park, we greet you on this most beautiful, I am an American day. And as so many times in the past, here on the mall in Central Park, we will open with the singing of our national anthem in which you will all join. And we'll be led by Miss Lucy Monroe, who has with her today the Girl Scouts Glee Club of the City of New York. Ladies and gentlemen, would you all please join with me and the Girl Scouts and let us all sing together. Oh, say can you see, rise above the sunny light, what so proud to be free held, and the twilight's first gleaming, that is the heav'r we'll be free held, and the twilight's first gleaming, who of war is the first gleaming, that was the first gleaming, that was the third gleaming, that was his way of eight and zero<|bg|>. All honour, sir. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor O'Dwyer, Chairman Wallander, honored guests, and ladies and gentlemen, it's fitting that we should begin the entertainment part of our program today with someone who was born far across the seas, but who today is an American, as are we all. So it is with great pleasure that I introduce to you from the Metropolitan Opera Company, that great star of the company, as well as the star of motion pictures, Madam Janila Novotna, accompanied by Alexander Alexei at the piano, Madam Novotna. I will sing for you, sweetheart, from Figmund Romberg's Maytask. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Jim. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. You are a little bit of a surprise. Thank you. and O'Brien. He said, Goldberg and O'Brien, what a surprise. He says, I got a bigger surprise for you. I'm O'Brien. Today, in truth, all the great peoples of the world that made up this great country are epitomized in the entertainment today. Regardless of race, color, and creed, and I always repeat this, and I insist on this point, I don't like when they say this person is a credit to his race. In America, if they're a credit to his race, they're a credit to all people, not only to one. A great team called Rogers and Hammerstein. America allowed them their talents, allowed them to have sway, to entertain even those dictators that wouldn't allow them the same privilege. Hammerstein and Rogers, and Rogers and Hammerstein. And in this greatest show of all, of theirs, South Pacific, is one of the greatest entertainers the American stage can boast of. She's going to sing that great number, ballet high, Juanita Hall.黨 yOle, says, But people, live on a lonely island. Dark in the middle of a foggy sea Most people long for another island One where they know they would last to be Falling high, they call you Any night, any day In your heart will hear it call you Come away, come away Falling high, we'll whisper On the way of the sea Where am I, your special eye then Come to me, come to me Your own special hope Your own special dream On the hill I can't shine in the stream If you cry, you'll find me Where the sky needs to be Where am I, your special eye then Come to me, come to me Falling high, falling high Falling high Someday you'll see me Floating in the sunshine My head's flicking out From a low-lying sound To the moon To the moon To the moon To the moon Singing through the sunshine Sweet as the ill that can be Come to me Am I Come to me If you cry, you'll find me Where the sky needs to be Am I, your special eye then Come to me Come to me Falling high Falling high Falling high Falling high Thank you very much A few seasons ago I had the privilege of being in a show called St. Louis Woman Played downtown And I'd like to sing a song for you Called Anyplace I Hang My Hat Is Home This is my hand, my hat Is Home Sweet as water Tell me why Thank you, thank you To the moon In Kansas City You're paralyzed That's my honeycomb This is my hand, my hat Is Home The moon There's a moon In the street Kick up and go And the blowin' through That's how it ought to be I kick up soon When the spirit blew me From the river Round the day How to stay Just go down And the wind There's a boy In the lawn Put in the black He's no Miss For it To know I'm going Where the wealth And that is Don't know Where that Is It's right My hand My hand Is Home Thank you Miss Thank you Miss Hall You know What was the name of that song Wherever I hang my hat That's my home Well I got one A new one Perfect to this There was a very sentimental husband Married And he passed on So I married a second time And he said to the second wife You can change the house to suit yourself But I'm very sentimental In the closet Is my first wife's hat Please don't disturb it So she promised The second wife passed on And he married a third time And he said to the third wife You can change the house to suit yourself But I have a nostalgic feeling I'm sentimental My two wives' hats are up there Please don't disturb it She says no I won't But I'll tell you this The next hat that goes up there Will be a derby I introduce to you now But wait a minute Before I introduce him In the vernacular of the theater A certain gentleman went on cold Wasn't introduced He's entitled to all the applause That you can give him Never in the city of New York Have we had one so civic minded Is the gentleman Who introduced me He knows the theater And above everything else He knows people And he loves his city Let's give the hand To Mr. Jim Sauter I introduce now Gentlemen second to none As a comedian I never like to say One man is the best But it's fair where you have Hundreds of great comedians And after all It's a matter of pace As to who's first But this man is not second From the Latin quarter Jerry Lester Oh please no more This is a very long show And I realize That you shouldn't take up Too much time So thanks a lot For my second number As I look down this wall I see Let's be fair about this The poor people on 59th Street Haven't got ringside So this joke is for you folks Up on 59th I uh This is a nice gathering Harry you look good Where did Harry go? You look good You see so many people I was Just before I came in here I was standing out in front Of this driveway And two fellas were fighting Hitting each other Very lightly In this manner In this manner So a cop walked over It was downhill He said Now try to get my car Uh Well I'm very happy to be here Is this the school band? It looks like A couple of fellas Look like gave me tickets Is this what you do In the meantime? Huh? Why the change of uniform? Why do some fellas have green And some fellas have blue? Is anyone equipped To tell me that? Or do you fellas Did you flunk the test too? Please That's my bad side Oh you're not photographing me Thank you Uh What's with you kid? Haven't you got any balls? Oh fine This is on the air Isn't it Harry? This is on the air You're always on the air And I have such a funny story Well What are you gonna do? Uh So what is the difference Here with the green and the blue? Is this The north and the south Is the gray and the blue? What is this? Is this the fire and the police? Oh you expected a lot To happen today Huh? So you got all the help In the band So in case anything's wrong Everybody will help you But with an instrument In the other hand And that's why I say I love you That is the song I sing louder I love you And for the hell Don't take me I And then I do other arrangements Ladies and gentlemen That would absolutely Knock you dead I saw a picture Oh it's a wonderful film Called The Champion Just last night We lost Is that funny? But uh Just a big laugh At the cafe I'm at a place Called The Latin Quarter It's not much It's uh Well as a matter of fact At this time of the day You don't know Whether it's the last show At night Or the first show today Well we have a very nice show 30 girls And uh What are you lost here? What can't you get a seat kid? We must have a terrific picture Huh? Well Thank you very much Prime and American Day As uh Jimmy Sauter told you When he uh Introduced the Magnificent Madame Novotna From across the river I too am From across the water Chicago To be exact We have some people In Chicago? Oh naturally The Navy How you feel? Were you stationed At Great Lakes Or were you born there? Really? Hey is that nice This is what you call Heckling four blocks away Huh? This is gonna be A new kind of heckling They telephone You know? Or send you a wire This is what I was gonna say Tuesday Well I was born in Chicago But still I have uh Just become in love With this wonderful city In New York And if I could only afford it I'd live there But you see I'm sure glad About this band They're very nice fellas They laugh good Good Thank you very much For inviting me over Like I made money I'm thankful And No I love actors That lie You know They come into a theater And they say With your permission I'd like to sing a song Just to be fair You got nothing to say If someone in the back Holler's You haven't got my permission The bump's in there I love you Nellie I'll tell you The honest reason I'm in this business I plunk law And some comedians Come up here And in case you don't laugh And get hysterical When they go off stage The diseases they wish you I don't I only wish you the cure But uh Thank you very much And I leave you with this one little saying Not me Well just one little saying If you're ever in the dump Pick up a tire for me Will you Thanks a lot See you later Thank you Jerry Lester Today We're making a sucker Out of a certain story The teacher said to the pupil Johnny Who wrote the commandments He said Moses That's correct Now what was the commandment That he has only four little words He says Keep off the grass He said Did Moses write that? He said Yeah Robert Moses The park commissioner These children And they're still children yet There were all these big children In their hearts I remember them When they first Then on the stage Talented sisters These are really sisters And reached the great heights Known to every radio listeners And television now You've heard them And appreciated them And applauded for And remember on the Fred Allen show The DiMarco sisters Thank you Lots of Which one? I'll hear your face with sunshine Put out a great big smile Make up your eyes with laughter Folks will be laughing with you in a little while Whistle the tune of gladness Who never was in style The future's brighter when hearts are lighter Smile, smile, smile Smarter your face with a giant smile Smile and make up your eyes with laughter Folks will be laughing with you in a little while Whistle the tune of gladness Who never was in style The future's round a big driver Whenever hearts are lighter Smile, smile, spin up rid of why you smile Smile, smile Everybody loves a baby That's why I'm in love with you Pretty baby Pretty baby And I'd like to be your sister, brother, dad And mother Pretty baby Pretty baby Won't you come and let me rock you in my cradle of love And we'll cuddle all the time Oh, I want to love this baby And it might as well be you Pretty baby Pretty baby Of mine Won't you come and let me rock you in my cradle of love And we'll cuddle all the time Oh, I want to love this baby And it might as well be you A pretty baby Oh, I want to love this baby Pretty baby Pretty baby Of mine Earlier this afternoon, I promised you a great musical treat And it is here with us now In the person of a very famous Greek contralto Who made her debut at Town Hall early in January And received from the music critics of New York The greatest notices, I guess, any singer has received in many years And she's with us here this afternoon To sing the habanera from Carmen And then she's going to sing the very widow waltz And it is with great pride that I introduce to Meryl Dwyer And to all of you, Madam Elena Nicolaidi From our sister, Republic Greece I'll finish first with Carmen And Dr. M. Spiak And the fall Walter I'll finish first with your divorce And I'll finish first once It doesn't fit after my friend The pull gemeinsate tell, if the fire goes down But he wants to be brave I'll finish first with your capt's And if before it comes to me trat the the how Thank you. Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I'd like to introduce to you the Hollywood contingent of Iron American Day. There are five of them here. I'll introduce them to you. You introduce them to the mayor. I'll bring them up one by one. I'll tell you who they are, though. Arthur Treacher, Geraldine Brooks, Bill Ice, Irene Rich, and Margaret O'Brien. There he is. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not Margaret O'Brien. It's Arthur Treacher. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, being a puppet of the public, I do not often declare myself. But today I am proud to declare myself that I am an American. I feel perhaps that we ex-aliens should declare it to you more often, lest you may think that we take our good fortune for granted. In conclusion, let me assure you that I consider it a great honor to be your very obedient servant. They will stop first to meet the mayor, then they are all yours. And that great, great show, Lendon Ear, Geraldine Brooks, and Bill Ice. I'm only sorry, I'm Lendon Ear. This is Bill Ice on this side, and this is Geraldine Brooks. I'm only sorry that we don't have Geraldine in the show. Shock went up against me for this meeting. But anyway, I just wanted to say for myself that I'm very happy to be here. And I'm one of those strange feet, a purely straight actor. I don't sing, I don't dance. But the only thing I can say right now is that I have one very proud, well, one really very proud thing to say, and I've always been an American. And I guess that's about what I'll always be. So here's Geraldine, let her say a few words. Thank you, Bill. I wish I were in your show. It's wonderful. I just come from California yesterday, and as I was flying over to New York, it was a wonderful, warm feeling to know that I am an American. And it gave me a nice feeling of relationship with all the other millions of Americans and all the millions of homes of which we were flying. Only here in these wonderful United States can we be free to live under and have those advantages which are set forth for us by that great bill of rights which we all treasure and should safely protect so that we can all always proudly say, not only today but every day, I am an American. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. President folks in the world, if you only need mention the name, Margaret O'Brien. Hello, everybody. I'm very happy to be here today to say hello to all of you, but most of all to tell you how proud I am to be an American. Thank you. If that's all she's going to say in later life, she's got a happy husband. I'm tired. The stage has never produced a more glorious soul. Currently, away from the pictures in Hollywood, she's with that great show, As the Girls Go. Beauty and quality is always in style, and she has it to the nth degree, Miss Irene Rich. Fellow Americans, may I say that this is one of the most thrilling sights I have ever seen in my entire life, and it's been a long one. I feel that I cannot claim any credit for being an American, because I had a very sensible ancestor way back in the early 1600s, who elected to come to this country, and I have been very grateful to him ever since. But it is to you, the ones of you that have come here of your own volition, because you wanted to be American, that we take our hats off today and say bravo and congratulations. Could you imagine a more heaven sent day to greet you, and to make you realize, as we realize, what lucky fellows we are? I want to just say, and I don't want to take too much of your time, but it is a privilege and it is a joy to stand before you and say welcome to all countries, and God bless you. God bless you. Thank you. Harry, we're going to have to ask our great band's mask in front of us to take over here for a minute or two and give us some of that great music, because I'll tell you what we've got coming up. We've got the whole show here from the Capitol Theater. Glenn Gray and his Casa Loma Orchestra. Tracy Barry, Jackie Miles and the Lane Brothers. It'll take a minute to set up, and John Celebrate down there is going to give us a tune while we're setting up on the stage. Uh, what's his name? John Celebrate. Oh, Celebrate is celebrate. John, fair words. John, fair words. John, fair words. John, fair words. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. who have cooperated so admirably through all the years in making this day the great day that it is. Are we really ready, boys? No. Huh? One of the problems of the great entertainment here at Central Park is to setting the stage for the next act, and it takes considerable activity to do so. Harry Hirshfield and Jimmy Sauter are acting as scene shifters. I don't know whether they have a union card or not, but it looks now as though Glenn Gray and his classical Loma orchestra about ready. In just a moment, we'll hear the master ceremonies take over. It's necessary to change the scenery now, and as soon as they're all ready, we'll have some more of the wonderful program that is celebrating and observing I Am an American Day here at the mall in Central Park. Now it looks as though Jimmy Sauter is ready to say a word or two, and we'll hear what the next feature in the program will be. There's still this beautiful point about the scenery. However, and now Jimmy Sauter comes back to the microphone to take over. The scenery's all set. We're having a great day up here. I hope all the people who were not able to get out into the park today are having as good a time at home as we're having here in the park. Now we are having a good time in the park, aren't we? I think the people here in the park should know that a ceremony of this sort has not spun out of the earth fully formed, and the people who have made it a great success of his are Colonel Edward Rickett, who has been the mayor's coordinator in this affair, together with the Honorable William J. Donahue, the mayor's executive secretary. These two men alone have made this great day possible. I'd like to hear a big hand for them. And none of you would have known the day was really going to be here without the wonderful cooperation of Mark Price, who is standing down here, Mr. Seymour Siegel of Station WNYC, and Mr. Paul Schoenstein of the Journal of America, who have made this event known to one and all. And then away in the far corner here, I see a man from the park department, the assistant regional director of the Department of Parks here in the city of New York, Mr. Frank Soares. I wish he were up here to take a bow, but he's waving to us from out there. And now we're all set on the platform. It's a great pleasure to present you one of the greatest of all the band maestries. That's plural. Glenn Ray. Glenn Ray. All right. All right. All right. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. waistline diet won't do it as a fellow told me one time when he quit a job in the guarantee trust company went down to this sideline peers to work at the stevedore i said what you do that first he said if you want to look like a man you got to work like a man now they're doing that uh rope skipping stunt with the two of them gee that's remarkable i can't even hope to describe it it moves so fast however television could be here right now carrying this for you and possibly here somewhere in the field of television units justifying those who have television sets and thoroughly enjoying the i am american day program your city station wnyc and wnycfm is covering this event as we do all events that move in this great and wonder empire city new york if the cities have never stand still and about the most permanent thing about it is change one thing will never change though and that is the quality and the status of being an american citizen and those joining up today in the ceremony which will soon take place in the formalities of this celebration here today at central park will have full reason to appreciate the fact that they made the decision to become good americans america is only 160 years old and in 160 years we seem to have gotten around to the point where you respect the right of all mankind to life liberty and the pursuit of happiness the uncertainty to the past still linger with some government some places in the world and the uh experiment those rights reducing the qualities that they do to the uh citizens all the microphone ropes are in your way buddy you can't do that stunt our wiring overhead utterly ruined that finale but that's not their fault and now these two wonderful acrobatic dancers dressed in blue satin with glenn gray and his castle almost here's glenn gray great thank you glenn and now it's my pleasure to present my favorite and your favorite the lovely gracie barry thank you glenn very much you know ladies and gentlemen i just recently returned from a very pleasant tour around the country and while i was away i saw yellowstone park and pike street believe me it really was a great relax of course i've seen many sites in florida too but most of those sites were slack and i met a marquee from paris he was wealthy and healthy and everything this marquee from paris went for me he said marry me he said marry me sherry i'll place the world at your feet i'll give you diamonds and rubies and emerald trees i said thank you i'll take you i'll take new york where you get a free blood test when you enter the store just give me brooklyn in spring i've heard so many folks remarket those wide open streets where you can take your car and pack it and those tropical breezes from the fulton fish market new york i'll take it i'll never forsake it i'll take new york east side west side any side's the best side in new york that town downtown all of it is my town it's new york and china town where lights are low you'll hear those oriental whispers so watch new york yes i'll take new york where the number one industry is the rumble like the ah good old new york the empire state the gaiety fear there and the gaiety delicate why even tchaikovsky never wrote a refrain that compares with the rumble of a public day and the avenue of the rift shards commonly called pushparks and just a stone's throw there's a city within a city mulberry street where i once heard a voice a lot of office How about your husband, Tony? Hey, my Tony, my running. You could travel me too crazy. He was so happy with a street cleaning the pot. Now he went and bought himself a sweepstake ticket and he's going to wait until he becomes rich. He quit on the street cleaning the pot. Hey, Chris, the fuck alone. He says he's going to be rich. Meantime, he's a bum. He says he's going to clean up for two days. I know we. What the sweep of the steak? Hey, let him sweep of the street. My gosh. Yes, I'll take New York. The hustle and the bustle, it means so much to me. That you can rub elbows and other things on the crowd at BMT. Ah, the BMT. All the things that you see, I'll always hold dear. The people you meet and the things that you hear, take forever. Can't you just perish from the heat? Oh, God, the humility's awful. You know, last week there was 101 in the shade. So I sat in the sun, say I'm not dead. Huh? What am I doing tonight? Are you kidding? I'm going to do what I do every night. I'm going to take off my shoes and go down the candy store and wait for Harry's call. How long? How long? How should I have? How long? How should I have? Sometimes I wait for four hours, from eight to ten. I don't want to wait so much for them chocolate mortgages are coming out of my ears. Huh? Why don't I go over the Riviera to hear Gracie Barry? Huh? I should go overseas to see a show. Anyways, I've seen that Gracie Barry at the Capitol. Huh? How did she impress me? Hmm. I'll lay three to one. She's got a nose job. Yes! I take New York! Let me live in Manhattan. I take New York! Love the slang of the air. Wow! Hot water, Jess. The flang of the engines on the way to a fire And there's no one like our good old mayor Meyer O'Dwyer And his mishmooker from Comtee Park I'll take New York Thank you, and now our next artist really needs no introduction One of the top men in his field Jackie Miles Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen And while the applause is dying down I would like to say how very happy I am To offer my little respect to this great, wonderful country of Biocon If you started to ask somebody and said What's so wonderful about the country you could talk for days I have one little incident that might explain it You look around a park like this And see so many of New York's finest policemen There's a wonderful Commissioner Wallinger And you can tell a joke about them and they'll laugh I hope This is a little story About a little boy that walked up to his father About one o'clock in the afternoon And he said, Daddy, you're going to take me to the ball game today? His father said, I'm terribly sorry, sonny But I can't take you today His father said, but Daddy, I want to go to the ball game today His father said, I said, I'm busy and I can't take you Now please don't bother me His father said, Daddy, you don't take me to the ball game today I'm going to run away tomorrow Well, the father knew enough about child psychology He thanked him to the bad walker He took his adornment if he wanted to run away He said, run away Well, the kid started to walk around the block It got to be 3, 4 in the afternoon He kept walking around the block 6, 7 o'clock in the evening Hungry, tired The kid was still walking around the block 10 o'clock at night The kid was still walking around the block When a cop walked up to him You know, the cop took a chance He said, what's the matter, sonny The kid said, nothing I'm running away from home The cop said, why The kid said, my daddy wouldn't take me to the ball game today I'm running away from home The cop said, what color running away from home Is it you've been walking around the block for 10 hours You're on the same block The kid said, what's the matter You're crazy or something He said, you know I ain't a lot of boys this week Then another wonderful part of our country Is the way you can depend upon your neighbors It's so wonderful Whenever you need help They'll always show up There's a little story I'm the only guy to get tackled by airplanes A little boy that walked into a candy store You know what a candy store is That's the way you play numbers And this little kid hadn't decided What the piece of candy he wanted He was just wheeling around When the candy store had walked up to him He said, don't touch the candy The kid looked back and said What are you hitting about it He said, I don't do nothing You don't have to hit He said, I just want to see if the marshmallow He said, I said Don't touch the candy He said, come on You're crazy or something You're hiking He said, I just want to see if the liquor is He said, I said Don't touch it Well, the kid walked out crying When one of his neighbors A big fellow walked up And he said, what's the matter, sonny The kid said, nothing I was just in a candy store And I didn't even do nothing I was only touching the candy And he was dizzy Just because I'm small He said, if I was bigger I'd give him a shot in the head It would have to be He said, but I'm small And he hates me, too I got a booboo on my hair But this big guy said He did, huh? He said, come on inside, kid They walked into the candy store And he said, go ahead, kid Touch the candy Well, the kid tried And the candy store And I said, don't touch it The big fellow said Go ahead, kid Touch the candy And the kid tried And the candy store And I said, don't touch it The big guy said, you better beat it, kid This guy will knock your brains out Then there's one more we must tell About a policeman Because they laugh I'm so glad they did And I love these fellas They're wonderful I'm lucky to be here today I drove up here with my car And I drove my car in between two buses Which is a good trick You know anybody wants to buy A tall, thin, Jewish Well, this one is about a friend of mine Who lives up and tell him And he works down on 34th Street He drives up and back every day And you know, he's the kind of fella That's a speed maniac He can't drive slow For years now This one motorcycle cop waits for him He gives him one ticket on the way down And one on the way home Two tickets a day This cop has been used this fella for years Well, the fella got mad And he went out And had himself built A supercharged car That would go 150 miles an hour He figured at least If he gets a ticket now It would be an interesting chase Well, the first day he got the big car He went out looking for the cop And he was cruising About 80 miles an hour Just cruising Well, the motorcycle cop recognized him Got on the motorcycle Raced up to him Was just about to stop him And the fella put his foot on the gas a little bit Shot away at 90 miles an hour He lost the cop He slowed down to 80 again The cop raced up to him The second time Was about to grab him He put his foot on the gas a little further Shot away at 100 miles an hour He lost the cop Slowed down to 80 for the third time The third time The motorcycle cop raced up to him They were racing along at 80 miles an hour The cop was all set to flag him The fella put his foot all the way down And after gas shot away at 150 miles an hour He slowed down, stopped Still no sign of the cop So he turned around And went back looking for the cop He found the cop laying in a ditch All cut up and bleeding The motorcycle broke into bits He picked up the cop And he said, my gosh What happened? The cop said, I don't know He said, that last time You pulled away from me I thought my motorcycle stopped And I got off to see what was wrong Thank you very, very much Glenn Gray, we thank you From the bottom of our hearts For coming up here In the middle of a very, very busy day At the Capitol We can't thank you enough All of us And let's let Glenn Gray hear The way we thank him And Gracie Barry and Jackie Miles And the Lane Brothers Who very nearly killed themselves up here It's really been a pleasure Thank you And now I'm going to ask Gene Labar Captain Labar To take over here for a minute While we reset our stage I'm going to ask I'll change our stage Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Jim Stotter. Thank you. Mayor, distinguished citizens, ladies and gentlemen, again as in the past nine years, we assemble in this vast open area of Central Park to prepare publicly and demonstrate to the world, by our presence here today, our faith and the ideals of the greatest of institutions, the United States of America. On this day, we are hosts to 20,000 foreign-born men and women who have naturalized during the past year. To these newest of our people, to their families and friends, and to all you good folks assembled here today, we bid you a hearty welcome. We know that the newly qualified citizens will hold dear to them that precious citizenship of this great country of ours, which they have just received, and that they will do their level best to contribute to its continued welfare. The world is fortunate that Providence has so regulated our existence as to make a majority of us righteous in our thinking and consider it in our contact with our fellow man. Nowhere is this better exemplified than in America. Today, we have been fortunate in obtaining a great American, Judge Pecorra, to give us the address on citizenship. Also, another great American, Judge Calfin, who is going to lead us in the reciting of the Oath of Allegiance. We have already seen a great collection of stars of the stage and screen and radio. There are more to come. They have performed for our entertainment, and it is their contribution to the great cause for which we have assembled. Participating in this day's ceremonies are those three great fans from the police, fire, and sanitation department, playing in mass. And I am sure you will agree that they have done a great job. Also, we have call groups from the girl scouts, student nurses, and the police athletic league. As you look around, you will agree, I am sure, that this setting for this occasion is a beautiful one. This elegant setting and this huge park has been made possible with the courtesy of the park department. And we salute them for the great effort they have made to make this affair a success. We also recognize and salute the police department, that great department of courageous men can always be dependent upon to do an excellent job in preparing the police arrangements for the comfort, convenience, and welfare of the public. This is another demonstration of their fine work. Our hats are off, too, to the mayor's committee. And I am thinking of William Donahue, Tim Schroeder, Ed Rickett, and a host of others who served so valiantly to make this a great success it is. Speaking of policemen, the best success story that I know, which best proves what this country offers in the way of opportunity, is the story of our foremost citizens, who rose from humble circumstances, who became the city's chief executive. He came to this country as a young man with great ambition, joined the police law, studied law, became a magistrate, and successively a county court judge, vice-attaney, general of the army, and then mayor of this great city of Oro. A job that is considered to be second only in importance to the president of the United States. And now it is my extreme honor, privilege, and pleasure to present this distinguished American, the honorable William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York. Mayor of the city of New York. Mayor. Mayor. Mayor Wallander, reverend, distinguished guests on the platform, the million and a quarter who are here in the mall, and those who are listening in. Today we have taken these few hours to declare again to ourselves and to our God that the principles of our government are the sacred ones to us. Today as mayor of this city, for the tenth time that a mayor of this city has the privilege, I welcome all of you here. I welcome Judge Percore here. I welcome here Judge Croftman. I welcome the 26 consul generals from foreign countries who have honored us, and the delegates to the National Conference on Citizenship. More than all, I welcome 22,000 new citizens. Oh, how they must have looked forward to today. Those human beings who must have known tyranny, cruelty, brutality, many of whom have lost their dear ones. Many other dear ones are now yet homeless in foreign countries that are not as happy as we as we are. Today at last they reach the great goal. They become citizens of the United States of America. I welcome them. I especially welcome them. I know the feeling. I know the hope. I know the joy. I know the joy. And I know the responsibility. I hope God will sustain them and make them worthy of the great outstanding power that is theirs today. in view of the great entertainment program that is not as good as you are. I can't wait for you to see the great entertainment program that is not as good as you are. I know the joy. I know the joy. I know the responsibility. I know the responsibility. I hope God will sustain them and make them worthy of the great outstanding power that is theirs today. In view of the great entertainment program that is named by a very hard working committee and the ceremonies that still have to, be finished before the challenge goes on. Again, I shall make my thoughts to you for to give more time to those who have been trained to do. I am grateful to our committee who have worked so hard and to the ladies and gentlemen of the theatrical world who have been so kind to come here to entertain us. God is in his heaven today, smiling down on you and me. I pray that he will always my life. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great privilege and honor to present us. It's a great privilege and honor to present another great man, one of our leading jurists, who will address us on citizenship. He is the Honorable Clayton Ann Pecorah, Supreme Court, to face the judicial district. Pleasure to present Judge Pecorah. The Commission of Wallander, Your Honor, the Mayor, distinguished guests, and my fellow Americans. Though born on foreign soil, like our honored Mayor and many millions of the citizens of America, I am deeply grateful for this opportunity to join with you and with them and with her native sons and daughters and proclaim with pride, I am an American. As an American, I am a free man, privileged to live in a land whose government is one of laws, not of men. It is a government instituted upon the democratic principle that all men are created equal. It is a government bedrocked upon a constitution which guarantees the natural rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness to everyone coming under its jurisdiction, regardless of race, color, greed, national origin, or station in life. Under the Constitution, our minds are unfettered. No power may lawfully silence our voices or shackle our hands when we seek to utter or to write our thoughts. No one may prevent us from worshiping Almighty God in accordance with the dictates of one's own conscience. To all of us is given the right peaceably to assemble and express our grievances and to petition the government for their redress. The right of everyone to own and enjoy that which he has honestly earned and saved by his industry and drift is protected. For not even the government may deprive any individual of his property without just compensation. No one may be held to answer for an infamous act except upon a written charge publicly filed. Anyone so charged must have a speedy trial, and pending the trial is entitled to his liberty under reasonable bail. The accused must be confronted by the witnesses who testify against him. If he be lacking in private means, adequate counsel for his defense must be provided by the state. He cannot be compelled to incriminate himself. His guilt can only be pronounced by a jury of his fears, and it must be established beyond a reasonable doubt. If convicted, no cruel or unusual punishment may be imposed upon him. Here in America, the inviolability of every individual's home and person is scrupulously guarded. No one may be forced into peonage or any other form of compulsory servitude. Nor may he be imprisoned or detained against his will except for legal cause, the sufficiency of which may be tested under the ancient writ of habeas corpus, which must be issued upon proper application. However weak and modest it may be, everyone's home is his impregnable castle, but the Constitution itself bars it against the unlawful intrusion of even the mightiest in the land. Before our law, the poorest and the most obscure stands upon an absolute equality with the richest and the most powerful. All are assured the equal protection of our laws. The gates of opportunity are open to all. The progress which anyone may make upon its path is limited only by his character, his energy, and his talents. The barefoot ladder today may well become the leader of tomorrow in our industrial or public life. Our government is one created by the people to promote the common welfare. Its representatives are chosen by popular and secret ballots to be our servants and not our masters. For their official acts, they are accountable to the people, and the power to terminate their tenure is vested in the people. These are the ideals of the American way of life. These are the things which give meaning to American citizenship. They are the very essence of freedom. Because of their virtues, the dignity of the human being here is enhanced, and his spiritual nature is nurtured. Let us contrast these conditions with those existing in the Italian state or under the rule of communism. There, the concept of government is that the individual must serve the state in obedience to the arbitrary will of its self-constituted head. In those lands, the liberty of the individual depends upon the indulgence or the caprice of a secret police. His honestly acquired property may be confiscated. Imprisonment or death may be suffered without the formality even of accusation or trial. Labor grovels under the cruel acts of its slave masters. Even the worship of God may bring torture or death. A voice in the formulation of governmental policy is denied to all except the very few who compose the ruling group. There, the human spirit is brutally defaced, and the people are deprived even of spiritual guidance and comfort. We, my fellow citizens, breathe the free air of democracy. We are nourished by its sweet and lushest fruit. They have strengthened our bodies and our souls. Let us today, each and every one of us, now reaffirm our fervent faith in that democracy. With a full heart, let us pledge in you our solemn vow to defend that democracy from all of its enemies, both within and without our gates. For only thus may we declare, with a full heart and with complete sincerity, I am an American. Judge Petora, your words are indeed a great inspiration to all of us. And our inspiration will continue with readings from the scriptures by the acting district chaplain of the 3rd Naval District, Commander Joshua L. Goldberg. Commander Goldberg. And it shall come to pass, that thou shalt talk diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe and do all his commandments, which I commanded these days, that the Lord thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth. And all these blessings shall come on thee, and overtake thee, if thou shalt pardon unto the voice of the Lord thy God. Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the field. Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy time, and the flocks of thy sheep. Blessed shall be thy basket, and thy store. Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out. The Lord shall force thine enemies, that rise up against thee, to be smitten before thy face. They shall come out against thee one day, and flee before thee seven ways. The Lord shall command the blessing upon thee, and in all thou setest thine hand unto thee. And he shall bless thee, and he shall bless thee in the land, which the Lord thy God has given thee. The Lord shall establish the unholy people unto himself, as he has sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the Lord thy God, and walk in his ways. So may we, Americans all, be worthy of his gifts. Amen. And now at this point in I am an American day, comes a very solemn moment when we are given and led in the oath of allegiance by Judge the Honorable Samuel A. Kaufman, Judge of the United States District Court, Judge Kaufman. Amen. Amen. Amen. Mr. Mayor, making a long run, American gold. Judge Fikora has eloquently conveyed the real meaning that flows from American citizenship. You, of course, know the responsibility that goes with the glorious rise of American citizenship. I merely wish to express the expectancy and hope with which we welcome today both those who have forsaken allegiance for that of the United States and those who, though native boys in this land have attained the full status of citizenship. The events of the past decade has proven to the world that the philosophy of democracy is the most vital and living force. Yet the survival of democracy through two sanguine wars within less than half the country can only serve to impress a party one with vivid clarity and compelling needs with which this country and the world have for inspiration and leadership. The country to which you now pledge allegiance has, as by virtue of its spiritual, economic and military power emerged from conflict, not only the mightiest nation in the world, but the land toward which all people, where even the pain assemblies of freedom glow, look for strength, hope and fulfillment of their aspirations. Thus were not the complexion of coping with our mass economic and scientific powers sufficiently complexion to bring trepidation to the most wise. We must also bear with solicitude and care the trust we are told in our democracy by the rest of the world. If in the past, then, our opinions have humbled as we guided the spreads of our destiny. If at times we have departed from the tortuous road in the dreamer fields of apathy, we may no longer permit ourselves such dubious luckness. For now, it is civilization itself which is its fate. With these facts in mind, it is with evenness that we hope that we welcome you to full-flake citizenship. From those of you who have arrived from foreign shores, we gladly accept the wisdom and learning dream from different years in nations where the word democracy is only a hope. Many of your predecessors, including our honorable mayor and the eminent jurors who last addressed it, who have come to this country to contribute unsurprisingly their leadership and service. From those of you who are new citizens only in so far as you have leaped the age where you can actively shape the destiny of this nation, we expect the inspiration and vitality which only youth can bring to us. For where our leaders should procrastinate, fear, waver, and pause, it is you who must bring to bear the fortitude, energy, discuseness, and courage which alone can make our kind of democracy the most compelling and dynamic force in the world. Each of you is an instrument for the presentation, the presentation of our form of government. In the conviction that we all share in this destiny of our beloved country, I ask you to place your hand, your right hand on your heart and join with me in repeating this pledge. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States and to the republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all. I pledge allegiance to the flag of the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic for the republic. Harry, that was most inspirational. The most inspirational half hour I remember in New York history. You will never see in any land anything purer in thought and harsh than what you witnessed here this afternoon. And ladies and gentlemen, we had another great American and the reason he sat up on this platform instead of sitting among you, he wasn't able to find the way he was. He wasn't able to find a bench. The great, great humanitarian, the great citizen of the world, Mr. Bernard Baruch. Ladies and gentlemen, one who has given of his long time and may he live long because to his dying day he will give to the world that which is needed so much laughter and sheer entertainment. the great, great, great national edge. The great accomplishment he was. Ladies and gentlemen, one who has given of his long time, and may he live long, because to his dying day, he will give to the world that which has needed so much laughter and sheer entertainment, a great, great American, Bill Robinson. Necessary to reset the scenery for Bill Robinson's dance, in just a moment now. Here he is, Mr. Bill Robinson. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be a little different. I'm going to apologize to the mayor, and I'm going to apologize to the police department. But the mayor is Monday, and the number is 764. That's what we wanted. Ladies and gentlemen, for outdoor entertainment, I doubt that you've ever seen an afternoon like you've seen today. These great bands, these great orchestras, the great talents of this land. And now we're going to have, from the Paramount Theatre, their show, first, a hand if you will, you would anyhow, to Victor Lombardo and his orchestra. Thank you. Thank you very much. Look who you're going to have for, especially, personally, personally. I'm talking of great bands, sitting so patiently and heroically. And they are the backbone of this afternoon. These great musicians of the city department, to the city of New York, they deserve your hand right down here. Now, look who you're going to have. You're going to have for the specialty numbers with the state Paramount Joe, the Pied Pipers, Frank Fontaine, and Peter Lorre. I'll give you now, Mr. Victor Lombardo. Thank you very much. Your Honorable Mayor, distinguished guest. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We're very happy to be here, participating in this great event on American Day. Now we get our show off, introducing Kenny Martin, singing the fast-becoming song, Ghost Riders in the Sky. Well, he's the man who spoke to me again even in spring and vacation March 15- marca. I call Tramundi what are the dogs I just met and bobble for the stage. I thought they wrote me myself every trip innai when I visit my settlement. Well, at once the mighty heard of red-eyed cow's jaw Plowing to the ragged skies and up the prodigal E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.O. E.P.I.O. The road's heard in the sky They planned a storm fire in their hopes for middle school They're born too bright and shiny and they're hot fresh to get you A bold of fear went through and I say thunder through the sky We saw the riders coming hard And he heard their horn will dry E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. The road's rider in the sky The change of the car drives the first day's mumbled and square So right now I'll be getting better for a great time yet Cause it got to ride forever on that rain that's in the sky And what's going to fly And what's going to fly Is the rider hear their cry E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.O. E.P.I.O. The road's riders in the sky E.P.I.A. The riders folks on by air E.P.I.A. The riders folks on by air E.P.I.A. The road's unpolished name If you want to save your folks from hell or riding on our race Then cowboy change your ways today Or with a fuel ride Trying to catch the devil's herd E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. The road's unpolished name E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. E.P.I.A. Road riders in the sky. Thank you. Thank you very much. Now we'd like you to meet our young gal singer, Pat O'Connor. He's going to tell you the story of that new western novelty, I couldn't know the sun was low. Miss Sefty was her name, through the west she won her fame. Being handy with the gun, but she drove the men insane. I'd see to whip out her pistols. She was in the sky, facing out the alibi. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'm so sorry, my friend. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'll never, never hold it again. One night she had a date with the rest of the heavy weight. And he tried a brand new hole. She did model 3-8. So she whooped out her pistols. And she went to me. Then quickly she tried to scream. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'm so sorry, my friend. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'm so sorry, my friend. And I'm so sorry, my friend. I didn't know the gun was low. One night she made a slip. And caught the ferrule in the hip. So the law took my hand. And that made every move. And then she fled. And I'm so sorry, my friend. And I'm so sorry, my friend. And I'm so sorry, my friend. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'm so sorry, my friend. And I'm so sorry, my friend. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'll never, never do it again. And I'll never, never do it again. Yes, the jury all agreed that Miss Hector's been freed. But the sheriff's killer's wife was impigna, yet she received. So she borrowed a pistol, dropped his boy's bill, and sang at Miss Hector's bill. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'm so sorry, my friend. Yes, the jury. I didn't know the gun was low. And I'll never do it again. No, I'll never do it again. Yes, the jury. Yes, the jury. Yes, the jury. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Now we'd like you to introduce the newest sensation of radio and television, Frank Fontaine. Thank you very much, Victor. And good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'd like to offer my impression of a guy you've heard many times over your favorite networks, and you've seen him on television. I'd like to wave programs across the start, and the announcer says, From Coast to Coast, with Liz and the Odd to Godfrey's role. And here's Odd to Godfrey, who sings... I live in the middle of tomorrow, for just one year to day. Hello, hello. Well, let's see who the first talent scout is tonight. The first talent scout is Winston Churchill. Well, Winston, what have you got to say? Oh, well, I just... I just... Just a few months ago, Mr. Godfrey, I met a fellow, everybody named Obama Monroe, and he sang a little song, and he sang a song for me, and for London, and for Britain, and he... It was damn good. And here he is to sing a little song, Rating with the Moon. Rating with the Moon, I am in the midnight blue, and let all his looms face the view. Thank you. I'd like to offer my impression of a guy who just won $50,000 in the Irish sweepstakes. Here's a fellow who just won $50,000. He has all of his family with him. A few thousand cousins and aunts and great-grandfathers come out from everywhere. And as he approaches all these newspaper reporters and photographers, he tries to explain in his own little way just how he won this money. A sweepstake winner, and I call him John L. C. Savoni. He turns around, looks in action, says something like this. I'm glad I won a sweepstake this year. It was making me happy when I was finding out about it. I won a sweepstake this year. I didn't know what the...I was nervous. I'll tell you what happened anyway. I was hanging around the house, and I wasn't doing that thing. I didn't feel like doing that thing. So I was just hanging around the house, and I wasn't doing that thing. I started listening to the radio. I started listening to the radio. All of a sudden the radio stopped talking to me. I had the radio for three years. I never said anything to the radio. The radio never said anything to me. All of a sudden the radio said, you know who are the winners? I said, who? I said, you. I said, me? He said, yeah. I said, you sure? He said, sure. I said, you sure you sure? He said, mm-hmm. He said, mm-hmm. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. I said that's me. I didn't know what the... I was nervous. I said that's my brother, my father, my victim, my mother, my other father. I got two fathers. I didn't know what the... I was nervous. I said that my name is John Knox, Mr. Warnley, and my name is Frankie Fountain. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now, for young people who have made the musical singing, please. In my country. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, God, I feel it. Everyone's a hearty. They'll be great. The whole world's time. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. I don't say where you're to be. Why don't you shine? God, give me a little. Shine your face up. Make it look like you. Shine your face up. Why don't you wear a smile? I don't think you can do it. You'll find that everything's okay. I find. Oh, you're gonna see. Everyone's a hearty. If that's a danger. You'll find your estimation. You'll make the whole world shine. You'll shine. I know, see guys. You're afraid of me. One shot. One half. One spot. I may sound selfish, but I won't see. One shot. One half. One far. I can't understand what I see in them. It must be the things that all... three of them. I know, see guys. I know, see guys who are afraid of me. One shot. One half. One far. One shot. One half. One far. One far. I may sound selfish, but I won't see. One shot. One half. One far. One far. One half. One far. One far. One far. I can't understand what I see in them. It must be the things that all three of them. Chuck likes to walk and walk and walk. Half likes to talk and talk and talk. Walk and and talk and do Clark will miss. All that boy likes to do is kiss. If only Chuck would walk and talk. Half would like to walk and talk. Clark would walk and talk and kiss. I wouldn't be in a spot like this. I love each one and what he does. They all drive me nuts because I like what they do separately. But a gal's gotta have her eye to see. I'm not a real demanding girl. That's why I'm in such a world. Walk and and stalking and sing for me. Why can't each of them do all three? Oh, half. Isn't that all you can do? Is this talk, talk, talk? Clark, how about you? Chuck, can I depend on you? Oh, come on, Chuck. Come in. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not kidding. It's all down on this machine. We're really crazy about that little stick. But we want to exclusively. That's the trick. When she's done with just that, it's like a beat. Oh, dear. We thought the love he said. We thought the love he said. But we want to exclusively. That's the trick. When she's done with just that, it's like a beat. Oh, dear. We thought the love he said. What? Cold. We're really crazy about that little stick. But we want to exclusively. That's the trick. When she's done with just that, it's like a beat. Oh, dear. He looked the love he said. What? Cold. When he's done with just that, it's like a beat. Oh, dear. We thought the love he said. What? Cold. I'm scared. Have you just jacked the jackie? He's a pocket. The pocket of the jackie. The pocket's the best of the giant couple plans. So we hang around after all these commands. She's a man so nice to see why we treat her this way. If she's busy with us, she won't stray. Hey there, fellas, I got you. Tomorrow, there'll be right to know. No, no, you, we can't trip without you. Then stop fooling what you're gonna do. We'll walk together, stride for stride. Throw in some kisses on the side. We'll even talk of this and that. Looks like tomorrow's his spot. Walking and talking and kissing. We know we've been missing a lot and some boys. But it's all over now. We're together. We fall. Thank you, Pipe Piper. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is my privilege to introduce to you a man who is not only one of Hollywood's most exciting stars, but one of the truly great actors of our day. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Peter Lorre. Ladies and gentlemen, I've had a deal with a great mayor of your great city for many years. He's not allowed to make faces, and I'm not allowed to make speeches. It's only with his special permission today that I say a few lines. I also had a deal with Milton Berle and Hannah Youngman. They are not allowed to scare people, and I'm not allowed to make jokes. But they have many a time broken their part of their deal, and so I feel no qualms breaking my part of the deal. I just came here to say hello to you. One way I feel with you because my little Mayflower came over in 1934. I had to leave Europe when that continent became too small for two murderers like Hitler and me. So I hit the road, and I became an American citizen on the 8th of August, 1941. I'm allowed to be serious. I sometimes think that our fellow citizens that had their privilege by birthright to be an American, and we have ended them for many years for what we didn't have then. In one way, they certainly can envy us for that feeling, what it means that very day to become an American. This very setting is not very conducive to what I can do best. There's too much sunshine around and too many cuppers around me. Only a sucker would try to pull something here. But even they are nice to me. And I would like to leave you with one thought. The greatest words on earth, like democracy, like anything great can become shallow and empty if you don't live them every day. Well, only a few throw stones away from the very spot where I landed here in 1934. Today the police escort picked me up to come here to you. And everybody says, hello, please. It feels nice. And I'm most envious and distinguished of my foreign colleagues. People in Britain, actors that become serious when they are old enough and great enough. And in France, they have to live on the earth. And in Vienna, where I come from, they call them all sorts of titles. I like hello, please. Thank you, Peter. Well, ladies and gentlemen, it was indeed a pleasure being here this afternoon. On behalf of everyone who appeared here with us, Kenny Martin, Pat O'Connor, Frank Fontaine, the Pad Piper, Peter Laurie, we'd like to thank you very much. Until we meet again, goodbye and good luck. Thank you. Let's welcome Mr. Lombardo and his great artist and his talent. Kenny Youngman says he's the Lombardo without the money. Stay out of it. Now I'll bring back to you. You just had a taste of him earlier. Let him come back again and give it his great talent. I'll be saying to you, Bill Robinson. Now while they're shifting the scenery on the stage to make a way for that wonderful artist, Bill Robinson, we're just going to take a moment to tell you that WNYC is carrying this wonderful picture. And here's Bill Robinson. I would like to be the first dancer that I've danced while a million people are singing. I'm going to do a soft cue to each parade. And I'd like to have you to sing the first chorus nice and sharp and hum the second one. I want to be the first dancer to dance to a million people singing. Will you please? I want to be the first dancer to dance to a million people singing. Would you please? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now I'd like to give you my conception, just how I'm going to be dancing 40 years from today. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Here's to you, this great movie star, Mr. Nair, Richard Hunter. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very glad to be here today and his honor the mayor. I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you and all Americans of one of the great principles of our democracy, and that is the right of every human being to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I thank you. And to the neighbor, that's what he is. He's too late for me to be jealous of his country. Great artists, Christmas dates, all I have to do is your harmony. Leave the person. I'm a very proud of you, ladies and gentlemen. I'm so excited to be here on this wonderful day, and I'd like to sing for you that I sing in XD sake. Always true to you in my heart. Until perfect. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. At the piano accompanying, and very rarely does the accompanist get unmentioned, a hand for Mr. Sidney Bass. I've been on now here for a long stretch this afternoon. You've got a tremendous show yet coming, some of the greatest names of the theater. For my own part, I don't want to be like the fellow who worked for Concern for 22 years. And finally the boss fired him. He said, will you give me a letter of recommendation? He said, certainly. And he wrote him a letter of recommendation as follows. That's whom it may concern. Sam Gordon worked for me for 22 years. And when he left, I was perfectly satisfied. I introduce to you now, at your next master's ceremony, one of the greatest of theater, television, nightclubs, theater proper, any form of entertainment you can think of, you have a star in Henny Youngman. Good afternoon. Let's give Harry Hirschman a nice hand. He's got to leave now, ladies and gentlemen. Harry. Harry, can you go now? A great guy and a nice guy. Ladies and gentlemen, if you see me on television, I know you drink. I've been busy all day. I was supposed to be here a little while ago, but I was up in Milton Burrell's house. We were busy packing money. Oh, he loaded. Burrell's got money left over from the First World War. Please stop there. Look at the kid crying when I mention Burrell's name. He's crying because Burrell isn't here. He's a little tired today, ladies and gentlemen. Burrell's been busy for the last three weeks. One day last week, I went to his home for dinner. They served nothing but money. That's the first time I ever ate lettuce with a picture of a Texaco station on it. Mr. Burrell is now living at the Manufacturer's Trust Company building. You want to visit him after 3 o'clock, you got to go in for a shoot. He's got so much money, he hides it over the rug. I think he's anxious. Who's this guy? He got mixed up here. He don't know what this is all about. He's just out for a walk. From the city center, ladies and gentlemen, a great singing star. Miss Virginia McWatters. Let's receive her. Come on, let's give these people a nice handful. I could do for you the arrangement of color to her waltzes of Johann Strauss. But one of them that was��� is mother or her waltzes of green Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.