Johnson, Democrat, 244,642. Kahn, American Labor, 65,196. Robinson, American Labor, 61,546. Haskell, American Labor Party, 62,656. And Gordon, also American Labor Party, 58,725. And here's a bulletin, an official bulletin just handed to us from Brooklyn in the election for district attorney. 1,150 out of 1,244 election districts heard from. Giving Bayes Republican, Independent City, and City Fusion 121,189 votes. O'Dwyer Democrat, 335,600. And Solomon, American Labor Party, 87,074. In the election for Supreme Court in the first district, 1,740 out of 1,812 election districts heard from. Give Nathan Republican, 161,127 votes. DeWitt Republican, 168,007. Matteo Republican, 147,439. Ada Democrat, 398,544. Walter Democrat, 417,308. Benvenger, Democrat, and American Labor, 518,221. And Pankin, American Labor, 114,171. We return you now to General Head. We're back in the municipal building. And here's the first press association summary on the New York situation off our tickers thus far tonight. It indicates that our own summaries have been entirely accurate up to the present. This dispatch comes from the International News Service home office. In New York, PariMutuel betting, victorious in city and state, rolled up a landslide vote in today's election. New York City favored the amendment by about 4 to 1 and upstate by nearly 3 to 1 with more than 90% of the vote in. The Democratic Party in New York City won a smashing victory with almost all of its candidates. All five Democratic candidates for the Supreme Court were out in front. Judge William O'Dwyer, Democratic candidate for District Attorney of Kings County, overwhelmed Judge William R. Bays, his Republican and closest opponent. In that contest, Charles Solomon, the American Labor Party candidate, conceded O'Dwyer's election less than two hours after the returns began coming in. Here's the first really significant return of the evening from San Francisco. Returns from 47 incomplete precincts in Los Angeles County, gave 972 votes in favor of the California ham and eggs measure, and 2,267 votes against it. Another important dispatch from Hyde Park. While Dutchess County Republicans turned in their usual victory, loyal Democrats salvaged some consolation tonight by assembling at President Roosevelt's doorstep to chair the re-election of Elmer Van Wagner as Hyde Park town supervisor. Several hundred town folk up in Hyde Park stood in the doorway, and the driveway rather, while the president spoke informally. Mr. Roosevelt joked with those present about pressure his tenant farmer Moses Smith had put on him to erect a new post office in Hyde Park. In a more serious vein, according to this INS dispatch, the president suggested that federal agricultural agents were paying too high rent in Poughkeepsie, county seat, and could be housed at less expense in the Hyde Park post office. This movement would make Hyde Park the center of county agricultural activities, he said. Still later news, a flash by AP from San Francisco. Returns from 121 precincts in six scattered counties gave 4,539 votes for the California ham and eggs measure and 9,775 against it. The returns included votes from 115 complete and incomplete precincts in Los Angeles counties. Michigan reports via the AP tickers. Here's a dispatch from Detroit's led Mayor Richard W. Redding by a vote of 1,533 to 776 for mayor in the first 10 of the 961 precincts to report in Detroit's municipal election today. We'll be back with more news from inside New York City and outside of it, and in the meantime, we take you now to our standby point in Studio E. gave 36,071 votes against the ham and eggs pension proposal and 18,974 in favor. Here are additional returns from Cleveland. Returns from 4,362 of Ohio's 8,500 precincts gave 217,611 votes for the Bigelow Pensions Amendment and 711,888 against. Once again, news from Cleveland. Harold H. Burton appeared elected tonight to his third consecutive two-year term as Cleveland's mayor. Tabulation of 450 precincts, more than half of the cities, gave Burton 69,650 and John E. O'Donnell, another Republican, 45,836. They were nominated in a non-partisan primary. And now we take you to police headquarters. Back again in police headquarters with the latest official returns from Brooklyn in the election for district attorney, 1,200 out of 1,244 election districts heard from. Bayes, Republican, Independent City and City Fusion, 127,240. O'Dwyer, Democrat, 349,425. And Solomon, American Labor, 91,589. Also in Brooklyn, the election for Register, 1,150 out of 1,244 districts. Parisi, Republican, Independent, 123,211. McGinnis, Democrat, 315,321. Greco, American Labor Party, 76,972. And Sherwood's, City Fusion, 10,515. Back now to general headquarters in the municipal building. We're back here in the municipal building, ladies and gentlemen. A few minutes ago, we read you the telegram from Chief Magistrate Sherman to Judge Goldstein congratulating him. We've just been in touch with the newly elected judge of the Court of General Sessions, and he gives us this special statement for the audience of WNYC. Judge Goldstein says, and I quote, I am deeply grateful to the many voters and workers who made my nomination and election possible. No one owes New York more than I do, and I shall try to show my gratitude by devotion to duty and conscientious service to the people of the city of New York. End of quote. That was a special statement that Judge Goldstein gave to us on the news of his election as a judge of the Court of General Sessions. And now we have a few moments here in which to give you the summary of election returns, election results, as we have received them up until this moment. It appears definite that the Pari Mutual Amendment, Amendment No. 1, has been carried. The results from both Upstate and in New York City indicate that Upstate, the vote was 3-1 in favor, and here in New York City, 4-1 in favor. One of the outstanding results that we received here was from Saratoga Springs, where the sentiment was heavily against the amendment. Judge Irving Lehman was, of course, unopposed and was therefore elected as chief judge of the Court of Appeals. Here in New York and Bronx counties, the first judicial district in the race for justice of the Supreme Court, the following are elected. Louis A. Valenti, a Republican, Democrat, and American Labor. Ernest E. L. Hammer, a Republican, Democrat, and American Labor. Morris Ada, a Democrat. Carol G. Walter, a Democrat. And Felix C. Benvenger, a Democrat, and American Labor. In Kings, Queens, and Richmond counties, the second judicial district, in the vote for justice of the Supreme Court, Francis D. McGarry, Democrat, Joseph Fennelly, Democrat, and City Fusion. William R. Wilson, Democrat, and City Fusion. And Frankie Johnson, Democrat, all appear to be elected. In New York County, in the race for justice of the city court, Frank H. Carlin, who ran on the Republican and Democratic tickets, was elected against Isidore Lazarus of the American Labor Party. In the vote for judge of the Court of General Sessions, John A. Mullen, who ran on Republican and Democratic labels, was elected, as was Jonah J. Goldstein on the Democratic ticket. For justice of the municipal court, the first district, David Morris, the Republican and Democrat, defeated Harold F. Levin, the American Labor Party. In the second district, for justice of the municipal court, Bernie Amsterdam, the Democrat, appears to have won by defeating John Rosenberg, the Republican, and Alan Goodwin, the American Labor Party. In the third district, George M. Carney, the Democrat, apparently defeated Dorothy Kenyon, the Republican and American Labor Party candidate. In the fifth district, this for justice of the municipal court, Benjamin Schalick, the Republican and Democrat, defeated Walter S. Freed, the American Labor Party candidate. In the eighth district, William E. Slevin, the present Democratic incumbent, defeated Joseph A. Bocci, the Republican American Labor candidate. In Kings County, in the race for justice of the city court, Louis Goldstein, who ran as Republican and Democratic and city fusion candidate and is now an incumbent, was re-elected. Joseph V. Gallagher, the Republican and Democrat, also an incumbent, was also re-elected. At the moment, we don't have any word as to whether or not Murray Hearn, who was a Democrat and city fusion ticket candidate, was re-elected, or was elected, rather. In the race for district attorney, William R. Bays and Charles Solomon were defeated by William O'Dwyer, and in a moment, we expect to have a special statement from Judge O'Dwyer on his election. In the race for sheriff, James V. Mangano, the Democrat, defeated Robert J. Cruz, the Republican, and Joseph Toovan, the American Labor Party. In the race for register, Peter J. McGinnis, the Democrat, defeated Thomas G. Parisi, the Republican, Mildred Greco, the American Labor, and Arthur M. Shorwitz, the city fusion. In the case of Bocce, that is to say, the 8th district, there's one district still not heard from. We conceded the election of William E. Slevin, the Democrat, but that was not complete returns. We go on now to the justice of the municipal court in Kings County, that is to say, in Brooklyn, and at the moment, it seems that Edward A. Wynn, the president incumbent, who ran as Republican and Democrat, was already elected. Those are the only returns we have here at the moment. Of course, from Richmond County, you know, we conceded the election of William J. Dempsey, the Democratic incumbent, against the Republican, Albert L. Howell, and the American Labor Party candidate, Patrick Sullivan, some time ago. Before we sign off, we'd like to go to police headquarters to find out if there's any additional information up there. Come in, please. Speaking to you for the last time this evening, ladies and gentlemen, from police headquarters. Activities have died down here. The final returns are being tabulated. We've given you the results as they've come to us. We hope that we've been of service to you, and we just find out that there are some more returns coming through. We thought we'd given them all to you, but evidently there are some still to be given. The municipal broadcasting system, serving you, the people of the city of New York, sincerely hopes that in the broadcast of these returns this evening, from many points throughout the city, picking up the atmosphere at Times Square, the news from police headquarters, the music, and the very excellent results from our studios and the municipal building, and we might say our little municipal chain within the city itself, we hope that in serving you, the people of the city of New York, we have brought you a clear and distinct picture of the election results as they have come through through the many facilities at our disposal to be of service to you through the medium of the radio. And now I believe there are some... Well, what should we do? Well, and it looks as though the newspaper men have given up the ghost and the tickers and all that have about told us all they can tell us. So from police headquarters, in the name of the staff who worked here, we thank you for your kind cooperation in listening in, and we were indeed very glad to cooperate. And now we return you to General Headquarters. Here we are back in General Headquarters here, ladies and gentlemen. We're waiting for this statement by Judge O'Dwyer, which will be here in just a moment. In the meantime, we ought to tell you that here's a bulletin from San Francisco that returns from 121 precincts in six scattered counties gave 4,539 votes for the California ham and eggs measure and 9,775 against it. The returns included votes from 115 complete and incomplete precincts in Los Angeles County. We're waiting now for this report, we should say this statement, from Judge O'Dwyer. And in the meantime, we have an international news dispatch, we have an international news dispatch, and in the meantime, we have an international news dispatch from Los Angeles, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, Los Angeles. California was voting against the $30 every day ham and eggs pension plan. The great housing project. I would much sooner have Charney Vladek still at my side and have the benefit of his counsel and advice. Thank you. No one has taken the place of Vladek. Perhaps it will be a long time before anyone will be able to take his place. And it's proper and fitting that this great housing unit, one of the finest in the country, should bear his name. I know, for I worked with him, how keenly and arrested and how much he contributed to the cause of housing in this city. In this instance, like in all others, we are going to let action speak in complete reply to the criticism and opposition of the chief politicians who always get in the way of progress. these houses here are not the result of accidents. They didn't come about because of any protest. they are the result of hard work, great deal of planning, preparation, marshaling ability, going ahead and doing our work, while others were doing a lot of talking. As one of the speakers said, talk never built a house. and I have said so many times, you can't move a family into a blueprint. Now, public housing is not a new idea. Not at all. public housing over 30 years ago, about 35 years ago. when, as a member of the United States Consular Service, I first read Jacob Reese's book, How the Other Half Lives. By the time that book was published, it was a subject of discussion. over 30 years. We all knew that it was needed. Everybody wanted it. When they got the pencils out and started to figure, then there was no possible way to do it. The method of building houses wasn't discovered recently. But the big question was, how is it possible to build sanitary, cheerful, safe houses with sufficient air and sunshine, and to rent them money? At a rate, a large number of our people could afford to pay. That was the problem. We had fine homes in this city before, on Riverside Drive. For 30 years, there was talk. Just talk. talk. I'll tell you this. We would never have had public housing in this country if it hadn't been for the vision and the courage of President Franklin D. Roosevelt. a great many, many, many men went into office campaigning. Why, you know my friends of the East Side. You older folks, how many times did they come down and tell you, oh, I love the East Side. Oh, I've been there for that. just a lot of spooze, that's what it was. I said we've been talking about this for years. I remember 1932. You remember Senator Wagner. Senator was in the Senate. Senate, big shot. I was in the House. little small. Senator Wagner fought just as hard in 1932 as he did in 1934, 1935. I had the fight in the House. And what did we get? I'll tell you what we got. We got one phrase in the R.A. C.E. that's all one phrase. that provides further that if in the discretion and if it was economically sound and if it was self-liquidated and if it was found necessary, then they could loan money at four percentages. And the senator and I, we rejoiced big victory. It was a victory in a sense only that we succeeded in writing a housing idea into a federal law. But not a single brick was laid and couldn't be under the limited provision of that deal. and in 1935, with the direct support of a message from the president of the United States, the Congress again took this question. Now, Mark, you, this was a local problem, but not a word had ever been uttered. by anyone in the state of New York, or any other state in the Union, until the president of the United States, in a message to Congress, pointed out that the highest function of government was the preservation of life, and that millions of people in this country were living in indecent and unsanitary and unsafe conditions. With that moral support, Senator Wagner waged the fight in the Senate. And while it is true that the real housing law was not enacted until 1937, nevertheless, the Wagner amendment was adopted in the Progress Work Administration Bill, and it was written there for the first time, and the result of which, you have the great Williamsburg houses in Brooklyn, Harlem, and the Harlem houses up on the west side of Harlem. Not one set of state money in either of these great projects, and the first monuments to public housing in this country. not one sense of state aid, not one bit of state encouragement during all of this time. It's only through the vision, the appropriation of the federal government that the first step was taken in public and subsidized houses, and Williamsburg houses in Brooklyn stands as the living monument to that progressive vision and courage. As Mayor of the City of New York, I have said, I will say, and I will continue to say that the great public housing policy of this country is due to the President of the United States. The 1937 Wagner Act established as a permanent policy the necessity of subsidized housing and provided for a long-distance program. And New York City was quick to be prepared. The reason that we have more houses was in New York City and it is said that New York City gets more than any other city. Well, why shouldn't we? We have a good senator. The reason we got it was simply that we were prepared. when the first money was available in Williamsburg, what did the other cities do? I'll tell you what they did. They wanted houses. Thank you.