Hello friends, this is Gene Lockhart. You know friends, this year, 3 million of our neighbors will benefit directly from the 423 agencies which the Greater New York Fund helps to support. Yes, this is truly New York City's own campaign for its own. Here is your opportunity to see that this fine record of service to your neighbors and their service to you is maintained. Now, when you're asked to contribute, please give your wholehearted support through your employee group at your place of business. Thank you. Hello friends, this is Maurice Evans. I'd like to take a minute to remind you that the Greater New York Fund's annual drive is now in progress. This coming year, over 3 million New Yorkers will benefit directly from the services of the 423 voluntary hospitals, health and social service agencies which the Fund helps to support. When you contribute to the Fund, you help New York to become a healthier, safer and more profitable city in which to live. Here is your opportunity to see that vital services are maintained in the community. Won't you lend a helping hand when you're asked to contribute through your employee group, along with your fellow employees, at your place of business? Remember, the Greater New York Fund is New York City's campaign for its own. So give generously. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. This is Marsha Hunt. You know, one of the things I have learned about New York is the sincere regard which people here have for one another. It seldom shows on the surface, but nevertheless, each year, 3 million New Yorkers have been helped by their neighbors through the Greater New York Fund. Won't you do your part to maintain this fine record of service? Give generously this year. Thank you. Hello. This is Victor Jory. When sickness, crime or juvenile delinquency strike our city, you bear a part of the cost if you work or live in New York. These emergencies are expensive, and they have no respect for boundary lines. The money you contribute towards the goal of the Greater New York Fund is social insurance that New York will continue to be a good city in which to live, work, and do business. One gift at your place of employment will help young and old and benefit every race and faith in our city. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this is Dennis King. As a result of the work performed by the 423 voluntary hospitals, health and social service agencies participating in the Greater New York Fund, New York is a healthier, safer, and more profitable city in which to live and do business. Help keep New York the finest city in the world by giving your generous support to the Greater New York Fund's 1950 campaign. Thank you. Hello, everyone. This is Jack Barry. You know, for a number of years I've been interested in the problems of youngsters and older people, and in finding solutions for their problems. You might say that I have something in common with the Greater New York Fund, as they've been interested in the same problems for over a decade. Every year the fund has helped over 3 million of our neighbors through the 423 agencies which it helps to support. The problems of youth are much the same as the problems of our older folks. Recreation, care, summer camps, clubs, places where old and young alike can get our fuller enjoyment from life. When you contribute to the Greater New York Fund, your supporting agency is dedicated to the gigantic task of helping 3 million of our neighbors during this coming year. The fund helps all, regardless of race or religion. This is New York City's campaign for its own, so won't you please give generously when you're asked to contribute at your place of business. Thank you very much. Our work. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Friends. This was really good.
