To introduce the mayor, here is the president of the State Chamber of Commerce, Robert L. Hamill. Members of the New York Chamber of Commerce and guests, about a year ago, we had the pleasure of hearing Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary, who then had been in elected office less than two months, speak from this rostrum. I recall that in my introductory remarks, I said that he had tackled a tough job with an enthusiasm and independence which had won him the admiration and respect of a large part of the New York citizenry, regardless of party affiliations. In his address, the mayor spoke of his hopes and problems, including traffic, civil defense, hospital, school building, etc. Since then, he and we have come to realize that his and our toughest problem is the city's serious financial situation. In spite of the huge amount of revenue of approximately $1,300,000,000, the city is behind on its current budget by $18 million, according to the mayor's statement to the press on January 3rd. And because of the mounting deficit, the administration is reported ready to ask the state legislature for authority to impose several new so-called nuisance taxes and continue others, including the severely criticized 3% emergency sales levy. The people of New York and the members of this chamber want to know the truth about the city's fiscal situation. And this meeting is being held so that the mayor can lay the facts before us. It is our hope that out of this meeting will come not criticism, but constructive suggestions. It gives us great pleasure to again have the mayor here with us. Mayor Impelle Terry. Mr. Hamill, members of the Chamber of Commerce of the State of New York, my subject matter today is the city's finances, our biggest problem. Let me say to begin with how appropriate it is that you should ask me to speak here on the city's finances at the beginning of a new year in the dignified traditional home of our oldest and most distinguished chamber of commerce, an institution which for so many years has represented the great business interests of the city and state and has so long and honorable a career in civic enterprises. This is an ideal place to discuss the city's finances, not because this magnificent hall with its pictures of New York worthies of other generations and shrines the past, not because you represent the status quo, but for the reason that this membership has the desire, the pride, the perspective, the experience and the vision to apprehend the city's future. If you want a proper picture of our municipal finances, you must first view the city itself in proper perspective and focus. What makes it attractive? What makes it click? What competition from outside it must face to preserve its investments and keep its preeminence? This is no second-rate town. From the earliest times, we have caught up with, grown beyond and led other cities. Why have we become the greatest melting pot in the world? Why have we become the seat of world government? Why have we long since become the home of finance, the nerve center of trade, transportation, commerce and management? Why have the lively arts flourished here as nowhere else in this country? Why have we been able to do it? You know the answers. It is not only because of favorable natural location. It is because we have had leadership. Because we have been hospitable, not only to the immigrant from abroad, but also to talent from every sort from the vast hinterland which is our America. In the United States. When thoughtless people, I do not care how influential or highly placed, talk wildly about municipal bankruptcy, because we have financial problems such as every one of you is experiencing in his own business and private affairs. They are selling this city down the Hudson and East Rivers into the Atlantic Ocean, building up our rivals, minimizing our extraordinary attractions, following the nest that they live and work in, running down their neighbors, and for no cause that makes the slightest sense. Criticism like boasting and boosting can become a habit. Because we have so many self-constituted critics, we have never made claims for our city that we could not support. The accomplishments of this city surpassed those achieved by any other community. The New Yorker takes performance for granted, but the visitor is impressed with our genuine successful democratic municipality, what we make and build, and the way we live. For instance, only on Saturday, as I rode with Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Foreign Secretary Anthony Eden, they both marveled that we could ride along the Belth Parkway without encountering a traffic light for miles. Churchill kept murmuring, marvelous, marvelous. And then as we approached Floyd Bennett Field, he observed the Marine Parkway Bridge connecting Brooklyn with the Rockaway Peninsula and said, your highways are marvelous, but your bridges always amaze me. I thought to myself, it's a good thing we weren't traveling through our busy and congested garment district at that hour. The city government is the framework within which all of this activity takes place. And it cannot and must not be the framework of an abandoned, obsolescent, decaying community. New York is a powerhouse, not a museum. This is a nervous period of crises. This is a nervous period of crises, real, exaggerated, and imaginary in the global, national, state, and even municipal fields. It is an age of emotional jitters and irritability. Very little is presumed to be right, normal, or reason for optimism. The number of leaders who can keep their eyes on sound objectives, their feet on the ground, their brains clear and temper steady, and keep civil tongues in their heads, seems to be relatively small. There has been altogether too much hysteria, name-calling, mud-throwing, and confusion about our public affairs. And most of all, in relation to the city's planning, budgetary, and financial problems. The man who seeks to destroy the city's credit betrays the city and its people. You in this audience must know, must know in your own hearts, that the city administration which I represent is not a conspiracy against public interest. We are responsible elected public officials, who with a basically fine civil service personnel, seek to meet extraordinary problems of which very few are of our own making. Most of our fundamental difficulties, you must acknowledge, involve worldwide economic pressures for which we do not have the remotest responsibility, and over which we can exercise no control. We are the victims of our times. If we are behind in construction, if costs have gone far up, if materials are scarce or lacking, if our employees are caught in the inflationary spiral of higher and higher living costs, if everything we buy, just as you buy, is more or less prohibitively expensive, you must know, from your own personal and business experience, that precisely the same thing is happening to you. As to municipal government, the standards you set, the demands you make, the services you require in regard as satisfactory, grow higher and higher. The average citizen and taxpayer, the man down the line, the families of smaller income, the old people, all of these have become the beneficiaries of our social progress, and properly insist upon their share of the good things of life. That is American democracy, as we should and shall practice it, and not a man in this room would raise his voice against it. Now, some of you will say, of course, we are for wider and better municipal services, and we have increasing concern for those of moderate and small income. But let's retrench, save, cut out waste, and live for a while on our fat. Let's find the funds for building and operating by economies and retrenchment. Those are fine sentiments, gentlemen, but are they realistic? Let us take up the subject of economies first. Before I discuss on that subject, may I point out that the services we give to this community are, in my opinion, necessary and vital to the health and safety of our people. Your present administration is proceeding on the basis that you and other responsible citizens of our community demand and insist upon a continuance of the present services rendered by your city. The savings we can make have been and will continue to be made. Perhaps there are some savings I have missed. That is a human failure. But believe me, I am scraping the bottom of the barrel to save not the 18 millions, Mr. Hamill. It's now 17 millions needed to balance the current expense budget. All the savings we can possibly make are not even a patch on our shortages. And these shortages can be met only by additional revenues derived in part from additional state aid or from the least burdensome taxes we can agree upon. Have we economized? Let us look at the record. Starting in 1948, the city established a management program in the Bureau of the Budget, working with management units in the major city departments for the very purpose of improving efficiency and management of city operations and effecting economies. During that time, 70 surveys have been completed and adopted, which conservatively estimated will ultimately result in savings and revenues exceeding $20 million. It should be made clear that most management improvements do not result necessarily in budget reductions, but are reflected in improved services and operations, which make for better and expanded necessary services without additional cost to the taxpayer. Let me give you a few illustrations of some of these economies. Let me give you a few illustrations. There were about 100 policemen assigned to the traffic courts doing clerical work involving traffic violations. As a result of a study, there was installed a mechanized procedure for the handling of these violations, which accomplished a threefold purpose. First, it released these 100 policemen for regular police duty. Second, it tightened control over traffic summonses with an increase in revenues from this source. And third, in place of the policemen, there were substituted lower-salaried civil service clerical employees to handle this mechanized procedure. This resulted in reducing personnel costs by approximately $350,000. Following another survey made by the city, only one policeman instead of two was assigned to patrol areas, to patrol cars rather, in many areas of this city, thus releasing more than 300 policemen for a single-state essential foot patrol at a saving of $1,200,000. Starting in 1948, in order to safeguard the health of the people, we improved garbage collections in many sections and in some newly developed areas. Daily collections were being made at that time in only 30% of the city area. But by the purchase of new, modern, improved equipment, and by the installation of better methods and techniques, we were able to provide daily collections in 60% of the city area with virtually no increase in manpower. This saving alone amounted to $3.5 million per year. Electrification of the Department of Water Supply pumping stations resulted in the elimination of over $300,000 worth of positions from the budget. These examples are only part of the $20 million saving, which does not include economies or revenues resulting from, one, many completed studies which are still under discussion before final adoption, two, departmental reorganizations which cannot be evaluated in dollars, but which return dividends in improved operations, and three, hundreds of improvements made by department management units within their own departments. Do these accomplishments indicate that the city is doing nothing about economy? About economy? As a matter of fact, Dr. Luther Gulick, who is executive director of the committee making the independent management survey of the city, has stated publicly that there is no city in this country which has so extensive a management improvement program as New York. This is in direct contradiction to the reckless charges of those who say the city is failing to root out waste or improve management. Yet, this is not the whole story of economies being made by the city. Right now, the city is faced with the need to save about $17 million to balance the current expense budget. This is the result of increased costs of food and medical supplies in hospitals where more than 20,000 patients are fed and cared for daily and in other vital city activities. Adjustments of salaries for teachers, which were recently made by the Board of Estimates, following, in essence, the recommendations of the Meyer Committee, which were approved by the Board of Education. Increased pension costs for policemen and firemen who retired in abnormal numbers as a result of recently enacted retirement bills. Increased rates to voluntary hospitals to $11 per patient day for medical care. Increased salaries for nurse technicians. These and other skyrocketing costs have brought about the need to save this large amount of money. This we are doing by not filling vacancies except in critical cases, by deferring scheduled filling of positions, and by other measures. This policy, I am frank to tell you, is working extreme hardships in departments where undermining already exists. I, for one, deplore the necessity of having to resort to this type of false economy. I do not approve trying to operate vital city departments without the necessary manpower. However, in view of rising costs, unfortunately, I have no other choice. There has been much discussion about the Gullick Committee, composed of business, civic and labor leaders, and public officials, which was established by the city in 1950 to make a study of city departments. Isn't that an indication that the city is interested in economical management? The city, mind you, pays for the expenses of the committee and for the management experts it hires. This management committee hires many experts to make departmental surveys and reports. When these management specialists complete their jobs, they report to a subcommittee, which in turn reports to the full committee. The full committee then reports and recommends to the mayor. Now, contrary to the general conception, only, I repeat that word, only, three of these reports have cleared the full committee and have reached the mayor's desk. And even these are not complete reports on departments. Two are on certain phases of the fire department. And the third covers the executive staff of the Board of Education. All three have been approved by me and have been sent to my Board of Management Improvement with directions to put them into effect. The four counties out of the entrepreneurial actions to put благ. And here is, for today, one of the most important ceaseless candidates forζed upon our student. I recommend that 10-year students report to the families worked by the суд sought aذهhando visa and based spending. And whether they wereезд Chrysler or the original decision- Happy suppose 25-day 사진. Theốn number 11-year students that they put together with a correct scripture iPads on the according to a' asked what the following is on realisation of the government, the ideas of the building, which are currently making the initial taxes on announced. Why are they預ive that all things like to teach a thorough lesson, but least they're willing to fund funding découvrir for some of the Should Assets and Reisierung? thousand dollars in next year's expense budget. Gentlemen, this is not my estimate, but is the estimate of the GULIC committee. It is significant and somewhat ironic to note that a real estate management specialist employed by the Board of Education in line with the GULIC committee recommendation has already reported to the Board of Education that an additional 70 million dollars will be required within the next seven years to put our older schools in proper condition, 10 million dollars a year for the next seven years. Again, contrary to public conception, the mayor has not received a much publicized Haig Shoup report on the city's finances. As a matter of fact, this report has not even been passed upon by the subcommittee. The expert's report on the Department of Hospitals is still being considered by the full committee. The subcommittee on water supply, headed by Bernard Gimble, rejected the report of the experts, which recommended the drawing of water from the polluted Hudson instead of from the protected uplands of the Delaware. This controversial matter is now being considered by the full committee. All improvements and savings, as they prove real and workable after full public discussion, will be adopted. But I should be fooling you if I did not point out that Dr. GULIC himself has indicated that the sum total of all possible savings is a small fraction of what we need to balance next year's budget. Moreover, even this fraction cannot be realized to meet the 1952-53 budget in July. This financial dilemma is not unique to the city of New York. Governor Dewey last week, following lengthy conferences with state administration and legislative leaders, stated very definitely that there is no hope for a tax reduction in the 1952-53 state budget, and also emphasize that it would be a miracle if the present tax structure is maintained in view of rising costs. I would like to read a statement by Bernard M. Baruch, our respected and elder statesman, published in yesterday's Herald Tribune. Quote, Bernard M. Baruch said yesterday, he had advised Mayor Impeletary that no mayor or governor could in any circumstances balance his budget, because the ink is no sooner dry on the taxpayer's check than costs go up. The problem of inflation is a national problem that can only be solved in Washington. And until this is done, Mayor Impeletary or any other mayor has no control over his finances. I told him Impeletary what I had told Mayor O'Dwyer and what I have written Governor Dewey and Governor Alfred E. Driscoll, that they cannot balance their budgets because it is a federal problem. Do you realize that more than 30% of our budget is mandatory, including debt service, pensions, certain court costs, and other items we cannot control? In general, 90% of the remaining part is required for the operation of only eight major activities, such as education, recreation, medical care, social welfare, police, fire, sanitation, and water supply. It is in these very areas that we have the greatest pressure for increases to meet the needs and demands of a growing population. The balance within which savings can be theoretically made is very small. Now let me get down to brass tacks. We have a current budget of about $1,336,000,000. It looks as if we will need about $200,000,000 more in the fiscal year 1952-1953. This estimate is supported by the report of Hague and Shoup, as well as by the city construction coordinator, Robert Moses. What are the increased requirements for? A major part, about $57,000,000, is to permit the city to increase the wages of our employees, who, because of the tremendous increase in the cost of living, cannot possibly bring up their families decently on what they are getting, and for the extension of the 40-hour week to the balance of our city employees, some of whom are working as many as 48 hours a week. The 40-hour week is well established in government and private industry and should no longer be postponed. $40,000,000,000 are required for mandatory pension contributions, at least $16,000,000,000 for education, $14,000,000,000 for hospitals and charitable institutions, $34,000,000,000 for transit deficits, and $12,000,000,000 for short-term debt service. Last year, we had a $22,000,000 cash carryover, which, by law, we had to apply to this year's budget. The Comptroller advises that this year there will be no cash carryover. Therefore, this $22,000,000,000 will have to be raised by taxation. We cannot effect huge savings by abolishing exempt jobs. The talk of longer hours and reduction of personnel as sources of huge savings is unrealistic. As repeatedly stated, the total number of all exempt positions controlled by the Board of Estimates, including heads of departments, deputies, secretaries, etc., is 532. The aggregate of all their salaries is $3,888,000. This represents about one-half of one percent of the total city payroll. Even if we did away with executives and ran our army with sergeants and corporals, which is too fantastic to contemplate, the savings involved would not make a dent in our problem. The overwhelming majority, 99.3 percent of our employees, must meet civil service requirements. On December 21st, the newspapers carried a statement by one Walter Hoving that since 1946, we have added 24,000 employees to the payroll and that we should get rid of the drones, hangers-on, and loafers who attach themselves like parasites to the city payroll. The fact is, gentlemen, that Mr. Hoving is wrong as usual. We have added nearly 30,000 employees, not 24,000, and they are not drones, hangers-on, and loafers, but honest, decent, respectable civil servants, and here is how most of them are employed. 9,170 are employed in schools and colleges, 8,852 in the hospital department, 3,681 in the police department, 2,405 in the welfare department, 1,705 in the health department, and 1,019 in the fire department. That accounts for almost a total of 30,000. Prior to January 1 of 1946, when I became a member of the Board of Estimates, we were engaged in fighting a global war. The aim of America, and of every American city, was to win that war. For that reason, in pursuance of our government's national policy, no materials were available to any municipalities for the construction of schools, hospitals, health centers, playgrounds, highways, housing developments, and many other vital city necessities. That went on for a period of six long years. During the same period of time, practically every city department was reduced to the bone in personnel as many, many city employees went into the armed forces and many left city employees to go into better paying defense work. At the end of the war, which coincided approximately with the beginning of my participation in the government of the city of New York, we of necessity had to embark on a large program of trying to catch up on deferred building of schools, hospitals, housing, highways, and other essential public works and improvements, and to man the sadly depleted personnel of virtually every city department. Do you gentlemen really think that we could run this city with fewer police, firemen, teachers, sanitation and park workers, professional and technical aides, doctors, nurses, and welfare workers? Actually, we are deplorably understaffed in many departments. Do you think we are going back to the 60-hour work week or return to the 48-hour work week for those now working less? You can't staff 50 new schools that we have built in that period containing 50,000 new seats, reduce the size of classes, and expand the school program without hiring more teachers and spending more money. The 8,852 hospital employees were required for the institution of a 40-hour week for nursing personnel. They had it in the state and they had it in the federal government, and you couldn't keep them in city employment unless they got the same. A 40-hour week for nursing personnel was also to provide an additional 1,300,000 patient days of care and nursing and for the treatment of an additional 800,000 clinic visits for the opening of new hospitals providing about 3,500 more beds for a new home care program for 1,800 patients, for expansion of tuberculosis, psychiatric, and x-ray services, for opening of cancer detection clinics, mental hygiene clinics, premature nurseries, and a host of other vital activities. These are the drones that Mr. Hoving spoke about. This is the same Mr. Hoving who last year recklessly reported to the governor that our estimate of the income the city would receive from the sales tax was far too low. The actual collections amounted to $146,700,000. Mr. Hoving told the governor that the city would collect $162,000,000. The controller's estimate was $145,600,000. The city, as you can see, underestimated the sales tax by only $1,000,000. That is pretty good estimating compared to Mr. Hoving's calculated overestimate of more than $15,000,000. I wonder if this same degree of accuracy mocks his own business activities. Willful, misleading statements, malicious half-fruits and innuendos, the nasty unfair characterization of school teachers, doctors, clerks, laborers, firemen and policemen as drones by a department store executive who takes their money for his merchandise while putting them in the class with loafers and clubhouse bums are sad commentary on this businessman's intellectual integrity. He has a very simple method of passing on increased costs by merely upping the price on his price tag. However, the city, in order to meet these increased costs, has only one door open and that is to announce publicly that we must have additional revenue. One of the irritating things we public officials have to expect and to take in our stride is the prominent citizen with well-rounded interests who demands that we ease the burden of the private hospital, charity or museum or other good cause of which he is a trustee by making a larger city contribution and in the same breath denounces us for not making deep cuts with a hatchet in the annual expense budget. These people seem to see no inconsistency in these conflicting positions. They complain of rising costs of living but assume that the city is not subject to the same forces. I agree with the need for more assistance to museums and voluntary hospitals. In the six years I have been a member of the Board of Estimate, the price per day paid by the city for indigent patients and voluntary hospitals has increased from $3.25 to $11 and it is still inadequate. it still doesn't pay the bill. In the same six years the city has increased its annual contributions to charitable institutions from $13,600,000 to $38 million. We cannot provide further assistance without increasing our budget. I was visited recently by a group of distinguished businessmen who asked me to support a celebration of the 300th anniversary of the founding of this municipality. If, as is inevitable, this is going to involve some public appropriations as well as privately subscribed funds, will the same group which sponsored the plan denounce us if we spend more than $50 on it. Then there, then of course, there is the fellow who wants his assessments reduced and the other fellows raised whose land is undervalued for taxes. May I go back for a minute? Whose land, rather, is overvalued for taxes but undervalued if the city takes it in condemnation. That has been our experience repeatedly. When we take it in condemnation, we pay 50 to 60 percent over the assessed valuation, but when it's questioned for tax purposes, very frequently it's brought down. Now, how shall we fill the gap of almost $200 million in our expense budget? We do not have easy access, as do the federal government and the state, to the profits of big business, which expands and flourishes in the framework the city provides. Inflation, peculiarly enough, returns more taxes to the state and federal government, yet results in higher costs of city operations. What agency collects most of the taxes? The United States government, of course. If a businessman does well here, who gets most of the profits tax? Uncle Sam. And yet, we are called on locally to furnish the unending and expanding service to make this success possible. We are hemmed in, confined and limited by the state constitution, by the city charter, and by laws made at Albany which give us little freedom even to make unpopular decisions. I can give you a list of possible new sources of revenue. Admittedly, all require some sacrifice somewhere in the common interest. Some are more distasteful than others. Most of them require help in Albany, either through greater state aid or at least by enabling tax legislation. Every man in this room agrees that our entire unscientific, top-heavy tax system should be revamped, federal, state, and local and that the federal government should take less. But does anyone here honestly think that this will happen in time for me to meet a budget this July? Meanwhile, we must get along. The state must do more for us and it must give us a choice of adequate new revenues. I believe we must continue to count on the real estate tax as our basic tax and that by constitutional amendment the limit should be raised from 2% to 3%, which would be still less than is permitted in many other cities and municipal subdivisions. Many cities in New York State now have a 4% limit and some have as high as a 6% limit and they do not have to provide nearly the services for their people that we do. Pending the adoption of this amendment, which could not be made effective until at the earliest, January 1, 1954, we must have increases in revenue from other sources. I'm no different than any other American. I hate taxes too. But are we going but on the other hand, we are going to need an additional $200 million to run this city next year. We have got to get that money. It must come from the people who live in the community and receive the benefits of municipal services. It's all right for the people to sit down and cop and criticize and play the part of grandstand experts in the field of complex municipal administration but in the long run, it's the mayor who must carry the ball and take the plaudits or the brickbats. I've got the responsibility. I've got to see to it that the bills are paid. Now, here are some of the taxes that have been suggested for the consideration of the Board of Estimates. Personally, I don't like any of them. Some of them I positively abhor. but everyone must be discussed by the Board of Estimates before we agree on our tax program. I want to emphasize that these are proposals which have come to me from various sources, including financial experts, civic groups, and others. The following suggested items involve state aid. The state to assume the cost of operation of our municipal colleges at a saving to the city of $14 million. Increased reimbursement for tubercular patients, $5 million. Reimbursement for the cost of certain welfare department services which are now paid entirely by the city, $21,500,000. The following suggested items are other possible sources of revenue. Increasing fees for certain city services, $6 million. Automobile use tax, $6 million. Liquor license tax, $3,500,000. Vending machine tax, $500,000. Admissions tax, $12 million. Beer tax, $7 million. Parking meters, $2,500,000. Overnight parking, $12,500,000. Hotel tax increase, $5 million. Restoration of Perry mutual tax, $3,600,000. Tax on security sales, $30 million. Tax on reality sales, $25 million. Check tax, $8 million. Cigarette tax, $8 million. Gasoline tax, $15 million. Increased financial business tax, $6 million. Increased gross receipts tax, $60 million. Increased tax on utility bills, $28 million. Out of this list, and from any other new suggestions, will come the administration's program, program which I will present at Albany to meet our next budget. You will note that I have not included any proposal to increase the subway fare. This I have done deliberately, because I am against it. The present operating transit deficit is included in the needs for additional revenue, which I have heretofore outlined. An increase in the subway fare at this time falls heaviest on those least able to pay. I am satisfied that other sources, less burdensome, will enable us to obtain the additional revenues we require. Under present procedure, we must go to Albany year after year for renewal of the right to impose taxes, so that annually we shall argue among ourselves and incur the odium of re-imposition. One example of this is the sales tax. I, for one, see not the slightest chance of abandoning it or of substituting it for anything else. We need additional revenues, not substitutes for the sales tax. Opponents of the increase in the sales tax last year predicted that its passage would raise havoc with retail business. This just did not happen. In a review of data prepared by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York showing the index of average daily sales of department stores for the period from May 1 to October 31 for the years 1950 and 1951, we find an actual advance of half a point in New York City. This advance achieves real significance by comparison with the situation for the entire United States which reflects a drop of six points in department store sales for the same period. This was for the first six months in which the one cent additional sales tax was in effect. I doubt whether any other mayor in the history of the city has appeared before this body owing less to politics than I. I was elected by independent citizens and my only allegiance is to the people of this city. Nevertheless, I am only one of eight members of the board of estimate which governs this city. I can enunciate a program but I must have the whole hearted support of my elected associates to carry it out. The city charter provides for a government of checks and balances and determines the rules by which the mayor must abide. Gentlemen, you've just listened patiently to a few of our problems, yours and mine. they are not simple. I cannot hope to solve them without your counsel and encouragement. With your cooperation and your advice, we can maintain our leadership among the great cities of the world. Thank you very much. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Aram-Pelletere, has just spoken on the subject the city's finances, our biggest problem. The address was delivered to the New York State Chamber of Commerce. We return you now to our studios. Ask a question, please step to the microphone, give his name for the record, and then ask the question in as simple, direct, and short a form as possible. The meeting is open for questions. Yes. Mr. Mayor, don't you think if you sit over there, perhaps you can. If you sit right there, you'll see somebody sitting there. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Chairman, my name is Donald Chafee. I have a question. One method of evaluating or comparing governmental costs is in terms of per capita costs. Recently, I saw a figure which indicated that the city of Buffalo has about $90 per capita cost for operating its government. And the city of New York is reported to be somewhere around $160 per capita. I was wondering how we would explain the wide difference between these two. That, of course, Mr. Chafee is not a fair question. You're asking me to compare statistics, which I haven't had a chance to examine. I was submitted a list of questions by the State Chamber of Commerce, which I was told would be roughly the type of question that I would be asked. Certainly, I haven't had any time to even consider your question. I wouldn't have any time to look into those statistics and in view of those circumstances. I cannot answer that question at this time. Thank you. Next question. Yes, Mr. Reagan. Harold Riegelman. Mr. Mayor, I think everybody is completely in sympathy with your statement that there is no sounder credit among municipalities in the United States than that of New York City. What we are curious to know the answer to is this. What is the largest fraction of the $200 million that you're going to need next year over and above what we now have? The largest fraction that you estimate can be reflected in economies in our current operations. 5%, 10%, 25%. You know very well, Mr. Riegelman, in my judgment it cannot be reflected in percentages. You know very well that that's exactly the problem that the Citizens Budget Commission, which is a member of the Gulick Survey Committee, is now struggling with. I've already announced in my main speech that Dr. Gulick himself has said that in the coming year that it would be impossible to affect any economies at all in his judgment which would affect next year's expense budget. Is that your conclusion? That's the conclusion that the city's management expert has given me. And my frank opinion is that in this coming budget this gap cannot be filled by these economies. We're proceeding with economies as I have pointed out. We're proceeding right now with saving $17 million worth of economies. We will put those economies into effect and we will save that $17 million. And that's the ceiling. The $17 million is the ceiling. I don't say that that's the ceiling. I hope that we can affect more. I'd like to affect more. That's my ambition. Whatever suggestions come to me concerning economies I will be glad to receive and if at all humanly possible I will see to it that they're put into effect. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Next question. Yes, Mr. Brunage. Percival Brunage. Mr. Mayor, you recommended some increase in state aid. In your opinion, isn't it likely that that would result in more taxes being paid by New York City residents than the city would get back in more state aid? That's a very fair question. I don't think so at all. Now, let me give you a couple of the items that I meant when I referred to state aid. One of the items is the care of tubercular patients. The state many years ago admitted that it was a proper function of the state to help the city of New York reimburse, that is, to reimburse the city for the care of tubercular cases. Now, there was a, a figure worked out many years ago when prices were normal and when it cost the city $5 to take care of a tubercular patient. Now, the state at that time agreed on a policy of 50% reimbursement. At that time, of course, the state contributed $2.5 per day. Now, in order to take care of that same tubercular patient, it conservatively cost the city of New York approximately $11, $12, as high as $14 a day, but we still get $2.5 a day from the state. And I say that, fairly considered, the city is entitled to that reimbursement by the state. That's one of our state aid items. Another one, to give you another illustration, if a man on relief in the city of New York becomes ill, he has a right to receive medical care. And if on relief, while on relief, receives medical care at his home, we have an arrangement with the state. The state reimburses the city to the extent of 80% for all welfare expenditures. measures. Now, if that same man gets so sick that he has to leave his home and go into the hospital, now, frankly, our bill goes away up. It's more expensive for us to take care of him in the hospital. But the minute that man on relief goes into the hospital, if he gets that sick that he has to go to the hospital, the minute he goes in, the state says nothing doing. He's no longer a welfare case. You don't get a nickel from us. The city pays 100% of the bill. We say that we still should continue to get that 80% reimbursement. Another one of the items that has been suggested is that the state take over the operation of the municipal colleges. They do it upstate. They should do it here in the city of New York. And we say that if they did that, the city would save another $14 million. Those are the items, some of the items, not all of the items, that we figure that the state should give to the city of New York. And if so, of course, the more state aid we would receive on items that we believe, honestly believe, we should get that would obviate the necessity for taxation so much for that amount. Yes. Mr. Mayor, my name is Matthew Ely. I'm speaking on behalf of some real estate owners in New York City. You suggest the necessity of changing the legal basis of our taxes from 2% to 3%, recognizing, of course, that in two years you'll be able to materially increase all our taxes. You point out very correctly that most industries, particularly our merchants, can pass on to the public the increased costs. And, of course, you recognize that real estate is frozen. We are caught between two stones. We pay now our high taxes. We pay tremendous increased costs in operation, heat, janitor service, labor, wages, everything going into the operation of our buildings, and yet our rents are frozen. Do I understand that if you advocate change in our constitutional limitation, that you're likewise going to advocate the removal of rent control, both for residents as well as commercial properties? That's a very tough question, Mr. Ely. You see, if you look over the statistics, you'll find that real estate here in the city of New York today is paying much less proportionately and bearing its proper share of the tax load than it did many years ago, and that that slack has been taken up by all of these other taxes that the public don't like at all. We feel that real estate must necessarily be the basic tax. I only said three percent. The experts employed by this Gullick committee said that the basic rate should go up to three and a half percent. I certainly can't quarrel with it when you figure the services that we give the people here in the city of New York and you will admit that our services far exceed the services given in many of these other communities upstate. They have the power to tax real estate in some cases as high as four percent, in some cases as high as six percent. real estate is afflicted by the same rising costs that we have. We have only one way to meet it. You have problems, so do we. My name is Henry D. Valentine. I would like to know whether you favor an increase in the rates of the general business and financial tax. Is that the gross receipts tax that you refer to? The one that there's been some newspaper comment about going up from one fifth of one percent to two fifths of one percent? As I told you, and I purposely avoided stating my personal opinion on a number of these matters, these are all of the things that I mentioned were suggestions that have come in to me, to other members of the Board of Estimate. Some of them made by civic organizations, some made by financial experts. These are all, in the sum total, taxes that have been suggested. Now, I personally haven't any pride of opinion. A great number of these are not of my authorship. Every one of these has to be discussed in full by the entire Board of Estimate, composed of eight members, the Mayor, the Comptroller, the President of the Council, and the five elected Borough Presidents. All of these will have to be discussed pro and con by the entire Board. And until the Board sits down and discusses every one of these taxes, including the tax that you're interested in, the City's program will not be presented to Albany. I have no doubt at all that in the discussions before the Board, before the Board arrives at any conclusions. Some of these will be discarded, some of them will be acted upon favorably, which ones at this time I'm not prepared to say. My name is Stone with the Bohack Company. We have 161 stores in the City of New York and 78 in Nassau and Suffolk Counties. So it's obvious that we pay different taxes in different parts of the island. Mr. Mayor, you mentioned the higher cost of food in the hospitals and other city institutions. I don't think it's generally realized that the gross receipts tax is a heavy tax on food. The sales tax omits food, and I'm wondering whether that has been brought to the attention or whether it is proper for us to write on the subject that this tax which pyramids may be one of the reasons for the higher cost of food. It has to be passed on as an expense. There's just one other point. The storage of transit in transit on the way is it proper to bring to the attention of some group here the point that New York City is losing storage on account of the fact that we cannot store in transit without paying the 3% sales tax? I don't take that as a question. I'm sorry. Yes, Mr. Dowling. Robert Dowling. Mr. Mayor, isn't it a fact that the cities you mentioned upstate as having tax rates of 4, 5, and possibly 6% tax limitations are customarily assessing their real estate at 30, 40, and 50% of the true values whereas our assessors in New York City attempt to assess the properties at current values. I can't answer how they assess property upstate, Mr. Dowling. All I pointed out is that they have the power to tax real estate that much. When you ask me about property here in the city of New York, I can tell you very frankly what our experience has been, and when I made that reference to property being overvalued for tax purposes, I meant exactly what I said very, very frequently. As you know, our assessments are reviewable in the courts and certiorary proceedings, and very, very frequently assessments which we think are fair and proper are cut down in certiorary proceedings. And I can tell you also on the same plane that when we go in to condemn, our average costs have been 50 to 60 percent in condemnation over assessed valuations. I think that we try to assess property equitably. That's my judgment on it. I believe that the city does, Mr. Mayor. We really ought to confine these questions to one, Mr. All right. Thank you very much. I promised the mayor that we won't take much of his time. Yes. Albert Pleydell, the Citizens Union. A little while back, Mr. Mayor, we looked into some of your problems on budgeting and came to the conclusion that part of the cost, or in other words, a source of economy would be a change from the line-item budget with very centralized control to a more decentralized performance type of budget, which would give the heads of departments more to say about how the money was spent. We're wondering how you feel about that type of budget procedure. Mr. Pleydell, that's something that has been considered for a long period of time, as you know, and at this time, certainly, I'm not going to venture an opinion upon it for this reason. That's one of the very problems that the Gullick Committee is studying. The Citizens Union has membership on that committee. The Citizens Budget Commission is a member of that committee, and that's been, that very subject that you bring up is being studied and surveyed by the Gullick Committee, and certainly, it wouldn't be proper for me in advance of their report and recommendation to state my judgment on it today. Yes, Mr. Grimm. Mr. Mayor, and Peter Grimm, Mr. Dowling doesn't need anybody to speak for him, but I'd like to give the answer to the point you made, Mr. Mayor, that he didn't have opportunity to give you. It's true that when property is condemned, you usually get a little bit more than assessed valuation, but that simply means that a forcible taking has been made in the common public interest. It also means that people have been uprooted against their wills, business dislodged, profits lost. The courts taking all those things into consideration naturally attempts to be fair and, if possible, generous, and usually the amount is above the assessed valuation. Mr. Grimm, this is a question. It's all right. You have a question. It's all right. I think this is appropriate. And when it comes to the other side, when a property comes up for regarding... I really think we should... I promised the mayor this would be confined to questions and not arguments. I'm sorry. Next question. Any further questions? Mr. Mayor, my name is A.D. Stearns. I believe in your review of the items, the amount of money required to bridge the gap between your prospect of revenues and your expenses, you cited a figure of $200 million. Of that amount, $34 million was assignable to transit operations. Does that figure include purely your rapid transit facilities, or does it contemplate the probable absorption of various rapid... that is, streetcar lines and bus lines and things of that nature? It just applies to the transit deficit, not to the absorption of any new lines. I see. And really, the rapid transit facilities. Thank you. And the bus facilities, too. Thank you very much. Are there any other questions? Because our time is running short here. Yes. David L. Saunders. You mentioned in your speech the necessity of, of course, a post-war catching up on construction. The thought that strikes me in relation to that is how far are you caught up? In other ways, that should level off at some point, or even go back if we've been catching up. Very, very happy that you brought up that question. We've made a big dent in it, a very big dent, but we still have not caught up. See, there were six years, six long years when there wasn't a hole dug in the ground. There wasn't one school built. There wasn't a hospital built. None of them were rehabilitated. There wasn't any new housing of any kind. one. Normally, in this city, we build, just to give you an example, ten new schools a year, so that coming into January 1 of 1946, when I became a member of the Board of Estimate, we were already 60 schools behind, as of that time. And in addition, so that, multiply that 60 and add to it, ten schools required every year. And it'll give you an idea of how far back we were. Now, we have, in that six-year period, made a big dent in the school program. We've actually put under construction a total of 98 schools. 50 of them are already occupied. Others are in different stages of construction. construction. But we have every school actually under construction that was in the program. But if you would only sit with me at a capital budget hearing, you've asked me how far we've gone. I say we've gone a long way in schools, hospitals, transit rehabilitation, housing, but no matter how far you go, if you could only sit with me at a public hearing on the capital budget, the people of the city of New York would tell you that we still haven't gone far enough, and I would be inclined to agree with them, although we've made tremendous progress, and are still making progress. I hope that answers your question. Yes. Mr. Mayor, there have been reports published recently that the city lacks an effective personnel policy, and as a consequence of that, there's inefficiency, and economies probably could be affected if such a policy were adopted. Now, do you believe that criticism is justified, or do you propose any steps to improve the personnel arrangements of the city? Unfortunately, your question comes exactly within the same category as the one that Mr. Pleidel asked me about. That's one of the very studies that's being made by the Gula Committee on Management Survey. That's one of the problems that has been presented to them. They're conducting a very exhaustive survey of that very problem, and until they come in with their report, I'm not prepared to give an opinion on it. If there are no further questions, the meeting is adjourned. Thank you.