We'll now join in singing the national anthem, and you will find words on your program. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Look at the North Carol nihiloombus, here. I usually have my services, the memorial services, in November, and I would very much like him to be here. And although his program is very crowded today, he kept his promise, and he's here in Seoul before we begin with our services, because he has to leave. It is a great privilege and an honor to welcome to this pulpit the great mayor of New York City, the Honorable William O'Brien, affectionately known to us as Bill O'Brien. A while. Thank you. And the members of the force from the other religious groups who are here, I knew that would happen the day that I appointed Bill O'Brien for the police commissioner. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I want to rise to the defense of Rabbi Frank, whom we all love, to point out that he got the bill all right, and he got the O all right, and he got the apostrophe all right, so he didn't make much of a mistake after all, did he? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of our beloved department, in this temple this afternoon, there are the spirits of those whom we have come here to watch. And with them is the God who gave them life and who took it away. No matter what they had done or failed to do, we would like to believe that God forgave them and took them to himself because of the chalice that he offered to them, that they accepted in the name of duty. We would like to think that in this room they have a message for you and for me, if they could impart it to us. That is, that when it's all over, there is a major objective to be obtained. And let us, selfishness and greed, and the thousand things that make us weak in the presence of temptation, are as nothing at all compared to the privilege of being with him when our day on earth is ending. And they would also tell us that man to man, person to person, how beautifully this ceremony indicates to the world a common purpose, one that we share, no matter what the race, religion, we come from, no matter what our color. The interdependence that we have, one on the other. You men know, as I know, the three wraps of the stick in the dead of night for help, the side partner who runs the other way is not a cop. In his heart, he's not a cop. He may eat its food, he may draw his pay, but you know he's not a policeman. You know that somewhere on high, there's a judge who doesn't miss it who knows that he's not a cop. But the one who runs to help his side partner is willing to share that danger where there's a unity of purpose, where no one asks race, religion, or color, or makes that distinction. You know that in that split second when the real cop reacts to the danger of his side partner, there you have the godlike message of the courageous and the brave and the generous and the hearty ones that are heaven's blessing to this earth. in their name, may God bless every one of them and every one of you. and the fines of Thank you. I consider it a distinct privilege and an honor to be allowed to stand at this pulpit and participate in the memorial services, the police department dead, the Shamrock Society. A few weeks ago we walked down Fifth Avenue and participated in the memorial services for our Protestant brethren. Last Sunday we marched down Fifth Avenue again and went to St. Patrick's Cathedral and participated in the memorial services for the Catholic members of the police department. Whether it is that the police live under the microscopic eye of a critical public, or whether it is the hazard of their occupation, or whether it is that as police they learn to evaluate life and death, the fact remains that our department is a religious group of men and women. They are God-fearing family men and women who are devoted to their church. And the public of this city might well be proud if they could, each and every one, witness these three great memorial services and the communion breakfasts and the other services in the department that illustrate and demonstrate so well how the members of our department feel religiously. During the current year, we only lost one man in the performance of duty. I say only one man. The loss of one man killed in the performance of duty is quite a price to pay. But we have had years where we lost 12 and 14 men in one year. But there are other members of the department who didn't die as spectacularly as our man. Men who died with lingering diseases. Men who died suddenly with heart trouble. Men who died with her son in the process of duty. But I'm sure that each and every one of them could give a good account of their stewardship. Because the life of a policeman is a life that brings him close to God. He's working for others and working for the interest and the welfare of other people. And that we are proud of. The chaplain in his address a few minutes ago wondered what prompted men to be policemen. But whatever prompts them to be policemen, they're not long in the department when they learn that their calling is a very holy one. It's one that's so important to this great city and so important to the nation. And in concluding my few remarks here today, I'd like everyone in the department in honoring their dead and praying for their dead, to pledge themselves to carry on the great work of the police department and not to let them down. Particularly those who died in the performance of their duty. They carried out the great traditions of the police department and they can rightly so expect us to carry on those great traditions. And let us all here and now pledge ourselves to do just that. Carry out the work that has been carried out by the men down through the legions of the department through the years that they served and have passed on to a greater reward. Let us pledge to them that we'll carry on these great traditions and ever be known, not only as a great police department, but as holy men trying to do the best we can in this troubled world.