New York State voters, may we have your attention for a very few minutes. This is not a political broadcast. The people of the city of New York are making an appeal to their fellow citizens of New York State. You can help us win a 20-year-old fight for transit unification by voting yes on Amendment No. 9. We present Philip A. Benson, President of the Dime Savings Bank of Brooklyn and Vice President of the American Bankers Association, Mr. Benson. Amendment No. 9, upon which you will be asked to vote on Election Day, reads as follows. Shall the proposed amendment, submitted by the Constitutional Convention, excluding from the debt limit of the city of New York $315 million for unification of transit facilities, be approved? Perhaps those of you who do not live in or near New York City are not familiar with its transit problem or the reasons why you should vote in favor of Amendment No. 3. Number 9, debt limitations are valuable safeguards. And only under unusual circumstances or to meet emergencies should there be power to issue bonds outside legal limitations. I believe that the transit situation in New York City presents one of these unusual situations. If the purpose of it were to put the city of New York in the railroad business, you should not vote for the amendment. But that is not the case. The city of New York is very decidedly and substantially in the business of transportation at the present time. In fact, New York City has been in the railroad business for over a generation. It began construction of its first subway in 1900. And in order to keep pace with public needs, has had to build more and more subway lines until its investment now is in three subway systems. That is, the so-called independent system, the inter-borough, the Brooklyn-Mannatton transit, is in excess of $1 billion. The city does not own the inter-borough and the BMD. It does own the independent system. The privately owned system, systems should be acquired by the city and can be acquired at the present time at an exceedingly moderate cost. For the city to acquire all of these systems, to operate them as one unified system, is in the interest. Not only of the millions of people who use the subways, but it is in the interest of the taxpayers of the city. Only by the operation of these subways as a unified system and by the reduction of interest charges can the city receive a return on its vast investment in subways. What is now an annual outgo on the part of the city can be made an annual income. The financial advantage to the city has been estimated at a figure as high as $10 million per annum. The amendment is in no way a political measure. It is non-partisan. All of the major political parties favor it. Those of you who live in New York or who visit New York are familiar with its unsightly elevated structures. Removal of these structures is an urgent public demand. It is likely that within a reasonable time the 6th Avenue L will be removed. All of these structures should ultimately be removed. The acquisition of the transit system of the city, which will be possible if Amendment No. 9 is enacted, will greatly facilitate the removal of these old elevated structures. Removal of them will not only add to the attractiveness of the city, but will benefit property owners and increase value. A thorough study of the problem, which is so important to the city of New York, leads to but one conclusion. That is, unification is most desirable, and that it cannot be accomplished unless Amendment No. 9 is adopted. The amendment in no way affects the debt of the state of New York or any part of it except New York City. Nor will it add to your tax burden in the slightest. As a citizen of the greater city, I urge you as earnestly as I can to vote yes for Amendment No. 9. Thank you, Mr. Benson. Voters of the state of New York, please bear in mind, your approval of Amendment No. 9 does not mean a cent of expense out of your pocket, but it does mean a vital and long-sought benefit for all citizens of New York. Please, vote yes on Amendment No. 9. New York State voters, may we have your attention for a very few minutes. This is not a political broadcast. The people of the city of New York are making an appeal to their fellow citizens of New York State. You can help us win a 20-year-old fight for transit unification by voting yes on Amendment No. 9. We present the Honorable Raymond V. Ingersoll, President of the Borough of Brooklyn in New York City, who will explain and clarify the purposes of this amendment. Mr. Ingersoll. I am glad to know that the organized taxpayers of the state of New York through their federation and the hundreds of civic and business organizations throughout the great city of New York are doing everything within their power to explain the benefits and the importance of the approval of Amendment No. 9 to the state constitution to be voted on by the people of the state on election day. Ever since I moved down to Brooklyn from Stuben County about 40 years ago, the financing, building, and management of rapid transit lines has been one of our great city problems. Subways were needed to connect boroughs separated by rivers to make possible the development of outlying residence areas and to relieve congestion on the crowded streets of a fast-growing city. They were needed also to accommodate thousands and hundreds of thousands of people coming in every day from out of town. There was a great era of construction, and although two of the great transit systems are privately operated, by far the greater part of the money invested has been furnished by the city. The actual present investment of the city in the three rapid transit lines is well over a billion dollars, one of the three lines being already in complete city ownership. The two private leases were well enough planned, but changes in conditions during and after the World War left the city's end of the bargain in an unsatisfactory condition and put a heavy financial burden on the city under which it has been struggling for many years. We have here a complex problem which has defied many attempts at solution, but at last there is an opportunity to clear it up along sound and constructive lines. The private operating companies are now in the mood to sell their part of the investments to the city at a reasonable figure, and this comes at a time when city bonds can be marketed at low interest rates. These low interest rates will give a great advantage in refinancing the present underlying mortgage indebtedness, upon which the interest rates are much higher. The city administration and the state transit commission have had various disagreements, but both are now united in support of amendment number nine for transit unification, the last on the list of constitutional amendments to be voted upon next Tuesday. Every political party in New York City favors this amendment, as do practically all our newspapers, and it is strongly supported by most of our leading citizens interested in public affairs. The amendment is purely permissive and will allow New York City to issue its own bonds up to $315 million without there being a charge against the city's debt limit. It may be well to repeat that the city already has an investment in rapid transit lines of almost four times that amount. Unification of the three transit lines will bring important overhead and operating economies, greater convenience to the public, and the opportunity to get rid of some of the ugly elevated structures which closely parallel underground lines. It is hoped that voters throughout the state will make it possible for New York City to solve a great local problem in a way beneficial to itself and to the great state of which it is a part by voting yes on amendment number nine for transit unification, the last amendment on the ballot. Thank you, Mr. Ingersoll. Voters of New York State, please bear in mind your approval of amendment number nine does not mean a cent of expense out of your pocket, but it does mean a vital and long-sought benefit for all citizens of New York. Please vote yes on amendment number nine. New York State voters, may we have your attention for a very few minutes. This is not a political broadcast. The people of the city of New York are making an appeal to their fellow citizens of New York State. You can help us win a 20-year-old fight for transit unification by voting yes on amendment number nine. We present Herbert L. Carver, Chairman of the Real Estate Taxpayers Federation of New York State, which represents hundreds of thousands of home, farm, and other taxpayers in New York State. Mr. Carpenter. A vote of yes on the proposed constitutional amendment number nine by the people of the state of New York is almost vital to the future progress and stability of the city of New York and will prove a substantial economy to all taxpayers both in our city and throughout the state. Amendment number nine permits the city of New York to exempt $315 million from its debt limit for unification of its transit facilities. The workers and homeowners and farm owners and all owners of real estate should understand that this $315 million is not required and will not be used for new construction of transit facilities. But it is needed to put the financial structure of our great rapid transit system on a more economical basis and to save the taxpayers and the city the large sums now being diverted by the privately owned railroad companies which should go directly into the city treasury. The taxpayers of the city of New York have invested over $1,150,000,000 in the rapid transit lines owned by the city but partly operated by the private transit companies under old and detrimental contracts made back in 1913. The approval of amendment number nine will mean that $24,000,000 a year now received in transit fares which goes to financing the privately owned transit security will under unification of our transit lines go into the city treasury. The annual cost to financing the new $315,000,000 permitted under amendment number nine will cost the city probably less than $14,000,000 a year and this will represent an approximate saving of $10,000,000 a year for the city treasury which will go a long way towards improving the rapid transit service with better labor conditions on the transit lines and in addition relieve rather than increase the taxpayers burdens from rapid transit. The approval of amendment number nine will also make possible without costly litigation the removal of the 50-year-old dilapidated elevated railroad structures in Brooklyn and Manhattan which are holding back hundreds of millions of dollars in improvements. These improvements will employ thousands of men and increase the taxable values and income of the city of New York and also its accessible values which will benefit both the homeowners and taxpayers of the city as well as throughout the state. The city of New York now owns 75% of its rapid transit facilities and the private interests own less than 25% and yet with this small minority our state transit commission is unable to compel proper service and with two out of three of these private companies in receivership a real emergency exists which involves the safety and health and convenience of the 5,500,000 passengers who use our transit lines every day. Every political platform and party and all of the officials of the city of New York are in favor of and urge the approval of amendment number nine. And if the people of the state realize the critical emergency in which this amendment will relieve and that its approval by the people will give the city of New York a new lease of life towards prosperity and progress the vote will be almost unanimously yes. We have been waiting for this opportunity for 15 years and it may never come again. And I sincerely and earnestly appeal to all of the voters of this great state to vote yes on amendment number nine with a feeling that it will help millions of people hurt no one and will provide the means of taking part of the terrible load off the little taxpayer of both the city and the state. Thank you, Mr. Carpenter. Voters of the state of New York please bear in mind your approval of amendment number nine does not mean a cent of expense out of your pocket but it does mean a vital and long-sought benefit for all citizens of New York state. Please, vote yes on amendment number nine.