Elmer Davis and his weekly war review. The Office of War Information presents its director, Elmer Davis, in the fourth of a series of weekly reports to the American people at home and to America's fighting forces overseas. Each week, Mr. Davis will summarize the progress of the war on the fighting fronts and will discuss home front problems closely related with the purpose of the war. Elmer Davis and his weekly review of the war. Mr. Davis. This was a week of good news from Tunisia, though not so decisively good as some optimists seem to think. When the British Eighth Army broke through the Marath line, you could hear some people talking as if the African campaign was as good as over. And a few enthusiasts even began making bets about when the war was going to end. Well, it's a little early to be investing your money that way. Even the African campaign is going to take time and hard fighting before Rummel is finished off. There was a story that the Germans were collecting all the shipping they could lay their hands on in Mediterranean ports to evacuate Rummel and Fennarnum and their armies from Tunisia. But this tale, which turned up in Spain and then in Switzerland, sounds very much like something set afloat by the Nazis themselves, trying to create just such overconfidence on our side as in some quarters it did create. For if the Germans were getting ready to get out of Africa, they would hardly be trying to get so many more men and so much more material into Africa. They're still sending reinforcements in by transport planes in considerable numbers. They aren't having so much luck sending in guns and tanks and supplies by ship for British submarines and American and British planes are knocking out a good many of those ships as they crossed the Straits from Sicily. And the other day, the great raid of flying fortresses on the Sardinian port of Cagliari knocked out more ships that were probably intended for that supply route. The enemy's losing a good deal of what he tries to send into Tunisia, but he's still sending in and not pulling out. What last week's British victory means is that Rommel was turned out of probably the strongest defensive position in Tunisia. He was turned out and pushed up along the coast, and wherever he makes his next stand, it won't be as well fortified as the Marath line. But he got out and away with most of his men and apparently with most of his material. He has a wonderful instinct for knowing just how long he can afford to hold a position and when it is time to cut loose and streak back to his next stopping place. Maybe the American forces farther north will be able to strike in behind him and cut off his retreat, but they seem to be meeting with pretty tough opposition. Rommel isn't cornered yet. No doubt he will be, and no doubt eventually he will either be thrown out of Africa or wiped out, but that won't be done easily or cheaply. Now, with those reservations, we can say that things in Tunisia are going reasonably well. General Montgomery's troops are veterans of desert war. Our soldiers had to learn it the hard way, but after their defeat in February, they learned fast and came back to recover all the ground they had lost and more. Officers returned from Tunisia say that not only our men, but our material shows up well. Our M4 tank is said to be about the best in action. The Germans had a bigger one, but it was slow and clumsy and made a good-sized target. Our planes are good, too. Notably, of course, the Flying Fortress. There's the P-40, which didn't do so well in some of the Pacific actions last year, but has always been a success in desert fighting, both in Egypt and in Tunisia, too. But not all the machines we send over are fighting machines. We sent great numbers of trucks for African roads, and there are American locomotives driven by American engineers on the North African railroads. Transportation, of course, has been the biggest problem of this campaign from the beginning. Shipment of supplies, food and ammunition, and gasoline from the ports of Algeria and Morocco up to our troops at the front. The trucks and locomotives we sent over helped to solve that transportation problem, but became part of another transportation problem. For, of course, those trucks and locomotives had to be sent from the United States to Africa, just like the goods they carried after they got there and the fuel that kept them going. Tanks, trucks, guns, locomotives, soldiers, gasoline, food, ammunition, all had to be shipped across the ocean in the face of the hazard of the submarine. A tremendous amount of material has been sent to Africa, and the losses on that route have been very light relative to what got through. But the risk was there, and the men who got the stuff across the Atlantic are part of the North African campaign, too. We call it an inter-allied campaign, British, Americans, Frenchmen who follow Giro, Frenchmen who follow De Gaulle, but it couldn't succeed without men of a dozen other nationalities. Norwegians, Dutch, Greeks, Latin Americans, men of the service that gets less publicity than the others, but runs just as much risk, and hasn't the satisfaction of actively fighting back, the merchant seamen of the United Nations. Without them, we couldn't win a global war. The front on which those seamen work is never a quiet one. It's worse at some seasons than at others, but this march just ended was a very bad month for submarine sinking. Details must be withheld, because the enemy would like to know them. It wasn't as bad as a number of months in last year, but it was bad enough. However, with all the ships that were sunk, an enormous number of ships carrying an immense volume of supplies got safely through to their destinations. German prisoners taken in Tunisia were amazed when they saw the tremendous amount of material belonging to the American army. They said their home radio had told them that all that had been sunk. Some things the president said at his press conference last Tuesday suggest that in the conduct of American foreign relations, a rather different method is being employed from that used during the last war. Mr. Anthony Eden has been in Washington, and the president said that the conversations in which he is engaged were exploratory, to see how people feel on this topic or that, rather than to try for any final decisions. Mr. Eden has been talking not only to Americans, but to Russians, Chinese, and some representatives of Latin America. So he goes home with a pretty fair cross-section of United Nations opinions. There will continue to be conversations like this with representatives of other nations to create, as the president said, an atmosphere of understanding before we get down to any precise agreements. There were, of course, plenty of conversations with representatives of our allies in 1917 and 18, but there didn't seem to be any excessive degree of harmony when we got to the peace conference. This time, we appear to be doing better, for the president added last Tuesday that so far in all the talks we have had with other members of the United Nations, we are about 95% together, and that every session reduces the 5% a little farther. Now, it may be a question how far this sort of easy concurrence and generalities would get us when we came down to practical details of international cooperation. But then come the formal meetings, such as the food conference, to which 39 nations have been invited at the end of April, the monetary conference, which the Treasury is going to call a little later, and so on. And this aspect of national policy reflects the fact that a good part of the world, the United Nations, our side in this war, is already a more or less effective international organization, with no constitution, of course, no supreme power, but nations simply cooperating in certain matters because cooperation serves the interest of all, because it makes sense. Just as nations used to cooperate in international postal conferences and health conferences before there was any sort of regular international organization. Both these messages seem to mean that what we propose to do now in the way of cooperation with other nations is what works, what succeeds in accomplishing things that are practically necessary now. This may be a good deal more modest than other schemes of international cooperation, but it has the advantage of serving an immediate practical need and it looks as if it might wear better. Today, the President vetoed the bankhead bill, which proposed to exclude government benefits paid to farmers from the computation of the farm parity prices. Mr. Roosevelt declared that such a law would break down the barricades erected against inflation and would give to producers an unwarranted bonus at the expense of the customer. Well, of course, we're all, both producers and consumers. A bonus to any class of producers means that the other producers will have to pay more for what they buy as consumers. So they will want to get more for what they sell as producers. If farm prices go up, food prices go up. When food costs more, labor will want higher wages. Those higher wages will go into the increased cost of what the farmer has to buy. Then the farmer will have to have still higher prices, and so on, and so on, and so on. Now, nobody wants that. But when prices go up, most people want their own incomes to go up to equal them. Last year, the War Labor Board laid down the principle, the so-called Little Steel formula, on which it proposed to consider wage increases. From the beginning of 1941 to May 1942, said the Labor Board, the cost of living had gone up 15%. Wage increases would be permitted to take up that extra cost of living, but no more. Well, that would have been fine if the cost of living had gone no higher. But it edged up, and a couple of weeks ago, the chairman of the Labor Board said that if there were a radical change in the cost of living, that would have to be taken into account in fixing wages. And he added that this bankhead bill, which the president vetoed today, would mean a radical change. Mr. John L. Lewis has been asking for an extra $2 a day for his coal miners. Considerably more than the 15% the Labor Board is ready to recognize. But Mr. Lewis says the cost of living has gone way up. He says in the coal district, some merchants pay no attention to ceiling prices on what miners' wives have to buy, so wages have to go up to catch up with the prices. Other people have thought that maybe the answer would be not to raise mine wages, which would boost prices to other consumers, but to see that the prices the miner has to pay for food are brought down to what the OPA regulations require. That argument is still unsettled. But yesterday, a group of other labor leaders, AFL, CIO, Railroad Brotherhoods, but not including Mr. Lewis, saw the president, what they wanted was not a wage increase, but the rolling back of retail food prices to where they were last September and keeping them there. Now that's a landmark, not a demand for higher wages, which would mean higher prices to other consumers, so that your money would be worth less than this, less, not that, but a call for a reduction in the cost of living, so that what money everybody got would be worth more. Now no individual and no class of people wants to fall too far behind in this question of wages and prices. Everybody wants to keep up his relative position if he can. But the president's message vetoing the bankhead bill declared, and I quote, the time has come when all of us, farmers, workers, managers, and investors, must realize that we cannot improve our living standards in a period of total war. On the contrary, we must all cut our standards of living for the duration. If we do, none of us need want for the real necessities of life. We can all have enough if we don't try to get too much. And the president went on, we are only beginning to feel the cruel effects of total war. Men happy with their families must give up good and well-paid jobs to become soldiers for $600 a year with only modest allowances for their dependent wives and children. We who remain in civilian life to produce the food and supplies for them and an irreducible minimum for ourselves must not quarrel among ourselves in a vain effort to better or even to hold our position at the expense of the other fellow. End quote from the president's message. That would probably sound like sense in the salt marshes of Tunisia or the mangrove swamps of New Guinea. Maybe it will sound like sense to a good many people here at home. You have just heard Elmer Davis, director of the Office of War Information in his weekly War Review. In these weekly reports to the American people at home and to America's fighting forces overseas, Mr. Davis summarizes the progress of the war on the fighting fronts and discusses home front problems closely related with the progress of the war. Elmer Davis and his weekly War Review will be heard again at this same time next week.