Mayor, will you please come to the rostrum? I'll stand up. Mr. President, members of the council, for the third time since we took office together in 1946, I have presented to you and to the city a printed report of the condition of the city, financial condition, and matters of interest not only to the council but to everybody concerned. You will notice that we have followed this custom consistently during the three years, while it has been here to four the custom for the mayor to speak informally from cards, notes, and the other. I have felt that these reports to the council should have the authority of printed documents, should be available to schools and libraries, as well as to members of the council for reference. Give them an opportunity to check on the facts and the figures. You never could tell someone in the council might want to check up on this report. It's more important, however, that in these days, as we have gone along in the post-war period, that you and the council and the people generally would understand what our problems are, and would be told clearly what is being done to solve them. I must say at the outset, ladies and gentlemen, that in these three years, we've had on all sides a lot of work to do. You have had a lot of work to do, and so have I. I'm reminded that for this administration, this is the last time I shall be reporting to you, the last time that you'll have to listen to the report. This administration is coming to an end this year. No one can foretell either human life or political fortunes, and today is not a day for prophecy. But I want to congratulate this council for the work that it has done for the three years, the cooperation that I have received from you, that should be and is a part of the record. I shall read to you now a formal statement, a copy of which has been placed on your desks, together with the printed report. I'm reading this for the purpose of informing those who are listening in, or who may be listening in at a later broadcast. I have come before you again to submit a report on the finances, government and affairs of the city, in accordance with the provisions of section 5 of the charter. The report has been prepared in great detail. I commend it to you for careful study. Since I addressed you at the outset of this administration in January of 1946, one of the greatest price rises in the history of the country has taken place. This has enormously increased the difficulties of running the city. However, in spite of the obstacles created by inflationary conditions, much has been done to expand the city's services to its people, and to replenish and rehabilitate its physical plant, and to increase the salaries of city employees. At this point, I will touch upon the highlights only. Since January 1st, 1946, the city administration has allocated $102 million for the construction of 53 new schools. It has provided $212 million for subway rehabilitation, new cars, new buses, power plant modernization, and platform extensions. Since the beginning of 1946, the city has constructed almost 18,000 public housing units and has placed 21,000 additional units under construction. Plans have been made for the construction of almost 16,000 more. During the past year alone, the city, on its own account, has provided $266 million for public housing. If the 80th Congress had enacted adequate federal housing legislation, the city's housing program and problem might well be on the way to solution. I have great hopes that the present Congress will adopt a realistic forward-looking program, providing aid and encouragement to both public and private housing construction. Our capital budgets for 1946 to 1949, and the capital program for 1949 to 1954, require the expenditure of $199 million for additional hospital construction and rehabilitation. for additional hospital construction and rehabilitation. A good deal has been accounted for. I will read that paragraph again. I will read that paragraph again. Our capital budgets for 1946 to 1949, and the capital program for 1949 to 1954, require the expenditure of $199 million for additional hospital construction and rehabilitation. A good deal has been accomplished, but far more must be done to provide the people of the city with the kind of facilities and services to which they are entitled. Whatever has been accomplished has been done through a careful allocation and management of resources. Great discrimination has been exercised in this respect so as to ensure completion of the most essential projects in their proper order. Vast additional sums will be needed for transit rehabilitation, a 2nd Avenue truck line subway, hospitals, schools, sewage treatment plants, highways, parks and parkways, and for the expansion of vital services. All this cannot be done at once. It must be done gradually. Because of the limits of the city's resources, we have great difficulty in providing sufficient capital funds to meet all of the city's needs. In 1948-49 expense budget, it was $395 million more than the budget of 1945-46. This reflects an increase of 52 and a third in three years. A percentage of 52 one-third. $187.1 million for salaries and wages, and $21.5 million for increased pension contributions. Totaling $208.6 million is 53% of the total increase. The city has gone as far as it can prudently go in providing required services and facilities. When we look forward, in order to lay plans for the vast expenditures within the city's requirements, which the city's requirements necessitate, we find ourselves checkmated and blocked at every turn by a combination of unrealistic legal restrictions and unsound fiscal practices on the part of the state. I have dealt before with the archaic legal restrictions which bind the city. I would like to say a few words about one of the unsound fiscal practices of the state administration, which has a very adverse effect upon the city's affairs. While the city has been struggling with its complex fiscal problems, the state administration, instead of aiding the city, has been adding to its burdens to the burdens of the people. Over the past six years, the state administration, by levying taxes beyond the amount necessary for the ordinary operations of government, has funneled almost $584 million into a so-called post-war reconstruction fund, and now proposes to impose additional taxes amounting to $72 million to further augment this fund, which it is now suggested be called the Capital Construction Fund. The convenient label, Post-War Construction Fund, has apparently become obsolete. In setting aside and using for capital improvements tax revenues ordinarily collected and used for current operating expenses, the state has been grossly overtaxing the people. Financing capital improvements by overtaxing on a current basis is unsound and unrealistic. A community which refuses to borrow may be condemned to slow, insufficient development, as would be a private enterprise which followed such erroneous fiscal practices. If we accept the notion that it is sound fiscal policy to use excessive current tax collections to pay for long-term capital improvements, then a public utility would be amply justified in demanding higher rates in order to finance vast capital improvements out of current income. You can well picture how utility rates would soar if such practice were sanctioned. Can you imagine the State Public Service Commission permitting public utilities to overcharge for this purpose, the way the state has been overtaxing the people? Yet that is precisely what the state has been doing. The normal and accepted method of financing capital projects is through the issuance of bonds, which are amortized over a period of years, bearing a relation to the term of the useful life of such projects. such a method properly spreads the burden of the cost among all the taxpayers who will benefit from the project, and avoids imposing the entire cost upon a single group of taxpayers in a single year or a few years. The State Administration has departed from this sound fiscal practice and has been levying excessive taxes for the purpose of financing capital improvements. The State Administration admits that by this device it has, quote, endeavored to turn the tables of usual governmental fiscal policy, end of quote. This the State now seeks to justify by using the catch phrase, pay as you go. The late Governor Smith aptly described the limitations of pay as you go many years ago when he said, quote, Well, now, Judge, I would be the last man in this world that would deny that at times a good, catchy phrase is pretty catchy. There are so many people who do not take the time and trouble to study the details of all that question. And if you can grab a good little catch phrase, it is good. Now, there has been invented a little catch phrase, pay as you go. And it is fine. But the great trouble, Judge, is that we do not pay and we do not go. End of quote. In its actual operations, the State's so-called pay as you go policy has had even worse effects than Governor Smith described. It is not the case of not paying and not going with us. We are paying, but we do not go. The State estimates we will have paid by March 31st, 1949, 238.7 million of this fund for capital improvements. It has nominally appropriated another 341.9 million. I refer to these appropriations as nominal because the State reappropriates the same items year after year, but takes no steps to begin actual work on the projects proposed. Not satisfied with having funneled $584 million of current tax revenues into a fund for capital improvements, the State Administration has now decided that it will add $72 million more to this fund from current taxes. This year, and threatens to add a like amount from year to year hereafter to be raised from current taxes. This is pay as you go, run riot. While this huge fund was being built up, the cost of local government increased. But New York City and other municipalities of the State, whose people have been overtaxed to create the so-called post-war reconstruction fund, are told that the State Administration will not permit this fund to be used for local purposes. In order to meet the increasing expenses of local government, municipalities have been compelled to levy additional special taxes in a desperate effort to meet increased costs. The only thing the State does about this deplorable situation is grant municipalities the power to levy still more taxes to burden the taxpayers, already overburdened by State taxes. The full impact of the oppressive and unnecessary financial load, thrust upon the people by the State's policy with respect to the post-war reconstruction fund, is now revealed. The State Administration announces that it will perpetuate its policy of using current tax revenues for capital projects. This year, the additional and increasing state taxes will be $199,685,000. We have thus this anomalous situation. The people paid more state taxes than were necessary from 1943 to 1948. Huge excess revenues have been accumulated and are available for use. Nevertheless, the State Administration asserts that additional state taxes will be imposed in 1949. During the period while the State has been building up its enormous reserve of excess tax collections, the localities have been compelled to increase existing local taxes and to impose new special taxes on the very citizens who are being overtaxed by the State. Yet, during all this time, the State Administration turned a deaf ear to the plea of the local governments for effective measures to relieve their fiscal problems. Municipalities throughout the State will have to continue the present high level of local taxation and may even be forced to impose additional special taxes to meet their rising operating expenses. Unless the State's unsound fiscal practices are discontinued, local communities throughout the State will be driven into financial chaos. If the municipalities of this State are to exist and grow in a post-war era of unusual inflationary costs, the so-called post-war reconstruction fund should be discontinued and its monies applied to the purposes for which they were originally raised, namely, current operating expenses, including aid to local governments. At the very least, existing services should be used to prevent an increase in state taxes, at a time when it appears that substantial increases in federal taxes will be necessitated by the National Defense Program and the other federal needs. I do not believe that the people of this city should be taxed any more in 1949 than there were in 1948, either by the State or the city. Proper management of state finances and inequitable allocation of state funds to the city would make tax increases unnecessary and at the same time provide funds necessary to give the people the kind of services they are entitled to. The entire pattern of state-city fiscal relationship must be revised on a fair and more equitable basis. You and I and my colleagues on the Board of Estimate have worked well together these past three years. Aided by the able and loyal officers and employees of the city, we shall go on in our task of making the city a better and a happier place in which to live. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, may I express to you my personal thanks for your help during the three years. And while it is several months too early to say goodbye, if that's going to be the word, I do hope that the best interests of this city will be always served, no matter who takes our places. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Mayor William O'Dwyer. Thank you very much.