Hello again, this is Jerome Karf, bringing you another weekly edition of Your Pocketbook, a weekly presentation of the Office of Price Stabilization. As most of you already know, Your Pocketbook is designed to bring you up to date on the national fight against inflation. Here in the studio with me tonight is James G. Lyons, OPS Regional Director for New York and New Jersey. Well, Jerry, the story grows every week. The country's fight against inflation is gaining every day. The big story last week was prices and the so-called beef shortage. Right you are, Jim. But let's take these items of last week and add to them the price news of the future. By that you undoubtedly mean community pricing. Exactly. A system of OPS posted dollars and cents ceiling prices on foods similar to the system used by OPA during World War II, tailored to the needs and costs of each community. Well, we've made a point of emphasizing that price regulations issued to date have been interim regulations. We've said over and over again that these regulations have been designed to achieve stability of prices and that once prices are stable, the current regulations would be replaced by regulations which call for specific dollars and cents ceilings on most consumer goods. Well, how close are we to community pricing at this time, Jim? Closer than a lot of people think, Jerry. Our office is currently surveying the various OPS districts in this region with an eye to setting community prices on a number of market basket food items within the next 30 to 60 days. You seem pretty enthusiastic about community pricing. Can you tell our listeners about some of its advantages? Our experience during World War II shows that community pricing has several advantages over other price control systems. In the first place, they help the consumer by ensuring that he can always clearly see the ceiling price on the item he buys and cannot be overcharged without knowing that he is being overcharged. And in the second place, community pricing is an aid to enforcement since both the consumer and the OPS enforcement agents can tell at a glance if the retailer is observing the law. You said a moment ago that market basket items would be the first to be tagged with community prices. Can you give us an idea of which specific items will be tagged? Of course. Almost everyone knows that beef prices have been pegged on a dollar and cents basis. And these ceiling prices were posted this week in kosher butcher shops and will be posted one week from next Monday in all other retail butcher shops. The community ceilings on food, which should be established, will most likely cover a goodly number of dry groceries and canned goods items. Now let's see. Isn't there another posting of ceiling prices due this week? Oh yes. You mean the retail services ceiling prices. By June the 15th, retail services of barbers, laundries, cleaners, electricians, plumbers, cobblers, and a host of other services will have to post dollars and cents ceiling prices. Well now let's backtrack a minute, Jim, and talk about something that has been very prominently in the news over the past several weeks. You said a moment ago that ceiling prices would be posted by Monday, June 23rd. Don't say another word, Jerry. I know just what you're leading up to. Well, Jim, everybody is talking about beef. And Mr. DeSalle has said that the success or failure of the price control program depends on the final outcome of the beef controversy. What are your thoughts on beef and the ceiling prices for beef? Well, my wife tells me, Jerry, that I've been taken to talking about beef in my sleep. OPS established ceiling prices on beef because beef is a basic item in the family budget. OPS can't expect to hold other prices down if the basic prices are allowed to climb. At the time we issued the beef regulations, cattlemen were getting more than 150% of parity. And parity means nothing more than a fair price for a farmer's product compared to the costs of other goods and services he has to buy. The OPS beef regulations call for an eventual rollback of beef prices at the consumer level of 10 cents per pound. To roll back consumer prices, we had to roll back the cattlemen's prices to the slaughterers. But even with this rollback, cattlemen will still be getting about 130% of parity for their cattle. And that still means they will be getting 30% more than the Department of Agriculture established as a fair price. Well, Jim, do you think these beef orders will stand? I certainly do. OPS is a governmental agency that has been established for the good of the entire nation and not for the benefit of a selfish minority. Beef ceiling prices at retail will be posted a week from Monday, that is on June the 25th. On August the 1st, these prices should drop 4 to 5 cents a pound to the consumer. And on October the 1st, they should drop another 4 to 5 cents a pound at the retail counter. We intend to stand firm on an order that we issued in the interest of keeping the American economy sound. But the cattlemen and slaughterers are predicting all sorts of chaotic results if the beef orders stand. Do you think that they will prolong the beef shortage? And if they do, what will be the long-range result? Well, Jerry, they might be able to withhold the marketing of beef for a short time. Cattlemen can't afford to continue to feed cattle already primed for the market. According to late reports, cattle growers are already being forced to move their fat cattle to market. But any selfish cattleman may very well demand, may well kill demand for the value of his golden calves. American housewives are a very ingenious group. If they can't have steak, they'll find substitutes for steak, such as fish and fowl. And the substitutes might make the first team. The New York Herald Tribune made a point in an editorial one day last week when they said that there wasn't much difference between no beef at all and beef that is allowed to be priced so high that no one can buy it. I trust the integrity of the American homemaker to stand solidly behind us in this crisis. Jim, I agree wholeheartedly with what you say. And to reinforce what you say, I'd like to take a minute to quote a statement which Mr. DeSalle made before Congress last week. Mr. DeSalle said, and I quote, we would like to make it perfectly clear that the alternative to price control is soaring beef prices. Increased production will not keep prices down. This can be demonstrated factually and with official figures. First, from June 1950 to April 1951, there was a substantial increase in cattle production. Prices of beef cattle during that period rose 25%. Production did not keep prices down. Second, in January 1951, the OPS placed controls on the price of meat at wholesale and retail, but not on live cattle. Despite these wholesale and retail ceilings, prices of live cattle increased 12% between January and April 1951. High production did not keep prices down. Third, in 1946, when meat price controls of OPA were lifted, the price of beef increased about 50% in one month. The high production of that year did not keep prices down. Between January 1950 and March 1951, the prices of cattle rose more than five times as much as the wages of manufacturing workers, over four times as much as prices paid by farmers, over five times as much as the index of consumer prices, and over three times as much as the prices of other food items. Well, Jim, these were Mr. DeSalle's arguments for a stabilization of beef prices. Those figures are astounding. That's the background, Jerry. But let's bring it up to date on what's happening right now. I'm sure that your wife and mine and all the other homemakers are going to get some good answers in the current congressional investigation of the beef shortage and what's behind it. Well, I'll wage it, Jim, that with all the excellent radio and TV coverage of such hearings, our family will be more than ready to cross-examine us when we get home. Right, Jerry. But at least we'll all know why we may be getting fish or fowl instead of beef on the table. You know, Senator Maybank of South Carolina is chairman of this watchdog committee on beef, and I think he has summed up the basic question so that all of us can understand it. How is that, Jim? Well, Senator Maybank put it this way, and I quote, If this shortage is nothing more than a strike on the part of the meat industry, then it should be made clear in no uncertain terms to the consumer. If a shortage is being created because of a sulking action by people who won't deliver meat because they can't have their way, then the people of the nation should be advised accordingly. So says Senator Maybank, and with that, I think most of us will agree. Yes, and I'd like to amend that with a little reminder. As long ago as May 5th, the United Press reported from Washington, and I quote, that angry cattleman called upon Price Stabilizer DeSalle to cancel the rollback or face the prospect of a meat strike which might upset the whole stabilization program. Well, as that happy warrior Al Smith used to say, let's look at the record. That's just what Washington is doing today, and we have the emphatic words of both Mr. DeSalle and of Charles E. Wilson, the head of the Office of Defense Mobilization, that the cattle rollback will stand. What then is the next step, Jim? Director DeSalle already has issued a warning to livestock slaughterers that if they bid too high a price for live cattle now, they may find themselves in open violation of OPS controls when they come to the end of their June accounting period. And I wish to make it plain right here and now that as director of the OPS for New York and New Jersey, we are prepared to back this warning to the hilt. Would you mind explaining, Jim, as simply as possible, how these controls on cattle slaughtering work? Well, in brief, Jerry, the OPS regulation does not set exact ceiling prices for the individual cattle to be slaughtered. It does it much more simply by establishing an average maximum permissible price which slaughterers can pay for the animals. A slaughterer is complying as long as his average price paid for cattle does not exceed the ceiling at the end of each accounting period. But here is the catch. Any slaughterer who now is paying more than the maximum prices allowed is gambling on the chance that he may be able to get cattle later in the period at prices below the maximum. If he does not get cheaper cattle, he then runs the risk of being a violator. Well, summing up the situation as it now stands, Jim, it seems to me that the cattle raiser, who for whatever reason has failed to bring the normal amount of cattle to the pens in Chicago, Kansas City, Des Moines, and other places, is creating an artificial scarcity. In effect, he is creating a scarcity in an attempt to sway the American people that price controls on beef are not a good thing. He's deliberately creating a shortage, and in so doing, he may kill the goose that lays the golden egg, because I feel positive that the American housewife will not stand for this artificial shortage. Well, it seems to me that sooner or later, and perhaps within the next few weeks, the law of supply and demand will catch up with these greedy people. Very definitely. Well, I think that about winds up the program for this week, Jim, and brings us to the end of this particular edition of your pocketbook. Your pocketbook, a weekly presentation of the Office of Price Stabilization. But before I go, I want to remind our listeners that OPS district offices are located at 401 Fifth Avenue in New York City and in Albany, Rochester, Syracuse, and Buffalo in New York State and in Newark, Camden, and Trenton in New Jersey. All of these offices are staffed with friendly people whose job it is to help anyone seeking more information about the Office of Price Stabilization, about the regulations, compliance, and enforcement. Our guest this week on your pocketbook was James G. Lines, Regional Director of the Office of Price Stabilization. And this is Jerome Koff, Regional Information Director for OPS. Your pocketbook, produced by Bill Siley, is a weekly presentation of the station to which you are listening. Thank you.