The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelletary, is host today to one of the most amazing groups that have ever gathered in this section of New York City. Now, you must be a bit tired of superlatives, but because of the special and unique arrangements that have been made today, why, many, many more people are able to crowd the area in front of City Hall than have ever been able to do so in previous occasions of this kind when a distinguished guest has been received by the City. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impelletary, instructed the Mayor's Committee of Reception, headed by the Honorable Grover A. Whalen, to do everything possible to accommodate the people of the City of New York with a full view of our great general today, the General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur. And certainly when he arrives here at City Hall, he will be utterly amazed after seeing so much of the Pacific that the sea of faces that greet him here is an amazing tribute to the love and respect that they have for the armed forces and the men who lead them. The Department of Public Works, Commissioner Zermuelen, has performed another miracle in the structure that they have planted here in front of City Hall under the artistic direction of Mr. Walter Detmar. Mr. Detmar is noted for beautiful decoration here, but he has struck a unique note at City Hall here today in the decoration and the method he has used in that form of decoration, accenting, of course, the five stars of General MacArthur and, as the keynote, we might say, and the background of the imperishable red, white, and blue. Yesterday afternoon, as we view this thing today, it didn't seem possible that so much beauty could come into the concept of this stand in front of City Hall, as we recognize now at the present moment. Because at that time, we saw just the bare wood structure when we were testing the loudspeakers in order that the municipal broadcasting system and its PA address would thoroughly cover the event here at City Hall. Well, it's very likely that General MacArthur is near us now. Now, the strange paradox is we're right here in front of City Hall, and the parade is a few feet away, but we haven't seen a speck of it. Because of the unique arrangements made, and I use that term again, there will be no review past City Hall. The immense space that is usually cleared for that review and the parade to pass City Hall has been turned over to the guests of the mayor of the city of New York, the people of the city of New York, so that all that valuable adjacent space, which is so important, would be available for a full view of the mayor's greeting to the general of the army, General MacArthur. And in doing so, he has augmented the effect of those upturned faces, which is really remarkable when you stand here and look down into that sea from here to the very porch of St. Paul's Chapel at Fulton Street to Vesey and Broadway. This part of New York City is certainly deeply rooted in the history of the city itself and its development. This very beautiful building, the City Hall, one of the most unique gems of architecture in its Italian Georgian style, and a building of most beautiful proportions inside and out, with its magnificent collection of paintings, an anthology of the federal statesmen of our nation and the mayors of the city of New York, is valued at over $2 million. We like to remind you that one of the, since radio is a communication, one of the greatest paintings in City Hall is by a man distinguished in communications, Mr. Charles W. Morse, who laid the Atlantic Cable, as you know, and who was a superb artist in his own right. And when the Marquis de Lafayette viewed this painting, why he admitted it was the best portrait of him that was ever painted. And it is indeed a beautiful life-size painting with a background of a balustrade and garden. It's a huge painting, over 10 feet, 10 or 12 feet high, and it is in the council chamber and is valued at $350,000. Directly opposite on the other side of the doorway, entering the consultation room of the council, another beautiful colonial room off the council chamber, is a beautiful portrait, a magnificent portrait of George Washington. These furnishings of City Hall, with all the furniture from Federal Hall, where the government of the United States began, and the actual desk that George Washington used as President of the United States is preserved here, the original desk of Alexander Hamilton, Thomas Jefferson, John Adams, and the other furnishings in some proportion, not all of course, that saw the beginnings of the government of the United States there at Nassau and Wall Street. And it's so fitting that since the post office was removed from City Hall Park, that we can recapture to some extent the essence of the colonial period, because as we stand here on the steps, we can gaze into the porch of St. Paul's Chapel, there at Fulton and Vesey and Broadway. It's interesting, and most people ask, why is the chapel turned with its back to Broadway? Well, in those days, people had an artistic concept, and Greenwich Street was the River Road, and they thought it proper to face the chapel towards the river, because of traffic on the river, and the fact that Greenwich Street was an important street at that time, being the last street toward the river. And now, as we go back over that and look at the city, and see the tremendous development of property and so forth, why we get some idea of how the city has expanded and absorbed the land underwater. There's a terrific ovation going on now, and General MacArthur is in the vicinity of City Hall, and it'll only be a short time when the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeleteri conducts his guests to the rostrum here in full view, and indeed, when that happens, I won't have to tell you about it. Last night, when General MacArthur's plane touched the ground at 916 at Idlewild Airport, it was one of the most beautiful sights possibly one could expect to witness. It's a huge plane, as one can imagine, the Bataan, in its beautiful silvery luster, and the expanse of Idlewild is so immense, the plane landed almost two miles from where we were standing. We saw this thing that looked like a small dragonfly in its then proportion in the air, a light on the ground in the far distance, and just tiny little specks of riding lights, red and green, and the white lights across the front of the wings and the front of the plane, and then gradually the official of the field there guiding the plane in to the place where it was to moor and actually meet the mayor of the city of New York and the distinguished committee that he had asked to meet, General MacArthur. Well, it taxied up, and then as it came more into focus and its size and beauty, picking up the gleams of the shimmering moonlight, it was a magnificent sight with the background of the First Army Band and the distinguished guests and the men from the First Army who had turned out and veterans to be part of the greeting there at Idlewild. It was no time at all, of course, until the plane took its position. The gangplank was rolled up to the door of the plane. It opened, and in a very short time, without any delay at all, it seemed, little Arthur MacArthur popped through the door of the plane behind an army officer, and then immediately behind came Mrs. MacArthur and then the general himself. He rapidly approached the ground there at Idlewild Airport, and for those of you who listened in, you know the rest of the story. I can yet see the wistful little face of Arthur MacArthur getting his first look at his own native land here in New York City, I might say, in his native land, since he had have landed, of course, in other cities across the country. And now... Mrs. Douglas MacArthur is now taking her place on the stand. She is a most charming lady, as she proved to be, and when I asked little Arthur MacArthur last night to say a few words on the radio, he looked at me so shyly and said, Should I? I said, Yes, it's all right. Go right ahead. And then she was quite attracted when she heard his voice on the loudspeakers, and she came over so graciously and thanked me for noticing the boy, and then she said a few words, as you remember. Dressed as she was in a beautiful purple outfit, and the lovely red roses that Mrs. Impeleteri had handed her when she landed at Idlewild Airport, created a very beautiful color scheme. Mrs. Impeleteri herself dressed in a very modish black outfit with a magnificent fur cape, and a hat that was very becoming indeed. I can't go into these details because I'm not sure that I'd say the right thing, but a man always knows when a woman is beautifully dressed, even though he can't tell you why. And for that reason, we were very much thrilled there at Idlewild Airport in watching all these events take place. It gave you some idea of the fact that this is 1951. The world has made tremendous advances toward everything but what we call peace in its complete understanding. We still have those little boyish chips on our shoulders, and we're daring this one and that one to knock them off. I think someday we'll all grow up, and only the beauty and the facility of these technocracies that have been developed will be utilized for the better expansions of life itself. That is gradually taking place. We read of planes making these tremendous journeys in such a short time, so much so that there doesn't seem to be distance of any kind anymore. And for that reason, we like to live up to the advance that we have made in the mental side of our existence. Of course, the physical side is there, a little bit aboriginal yet, but we hope indeed that time and experience and the contemplation of these magnificent expansions of knowledge will finally convert us to the idea that we are godlike and wonderful people, created in the image of God for the greater interest and love and respect for each other. Let's hope that comes along much sooner than it seems to be of late. That will happen, of course, in due time, because it seemed last night that in spite of all the ostentation at Idlewild Airport, and there was plenty of it from the protocol's point of view, why the accent seemed to be that a man was coming home, coming home, the most beautiful expression in the world, to think that you're coming home. And we all know that he had retired fully in 1937. He was married across the street in the municipal building to Miss Faircloth, and then he made a quick journey to the Philippine Islands where he was the governor general. It was 1942 when Franklin Delano Roosevelt, president of the United States, recalled General MacArthur back to active duty because there were rumbles then of difficulties that might appear on the horizons there in the Pacific that for a while was not going to live up to its title Pacific, as we all know when his events actually transpired, proved. General MacArthur went through the terrific days there, and we all remember those March days of 1942. We tried to imagine, as we looked at little Arthur MacArthur last night, how he must have felt. He went through all that escape from Corregidor when Governor, I beg your pardon, when President Roosevelt ordered General MacArthur to collect the principal members of his staff and valuable personnel and to leave the precincts of the Philippine Islands and get to Australia to reorganize the defense that naturally was to meet the situation that prevailed and would again redeem our pledges to the Philippine Islands and the territories of the United States. That all came to pass in time, and the glorious pages of history have been rewritten to indict those events as well as some of the more sorrowful ones that we have witnessed from time to time. It is the knowledge of these facts that make us appreciate that all this fell on the shoulders of one man. Newton D. Baker, Secretary of War under Woodrow Wilson, said he was the best front-line general in World War I. Now, that's going away back, isn't it? And we can understand why General MacArthur had fully consented to retire on his own in 1937 and become a family man and be an honor and a luster to the government of the United States in its executive branches by governing the Philippine Islands as the assignment he was given so proclaimed. We do know, as we said just a moment ago, that this was only a very short period, and then at the behest of President Roosevelt, he came back to active duty. My aunt founded Ladycliffe right next to West Point, and for that reason, I happen to have a great many intimate touches about West Point itself because it's a convent school there, and it wasn't long before the gentlemen at West Point formed a junction between the charming ladies of Ladycliffe, and they used to come over for dances and things like that. And we used to hear a great deal of talk. This is in the early 1900s about West Point. And we knew a great deal about various honor students and so forth, and we used to hear that even though before it came into the records of today. At that time, the talk of West Point was Douglas MacArthur because as a very young man, he graduated with the highest average of any student that has ever come out of that great institution, an institution that graduates people of the highest caliber because in order to graduate, you must have a terrific capacity for the absorption of education and technical details and all the other factors that go into training of an army officer. One of the greatest precepts, of course, of the army officer is the fact you must never issue an order until you're able to take one. And, of course, on that gentlemanly and honorary and knightly basis, the gentlemen that graduate from West Point, besides the responsibilities they face and the rigors of duty and so forth, they never forget that polite method of responding, no matter whether the person is great or small, that happens to address them. We heard all about the educational record of Douglas MacArthur and the fact that he took over a hundred and many subjects that most real, capable people had difficulty in majoring to the passing point, and yet he seemed to absorb them with the least difficulty possible. And when the commandant at West Point was asked of the graduating class of that year, who did he think was likely to become the most outstanding member, he unhesitatingly replied, Douglas MacArthur. And he was a young man then on the threshold of his career without any idea of what was ahead in history, in the army, or in the affairs of state that were due to affect him and all of us in the future to come. It was this tremendous absorption of knowledge and his ability to acquire it that no doubt speaks for the enthusiasm which we have all had for the great soldier who is being honored here today. And Marion Pelletari can certainly take bows for the arrangements that he has made because in spite of the eugenics of this demonstration here today, everybody is in a happy, friendly mood and they seem to want to be thoroughly happy and content in their admiration of a great man. And now General MacArthur has... And now General MacArthur has just made his entrance here on the stand at City Hall. I think that's his cap. Yes, that's General MacArthur. There's Mayor Impeletari and there's General MacArthur, Mrs. MacArthur, Arthur MacArthur, Mrs. Impeletari, the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee, who certainly can take bows for the arrangements that have been made today. Today, Mrs. MacArthur is dressed in reddish maroon, a very small hat with a black veil, a beautiful steel coat. Mrs. Impeletari is wearing a different fur coat, a very small white hat too, and a magnificent corset of a lavender orchid. Mrs. Impeletari's outfit is in blue, and there's little Arthur again with the duck-billed white hat. My sister gave me the name for that last night. I was talking to my sister Marguerite, and I couldn't think of the nickname. And now Arthur's waving. He's quite a little idle here, and he's very, very popular. Now there's a tremendous length of time for greetings here on the stand because a great many people here have not met the General himself. And this tremendous sea here, if you have ever seen the movements of a sea, the people here are just causing those same modulations as the surface of the water might. Mrs. MacArthur is smiling and shaking to everybody, and everybody seems to want to speak to her. And now we're just waiting now for the ovation to pass before the Honorable Grover A. Whelan will make the opening address. And now Mr. Whelan has asked for attention. The Honorable Grover A. Whelan has just asked for the National Anthem. Thank you. Thank you. This man am achieved with the National Anthem. This man has just called the National Anthem. This man can hug, and he should pray if he does not have any help for the entire EU gy bandeer. This man has just said before the Plateau has just been touched on it. It was taken for many years, and the number of treasures that dinner israda for the province. This woman has just nedp坐s to air Ka for the month to to ask that person and who does apply theайн-for- refined for the obedience to Aatuma. So mere cannot be opposed, and might be just twoEvery Horse Forward Thank you. Who will make the address and present the guest to the mayor? Mr. Whelan. Mr. Whelan can't do very much. There's such a terrific cheering and proud... John McArthur. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor. Mrs. McArthur. Young Arthur. General Light. Please, now. Gentlemen of the press, will you please give the guests an opportunity to participate? Thank you. In the history of the world, there has never been such an occasion as this. We have traveled a distance since we met General McArthur. After 54 miles. After 54 miles, we met the General at the International Idlewild Airport. And from that moment until this, the cheering millions of New Yorkers have paid him tribute. And, General, before I introduce the mayor to you, I should like to tell you that this column that is passing on our right, just about about 20,000 webinars within the vision of the number three times now, along Center Street following the brief ceremonies at the City Hall. I think I should say to the millions of people who are listening in that yesterday's speech that you made in the Congress, there is one point we disagree with. You said that old soldiers never die but fade. We disagree heartily with the fainting part. I have the great privilege to present to you His Honor, the Mayor, the Chief Executive of this vast city of eight million people, who will tell you in his own words how he feels about this demonstration. It's a great privilege for me to present to you His Honor, Vincent R. Impeletere, Mayor of the City of New York. Thank you. Grover, General MacArthur, Mrs. MacArthur, Arthur MacArthur, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that all eight million people of the City of New York are gathered right here today in City Hall Plaza. Today, as you all know, we honor one of America's great soldiers, General Douglas MacArthur. General MacArthur is the last of our war leaders to return home from the scenes of his greatest victories. His presence and his name recall to us the darkest as well as the brightest days of the greatest war in history. We remember our shock when the Japanese overran the friendly island of the Philippines. We remember our fortresses falling above us. We remember General MacArthur leading the fight to stop the Japanese campaign on Manila and the retreat into the Bataan Peninsula, where day after day he parried the assaults of an army many times the size of his own. We remember how, at the repeated orders of President Roosevelt, the General debarked from Corregidor and landed in Australia in March of 1942, vowing, however, to return. His words reflected the determination of the American people to fight back until the war against Japan was won. We remember how he started on the long road back across the islands of the Pacific. Starting in New Guinea, he began to strike great counterblows against the Japanese until, finally, supported by the guns of our Navy, he landed at Leyte Gulf in 1945 and fought his way back to Manila, Bataan, and Corregidor. His promise was kept, and the nation rejoiced. All of us in New York remember the day of victory against Japan, meaning, as it did, the return of loved ones from the Pacific. Many of our sons and daughters had been there long months and, some of them, years. So accustomed were we to war and the loneliness it brings that we were overwhelmed by the suddenness of victory. We remember General MacArthur's first entry into Japan and his presiding at the surrender aboard the battleship Big Mo. It was then that we began to wonder just how we were to deal with the tremendous problem of governing the nation whose people had fought us so bitterly only a very short time before. We rejoiced, General MacArthur, when we saw the pictures only recently of how those former enemies bid you farewell only a few days when you left Tokyo. It only demonstrates what a perfectly magnificent job you did for the government of the United States. and almost single-handedly turning former foes and bitter foes into friends who are on our side today in the Pacific. General MacArthur, many of the men who fought beside you both in the last war, and the one before that, our New Yorkers. They were your comrades in arms, and they lead us all in greeting you today after your long absence on duty. They join you in your prayers for the fallen. They who know the tragedy of war join us all in our prayers for peace. With me, they offer you the freedom of the city, along with its intense gratitude. We wish you, Mrs. MacArthur, Arthur, young Arthur, all the happiness that only this country can offer to its own. General MacArthur, I know it's tough to give a general an order, particularly coming from a radio man third class, but general, as the mayor of the city of New York, may I now ask you to stand for a moment at my side. General, in recognition of your distinguished and exceptional public service for the government of the United States that we all love so very much, the people of the city of New York, all eight million of them, have asked me in their behalf to present you this scroll which symbolizes the affection that we have here for you in the city of New York, and may I read, for distinguished and exceptional public service, office of the mayor, city of New York, know all these men by these presence that I, Vincent R. Impelletary, mayor of the city of New York, do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur, Supreme Commander of the Allied Forces, Supreme Commander of the United Nations Forces, Supreme Commander of the Far East, who led our armed forces to victory on many fronts, and to whom the people of the United States owe a debt of gratitude which they cannot repay and will always remember. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the city of New York to be affixed this 20th day of April 1951, Vincent R. Impelletary. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before closing, the people of the city of New York have asked me to make another presentation to General MacArthur. It's a gold memento of what the people of the city of New York think of the general, and on the back of it is what the people expressed through me of their token of deep affection for General MacArthur. It reads as follows. The city of New York awards this medal to General of the Army Douglas MacArthur, victorious Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers in the defense of human liberty and the fundamental principles on which free institutions rest 1951. General MacArthur, on behalf of the people of the city I represent, I'm very happy to present this very beautiful symbol of their affection too. Thank you. Mayor Impeliteri is posing with General MacArthur. He's facing now toward the east side and there's a large bank of cameras here on the right and the mayor will turn around and take the picture here for the right side. And now Mayor Impeliteri is conducting his guest and holding up this magnificent gold medal. It's about two and a half inches in diameter and General MacArthur is... Yeah, bring him... Yes, that's fine. And now the cameramen are getting their innings. Mrs. Impeliteri graciously moves out of the way. Young Arthur MacArthur is waving and looking on in amazement. He'd much rather watch what is happening here as the mayor is handing this medal to General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur, for the purposes of the picture record. And we all... Arthur's taken off his hat. The famous Duckville hat. Every kid in the world will be wearing Duckville hats now. He's a handsome boy and he resembles his very handsome mother. We mentioned that last night. Now, Mr. Whelan. Ladies and gentlemen, not for the benefit of the audience that is here present, but for the millions that are listening in throughout the nation and the world, I present to you General MacArthur. Thank you. That was all dismounted and the parade very generously, 20,000 in number, passed up Broadway and did not take up valuable space by a review past City Hall. And now it's quieting down, and here is the General of the Army, Douglas MacArthur. Mr. Trustmaster, this is the greatest city in the world. What an inspiration to see it again, with its head mixture of citizens drawn from all parts of the universe. It is the living example of the ability of men of rubber race and every climb to live and progress together. I have just come from another striking example of unification, where men of differing races and different languages are fighting shoulder to shoulder in a common cause. Many are your own sons, ready and fit and writing a brilliant battle record. The tremendous reception you have given me recalls a somewhat similar homecoming in which I participated as a cadet from West Point long, long ago. It was Admiral Dewey's return from the war in the Pacific. The years have passed indeed since then, but the hospitality of New York seems only to have grown with time. And today, as I watched your thrones, a great pride and a great confidence came upon me. For here, I saw in this great city this melting pot of the world and indomitable force which cannot fail to maintain our freedom and our way of life. This, I said to myself, is America. America. And this, with God's help, we shall keep American. Thank you. Again, my thanks and deepest appreciation from both Mrs. MacArthur and myself for your heartwarming reception. We shall never forget it. you have made us feel that we are indeed whole. And now, Mr. Whelan. Mr. Whelan is going to ask the combined fire and the police department glee clubs to sing. In just a moment, you'll hear his announcements. Mr. Whelan. The two glee clubs of our uniformed forces, the fire department and the police department glee club will render to the general God bless America. God bless America. God bless America. God bless America. There you go. God bless America. Land that I long stand beside her and guide her through the night where the light from above from the mountain to the to the ocean white and cold. God bless America. My home sweet home. God bless America. My home sweet home. From the mountain to the prairie to the ocean white and cold. God bless America. My home sweet home. Now General MacArthur leads the applause and young Arthur looking up at the cops and the firemen singing God bless America. which is in all our hearts. To allow the band that is here in the glee club to have free reign on this occasion. They would sing for the general all afternoon I'm sure. But since the general has only gone halfway through this program of today he's going to leave immediately and we would appreciate the people on the platform to remain in their places until the general and Mrs. MacArthur the mayor and Mrs. Impeletaria passes to the north entrance of City Hall. And now the mayor of the city of New York the honorable Vincent Impeletari escorts General MacArthur Mrs. MacArthur Arthur MacArthur Mrs. Impeletari and the distinguished guests who have come here to honor the general of the army Douglas MacArthur at City Hall today. It is indeed a miraculous scene as you look into the sea of faces stretching all the way from the steps of City Hall to Fulton Street the old Boston Post Road now Park Row and all the ancient streets here little realize that any spectacle such as this might ever take place in the precincts of City Hall and yet here it is today one of the greatest ovations and one of the greatest turnouts and I ask you again not to believe I am using the superlatives because no words that I may use might describe what has occurred here today under the instructions of Mayor Vincent Impeletere to honor the general of the army yes and to answer him to with the love and respect of the people of the city of New York for his achievements as a great soldier. We have heard all of that and now as the distinguished party is leaving the stand we take one final view at the beautiful decorations here and would like to say that right behind me are some of the veterans who are on Bataan with General MacArthur and they have indeed had a comprehension that few of us have because we remember those dreadful days of March 1942 which were vindicated finally and we hope forever. And now I think that is about all we can give you from City Hall. The parade is still passing up in its final parts and sections up Broadway. 20,000 were in line and the general came into City Hall and speeded up the reception because he now has to meet the school kids. And for the benefit of the youngsters might I say that Arthur McArthur had a red corduroy jacket on with a sort of a I'll even say it I think it was an imitation beaver like fabric for a collar just as you see on most youngsters and the famous white duck bill hat which even the photographers had a hard time getting him to remove so they could really get a view of his full face because the peak of the hat was holding off that view considerably from the camera. He graciously reached up, took off the duck bill hat and displayed the fact that he has a wonderful head for knowledge. He has a high forehead and a wonderful space above the ears to possibly imitate his father in the absorption of education and techniques to serve these great United States of America as his father and grandfather and great grandfather did. And so that is all we can bring you now from City Hall because the party is over but it has been one of the greatest tributes ever organized by any mayor of the city of New York and under the ages of the Honorable Grove Railway and Chairman of the Mayor's Committee and the distinguished group of workers who worked with them and toiled night and day from practically last Friday to achieve this result they can certainly feel satisfied with a task well done and a tribute to the Department of Public Work for the magnificence of the stand and decoration here in front of City Hall. That is about all now. Finally I say so. We bid you goodbye from City Hall and return to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.icorn County Yeah Särenq How Melody How Melody You By The ongoing
