John, it's only because of the presence of Mrs. Roosevelt that you didn't go down in pieces from this platform. I'm going to be brief because I realize how warm it is and how important many of the engagements are that you must keep this evening. I'd like to call upon as the first speaker, representing the United Nations participation, Mr. V.J. Stravedia, Director of External Services and Specialized Agency Section, Department of Public Information United Nations. Thank you. Our next speaker needs no introduction from anybody in the world. She has, in her own right, won a place not only in the hearts of her own state in New York, but in the United States and the world at large. She is serving today in the capacity of President of the National Citizens Committee for UN Day. It's a great pleasure for me to present Mrs. Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Thank you. This is really a meeting to find out what the plans are for United Nations Day in this city. It's very important to us in the national organization what happens in New York City because it is likely that if New York City thinks it important and makes a great effort, that will spread to other cities throughout the country. And for that reason, I'm very glad that we have real enthusiasm and participation in New York City. And I hope that a really very outstanding job will be done, not only at the New York City celebration on the 21st, but also on the day itself. Because some of the ideas that will begin on the 21st will go through to culminate on the 24th of October, which is the actual day. Now, I have here a sheet of stamps, which Mr. Golden is extremely proud of. I expected that I would give them to one of the other ladies who has to do with United Nations Day. But as she isn't here, I'm going to show them to all of you because you will all receive a sheet and you will all be asked to get as many people as possible to use these stamps. Mr. Golden has great pride in them and I think he should have because they should draw attention to one of the things we want every person. Mr. Golden has great pride in them and I think he should have a great pride in them and I think he should have a great pride in them. and that is put quite clearly on these stamps. So I hope you will promote their being widely used around that time. And now I think I'll give this sheet back to Mr. Golden so he can do with it what he wants. Present it to any lady and just wish this committee every success. and hope that what you do will help the rest of the country and the rest of the world in their organization to promote the ideals and the ideas of the United Nations. Thank you. Thank you, Mrs. Roosevelt. Our chairman for UN Day in New York was chosen for many reasons. In the first place, he's one of our outstanding citizens. And in the second place, his entire life has been devoted to decency and the things that are best for the community and the people at large. I was talking to John Golden the other day, and I asked him how many plays he produced. He said over 200 and 150 of them were flops. But the 50 that weren't flops has made John Golden at least a millionaire, if not a multimillionaire. John, I hope your stock goes up after that. But John has taken his job, as he always does, anything he undertakes to do, very seriously. And I'm sure that after he gets done with his plan, you'll all feel satisfied that he has given the best that's in him. And I'm sure that we'll all, at this time, be very happy to hear from Mr. John Golden. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Roosevelt. To follow on the bill, as we vaudeville actors put it, the greatest first lady of the world is not an easy task. But because she has inspired me to these things, I believe I have worked harder in the last five or six weeks on this particular job than any task that I ever took since I was born. And I am 76 years old. I know I don't look. Uh, to begin with, I got the notion of that little stamp, UN plus U equals peace. So I got our city printer to get busy on thousands of those. Then I thought of another thing because, and I shouldn't say this, except it's best to look things straight in the face. Several very good friends of mine, of yours and of our country's, called me on the phone and said, you're not going to take that job. You're not for the United Nations. And I said, that's the one thing in the world that I am for. Why? And they said, because it's a bust. I'm not talking about unimportant people. I'm talking about the heads of great big institutions. And so I felt that we must, first of all, if we can't do any better, sell the United Nations to, to, right to this country. They must know, we must prove to them, that it is the only place that we can look to for succor, for help, for, uh, for keeping us definitely out of the war itself. Right now, there are some other countries, few as they may be, sending through the United States, some men, United Nations men, who are stopping bullets, and keeping them away from killing our American boys. Few as they may be, they'll grow. And we know I need to sell the United Nations to you, because you wouldn't be here if you weren't for it. But when I saw the necessity for that, I said, I've got another idea. And so with that, I sat down to work, and I wrote, or tried to write with the assistance, of that brilliant young woman that Mr. Whalen gave me, Miss Roflat. That remarkable girl has only started and is going a long distance before you. You'll hear a lot about that girl. She's the most competent executive. And that girl, uh, took, taking my suggestion, began to get together things that the United Nations had done. And we began to list them. Then I went over and saw the United Nations people and said, I want to get this out myself. I don't want too much assistance from you. I want to talk of it as a layman in crisp sentences on one page and put it among, well, in the programs of the city, of all the, of all the, uh, of, of, of all the theaters in the city of New York. And I called up my fellow producers and said, would you let me have it in your theater? And so during United Nations week, I'm here to tell you that there will be a circular thrown into every program in every theater in the city of New York. And there's a thousand a night at each one. That's 30,000 a night will go telling what the United Nations has done for you. That's to sell it over here. Then I thought of something else to sell it over there, but I'm not prepared to tell you all about that. Nor will I go through the, the, the long, uh, uh, uh, list of, of, uh, attempts at events and ideas that I discussed with Mr. Hoyland and with others associated with the, with the, uh, uh, uh, United Nations. Uh, let me say, however, that in the course of these proceedings, I discovered that there was one thing that I knew how to do best. And that was to make a play, to write a play and to produce a play. As Grover has told you, I have produced many a failure. Luckily, I produced 40 or 50 successes. So I'm ahead on the, uh, of the, of the game. And, uh, but I've had so many failures that I'm never sure of a success. At any rate, I sat, uh, I sat me down and wrote with a young historian named Hans Treboer, a play which is practically finished now and will be ready for production sometime before the end of United Nations week. It will be presented in New York City. Under the auspices, I hope, I have been promised by Mayor O'Dwyer and by the coming mayor-elect and by a member of the Board of Education who will help in its production through a school, a play which is, which tells the story of tolerance in America. You will be interested to know, for I'm sure that very few of you here do know, that New York City was the beginning of that, of, of, of, of, of the attempt at bringing, uh, uh, bringing, uh, religious tolerance together, uh, together. Uh, the, Mr. Treboer, who had written several, uh, pamphlets and booklets on the subject, came to me with the information that he had started a play on John Bowne, located at Flushing. Uh, his building is there, the place where he lived in 1661, and the stories are extant, not only of his life and the persecutions that he went under, but what was worse, he was banished from the country, his wife was taken away from, his children were ill, it was a miserable story, but we tried to make it light and happy and funny when things, when things came along, or things of a better nature came along. And so, we find that here in New York, the first fight for tolerance, uh, this man and, uh, his associates at that time had, uh, had, uh, uh, formed their group and, uh, uh, wrote a, what is known as a remonstrance. That remonstrance is, is an historical document existing today in the archives of the state of New York in which he made an appeal for tolerance generally toward every religion, Catholics, Protestants, Quakers, Jews, and even Egyptians. I mean, my collaborator tells me that he thinks the Egyptians were put in there by mistake. He thinks that in those days they thought that the gypsies who were traveling in and out through the country were Egyptians, that they hadn't much chance at geography then. I would like to introduce to you a gentleman who came up here from my office with me and who said that the Board of Education would do something about helping make that production in the schools because Mayor O'Dwyer had said it was one of the greatest things that we could offer to the young, uh, to the younger generation. May I just for a minute ask Mr. Maximilian Moss, President of the Board of Education, to come up here and say two or three words about how much he wants to do this and how much he likes to play. Uh, Mr. Chairman, Ms. Roosevelt, Mr. Golden is such a fine showman and such a very practical man that he wouldn't let the opportunity go by without calling upon the Board of Education in the presence of all... Thank you, Judge. Mr. Clark Eichelberger, Director of the American Association of the United Nations. Sometimes I feel that life is very easy. And those of us in this room want to have a great program we have available to us, such leadership as Mrs. Roosevelt. We have such talent as John Golden and all the others in this room representing the Advertising Council and so on. It might help to humble us a little bit as far as the rest of the world is concerned and give us a sense of perspective. If I could take just a minute to tell you about a young man from Africa who is a representative of the Togoland League of Nations Association. I had an appointment with him some, a few weeks ago and he was five hours late for the appointment. Then the next appointment, three hours late and so on, I said to myself, there is some reason why this man can be so late for an appointment. And finally I caught up with him or he caught up with me. Then I discovered that he had no means of transportation. When he must go to a village to make a speech on the United Nations, he must walk and sometimes it takes him three days to get there. And if he is willing to spend three days getting there and the audience is willing to wait three days for him to come, it isn't so important whether he arrives at three o'clock or seven. And I said to him, well tell me how you do it. Well he teaches school just over the line in the Gold Coast. He works in a printing office at night, just printing a little provincial publication. He draws no salary. His compensation is that the boss of the printing shop will once a month print the bulletin of the Togoland United Nations Association, which he carries in a pack in his back as he goes through the country on these three-day trips speaking to the people. He's never been out of Africa before. He said, you know, if I only had a Jeep, I could cover Togoland so much easier. I'm sure Ms. Roosevelt will agree with me that there are plenty of members of our association that will find some way for him to have a second-hand car in the course of time. And we're now trying to work the plan out with him. All over the world, I think Mr. Straviti pointed out, there are efforts of that kind being made. And when we have before us the talent for all the mass media of communication and advertising and so forth, that illustration should inspire us to do a very tremendous job and help Mr. Straviti have the tools to do it in other parts of the world as well. I just want to say a word or two about the program of United Nations Week, which as Mr. Whelan has told us in the past, is the educational prelude to the holiday of United Nations Day. And Mr. Golden's design and legend are quite similar to ours. Today's best hope for peace, the UN plus you. Mr. Golden has his stamp, which we'll all use. We'll have a pledge card, which is in the form of the United Nations building. And since the building has 39 stories, there will be 39 lines for signatures. And then each person that signs and boos throughout the country will get this little lapel pin, a building of the United States with a legend on, practically the wording of Mr. Golden's stamp and the wording that we've adopted throughout the country. And I wonder, Mr. Whelan, if you'd hand that to Mrs. Roosevelt for me. Just one or two words more about events in New York and throughout the country in which we want your cooperation. It's possibly the showmanship that we've learned from Mr. Golden that has taught us that we should have a preview. The preview will be September 17th. The Citizens Committee for United Nations Day, nationally and locally, and the American Association for the United Nations on behalf of United Nations Week, have invited the 10 delegates to the General Assembly, the United States delegates to the General Assembly, to meet with the non-governmental organizations and your respective committees at approximately 8 o'clock the night of September 17th. An address will be delivered or a message from the Secretary of State and from Ambassador Austin. The members of the American delegation will be there. Mrs. Roosevelt in her dual capacities, a member of the delegation, a national chairman of the Citizens Day Committee, and Mr. Harry Bullis, chairman of United Nations Week, will also help chair the meeting. And there, the non-governmental organizations will have an opportunity of meeting, in public meeting and in a reception, the team that will carry American ideals in the forthcoming General Assembly. So the prelude to United Nations Day, the curtain raiser, so to speak, will be in September 17th. And then on October 16th, the booths will be open in Grand Central Pennsylvania Station and in Times Square, where these pledge sheets will be on hand and these pins given. And it will be, in a sense, a replica of what's being done all over the country, from San Francisco to New York, the United Nations Week is the educational program, a prelude, I should say, for this great holiday, United Nations Day. And again, we simply pledge our cooperation to the Citizens Committee in New York City and the National Committee for all the cooperation we can give. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, I just want to take one minute more to bring to your screen. Thank you.