. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . The occasion of the 1948 annual conference of the United States Conference of Marge offered me an opportunity to send greetings to you and your colleagues and to refer to some of the joint federal municipal problems which gravely concern me. In my state of the Union message in January, in the budget message, and in my economic report, I made specific recommendations of vital importance both to the federal government and the city government of the nation. These recommendations directly affect the continued progress and welfare of our great municipalities and the millions of our citizens who now live in urban areas. Of basic importance is our duty and obligation to establish our economy on a sound basis. A sharp rise in the cost of living index points to the undermining of our whole economy. If this rise is not permanently checked, the living standard of millions of families will be critically endangered. Moreover, you and your colleagues know from first-hand experience that the financial stability of our city government is being threatened by increased costs resulting from inflation. I have submitted to the Congress specific recommendations designed to curb inflationary factors. An action by the Congress is necessary if we are not to suffer still further from inflation. The immediate steps must also be taken to increase the nation's supply of low-cost housing. The enactment of a broad, long-range housing bill is long overdue. Such a bill is necessary if the federal government is to fulfill its part of responsibility, shared also by state and local governments, to ensure that every American family has a decent home. The schools and colleges of this country have been a primary factor in the progress of our democracy. We have demonstrated that education can be made a force to improve the condition of men. If, however, education is to play its full role in creating the American future to which the citizens of this country are committed, we must educate more of our people at each level of the educational program. And we must devise types of education that will prepare them more effectively than in the past for responsible roles in modern society. The achievement of these objectives is a joint responsibility of the local, state, and federal governments. In the performance of their public duties, city officials are, of course, not responsible for the conduct of international affairs, or the security of our country. As leaders in your own communities, however, you do have a responsibility for leadership in developing sound and intelligent public opinion on these major questions. I am gratified, therefore, that at your annual conference, you are giving attention to such matters as universal training, atomic energy, air power, and civilian defense. An informed public opinion is the foundation of our democratic system of government. And it is important that all of our people have a clear understanding of our position in world affairs. The United States Conference of Mayors has rendered a unique and distinct contribution in the field of government. And I wish for you and your colleagues continued success. With every good wish, I am sincerely yours, Harry Truman. Now I'd like to present to you, our colleagues, the mayor of New York City, Mayor O'Glash. Mayor Welsch. Mayor Welsch. Distinguished visitors. My contribution to this morning's work is merely to thank the National Conference of Mayors for having paid this tribute to New York City by holding your convention here on its 50th anniversary, joining with us and celebrating that event. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that many of you have come a long way to this convention. I also know that you have passed many towns and cities on the road. And the chances are that from your hometown and through the cities and towns that you passed, you have found practically the same problems. And if you multiply them all together when you got to New York, you'll find them all here when you come. Of course, you have a housing problem, I'm sure. It's just that much worse than New York. Of course, you have a great need for schools. We found ourselves back in 1946 exactly 48 schools behind us at that point. Of course, you know what construction prices are. And you know what building 50 schools in the four-year term means. That's our problem here. And that's a bad one. I don't know how big a shortage you have of homes in your hometown, but we have on the most conservative figures 150,000 units short. After we strain ourselves to the limit here, in four years we hope to be able to build 32,000 units of Governor-Lady's low-cost housing. That will help a little bit. But of course, by the time you have them up, there will be others ready to come down. And the problem remains all the time. Now, one thing I do know that we have in common, maybe you haven't got the subway, maybe you haven't got that. Well, let me congratulate you. But when you come here this morning, ladies and gentlemen, you'll find us actually up to our ears in what looks like an age-old fight now. And I'm afraid it's going to be a long time before it's won. And that is battling the state for just a little understanding of the few basic facts that were in the growth of the century, little villages became cities, and people living in them under unusual circumstances need greater services than they do in smaller places. Just a simple fact that these services have to be paid for. And also, that in the growth of the cities, there also has grown up a great growth of power in the state capitals, where it is awfully hard to get them to understand that they're taking more money away from the cities than they need, and that the cities are getting all the time more demands for services, and consequently their need is becoming greater every day. Have you got it at home, ladies and gentlemen? We have it here. You just came into the middle of such a fight. I am afraid it'll be here after you leave, too, but we'll keep on fighting. Now, that's about all I have to contribute, Mayor Welch, to you, sir, and to the officers and members of this convention. I am a proudest welcome that I can give on behalf of New York City, too. And there was something graceful about the manner in which you chose New York City this time for this convention. It was done in a gracious way, and for that, too, we're very grateful. Now, of course, we have an obligation here in the city, and that is, at the queen times, to make your visit a happy one. I hope we won't fall down in that. The boys have been working rather hard on the arrangements. We're especially complimented by the ladies who have come, who have joined us. I hope that they, too, will have a chance to see our city before they go back, and if this is just enough to see it, I hope they have a fairly good opinion of us when they leave. May this convention be fruitful. May it give us again the value of united strength in thinking. Let us hope that there is one common thing to be gained. That we again put a cross so that every state will understand that the cities are in need, not of aid from the state, but they're in need of protection from the state. That the state doesn't reach in every time they want an extra hundred thousand dollars or an extra million and take it from the cities. The cities have this terrific problem to meet, and that is to see that health, crime conditions, cleanliness, and hospitals, and schools, and water supplies, and a constant demand for expanded services. The cities have these things to meet, and unless the state, and that goes for every state, understands these things and learns how to keep its hands out of the pockets of the cities, the day will come when someone is going to be sorry. Now it is not enough to constantly say to the cities, we'll let you pack yourself to death. That's not enough, that's not the way to do it. If money is taken from the cities, and it's not used in state work, then the next time up, they don't need it quite as it takes. And that's the problem we have here in Oswald, and I'm sure you have it in yours. So Mayor Welch, let me now hold up this important work and be long. My gratitude to you, sir, and to your conference. My welcome of the city to you, and may this conference be as successful as we want to be. Thank you. Thank you. Now the occasion today is the inauguration of the new 20KW FM transmitter of your city station. The men of the city station, our own engineers, have been working like beavers, shall we say, since the beaver is in the coat of arms of the city of New York from the early Dutch settlement. And in the last two weeks, an amazing amount of progress. In fact, an engineering factor has been established here with the speed with which this FM transmitter has been installed through the able direction of the Western Electric engineers, Mr. Pounds and Mr. Lyle, and then our own engineer, Mr. Pitkin, and Mr. Gerstein, FM transmitter supervisor, and the staff of the city station. Now, Mr. Siegel, director of radio communications for the city of New York, has brought together a very interesting group. And we're going to ask some of our speakers here today, the important ones, because there are so many, we cannot take the time for all. And who would you suggest, Mr. Siegel, we bring over first? Well, suppose I start things off, Tommy. Uh, Mr. Deputy Mayor, WNYC FM is about ready to go into operation. Uh, this is an extremely proud moment for the staff for the municipal broadcasting system, because our engineers have worked very closely with the engineers of the Western Electric Company in installing this transmitter in a record-breaking short time. When you throw the switch, Mr. Deputy Mayor, a new era in public service broadcasting for the people of this city will begin, because for the first time in the history of the city's broadcasting, WNYC FM will be on a par with any other FM station in the metropolitan area. Now, Mr. Deputy Mayor, we have with us, we're honored to have with us, the inventor of FM, of frequency modulation, Major Edwin Armstrong. Uh, there probably is no other individual in the United States who has contributed more to radio broadcasting as we know it today than Major Armstrong, and I would like to ask him to say a word or two on this occasion when FM broadcasting is being inaugurated by the city of New York. Major Armstrong, would you say a word? On an occasion such as this, it's really very hard to express how an inventor feels. I can only say, as a citizen of New York, and as a native-born New Yorker, how proud I am to be here on an occasion like this, and to tell you all how much I know, how I know what you must have been through here. To get the engineering, and to get the program technique, and to put into operation what you have here today. A top flight radio station from a top flight manufacturer. Now, let me personally say to you how much I appreciate the work that Mr. Lack and the Western Electric Company have done for FM. He and I were overseas in World War I, and not until FM started did I come into contact with him again. He threw behind FM, the full resources of Western Electric, and with that product which you now have, and with the technique which the staff of WNYC has developed, I want to tell you that next summer, in the middle of the static and the lightning storms, with Goldman's band on the air, the citizens of this city have a treat in store for them. And I can tell you that I will be one of the first to listen to it. Thank you very much for the privilege of being here today. Thank you, Major. And now, Mr. Lack, would you say a word? Mr. Lack of the... Oh, by all means, sir. Mr. Deputy Mayor, Mr. Siegel, Major Armstrong, friends, the installation and today's dedication of your new 20 kilowatt frequency modulation transmitter is an appropriate event in the celebration of New York City's golden anniversary. Representing the newest and best in radio broadcasting, it is symbolic of New York City's advancement and typical of the station's continuing program in public service. The Western Electric Company and the Bell Telephone Laboratories have been privileged to be associated with the development of the municipal broadcasting system since its very beginning. During the years, as the arc of radio progressed and as the city's requirements for radio services increased, new facilities were added, constantly maintaining the station's position of leadership. One of the important services rendered by your city's station to the people of New York is their programs for cultural advancement, including many broadcasts of fine music. Thus, after Major Armstrong's invention of frequency modulation, it was only natural that WNYC should be one of the first to utilize this improved method of broadcast transmission. In 1943, the station installed one of the first Western Electric 1 kilowatt FM transmitters for its station W39. NY, operating on a frequency of 49.3 megacycles. At that time, the new frequency, at the time the new frequency assignments were made by the Federal Communications Commission, Western Electric made the necessary changes in the city's equipment. The step today in increasing the transmitted power to an effective 20 kilowatts, together with the installation of the cloverleaf antenna, increases the power of your station to its maximum power approved by the FCC, and makes this station second to none, not only in New York but in the United States. This step assures the citizens of the metropolitan area quality coverage for your station's fine program. The municipal broadcasting system's leadership in this field is well established by the receipt of every radio award for public service. That Western Electric, as manufacturer of much of this equipment, could thus participate in helping making this, you make this station an object of civic pride has always been a source of satisfaction to us. We congratulate you, your associates, and the personnel of WNYC and WNYC-FM, on your new facilities, and extend to you our best wishes for continued success in your service to the citizens of New York. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Lack. Now Mr. Deputy Mayor, Colonel Bennett. Mr. Siegel, Mr. Armstrong, Mr. Lack, and fellow citizens. The mayor had looked forward with a great deal of pleasure to being here at this opening of WNYC-FM, but unfortunately, the press of business wouldn't permit. Mr. Siegel, Mr. Siegel, Mr. Siegel, and all those who are connected with WNYC, his congratulations on another fine achievement by the city. We are very happy in the city administration at the fact that we do have WNYC. Not only is it an adjunct to the city government, but we believe that it has been a source of great pleasure to the people of the city of New York. And in line with the mayor's idea of carrying programs, not only of entertainment, but also of cultural value, we now come to another innovation, that of adding FM to the title WNYC. The mayor is happy that this event has occurred during the 50th anniversary celebration of the consolidation of the city of New York. He's asked me also to send his respects, as well as his thanks, to Major Edwin Armstrong, who is, I'm sure you all know, really the father of frequency modulation in radio broadcasting. Major, I'm sure that it's a great pleasure to all of the people of the city of New York to know that you're here with us in the station. We're happy, finally, to have an FM station. And we know that if it hadn't been for the life work which you have devoted to this particular form of radio broadcasting, we would not be today starting out with this FM station. And to you, Mr. Lack, the mayor sends through you to Western Electric his thanks for the speed-up work. And to you, the citizens of New York, Mayor Dwyer has asked me to say to you that he knows that you will get great enjoyment, as well as cultural value from the station that is now about to go into operation. And to say to you also that he assures you that as time goes on and science provides other methods of bringing services to the people of the city of New York, he will only be too happy to put them into installation here, not only at this station, but in other parts of the city. Because what he's interested in is a bigger and a better city. A city of which all of us can be proud. A city which is doing all of those things for its citizens, which the mayor wants to have done. Thank you very much, Seymour. Thank you very much, Colonel. And now, sir, if you'll step up and throw the switch. We have to give the photographers a moment now, so they can get a moment. a moment now, so they can get their cameras set. And, uh, Deputy Mayor Bennett is about to throw the switch that will put into service the FM, uh, 20KW transmitter of the Municipal Broadcasting System, WNYC, as Mayor Bennett said, with the added important, uh, affix FM. Now, ready? Ready or ready? Mayor Bennett has just thrown the switch and the FM transmitter goes into service to the people of the City of New York. Those familiar with the technique of FM, from an engineering standpoint, know what a tremendous augmentation of, uh, facility and communication this will be. Radio has a pleasant responsibility to entertain, but it has a definite and positive responsibility to inform, instruct, and enlighten. And with this additional 20KW FM transmitter, the City of New York is better able to meet any emergency that may occur in the city and serve the people of the City of New York through the great medium of, uh, radio communication in its FM translation. In the presence of the Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, Mayor Bennett, Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Communications of the City of New York, Mr. Frederick R. Lack, Vice President and Manager for Radio of the Western Electric of its radio division, and, uh, Major Edwin H. Armstrong, the inventor of FM, and a distinguished company, including our Budget Commissioner, Mr. Patterson, because without the budget, we don't get any money to spend, and he has been most cooperative on instructions from the Mayor to see that everything possible was achieved here in the way of purchasing power to make it possible to put this new service into you, into your homes, people of the City of New York, and now WNYC-FM is yours for service.