Tonight, we have reached the fifth midway session of these Mott Haven Health panels, and this evening's session will be devoted to a discussion of infant mortality in the two districts. In simple language, by infant mortality we mean the number of infants who die under one year of age. Now this varies in the district, and we shall see there are certain parts of our district which are particularly affected by this problem. Now it has been said that infant mortality is one of the finest indices of the health of the community. And this is particularly so because from studies that we have made here, we find that very often the districts which show high infant mortality also show high incidence of deaths from tuberculosis, newly reported cases of tuberculosis, and large incidence of venereal disease. Now what we shall attempt to do this evening is to show the situation in these two districts, and attempt to show you what can be done to better the situation. The speakers tonight come to us from the Department of Health and from the Bronx Medical Society, and they are all men and women who have had a large experience with this problem. The first speaker will be Mr. Lewis Weiner, who is the chief of the statistical division of the Bureau of Records and Statistics of the New York City Department of Health. Mr. Weiner has had a very large experience in statistics that deal with this problem. Mr. Weiner. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Meyer. As the first speaker, I suppose I have an advantage over the others. I can say almost anything without being afraid that somebody else may have said it before I did. But I am not going to take advantage of my co-speakers on the program. I will stick to facts. I will present a few facts, and I will let the others analyze them or comment about them any way they see fit. At the point of the century, the interim atoll rate in the city of New York was fairly high. It was 135 per thousand. That means that out of every 1,000 babies born, 135 died before they became one year of age. As time went by, the picture changed. And if you will look at this chart, you will be able to get a better picture of what has happened. Here is the rate with 135. And see it coming down. Slowly it came down until in 1948, it was only 26 per thousand. It was roughly one-fifth of what it had been only 50 years ago. An 80% decline in 50 years. In addition to the change in the total mortality, certain other phases about the infant mortality picture changed. Only about 20 years ago, when I came into the department, 50% of all infant deaths were deaths of children under one month of age. The other half were above one month of age. One quarter of all the deaths were of children under one day of age. One quarter under one day. One quarter of all the deaths were of children under one month. It's a whole lot different today. Today, almost 80%, 77% to be exact, are of children who had not reached their first month. And under a day, those who die under a day make up 40% of the total. And if you take those who die before they reach 10 days of age, you find that 69% of the total infant mortality occurs in that one 10-day pain. Just think of it. And within 10 days after break, almost 70% of the total infant mortality occurs. Of course, that can be checked. You can now explain something further, which will give you a better idea why this is so. Let's go back to this chart. At the beginning of the century, the one single cause, which was responsible for more infant deaths than any other, was diarrhea. See this nice dotted line on here? It caused practically one-third of all the infant deaths. Last year, when the rate was 26, the death rate from diarrhea was less than one. So you dropped from one-third, or 33%, to less than 4%, 125th. It's 126. Less than 4% of all the infant deaths that were due to diarrhea. Another great killer in those days were the diseases of the respiratory system, mostly pneumonia. They came down also, but not quite as rapidly, as did diarrhea. You can see this nice steady decline, and this sudden dip, and it's been staying down. The rate from the respiratory diseases last year was only 3 per 1,000 live deaths. Out of every 1,000 children, only 3 died before they were a year old as a result of the respiratory disease. The communicable diseases of childhood also used to cause a great many deaths, and they have gone the way of all the other diseases. They've practically disappeared. Look at those. Watch them. Off the chart. The rate is so small, we couldn't chart it, unless we draw a piece way down about in here. And all... And the other causes, with the exception of this one, which we call diseases of early infancy, such as prematurity, injuries at rates, malformations, which has stayed up fairly well, but all the others have also practically disappeared. So that, last year, when the rate was 26 per 1,000 live rates, the one remaining cause, diseases of early infancy, caused 22 per 1,000. over 80% of all the infant deaths nowadays occur from this one group of causes known as diseases of early infancy. Those are the conditions children come... have when they come into the world. They no longer are a pediatric problem. They are an obstetrical problem. It's the duty of the obstetrician to see what he can do about eliminating these causes. And this is what the next biggest advance in infant mortality must be made. There isn't anything else left. Now, there's one more thing I would like to point out. We talked about the causes. We talked about age groups. I would like to sort of hammer home this one point about diseases of early infancy. You've all heard of prematurity. We define a premature child as one who has been born with a birth weight of less than 2,500 grams, 5 1⁄2 pounds. If the child at birth weighs less than 5 1⁄2 pounds, it is generally considered premature. If the child weighs 2,500 grams or more, it's considered a normal child. A mature child. Now, the death rate among these two groups is considerably different. Among the premature children, the death rate is 173 per 1,000. Among the mature children, it is only 12 per 1,000. I want that to sink in for a moment. Get the big differential. 12 and 173. As a matter of fact, if we break up the premature group into 500 gram weight groups, you find some startling figures. If the child at birth weighs less than 1,000 grams, that means less than 2 1⁄4 pounds, the death rate in that group, if you had 1,000 children born with less than 1,000 pounds, you would find that the death rate would be 968. Only 32 out of the entire 1,000 would survive. in a group of children born with less than 1,000 grams weight. If the child weighs between 1,000 and 1,500 grams, the death rate is 600 per 1,000, a big drop from 970 almost to 600. In the next 500 gram group weight, in the 1,500 to 2,000, the rate becomes 233, practically a third of what it had been in the next lower group. And in the most favorable weight group of the premature, the 2,000 to 2,500 grams, the rate is only 53. 53. But it's still considerably higher than it is in the group which is born with a weight, with a weight of 2,500 grams or more. Of course, luckily, only about 9% of the children in New York City are born with base weights of less than 2,500 grams. And that accounts for the fact that our overall infer mortality rate is only 26. If more were born below 2,500 grams, the rate would be considerably higher because there would be more children with a death rate of 173 rather than with 12. Now, one nice, easy way of reducing the infer mortality rate would be to take all the children born in the city of New York weighing less than 2,500 grams of base, move them up one step. If there were no weights below 1,000 grams, and last year there were 735 of them, you would immediately reduce the rate among a large group from 968 to only 600. You would save roughly 200 children merely by moving them up in weight one step. And if you continue to do so, move them all up one, make the 1,000 gram group 500 pounds heavier, and so on, you probably would find that your infer mortality rate would drop down to just about 20 or 21, merely by this one little step down where nothing else should happen, or rather step up, I mean. So you begin to see what your infer mortality problem is. Now, in your districts here in Mott Haven, they face, in Mott-Sania, you face the same problem that are faced, that is faced, in the rest of the city. Let's take a peek at Mott Haven for a moment. Look. Here it is. You will notice one health area is shaded black. This black shading indicates a health area which has consistently, over the past 10 years or so, had an infant mortality rate higher than the district average. There's only one health area in all of Mott Haven which can show that. These strike areas are areas which at one time had rates better than the district average. But in the past several years, they've gone bad. Their rates are higher than the city average. And this one in here is one that doesn't show a definite trend. It's merely, one year it's bad and another year it's good. And it bears watching, particularly this past year. This past year just had a very bad rate. And Mott-Sania, on the other hand, here is a large group of health areas right here in the middle which have been pretty bad all along. the rest of the district was pretty good. But look at this. Here you have two health areas in this portion, one down in here which have become pretty bad the last several years. They bear watching. And there's one more which hasn't determined on its end again but is beginning to act up. And this is where some attention should be paid to it. So, if you want to reduce the infirmatality rate in the districts of Mott-Sania and Mott-Haden, these shaded portions on demand are nice areas where to start doing intensive breaks. you have heard the presentation of Mr. Weiner on the occurrence and some of the causes of infant mortality. And he has given us a very vivid and striking statistical picture of the problem. That, of course, is the, what you might call the theoretical side of infant mortality. We want to come now to a consideration of what we can do to combat this situation in the two districts and particularly in the affected areas. That is, we want to know the methods of prevention in the community. This will be presented by three persons. One from the realm of the private physician and then from the Department of Health from its medical services and from its nursing services. And the speaker who will present the viewpoint and experience of the private physician and who comes to us as a representative of the Bronx County Medical Society is Dr. Joseph Gollum who is Director of the Pediatric Service at Fordham Hospital. I wish to say here that Dr. Gollum, over the years since this health center has been founded and opened, has been a firm and progressive friend of the center and of the Department of Health and of the community and deserves great praise for his views and methods of outlining cooperation of the private physician, the County Medical Society, the community and the Department of Health. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to introduce to you Dr. Gollum. Thank you very kindly, Dr. Meyer, for those kind words. I thought that I'd be able to start hostilities here, but I see that Dr. Wiener, although he, by innuendo, started us off on a bad tact. He said that he was going to confine himself to speaking about facts. One might infer from that that those who follow him will now be able to speak about fancies. But he went one better. He did worse than that. He not only spoke about the facts, but he gave the causes for the facts, which kind of stole the thunder a little bit from the speakers to follow. Now, just to go and prove that Dr. Meyer was correct when he said about my feeling about the spirit of cooperation, I'll start by saying that the infant mortality problem is one that is too great for any one group in the community to handle. It's a cooperative effort where all must combine. For instance, as Dr. Wiener so correctly pointed out, the big problem is the children who are born and who die in the very early so-called diseases of infancy group. That is the one group where medical science has made comparatively little progress. Now, we have to start way back with the cause of that. we must have a healthy young woman who is going to become a mother in order for us to have a better chance to have a healthy baby. Now, certainly, that is not entirely the problem of the medical profession and the medical profession cannot decrease that mortality. That is a factor of the community where the young woman must have been born healthy, must have had proper environment, proper bringing up, proper physical measures such as plenty of food and plenty of freedom from worry as one of our recent presidents said and that is a very important factor. Then we come to the man who really has the greatest amount to do and that is the obstetrician. As was pointed out to you, perhaps some of you didn't get the significance when Dr. Wiener spoke about raising this group one step, 500 grams more. will make a tremendous difference in the mortality. If we can get by cooperation of all the other agencies and the mother and the obstetrician to prevent prematurity to the extent that the baby is born a half a pound more, the chances for life are that much greater and that is what Dr. Wiener said, meant when he said if we could put him up a step. That's not a mathematical step that you're just going to say, well, we're going to raise the steps and everybody's going to be better. It means that if they can weigh a half a pound more at birth we're that much better off. Now that is a job for having a healthy community and then having the same healthy young woman we speak about go to the obstetrician early enough so he can see that she has a proper checkup. Does she have a heart that has to be looked after? Does she have kidney trouble which will give her a toxemia pregnancy so the child, if it is born, will have a bad start and perhaps not survive 24 or 48 hours? Will the obstetrician have a chance to find out if this woman had rickets when she was young and has a tilted pelvis so that mechanically there's not enough room for that baby to be born? If he knows that in time, if the woman has come in time then he can go ahead and give and do a cesarean section if necessary instead of having some poor woman go into labor and perhaps lose a mother as well as a child. Now that is one of the factors. They come early enough in our present day and age many babies are saved because the RH examination is done. Now remember one thing not everybody who has an RH incompatibility dies or develops erythroblastosis but it's a very good idea to know which children to watch particularly. Of course the health department comes in they've done some of the RH the hospital department they do an RH test. In this field you'll find that the nursing and the health department and the medical group work hand in hand and they must work hand in hand to get any sort of results. As a matter of fact everything that I can talk about will have the other departments in it. For instance if we talk about these premature which are the main cause of trouble as you can see from the charts we don't have to worry about pneumonia except to say that we have to train the mothers and train the house dads in the hospital that pneumonia in a premature or in a small infant is a different proposition from what it is in an older child. You have a child that's brought in with just a little and a little flaring of the nostrils and no temperature and in our service that baby is pneumonia until proven otherwise. Just not long ago a baby was brought in the residents as well it didn't really look sick and it has no temperature but they thought my idiosyncrasy I insisted that those be admitted four hours later it was in an oxygen tent. Now that is part of the training that is done by the doctor in the hospital and the mothers must learn that. Not very long ago on the concourse a mother went into the beauty parlor she came out after she was all beautiful and her three month baby was in the carriage dead. Now they thought it froze to death it didn't an autopsy showed that the child had a bronchopneumonia but the baby had not had any fever nobody had suspected that the child was sick. So that part of the training is done through the health centers it's done by the individual physician in the office and in the home. The other proposition about these prematures well how are we going to take care of them? Well the health department has stepped in and helped out by making very careful studies of the regulations of how much the ideal space is for each infant how many cubic feet of air space how many feet of floor space they have raised havoc in the various private and city hospitals and cut down the number of cases that we can handle there so that each baby there will have a little bit more room of course we keep the women a couple of days less so we'll have enough room to go around but that is a part they did. Then they have arranged for the special ambulance service that you all know about where they have a doctor and nurse or a specially trained nurse and a and a special incubator and oxygen so these babies can be transported to the hospitals the hospitals have done their share and have now developed special nurseries for these premature infants as a matter of fact Fordham is one of the centers for the Bronx which will start after January where these babies are brought and where they get special attention which was not possible at home previously and which was not possible in most hospitals except the very large ones the private sanitaria the smaller hospitals could not take care of premature in any numbers so now the city through its hospitals and its health department with the cooperation of the private physician or pediatrician who has a very important part to play now a lot of these diseases came down because of sera and vaccines and antitoxin that the health department gave free to the needy people they all say well where did the doctor well we can get the diphtheria antitoxin from the health department but it took the physician to make the diagnosis at the bedside and to get the stuff and to give it they gave us the culture media to take it they gave us the sera for the meningitis before we had the present antibiotics in that way they were working hand in glove I think a good illustration is a matter of the difference between the two is a matter of the immunization against diphtheria the health centers will immunize against various things but let's take diphtheria they give the injection they do not do the Schick test whether it's due to lack of personnel or whatever it is I don't know but they do not do the Schick test now the private doctor if he's on the job does the Schick test I once asked one of the directors why this was so and he says the health department's obligation is to look after the community as a whole the looking after of the individual patient is the job of the individual physician and that is where the big difference is we all work together toward the same goal but we each have a different part to play just as in they say the practice of medicine itself you have some doctors who go out to the house and see the patient you have the investigators who find out all the new things who correlate things you have your statisticians you have your administrators you have your nurses you have those that do into government service but all of them do one part no one part can do everything and in the matter of prematurity or infant mortality no one branch that handles them can do it alone one other thing that the private physician can do and that is educate his individual patient that's a job patients don't take very kindly to certain kinds of education I have a sign in my office on red cardboard which says close your safety pin because the first time your baby swallows one you'll feel better if it's closed the last year I had a young woman who was in there and reading the sign was the first time she was in and she was working away preparing the baby for exams that's a wonderful sign you have there I said it certainly is except that it's no dying what do you mean I said you're reading the sign but you're sticking your pins in open so the big thing in education is catch them right away there's a lady here who remembers that I wouldn't let her leave the side of the crib down when the baby is only one month old why? part of the education is when you go away from the crib the side goes up because you can't tell the first time that baby will get up on its knees or stand up and fall out and it's much better to pull the side up a few months extra than to find out that the baby can stand up by picking him off the floor where he may have landed on his head and the same thing is with the matter of toys you teach the teach the although in the first year and the second year both at the time you have your trouble if you have a teddy bear with glass eyes pull the eyes out if they still make them that because these kids swallow them those are the foreign bodies that they get don't let a child have a hairpin to play with when it's crawling around and goes to one of the things there and if the hand is wet it'll be electrocuted or just get a bad burn by sticking it into an outlet don't let the mother leave the baby on a bath net and go to get a towel go to get a diaper or a shirt or anything else take the baby with you or put it in the crib these are all the small things the mortality from that is very small it does not compare with what we're talking about here and what we should talk about mainly but I'm just trying to give you what the private physician can do outside of the large things that are done in cooperation the fact that the private physician is the one who goes into the home or goes into the hospital in its capacity as a pediatrician or general practitioner or an obstetrician and does the work there it's a cooperative job everybody has a job if there's an increase in that mortality every one of the branches is to blame and if there is a decrease every one of the groups that are working in this are the ones that should get the credit and as I say again the decrease here has been remarkable if you go to talk about diarrhea diarrhea in 1886 which was first mentioned when they had the records there were in July or August there would be as many as 2,000 deaths from diarrhea now with more than double the population there are about 220 for the whole city in comparison with 2,000 with a much less population that wasn't done by the doctors alone that was done by the fact that milk was purified it was pasteurized the stables where the cows were kept were looked after and the whole business goes together and every factor must be considered and must be worked on and every improvement by any one of the groups no matter how small is vital for the reduction of this particular thing now there are lots of things we could talk about but the time has been a lot of choices rather brief I think if questions come up many of the small points or larger points would be clarified better thank you thank you Dr. Gallum you have heard the role in this problem of the private physician we shall now proceed to the role of the Department of Health and the medical side of the prevention through medical means will be presented by Dr. Samuel R. Barenberg who is chief of the infant and preschool division of the Bureau of Child Health of our City Department of Health it gives me a great deal of pleasure to present Dr. Barenberg both Mr. Wiener and Dr. Gallum have made it extremely difficult to talk after them they have really covered in general outline about everything that needs to be said about infant mortality whether in Mott Haven or elsewhere the history of the health department's interest in child health problems and infant mortality runs back to about 1908 when the first so-called milk stations were set up in New York City at that time there were 10 or 15 of the infant milk stations set up primarily to teach mothers how to make clean milk and you will notice that it is shortly after this period this being 1910 when the diseases from diarrhea the deaths from diarrhea began to fall not that the health department shall take full credit for this decrease by educating mothers about how to purify milk but that certainly is one of the factors in there one of the other factors is attributable to the fact that a law in the period after 1910 this being 1910 and this being 1920 and this you see all these little dots here which represent this diarrhea curve there was then the introduction of the cheap automobile the Ford and remote as that may seem on the surface one might say with some seriousness that Henry Ford contributed in large measure to decreasing infant mortality from diarrhea the cheap Ford let us say pushed horses off the streets and with less horses on the streets there was as a result less opportunity for the breeding of flies and therefore less opportunity for the carrying of diseases bearing diarrheal diseases diarrheal organisms to milk since 1908 the emphasis in the child health station has passed from that of giving advice about how to boil milk properly into a variety of other added interests we are still just as much interested in 1949 in clean milk as we were then however we realize that in order to bring up a child happily he needs now to have something added once he has survived I mean there is not much point according to present day thinking to have children survive as vegetables they ought to survive as happy human beings and our emphasis now is to give them as much in the way of developmental guidance in the way of so-called anticipatory advice as all of those all of you who have read Spock and who hasn't will recognize milk is clean and plants are told how to keep it clean children are immunized but they've been immunized for some 20 years now against diphtheria against smallpox in latter years against pooping cough and a year or so from now they will be against hepatitis when we moved on to the next phase of our interest and growth and development we didn't drop off the immunizations and we didn't drop off clean milk we've added each time in between there was a great deal of emphasis about how properly to feed your child we still do that now all of these things added together certainly have helped cut down the infant mortality rate during the first year you will notice that this straight line has not changed at all the prematures the congenital abnormalities the birth injuries and it looked for a while as though this were a rather hopeless task everything else has dropped and this looks as though we could do nothing about preventing prematures and Dr. Gollum mentioned briefly the relationship of prematurity to nutrition there are sufficient studies available so that we now recognize the great importance of providing a sufficiently high protein diet to a mother during pregnancy it's the health department's job to educate the public in nutrition matters on a far wider basis perhaps not as specifically with the individual patient as the private physician can do but on a far wider basis in the mass it is the health department's job to educate parents about the importance of getting early antipartum care it becomes the job of the private obstetrician or general practitioner to take care of the patient who has been propagandized it is the job of the health department to provide on a community basis ambulance service and to stimulate better care in the individual hospitals for prematures to subsidize the care of people of the training of people particularly nurses who are probably the most important factor in cutting down premature mortality once you have a premature born the health department works in the community as a whole health department would be concerned particularly with these areas but the health department by itself can't operate aside from people at present we have throughout the city 75 child health stations taking care of about one quarter of the children under a year of age it takes care of an additional number of children between one and six years of age but about 25% of the children born in New York City are registered at health department child health stations and there they get as long as they are they are regular supervision the contribution there as Miss Rothley will tell you later in more detail is is is particularly in the field of letting mothers know how to recognize a sick infant and getting over to her the idea that a child should be taken care of in the beginning of its illness and not when it is on its last legs in front of a beauty parlor the result is that we now see many fewer children coming into the hospitals who are desperately ill they are much more apt to come in with a minor illness as a result of the constant repeated educational campaigns that have been carried on and when you find an area which is dark as this all these here you wonder about the failures of the department and the failures of the community very likely one would pick out of this certain social economic factors which continue to keep that infant mortality rate up my guess is that if this entire area were wiped out and replaced with housing projects that you would immediately get a drop in mortality that has been the pattern elsewhere medicine health departments physicians nurses don't operate in a vacuum aside from human beings from their living conditions from their food from their thoughts health and we're dealing with total factors and we're dealing with total children all of you who have read Spock know that he talks about a total child a whole child you don't examine the child apart from his mind his emotions his psychological reactions and the department has had one effect on the community I don't think that we often talk about namely the training of physicians in the course of the years we have had many physicians in the community who have worked at one time or another in child health stations and who we hope are better physicians as a result of the broadened community approach they have to their local health problems repeatedly we do hear from physicians who have taken the training courses we give that they are doing a better job with their own private patients as a result of knowing what community facilities are available for the care of the kids now I am trying to compress here a four-week training course into eight minutes this is more apt than not at this point to be very sleep inducing as I say to medical students I always close when five students are asleep out of a class of 60 I would appreciate your asking questions which would indicate what particular areas of this problem you're interested in and then I think any one of us will attempt to give the answers questions because those are awfully hard chairs to sit on and you can hear us all beating our gums here indefinitely and being kind and gentle people will not talk back I can empathize with all of you I have sat in chairs like that listening to bright people standing up front giving out with information and wondering why they didn't cover the thing I was really particularly interested in is the problem so completely clear but it needs no further clarification I I'm throwing this in now because I hope that during the course of Ms. Rawkner's talk they will be gathering their thoughts together for the final blows I would just like to sum up the health department does care for a large segment of the children in the community that as the need is indicated by changing populations more child health stations are put in more nursing facilities are put in or less in an area where the population has changed over 10 or 15 years as it has in Mount Haven more child health services are necessary and most health services are provided at a rate which the community needs if per chance the entire community were suddenly to be flooded with rich people all of whom had their private physicians the child health stations probably would be less vital in this community and therefore would be removed and that has been done in sections of the city and that to them to the problem in general and city wide to assist it is not right now to push in the direction of reducing this because this is heading in zero direction to work on the problem of the premature and the birth injuries which are closely related to social conditions nutrition good medical care which includes hospital care and early care from others wish to thank Dr. Barenberg for his presentation of the philosophy and policies procedures of the Department of Health in connection with this problem and one of the great agencies of the Department of Health through which these policies and procedures are put into effect in the child health stations and in the community itself through the homes particularly is through the nurses of the nursing bureau of our own department they live and meet the infant and the mother and very often even the father every day of the year almost and it gives me a great deal of pleasure to present to you Miss Ruth Rothmeier who is assistant director of the Bureau of Nursing of the Department of Health who again has had a very wide and intimate experience with the practical problems relating to infant mortality Miss Rothmeier I'm going to attempt to do two things first to give you a little of the historical background and to see how the public health nurse works as a member of the medical team who are interested in infants and the reduction of infant mortality and strange as it may seem or really it isn't too strange that the things that public health nurses have done correspond to this lowering infant mortality so first we'll look and think of 1908 when the first child health station was established and public health nurses took active part in that service and one of their main contributions was the work they did in the home and as soon as they got into the home the nurses recognized that something else had to be done in the child health station beside the teaching of clean how to use clean milk and so the simple personal hygiene was attempted nurses taught patient and mothers how to bathe babies and we have a picture in the department of health in those days which is very interesting a doctor and nurse at one of the piers on 3rd street the east river where they have about 300 mothers there and the doctor and the nurse attempting to teach them as we look back we see how foolish that is and yet perhaps not too foolish because something was accomplished so the two things that were recognized there were the individual teaching and the group teaching and a great deal in those early days was done through group teaching so we had the establishment of the child health stations the visits into the home and then during the summer the nurses from all branches of our work nurses public health nurses in the health department were specialized that is we had school nurses we had child health stations nurses and nurses that worked with the TB patients and nurses that worked in social hygiene clinics so all the nurses the efforts of all the nurses were combined during the summer and every nurse visited about 150 young infants and instructed their parents and taught child care and as soon as these children were transferred to private physicians or child health stations then the nurse worked with the physicians and then the development of our own maternity hygiene clinics and at one time the health department did have 28 such clinics as a demonstration and as soon as the local hospitals were able to give antipartal and postpartal care the health department gave up that function and today the health department only has three maternity hygiene clinics but in 1930 we had admitted into our maternity hygiene clinics 4,000 brand new mothers not brand new mothers but brand new mothers with their babies who had not been previously known to us and we had 6,000 mothers in various groups throughout the city where the public health nurses were teaching in groups now this is the health department the voluntary agencies of public health were doing some of that work too and I think we can't forget that because when we consider public health nursing in the community we think of all nurses but because I am more familiar with our own statistics I am presenting them and then the midwifery supervision and I don't know whether you know that we only have about six midwives left in New York City but in 1930 we had almost a thousand and in 1909 we had almost 4,000 now the nurse took an active part first in teaching midwives and then in teaching parents about the importance of medical care now the midwives always accused the public health nurse of putting them out of business now I can say quite frankly we're glad well among friends I do and I want to give you some idea then of the amount of home visiting and that was done in those days one half million families were visited by public health nurses of the health department in 1930 and when you think of the contacts then of talking to mothers finding young children who were not under care and referring them the nurse had a marvelous opportunity and then when we come a little bit further on and we think of 1929 the mass immunizations that were done by the health department both in schools and in child health stations and there were something like five a half a million immunizations given that year and public health nurses took an active part in that a very very active part because it was they that did the teaching in groups they arranged for mothers to for children to receive this immunization both in the school and in the child health stations now so much for the history since the about 1939 our whole emphasis has been changed from having specialized nurses to what we call generalized nurses and those nurses then work with families instead of having two and three public health nurses going into one family we have one nurse going in and of course it is obvious to understand why that is much better now the second half of this I will try to by the functions of the nurse and by giving some illustrative material hope that you can see what the functions of the public health nurse are the first she assists the family to carry out medical recommendations and sanitary and social procedures for the prevention of disease and the promotion of health and she guides the family in obtaining help for the adjustment of social conditions which affect health and this may be accomplished through the home visit and through schools and I was glad that it was pointed out before that if we're going to attack this problem we have to think of our young women who are going to be our future mothers and again in our own department our nurses have a very vital part in that because we the health department our staff medical and nursing staff in the high schools and in the elementary schools and parochial schools are members of the health department so we have opportunities to work with these young adolescents and I can't begin to tell you of all the things that go on but it is enough to say that at least we have that entree and a great deal of work is being done with the adolescent now then secondly under this function I want to point out then that one of the another great function is case finding where do we get our women how do we and the opportunities we have for teaching Dr. Barenberg did point out the fact that we have one quarter of all the children in New York City under our care well that means that for every infant we have a responsible member of the family and I always take great pride in this because I know of no other agency one single agency that has the contact with women of the childbearing age that we do and if we can teach our mothers what good maternity care is and why she needs to be under care early I think we have gotten done a great deal now from studies that have been made our nurses pick up and find several hundred cases every solitary week of women that are not under medical care and of course when I say medical care I mean as far as the nurses concerned we are not particularly anxious to send to a hospital municipal hospital or voluntary hospital we work with private physicians and all hospitals so the case finding aspect is important I want to then point out then the conferences that the mother has not only in the home but in child health stations aside from the fact that the nurse sees the patient after the doctor and it is she who tries to help the mother to make her own plan to fit the doctor's recommendation into her daily plan and I thought you would be interested to know that such conferences there were 30,000 conferences that nurses held with mothers who had infants under one year that's in the city as a whole and about 2,000 of those were held right here in Mott Haven and now the home visits that were made by our nurses and that's exclusive of the V&A in the city as a whole last year our nurses made to infants under one month 18,665 visits and in Mott Haven and Marasania we made 3,000 such visits now we know that we should be making more and we hope the time will come when we can make more now I want to give you an example then of this case finding and it happened here just in Mott Haven last week where one of the school child had defective vision and the nurse was going into the home to help the mother to understand what that meant and to help her to make her plan to have that defect corrected was having symptoms her feet were swollen and she was having other symptoms and before the week was over that woman was in the hospital now it again shows you some of the opportunities that we have as nurses and then another function she renders or secures nursing care and teachers by demonstration and that again we have a plan in the city whereby all babies firstborn babies that are born on the general wards are visited by public health nurses and our own nurses and it is there where the nurse goes into the home to teach the mother how to make formula or how to bathe the baby and so forth and then thirdly she shares in the community activities for the development of adequate public health facilities and program and I want to illustrate that which has been pointed out before the transport service that conducted by the health department and then the home visiting by other voluntary agencies both the New York V&A and the Brooklyn V&A who visit every home of the premature before those premature baby goes home and is at the home when the premature baby is received into the home to help the mother take care of it now the premature service has been just in operation one year and if you've read the papers you know that they had a party last week but during that year 600 prematures were transported by public health nurses from the health department and the average length of time to have that baby transported from its home into the hospital into the center was two hours now when you think that some of those babies came from Rockaway into New York it was that is not too bad and I think you'd be interested to know as was pointed out before that the there are premature centers being developed throughout the city some of the modern and baby hospital opened the 6th of December with the first most modern premature center now some of the other hospitals have them but they're improving them and I believe Lincoln hospital in this district is going to open in January and they did refer to the training for nurses and doctors in the New York hospital for this premature care and I'm going to end up with the pictures of one of our nurses and the premature ambulance first I want to point out when I said a community cooperation this is the project with the hospital and the health department and I thought you'd be interested to see one of the nurses working at the incubator and this little portable incubator here and here is the ambulance thank you miss rothmeyer now you know as is our custom each evening after the more formal presentation of our problem that we open the discussion to the audience so that they may ask questions of the panel we shall follow the same procedure tonight and we should be very glad to entertain any question which may suggest itself to anyone are there any questions now where do you get this information on recognizing illness in a child all the books you read say that any disease in a child begins with a cold a running nose a headache fever and if a child has all these symptoms sometimes nothing is wrong with the child except a slight cold and how are you supposed to know the difference that is a very very interesting question I merely broached that to show you how much we have to know about these particular conditions I stated that we not only have to teach the community but we have to teach the doctors that the doctors themselves have gone through medical school and gone through an internship without having learned it that is just something that can be taught only with by those who have had considerable experience with this type of thing now the only thing I can say is that any child below six months of age that has a little hacking corp and that has a little flaring of the nostrils should be considered as something serious that should get medical attention if the child is a bit older than that and the child is having a running nose and you can see that the child is apparently well that's a different proposition but as far as being easy to diagnose it is not anymore than we can tell you how to diagnose tuberculous meningitis in a youngster it can't be done but it's just something that I pointed out to show the difficulties that we have in education what we have to educate people to know I'd like to know something else is it a fact that any child who is ill will become listless and won't play as much as usual that a healthy child is playful and a little child is not even if they don't have a fever that is true to only a certain extent we have certain children who are playful even with a high temperature they're on 103 104 and be perfectly playful on the other hand an intelligent mother who observes her child knows that the child is not acting right and whether there is fever or is not fever it makes no difference the child doesn't act right now I'm just thinking of something that happened during that snowstorm that we had a couple of years ago people say that I would not go out and call unless there was much fever because I can't get around to everybody so I pick those that are serious well this child didn't have much fever it only had 99 and 4 tenths which is normal but the mother told me over the phone how the child was breathing and I asked do the spaces between the ribs pull in the base of the neck pull in when the child breathes she said yes it sounds a little hoarse too she says yes so I walked we couldn't even get an ambulance through then we got the baby over from Bathgate Avenue to 3rd Avenue went up in a police car so I mean it's a question of how the baby looks how the baby acts and it also has to do with experience now every member on my staff at some time or other has sent in babies with tracheobronchitis which is this thing I'm talking about with less than a hundred and a half fever those who haven't seen them haven't had the opportunity at hospitals to see them may try to be heroes and treat them at home my advice is with a croup that is not the kind that starts suddenly at one o'clock in the morning that is not the kind that you have to worry about so much but the one that gradually goes up that type of case should be in a hospital I tell my staff not to be heroes and treat them at home but that is part of education now no doctor can get all of the points in all of the fields of the practice of medicine because medicine has become too great too large a field for anyone to know all about everything and the same thing is with the parents they have to be discriminatory and go to those courses to those lectures to those talks that interest them and that have value for them as a matter of fact when I spoke before about the training by the physician in the matter of education the county society as such realizes the value of these training talks and we have from our department of public health and public health education we have doctors go to the parent teachers association when they ask for talkers we cooperate with the health department and furnish talkers I mean Dr. Myers called me up and we arranged this program before the summer the doctors will go ahead and talk at the Taft High School we have courses it depends exactly on what the people want and what they ask for unfortunately most people are not interested in what we consider vital things they're much more interested in whether the child is frustrated that is the latest problem that parents have is the child frustrated and that is all that seems to count well that isn't very funny I had a I suggested that a woman do a certain thing one time she says well I think that's terrible I said well I've done it with my own children but they may they may resent him I said well I says my oldest is a married boy of 25 I treated him that way I was still pretty good friend he says well but maybe the resentment is so deep that neither he nor you recognize it I said if it's that deep that he doesn't know about it and I don't know about it I don't care about it but the question of how to recognize illness in an infant I've never heard much demand for that by the public in either the school talks or any place else how to recognize tuberculosis meningitis sure they're interested in that but that is of no particular value the question that was asked now which I accidentally threw out was of some importance for instance how many of them think that in our education that we're picky when I say don't kiss the baby anywhere except on top of the head once they kiss it on the hand they think they're going to the baby puts the finger in the mouth infants kiss them on the feet the feet go up into the mouth we've seen that children suck on their feet but kiss them one time once a little I was giving a talk one time and a lady says and I said don't kiss a child because it's the danger of transmitting infection and it was I think a PS4 that time at a parent teacher and one woman got up and said at the end of the lecture how do you feel about kissing babies I said I don't know I thought I stressed very much that I objected to kissing babies anyway except on top of the head but she stood her ground she says I heard you but what will you do when the grandmother says that if she can't kiss the baby she'll die well I says you're putting me on the spot I don't treat the grandmothers but as a physician I feel that their lives should not be placed in jeopardy so only suggestion I can make is that let the grandmother kiss the baby any place where it can't put it in the mouth they got the point are there any other questions I think he covered the field very completely to me the observant mother will have very little difficulty recognizing when her child is really ill if she's willing to admit that a child is a pretty rational human being and does not suddenly begin to act ornery because he is trying to tantalize his parents even at the age of six weeks any behavior which is different from the behavior that child has exhibited in the past may very well be an indication and usually is of a beginning illness it's particularly noticeable in the child just over a year of age who begins to whine who wants extra special attention who may be very provocative to the point where the parent wants at that point really to haul off especially if she's been up all night with this fellow she'd like to lay up to teething and it may be teething but she'd much prefer to think that she had a behavior problem on her hands at this particular age and two days later lo and behold the child is running a fever of 101 or higher and is developing a running nose and cold she may even surreptitiously have given the baby a slight rap behind the ears when no one was looking just to get the tension off her chest and then she feels quite guilty a few days afterwards when the child is sick one experience like that usually is good preparation for the next time it happens though if it doesn't happen too frequently the next time the child acts this way you would again think that perhaps the child needs a psychiatrist when really what he may need is some aspirin some bed rest and a physician I don't think that the parent ought to feel that they have a responsibility for making a diagnosis but rather that in seeing a change in behavior of the child they consult expert medical care which is no further away than the nearest telephone and then let the worrying be done by the physician I am your chairman but I would like to be allowed to make a comment on the discussion which we've had here tonight one thing that interested me very much was the fact that was brought out by I think the first speaker that if we could increase the weight of premature infants say half a pound we would have a very easy solution of one of the chief causes of infant mortality now this interests me because we are trying here now in this district to institute something along those lines we are trying to take advantage of the studies that have been made of the relationship of better nutrition of the mother and better infancy that is the the child being born in a better condition and weighing more so that there is less chance of prematurity and all its ill effects we have set up a committee in this area which is known as the nutrition and infant mortality committee to try to take advantage of this newer knowledge and to impart it to the community and a committee which consists of physicians nurses workers in the hospital public health education workers and nutritionists is now in effect and we have had our first meeting and expect to have our second meeting in January this work will go into effect primarily in Lincoln Hospital but a general health educational campaign to acquaint the community with these facts will also be instituted I think this is a very important step or attempt to combat infant mortality through better nutrition and I would like to hear some expression perhaps from the doctors here as to what they think of this matter I know I have spoken with Dr. Gollum during the last week and asked him as chairman of the health education committee to nominate somebody from the society to sit on as a member of this committee well I think the idea of the committee is excellent I find that one of the principal problems in nutrition education is that we always particularly in underprivileged areas are very free and perhaps quite effective in the information that we give up to the point where we don't tell the people how to get three square meals a day we can give people a well balanced diet on paper but we can't give it to them on the kitchen table this immediately involves all of us in the community's problems whether they are housing their living standards their wages every facet of human life is involved so that your committee I think in a short time is going to find that it is face to face with every community problem which comes in contact in any way with the people and that as the depression descends full blast upon us and there are indications that it is on the way I think your problems are going to become greater and greater that more of the people will want to know how they can get the budget to buy the food those seven famous foods which all of us need every day including the ones that we don't like so much but which are so good for us like carrots and spinach yes yes as something that the Department of Health used to have, and as a professor, it was in short, yes. as it was used as an experimental demonstration unit. Well, I'll actually recognize that the main problem in infant mortality is that what happened in the nine months while the child is growing and developing inside the mother, while the Department of Health increased these two-name clinics. Perhaps there is no education, but give the biometrics of the extra nutrition that would be something valuable in places like in England and Philadelphia, Boston, and so on. Well, that's a very good question. Dr. Gollum probably has an answer to that. It sounds as though the revolution were upon us. As far as I'm concerned, there isn't any reason why that can't be done. However, thus far, it has been the tradition in New York City, for budgetary reasons, not to supply all of the added vitamins and foods which might be necessary to round out a completely well-balanced diet. The reason for giving up so many of the antipartal clinics was simply that we felt it was important for a patient to get continuous care within one medical agency as a hospital, rather than to have the antipartal care done for nine months in a health department maternity clinic and then to be delivered by people whom she didn't know. Therefore, as new medical facilities were established in various parts of the city, in hospitals, we withdrew, so there wouldn't be any duplication of an inferior kind of effort, inferior in that a patient was not seen all along the line by people whom she got to know well and who knew her well. Now, the day will very likely come when patients will be given their vitamin D, their vitamin Q, their vitamin C, I, and O in maternity clinics and elsewhere. But I don't think our social structure at present would approve of that. It certainly isn't traditional. May I have something to ask you? I just want to add to that that there are possibilities of the health department and hospitals working closer together. And as an example, in our existing clinics, our obstetricians are obstetricians of the staff of the nearest hospitals. I think the whole trouble is that we haven't planned our maternity work on a community basis and all agencies. I think we're on that road, though. Did I answer your question or do you think I evaded it? No, I can't. It's as bad as you can. I would like to say as evidence of cooperation along these lines, this newly established committee, this Nutrition and Infantant and Mentality Committee, that we are going right into Lincoln Hospital, into the prenatal clinic, and the nutritionist who represents this district is going in there a certain number of days in the week or month and actually instructing the mothers in better nutrition. We are also going into one of the leading high schools, vocational high schools in this borough in which we are instructing in homemaking classes the young girls so that they will get this information before marriage, which is an important consideration. And we would like to reach other young female groups in order that we may educate them along these lines. You can't wait until they're married. You should do it before they're married. Are there any other questions? Yes. Dr. Gollum? Lest we all get a little bit too pessimistic about what has happened, we are in the medical profession, whether in the health department or in private, are not ever satisfied with the fact that we've just improved. We show you there's still room for improvement. However, just to give you some figures, they were given to me when I was president of the TB and Health, a chairman up here in the Bronx, of the figures from 1937 to 1947, there was a drop in maternal mortality of 66 and two-thirds percent and there was a drop of pediatric mortality of 33 percent during the period of 10 years for the Bronx. Now, I might tell you what I told the obstetricians when I gave them the figures. I said, don't go feeling too proud of yourself that you improved more than the pediatricians did. I said, we had a much better record to begin with and there wasn't as much room for improvement, which was the truth. But today, since we have done community work of getting together, there has been the drop in mortality of both infants and of the mothers. Now, in the question of the other problems that come up, we still have what Dr. Barenberg referred to and what I referred to earlier when I said it's a community project, the woman must be healthy, she must have proper food and so forth and so on. Now, with a decreased budget, it's perfectly true you can't get everything that's necessary. But if you know that the average girl while she's working as a stenographer or something else will go down to the corner drugstore for her lunch and get herself a piece of cake and a cup of coffee or will get a chocolate eclair and an ice cream soda for at least the same amount of money that is spent that way if it can be impressed upon them that certain basic substantial foods will be much better for their entire future welfare. They learn it when they're in high school whether it's vocational or otherwise and they keep up that way when they go to business when they become housewives or as they prefer to call it homemakers why then they will have had that imbued into them that they will know that there are certain foods that are essential for your welfare and they perhaps will be more inclined to pay attention to the necessities for good living and I think that is one of the things that can be started here. Of course, if any of you have ever shot potatoes and go over to Long Island and they're just lying all over the place you can take as many as you want or go up to Maine where they go ahead and inspect the potatoes and see that they're perfect before they dump them before they pay the farmers prior to dumping them but that is something that we in our small way here can't solve and can't take too much into consideration but I think that this type of information has been disseminated tonight if it reached a large enough group would certainly be an eye-opener I think should be very valuable. The lady has a question. I have a nutritional problem with my baby. She eats but doesn't gain. She doesn't gain a sufficient amount each week. She gains approximately two ounces a week sometimes not even that. I don't know if we care to go into specific cases at a meeting of this type and I think we would rather not as is our usual policy. Are there any other questions? If not I want to say that the next meeting will be in January the 5th of the coming year and we will then go into a discussion of the vitamins in health and disease and the panel at that time will be a very representative one and the speakers are well known not only in this city but generally all over the country and it would really pay you and your friends to come and listen to this very important discussion on the interesting subject of vitamins and I'm sure it will have a direct relation even particularly to some of the things that we have discussed here tonight. Thank you very much. Mr. Neil G. Harrison Treasurer of the function Judge Walter Radikes Former President Justice Kies Winter Co-Chairman for this function and a former member of the Board of Law Examiners John Kirtland Clark President of the Bronx County Bar Mr. Frank X. Conlon Kerry Dieses bud Tut Pat by brought