Am I my brother's keeper? Here is an answer. New Yorkers, throughout the world, hunger menaces the very existence of millions of men, women, and children. Whether these people who have endured the indescribable miseries of war will survive this crucial winter depends upon Americans. We New Yorkers have always set the pace in all matters concerning the general welfare of the world. What we do in New York may again set the pace for the entire nation. This special city station broadcast is presented as a progress report to illustrate what our town and the people of the city of New York are doing to help the unfortunates of the world. New York City's first citizen, Mayor William O'Dwyer, has issued this proclamation. Whereas President Truman has created a citizens' food committee to conserve food in this nation in order that we may provide foodstuffs for the hungry peoples of Europe whose very lives depend upon our assistance, and whereas the people of the city of New York have never failed to respond generously and wholeheartedly to the call of our national government in times of crisis, and have demonstrated their willingness to make sacrifices in behalf of their unfortunate fellow men, and whereas the President and the Citizens Food Committee requests the full support of the city government and the community in this program of food conservation, now therefore I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby call upon the citizens of the City of New York to give full cooperation to the program of the President and the Citizens Food Committee and urge the people of our city, one, to use no meat on Tuesdays, two, use no poultry or eggs on Thursdays, three, save a slice of bread every day, four, request restaurants to serve bread and butter only on request, and through this program of food conservation, help feed the helpless and starving people of Europe who, in another tragic crisis, look to this great democracy for their salvation. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 14th day of October, 1947, signed, William O'Dwyer, Mayor. And now, Mr. Charles Luckman, Chairman of the President's Citizens Food Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the need is desperate. The time is short. We must act. Five years and ten months ago, the men and women of America put aside the ways of peace and went to war against those who wrongly supposed the world could survive half-slave, half-free. The question of the hour is scarcely different. Now we are called on to determine whether a world can survive half-famished, half-fed. Today, the peoples of Europe are once again enslaved, this time by the tyranny of hunger. If we turn our backs on this tyranny today, we cannot leave a heritage of peace and prosperity to our children tomorrow. We cannot appease. We must fight. Food is the only weapon that can defeat hunger. We call upon every citizen to reduce his use of grain and grain products. We ask you to save a slice of bread a day, to eat less meat, and to eat less poultry and eggs. We ask all public eating places to adopt a similar program, and specifically, to serve bread and butter only when asked. We make these requests because in order to supply you with these products, the farmer must feed huge quantities of grain to his livestock and poultry. Now, in addition to this broad conservation drive, we ask your cooperation in a specific plan of action. With the full approval of the President of the United States, we call upon every citizen to observe immediately two days of self-denial for the duration of the emergency. We ask you to forego meat on Tuesdays. We ask you to forego poultry and eggs on Thursdays. In view of our relative plenty here and the dire need abroad, we do not feel that we are asking too much of the American people. To help check rising prices, we should eat the foods which are in plentiful supply. There is plenty of food in America to feed America well and enough to spare to help fight hunger abroad. We have, therefore, launched a nationwide meal planning service to help the housewives of America. We are placing the full resources of the United States government and of American industry at your elbow. They will be at hand to help you plan nourishing and well-balanced meals so that you, too, along with farmers and business, can help save wheat, save meat, and save the peace. Every day, crop and food experts are going to provide us with up-to-the-minute information about the economical foods that are coming into the market in the greatest supply. Experts on nutrition and meal planning in both government and business are now readying hundreds of money-saving recipes for your use. The Citizens Food Committee will make these available to you by both press and radio. These recipes will save meat, wheat, poultry, and eggs. This may not be a pleasant prospect, but we cannot accomplish our objective without some sacrifice and some inconvenience. We therefore call upon you to pledge that you will abstain from meat every Tuesday and from poultry and eggs every Thursday for the duration of the emergency. This same pledge will be secured from hotels, schools, restaurants, cafeterias, roadside diners, factory canteens, railroad dining cars, wherever America eats. This is a large program, but we, the people of America, can do no less. There can be no other course for us to follow in this winter of decision. The people of other lands must be given strength to work, to build, to become once more self-supporting and self-respecting men and women. The need is desperate. The time is short. We must act now. Key figures in Mayor O'Dwyer's food conservation program from New York City are the commissioners of health and of markets. We shall hear from both. The first to speak being Dr. Israel Weinstein, New York City's health commissioner. Another New Yorker who is cooperating to the utmost with the food conservation campaign is New York City's Commissioner of Markets, Eugene Schultz. Mr. Schultz. In connection with Commissioner Schultz's remarks, may we remind you that the low-cost menus of the markets department are broadcast daily over WNYC. At 8.25 and at 10.45 a.m. and 9.45 p.m. You'll find them a real help in this all-out drive for saving food. And so, New Yorkers, our responsibility and our humane duty in this crisis is clear. Whether survivors of the horrors of World War II are to succumb now to hunger depends upon us. Waste food and people will die. We Americans, the most fortunate nation in all the world, can express our thanks for our many blessings by sharing what we have. In this time of world crisis, let there be no mistaking America's answer to this question, am I my brother's keeper? am I my brother's keeper? Here is an answer. New Yorkers, throughout the world, hunger menaces the very existence of millions of men, women, and children. Whether these people who have endured the indescribable miseries of war will survive this crucial winter depends upon Americans. We New Yorkers have always set the pace in all matters concerning the general welfare of the world. What we do in New York may again set the pace for the entire nation. This special city station broadcast is presented as a progress report to illustrate what our town and the people of the city of New York are doing to help the unfortunates of the world. New York City's first citizen, Mayor William O'Dwyer, has issued this proclamation. Whereas President Truman has created a citizen food committee to conserve food in this nation in order that we may provide foodstuffs for the hungry peoples of Europe whose very lives depend upon our assistance, and whereas the people of the city of New York have never failed to respond generously and wholeheartedly to the call of our national government in times of crisis and have demonstrated their willingness to make sacrifices in behalf of their unfortunate fellow men, and whereas the President and the Citizens Food Committee requests the full support of the city government and the community in this program of food conservation, now therefore I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, to hereby call upon the citizens of the City of New York to give full cooperation to the program of the President and the Citizens Food Committee and urge the people of our city, one, to use no meat on Tuesdays, two, use no poultry or eggs on Thursdays, three, save a slice of bread every day, four, request restaurants to serve bread and butter only on request, and through this program of food conservation, help feed the helpless and starving people of Europe who, in another tragic crisis, look to this great democracy for their salvation. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 14th day of October, 1947, signed, William O'Dwyer, Mayor. And now, Mr. Charles Luckman, Chairman of the President's Citizens Food Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the need is desperate. The time is short. We must act. Five years and ten months ago, the men and women of America put aside the ways of peace and went to war against those who wrongly supposed the world could survive half-slave, half-free. The question of the hour is scarcely different. Now we are called on to determine whether a world can survive half-famished, half-fed. Today, the peoples of Europe are once again enslaved, this time for the tyranny of hunger. If we turn our backs on this tyranny today, we cannot leave a heritage of peace and prosperity to our children tomorrow. We cannot appease. We must fight. Food is the only weapon that can defeat hunger. hunger. We call upon every citizen to reduce his use of grain and grain products. We ask you to save a slice of bread a day, to eat less meat, and to eat less poultry and eggs. We ask all public eating places to adopt a similar program, and specifically, to serve bread and butter only when asked. We make these requests because in... a good night
