...peaks before a dinner of the Women's National Press Club in the presidential room of the Statler Hotel in Washington. The secretary will be introduced by the president of the Women's National Press Club, Mrs. Ruth Montgomery, Washington correspondent of the New York Daily News. Mrs. Montgomery. These are controversial and perilous times, but if your nerves can take it, they are surely the most stimulating days in the history of the world to be alive. The Women's National Press Club is fortunate tonight, in the middle of the most exciting week since VJ Day, to hear an important address by a man who, as much as any other individual, is helping to write the history of this era, whatever it will be, and to shape the destiny of you and you and you. Ladies and gentlemen, I give you the Honorable Dean Ashton, the Secretary of State. Thank you very well. Hello, votre cerveau. That's all. I'd like to answer!!!! Thank you very much. Lost and just переход we had a little longer longer. What сдел bütün film is that a little short? Miss Montgomery, members of the National Women's Press Club, and distinguished guests. It is indeed a distinguished group of guests that Miss Montgomery has introduced to us tonight. It's an honor to me, but not an altogether undiluted pleasure to be here on this particular evening. We have just emerged from a great debate upon one aspect of our foreign policy. And I think it's a safe prediction to say that we are about to start upon another. The one just concluded dealt with the defense of the North Atlantic area. The part that we and our European allies would play in it. The need for mutual help and individual effort. The need for unity of command and for direction of effort. The debate brought out our primary purpose and object of maintaining peace and preventing war. It made plain that if peace were broken by aggression, the North Atlantic nations must be able to meet the attack successfully, and without sacrificing the freedom of one of them in the initial shock. The forthcoming debate will deal with the security of the Far East, with the interest that our country has and the part that it should play in maintaining that security, with the part that others can and should play, with the nature of the dangers to be faced, with the steps which are being taken and which should be taken, to achieve the same two purposes, the prevention of war and the successful meeting of war, should it be forced upon us. Now the fact that our Far Eastern policy and our European policy have been separately debated should not lead us to make the fatal error of regarding these policies as being divorced from one another. We are dealing with a global problem, which does not correspond to the artificial divisions which sometimes claim our attention. The present dramatic realities of the Korean conflict may blind us to the less obvious, but no less critical, realities of the Near Eastern and the Western portions of our global problems. But if we do not allow this to happen, and if we discuss the problems of each area in the context of the whole, the debate can clarify issues and can help us to get ahead. It's not my purpose tonight to attempt a discourse on all Far Eastern problems in one speech, but it may be useful to make some observations which will indicate lines along which debate can be constructive and perhaps narrow the issues. At the outset, we should remind ourselves, and we should remind our friends abroad, of the invaluable part which public debate of public issues has played in the life of our country since its earliest days. In our debates, everyone is entitled to his say, and I may add that almost everyone avails himself of that right. It is good that this is so, because with us, these periods of national discussion perform many useful purposes. They provide an opportunity for letting off steam, and the importance of letting off steam was known to no one better than to the framers of our Constitution. These debates perform the function of public analysis of issues and arguments, and of public evaluation of issues and arguments. They are a national thinking allowed. They make up the national mind, and they focus the national will. Sometimes our friends abroad look with dismay on the divergence of views which are expressed. They fail to remember that out of this divergence, out of the hard-fought discussions, there comes a national agreement upon conclusions, conclusions produced by the innate common sense of the American people when they have heard all sides and come to the point of decision. No one expects in these debates that all the statements made are going to be logical, or that they're going to be based on proven facts, or that they're going to be good-tempered. In the heat of debate, many things are said which would have been better left unsaid. But we expect this. We understand this. What is essential if the debate is going to accomplish its important purpose is that we all try to make our contributions constructive and to keep them directed toward the issues as we see those issues. The greatest disservice that can be done to this institution of the national debate is consciously to confuse it, to obscure it, to frustrate it. It's well to remember also that this debate will be conducted in the full hearing of that propaganda organization, the Common Forum, which is making a ceaseless effort to confuse, to divide, to weaken people in our own and other countries, to divide us from our allies, and to weaken our collective strength. Now in the debate, which is about to open, it's safe to say that three fairly distinguishable points of view will emerge. These all came out in the prior debate. Two are extreme points of view, which are held by small numbers but very vociferously expressed. And sometimes they affect the thinking of the great majority. One extreme point of view is held by impatient or discouraged people who believe that war is inevitable, that it is futile to attempt to prevent it, and that all our efforts should be directed toward fighting it. The other extreme view is also held by discouraged people who believe that there is no real strength in the non-communist world except our own, and that we should limit our main effort to holding a defensive circle, and that the help we give to others should be limited to what will support our trusts by sea and air against the enemy in the event of war. Now sometimes advocates of these respective points of view join forces, and then they recommend withdrawal from one area and involvement in another. But in the main, these points of view are distinct and recognizable. But the great body of opinion does not hold either of these views. It believes that war is not inevitable, that the great object of policy should be to prevent war, that to do this it is essential to build as quickly as possible and as effectively as possible the collective strength of ourselves and our allies. It believes that aggression is an evil which has to be met, that surrender to the threat of force is appeasement, that negotiation and peaceful settlement is not appeasement. Those who hold this point of view do not expect that difficult questions are susceptible of easy and painless answers. But they want to be sure that the course chosen is sensible and is the best course among those open to us. The real debate will occur within this section of American opinion. It will concern itself with knowing the facts, with appraising results, with evaluating the advantages and the risks of various courses, and settling upon those courses which are best calculated to preserve peace, to prevent war, to limit and to end the conflict in which we are now engaged. Above all, it will concern itself with those courses which will best protect the security of our country. Now with these preliminary observations, we come to what, in my judgment, are the main questions on Far Eastern policy which will be affected by the coming debate. Let's start with the great constructive tasks on which we have been engaged. The steps that we have been taking to move out of the period of war and to establish a new basis for a stable and constructive structure of peace in the Pacific. These steps, essential to our security, are not within what seems to me to be that area of bitter disagreement which may be expected among us. We are moving rapidly ahead to make a prompt and enduring peace with the Japanese and to join with them as well as with other nations in the Pacific in creating the essential of security in that area. We believe that on these matters we shall find a large, if not a complete, range of agreement and a minimum of divergence on basic points of view. The outlines of a treaty of peace with Japan have already been discussed with their own leaders and with other governments' concerns and have been made public. Ambassador John Foster Dulles reviewed these in some detail in his Los Angeles speech of March 31st. May I put them as concisely as possible? The Japanese peace settlement which we have in mind has these basic elements. The peace would be, as Mr. Dulles has said, a peace of reconciliation. The peace should restore Japan as an equal in the world community. The peace should afford Japan a chance to earn her own way in the world and to become self-sustaining. The peace should encourage close cultural relations between Japan and the West. The peace should enable Japan to obtain a reasonable degree of security. We want this kind of peace because the great energy and abilities of the Japanese people can make a major contribution to the peace and well-being not only of the Pacific but of the entire world. And we know that Japan can make this contribution only as a full and free member of the family of nations. We know that the Japanese themselves are anxious to assume their proper international role. That they are in a mood to reject militarism in all its aspects and to seek fellowship with peace-loving nations through collective security and the cooperative activity of the United Nations. So far as our own country is concerned these principles of policy have been worked out under the direction and with the approval of the President. They have been fully discussed by Mr. Dulles with the Japanese and with other governments who are as ready as we are to make an early peace. They reflect the views of General MacArthur and have had his full support. They have had detailed consideration in both Senate and House committees and with the leadership of both of our political parties. I believe that our citizens at home and our friends abroad are entitled to reassurance from the fact that Mr. Dulles with the strong support of leaders of both political parties left for Japan last week for the purpose of going ahead with our plans for a Japanese treaty as a determined national policy. This afternoon the President announced another important forward step in the great constructive task of building security in the Pacific. This had to do with security arrangements which we already have or which we expect to have with Japan with the Philippines with Australia and with New Zealand. The United States has been chiefly responsible for the security of Japan since the autumn of 1945 by reason of our role as the principal occupying power. Neither we nor the Japanese desire that a vacuum of power should suddenly be created by a peace settlement with an exposed and unarmed Japan which would tempt the appetites and ambitions of any with aggressive designs. So it's anticipated that the United States and Japan will by mutual agreement arrange for the continued security of that country whose safety is vital to both of us. As for the Philippines no one can be under the slightest misapprehension about our concern for the security of that nation. Existing arrangements register our partnership and the practical means for giving effect to it. But apart from formal relations and formal agreements the United States would not tolerate any aggression against the Philippines from any quarter. Our history our mutual esteem and our practical interests powerfully reinforce our agreements. In the case of Australia and New Zealand we recall with regard and affection our association in World War II. Without formal agreements it has been clear that our fates have been joined. discussion of a Japanese peace settlement has raised the desirability of saying more formally what has become an underlying fact. Hence our desire to proceed with more specific arrangements of the sort mentioned by the president. These arrangements constitute a threat to no one. They are an expression of our desire to build another portion of the edifice of peace and will enlist the practical principles of self-help and mutual aid which was set forth in the Vandenberg resolution. They will operate fully within the spirit and principles of the Charter of the United Nations. I call your attention to the president's use of the words initial steps in describing these arrangements. They are not a final answer to the organization of security in the Pacific. They will not interfere in any way with such broader arrangements as the nations in that area may wish to develop. Arrangements which we have said would receive the sympathetic interest of the United States. these prospective arrangements announced by the president today have had the fullest consideration and approval by the military and civilian departments of the government and have had full discussion by appropriate committees of the Congress and by responsible leaders of both political parties. The president has announced our attention to the president with bringing these agreements as well as the Japanese peace settlement into effect as early as possible. And so nothing done or said in the great Far Eastern debate should hinder this effort because it is central to the security of the Pacific and to the maintenance of peace in that part of the world. There is a second great constructive effort of immense long-range practical importance which we have been making in the Pacific again directed toward the purposes of security and peace. This is the work which we have been doing jointly with the nations of Asia to strengthen their newly found freedom and to achieve a measure of relief from the poverty and misery which has been their lives. Here again there may be a little difference of opinion but we hope not much. Some may wish to do more some less. Some may wish to do it differently but these are minor questions. The important point is the basic policy the unmistakable evidence of the friendship of the United States for these people of Asia its unquestioned determination to help them in achieving their own purposes in their own way. In some cases our assistance takes the form of technical help. In others we have added direct help with consumer goods and capital plans. In others we have tried to meet a need for military assistance. Today we have ECA missions in the Philippines, Indochina, Thailand, Burma, Indonesia and Formosa. We have military assistance programs in the Philippines, Indochina, Thailand and Formosa. At this particular moment we are also much preoccupied with our effort to provide a substantial quantity of wheat for India as soon as possible to help that great nation get over the desperate food situation which now confronts it. time doesn't permit me to go on to discuss these programs which will shortly be laid before the Congress. They are part of the battle for peace. They are building strength to maintain peace. They are an essential counterpart to our policy of stopping aggression. peace. Now we come to the third area in this field of debate. This will revolve around the action which we and other members of the United Nations have taken and are now taking to oppose the aggression in Korea and around what should be done in the future. here again I believe that the divergence of views will not be as great as might appear at first glance. So far as what has been done is concerned I believe that the great body of opinion in this country stands solidly behind the prompt and courageous action which was taken last June. I believe that our countrymen recognized then and have unincreasingly come to understand the aggression in Korea for what it truly was war by satellite. The first step in a larger plan which if not checked would have engulfed all of Asia. I don't think that there's likely to be much disagreement about the great accomplishments which that action has achieved in the months which follow. The aggressors have thrown into the battle a million and a quarter troops and a vast amount of resources but they are no nearer to achieving their goal than they were when they started. That goal was a quick and easy conquest in their program of aggression. The plan of aggression has been thrown badly out of gear. The immediate purposes of the aggression have been thwarted. Our country and the nations associated with it which have the great preponderance of potential power in the world have been awakened and stimulated to transform that potential power into power in being and to do this on a scale never before undertaken in peacetime. power. This in itself will have a profound effect upon redressing the inequality of power which had arisen and which gravely threatened the peace of the world. Furthermore, what we call collective security which is the willingness of nations to fight side by side if necessary for the safety of any of them because their common safety is involved has received a new vitality from this action in Korea which reaches far beyond the immediate problems of Korea. and this isn't all. Not only the physical struggle in Korea with the obvious evidence of the sources of its support and direction but the exposures at Lake Success have torn the veil from the shabby pretense of aggression by satellites. If this device had not already run its course and lost its usefulness it has become a most dangerous method for those who use it. No, I do not believe that there will be much difference of opinion that what has been done was well and rightly done. The debate is likely to turn upon what is being done and upon what should be done to end the aggression. Earlier in these remarks I suggested that the debate was likely to bring out three general points of view. I think it is here that we shall see these emerge. Again, it seems likely to me that the two extreme views will be held by small but articulate groups. The main discussion will center in the larger group. One extreme view will be the impatient one that the struggle in Korea can be ended only by widening the hostilities with the attendant risks and that any willingness to settle the problems of Korea by peaceful means is tantamount to appeasement. another extreme view is likely to be that the best thing to do is to pull out of Korea and abandon the effort. These views run counter to two purposes deeply held by the American people to prevent the outbreak of world war and to prevent aggression which may lead to world war. They are not likely to hold the center of the discussion. That discussion I believe will seek what our people seek and that is the best course open to us among difficult courses. The best course which will end the aggression which will prevent its extension into a world war and which will best protect the security of our country. Every bit of light and help which the discussion can give toward reaching agreement on this course is good and necessary. I shan't attempt to anticipate the discussion but I offer to you some propositions in an effort to analyze the problem and forward the discussion of it. These propositions I believe stand out. First, peace can come to Korea if the aggressors cease their aggression. it is they who prolong the fighting. To end the fighting by giving the aggressor what he seeks would be appeasement in the true sense of that word. Second, all the nations who are supporting the United Nations military action in Korea are and always have been desirous of solving the problems of Korea by peaceful means. They are not and never have been attempting to solve political problems by force. Their military object is to end the aggression and restore peace. Force was resorted to by the communist aggressors. Third, the aggressors continue to suffer heavy losses in the field. The Chinese people are being made to pay an additional price in hardships at home. Those responsible are their own rulers. This cannot be concealed, especially in China. Fourth, the effective fight in Korea and the growing strength of the countries who are opposed to aggression are upsetting the calculations upon which the attack against Korea was based and upon which, no doubt, other reckless adventures had been planned. Fifth, under present circumstances, an extension of hostilities would not aid the united troops in their mission. It would gravely imperil world peace. General Bradley discussed the military aspects of this fight in his speech yesterday. His conclusion was, and I quote his words, if at all possible, Korea should be settled on the present battleground. Six, the responsibility for action which would result in extending hostilities and imperiling world peace rests squarely on the aggressors. Seven, the aggression in Korea can end by the aggressors determining from bitter experience in the field and by the growing strength of the nations opposing them that the attempt has failed and is too dangerous to continue. You have just heard Secretary of State Dean Atchison addressing a dinner meeting of the Women's National Press Club. This program came to you from Washington.
