Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is your Chairman Johnson E. Fairchild welcoming you to another session of the Cooper Union Forum. Tonight we continue with our series, 1950, Midpoint in the 20th Century. And the subject for discussion tonight is the search for security. And in making up the list of topics for this series, as you can well imagine, I made up many, many lists of things which seemed to be important during this particular period of history. And on all of those lists, there was one topic which came up every single time, and that was the problem of security, both personal, national, international. And it is a great pleasure for me to tell you that Dr. Raymond Walsh has come down this evening to speak on the topic of the search for security. In addition to being a very good friend of Cooper Union, Dr. Raymond Walsh is an educator, economist, and commentator. And it is a pleasure to present to you Dr. Raymond Walsh. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, your Chairman was most generous in saying that it was a pleasure to him to welcome me on this platform again. And it gratifies me to see so many friends in the audience. Because there's no lecture platform on which I have the privilege of standing from time to time, but I enjoy it nearly so much as Cooper Union. And I mean that, by the way, it isn't an orchid that I brought along just to throw at the audience tonight. It is a very genuine feeling. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Admiral vemos. at a large level, economically speaking, by the United States government are part of the proof, historically, that will be recorded of that forecast. Well, as for myself, I don't believe that the proof need necessarily be provided by apocalyptic theory unless we choose to allow it to be provided. I am, myself, convinced, as I stated on this platform three months ago, that any man who continues to conceive of war as an instrument of national policy is a lunatic. That is to say, for myself, I cannot see how anybody can think rationally about international affairs and consider the use of war as a relevant means by which to advance the people's interest. I think such a person is touched with what I call lunacy and needs to be free from that before he can think intelligently regarding public affairs. Well, there's lots of lunacy around, isn't there? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. to the ominous trends to which my friend on the train refers, than the answer that is provided by military expenditures and war on behalf of a nation, or that is provided by the imposition of a complete change in our economy in a communist direction on the other side. I think there is. I think this is within our grasp, if we care, of the psychological willingness and political wit to employ. Let me begin by asking a rather simple question. How does an economy of our kind work anyway? What keeps it running? Well, it keeps running by virtue of the fact that all of the people who receive income for whatever work they do or for allowing work to be done on their land or with their property, that all of them spend the income they receive on buying back the products and services of the economy as it runs. Let me concretely put it this way. That suppose in a year's time, all of the American people, all of us who work at any kind of intellectual or manual labor, using all of the resources that are used in productive employment in the United States, let us suppose that we create, in the course of a year, a national product, everything from hairpins to houses, that is valued at $100 billion. I use that figure just because it's easy to think. $100 billion. And in exchange for the $100 billion of productive output of costs, all of us as workers, as profit receivers, as dividend receivers, as interest receivers, rent receivers, and so on, we get $100 billion in money income in the course of a year. Now, everything goes on all right. Everything can go right along at whatever the rate is. We'll assume that everybody's been working. Everything can go along at that full employment rate as long as all of us who receive this income spend it all back on buying the products and services that have been piled up in the course of earning that income. $100 billion for $100 billion worth of product, and so it could go on that way year after year. But at once, of course, it will occur to all of you, that everybody who receives an income that is above the level of an ordinary standard of life characteristically saves some of that income. That is to say, personally, he doesn't spend it. He saves it. He puts it in a bank account, or he buys bonds of the United States government or corporations for it. In one way or another, he sets it aside as savings to spend in the future when he wants to send a child through school or when he will have expenditures of an exceptional sort for himself or when he grows old or whatever it may be. Now suppose that about $15 billion of this $100 billion of income are saved. That would mean that only $85 billion would be handed back to the producers of the $100 billion worth of goods. It doesn't take any great grain to realize that there's a lot of loss going to occur in an operation of that kind. Because if a product costs $100 billion and only $85 billion are offered for it, the $15 billion represents the aggregate of failure of expectancies to be realized. Profits turning into losses, and what does a businessman do when profits turn into losses? Of course, he disemploys workers whom he had hitherto employed. He throws resources out of use, and depression occurs. So there's a recipe for depression. Now it's only recently, really in the last 15 years, that economists begin to realize that these savings of $15 billion, to which I just referred, are, in spite of the fact that they are saved, not deprived from being spent. They may be spent as savings. Well, after all, what characteristically do people do with their savings? Well, they may put their savings in the bank, as I said, but what does the bank do with those savings? It doesn't put them under the mattress of the cashier. Its business is utilizing those savings for the profit of the bank in question. And so the bank in question will take the savings and transmit them to borrowers who are interested in securing those funds in order that they may expand the goods they have on their store shelves, or expand the machinery that's in their factories, or expand the factories themselves. In other words, General Motors may go to the banks, or it may go directly to sales and borrow savings, and as the result of having those savings, erect additional plants for the production of additional automobiles, for the additional satisfaction of the American public. Savings, in other words, can be spent too, and we call that investment. Now, I want to short telescope a good deal of rather intricate economics here by simply saying this, that as long as the total amount of income which you and I receive as an American people is spent either on consumers' goods, like food and clothing and the rest, or in the form of investment on expanding the industrial and agricultural equipment of our common life, as long as it is all spent, in one way or another, the economy functions with satisfaction. But there is an unpredictable and highly unstable characteristic to the investment process. Investment is something that goes up and down in time, because peculiarly it is based upon forecasts as to whether if you make the investment, you'll make a profit next year or next year following, or five years from now. It's characteristic of our economy, I mean the private enterprise economy, or investment to go up and down. The $15 billion will continue to be saved, but the investment of it, there will be $15 billion one year and only 12 the next, or maybe 10. And with that consequent fluctuation up and down, you and I, or our economy, has enjoyed almost 25 depressions, some of which of great severity in our common history. Now in the last 15 years, I think it's fair to say that a new beachhead has been won intellectually, in the field of economics, by the examination of that fluctuating investment, by the precise examination of what causes that investment to fluctuate year after year, and by the definition of programs that can be adopted by a society if it wants to, to offset the tendency for investment to go below what the savings of the community is in any particular period of time. Investment must be as large as the savings of an economy like ours, or the result is automatically and inevitably unemployment with all of the political and social as well as economic consequences that flow from that. So I come to a much more understandable part of this, namely what can an economy or a country like our own do of a practical sort in the light of this economic knowledge that is now available to us, other than expending the nation's resources for the maintenance of huge military establishments with the implication that at some point those will be used for war. Well, practically, how do Americans live? How do Americans live? Well, of course, like other people, they have to eat. And what about food? Do you remember that in the first three years of the draft in the late 30s and early 40s, 40 out of every 100 men that were examined by the medical authorities of the draft board were sent back home with slips that said, sorry, we can't use you medically unfit. And the Surgeon General of the Army is responsible for the statement that in the large proportion of cases, malnutrition was a factor involved in that medical unfit. Now, malnutrition means, of course, not enough to eat or not food of a proper quality and variety. There are parts of this country not where starvation is epidemic, but where malnutrition is epidemic. There are parts of this country where diseases of a kind that flow from malnutrition are very general. Yet every authority, I believe, knows that that is a nonsensical situation in this country inasmuch as, without adding an acre to cultivation or a man to an acre, we can actually produce a quantity and a variety of food such as to give a gold standard diet to every last man, woman, and child in this country if we but will. food. Now, to do that, it would be necessary not only to encourage private enterprise to its fullest, but it would be necessary to supplement private enterprise in the food industry and notably in certain parts of the agricultural industry by federal and state assistance, by assistance from our public treasury, designed, for example, to restore the impaired soil of so much of the southern and to some extent the southwestern part of our country, designed to encourage the development of knowledge on the part of so many farmers who have been deprived access to the means of knowing how to farm well, devoted to the generation of fertilizer among all farmers and the variety of techniques that can be employed to make farming more productive than it is. That would require public subsidy, that's my point, which is good in itself if the end is good, but it would have the additional consequence of making a contribution to the utilization of the savings of our immensely productive and rich economy and in so doing fend off the possibility of the appearance of unemployment of a mass scale that will do us in if it occurs. Yes, we can do that if we but will. How do Americans live? What about housing? Well, I always think in connection with housing of the occasion on which my eyes were first opened, really, to the prevalence of bad housing in the United States. I think it was about 1935. I was at that time teaching at Harvard in Cambridge and some colleagues of ours in the Departments of Architecture and Sociology went over to Newburyport, Massachusetts to examine into the housing situation. Now, Newburyport is a lovely New England town. If you've ever been there, I'm sure that you can dream your way back into memory. It's a charming town and up and down the main street of that town are several very magnificent and noble-looking houses that were built out of shipping fortunes of an earlier generation. And like many New England towns, the people who live in Newburyport were then and are now prodigal with white paint. And so, generally speaking, you get a feeling that this would be a town in which it would be good to live. Well, what was our astonishment when these colleagues at Harvard came back with the verified statistics regarding housing in that town? Namely, that 27% of the dwellings were, as they put it, unfit for human habitation. The language is theirs, not mine. In Newburyport, mind you, well, get on the magic carpet in your own mind and come along with me to Washington, D.C., our city. And we'll go up to the Capitol and we will call on our congressman and tell him if we can find words what we think of him. And then we will take a little trip just over the hill from the Congress, indeed within the sight of many of the offices of the congressmen of the United States and of the Capitol Dome itself. And we'll find ourselves in one of the most strange and alien sections of our country, the Negro ghettos of Washington, D.C., where block upon block are divided not by streets but by alleys, and lined with shacks which were built in the backyards of white folks to receive the refugees of an earlier war and which were condemned by act of Congress in 1893, but not one of them to my knowledge has been taken down in below these 50 years. And in those shacks that line those alleys, there live thousands of your and my fellow citizens under circumstances that haunt your dreams at night. They say that most of the children there are born out of wedlock. One can easily believe that. They say that it's a breeding source of vice and crime and disease, and it must be that. This in our capital city of the United States, in this advanced period of a test regarding our devotion to the democratic process and the democratic ideals. Well, one could go right on from Washington, D.C., and remembering Newburyport as he went, to Arkansas and to Seattle, Washington, and come around by Milwaukee, Wisconsin, and come pretty close to New York City itself, but we won't do that, of course. But you know what the picture is? You know that the picture is one which was spelled out with a rather flaming phrase by President Roosevelt a good many years ago, namely that one-tenth of the nation was ill-housed. Well, if a tenth of it was ill-housed when Mr. Roosevelt said it, the one-third, I mean, if one-third was ill-housed, thank you, if one-third was ill-housed when Mr. Roosevelt used that phrase, it's certainly greater than that today because we have the lag of building in the Depression and we have the lag of building in the war period to make up. And although we have built ourselves in the last two years almost two million new dwellings in the United States, we are each year going behind at the rate of about 500,000 dwellings in satisfying the growing needs of the people of the United States. I need not add much, I'm sure, to the comprehension of this audience that much of the building that has occurred has been building of a kind suited to the occupancy of people whose incomes are disproportionately high on the average incomes of $10,000 a year and above for people who could afford to pay $60 a month rent and above, thus depriving, of course, automatically so far as housing is concerned, depriving about two-thirds or even more of the American people from access to this housing boom. Well, one could go on about that. Now, it so happens that that also makes nonsense in the sense that we have the resources by which to provide ourselves the million and a half housing units each year that we require as well as the improvement of our going housing equipment. We have plenty of people who have the skills that they'd be very glad to utilize in benefiting ourselves in terms of housing. We can supply ourselves in a decade, surely, with a housing that would constitute, shall I say, a gold standard of housing for all Americans, north, south, east, and west, and country, and town if we but will. Now, notice that if that were done, it would require the fullest amount of private enterprise supplemented by a considerable amount of public enterprise, state and federal and municipal as well. A kind of public enterprise that would be justified because good housing is good, isn't it? That's a justifiable and noble moral purpose for a community, is it not? That is part of the constituent elements of a good society, is it not? So it's justified in those terms, unmistakably. But in addition to the operation of such a program over time, it would be a measurable contribution from the economist's point of view to the protection of our economy from the insecurity of mass unemployment, should that ever tend to raise its head. How do Americans live? What about their health? Well, I've already referred to what you know namely that four out of ten of the boys who went through the draft in the early years of the draft were sent back because they were medically unfit. Quite a shocking indication of the mediocrity of the standard on the average of health in the United States. I wonder if you know that last year 250,000 babies were born to mothers who had no doctor's care at their bedside, whatever. I wonder if you know that 70,000 children died in childbirth. And the American Medical Association, which I believe is not sponsored by Mr. Stalin, states that half of them died in vain. Half of them need not have died if ordinary medical care had been available. And then another 75,000 died within the first month. And again, the American Medical Association says that some 30,000 or 35,000 of them could have been saved if the standard medical care had been at their disposal. Did you know that two out of five counties in the United States in which some 35,000 to 40,000,000 people live have no hospital facilities? Whatever. None, whatever. I wonder if we realize that according to the most conservative sources of opinion, we have only two doctors where there should be three. We have only two dentists where there should almost be four. We have only three nurses where there should be five. That in regard to medical standards and facilities and personnel, we are still far short of what we should be according to the minimum requirements that any thoughtful person would subscribe to. I cannot get out of my mind that there are great stretches of our common country, notably in the South, where there are diseases essentially endemic like rickets and scurvy, diseases so unnecessary now and obsolete as to be omitted from reference almost in a modern medical textbook. You don't have to have those diseases. Yet thousands upon thousands of people in the United States do. Well, I could go on regarding cancer. Some 500 people died in the United States today from cancer and tomorrow 500 more people are going to die. Cancer is quite an enemy of the human race. And yet the research in the field of cancer is of course infinitesimal to the resources we spend on research in other fields that will occur to you, I think, without my mentioning. Indeed, the research in the field of cancer carried on here in the East is carried on, if you put it all together, in quarters that are not much larger than this room in which we're sitting tonight. And the amount of money and resources and talent and imagination and inventiveness that is poured into that great human cause is very small indeed. Now that is needless too. It's needless in the sense that we have resources by which to build and equip the hospitals and we have plenty of people who'd love to be doctors and nurses and dentists. And we can provide ourselves in the course of a rather short time with what might be called a gold standard of health and medical care in the United States. If we but will. And again I heard that if we should will, psychologically and politically, if we should will that, we would require not only the fullest amount of private enterprise in this field, but we would need to subsidize it by a vast amount of public concern. As is indicated in the congressional anxiety now about federal health legislation, even on the part of men known in our public life to be on the whole conservative rather than radical in their inclinations. And in so doing, the public utilization of part of the national income to provide us with the magnificent moral end of improving the health of the American people no matter what their race or what their color or what their creed or what their political convictions or what their geographic locations. In the course of doing that, we should of course be making a contribution to the solution of the problem. How can we keep our economy running stably without the curse of mass insecurity in the form of unemployment? How do Americans live? Or what about education? We're in an educational institution tonight. We're in a building which must be a constant reminder to you as it is to me as I pass this building frequently of the peculiar spirit that must have animated the man in the first instance who made it possible and the unique and wonderful dedication of the American people to education. Education means something to all of us, doesn't it? 150 years ago, we didn't have public education and there was a vast and terrible conflict in the United States over the question whether we should have it. I can remember, it seems to me, that there was a president of Harvard who resigned his post, his important post, in order to head a committee to propagandize the American people with the notion that it would be very bad for us to have publicly supported education because it would make working people disrespectful to their superiors and undermine their characters. Well, the learned gentleman from Harvard, I suppose, had a heart of gold and the best intentions in the world, but thank goodness he failed, he and his committee failed, and we got public education, and it has grown until now as an institution of which we are individually and collectively very proud. We go through a town, we may be driving, and it may be a town we scarcely know the name of it, and we pass down a tree-lined street and there on the side is a building which we recognize instantly to be a school building. And we can easily dream our way into the minds and hearts of the parents who send their children there. And we know what it means in the life of that community because we know what it means in the life of our own community, and it's good. But lest you sit back too complacently, I'd like to tell you that tomorrow morning 500,000 children in this country are going to off to school, are going to trudge their way down the road to school where they will get all of their instruction in all classes, in all courses, from one teacher in one room. Now the one-room school has been described very prettily in various poems, and maybe there are some people here who are kind of nostalgic about the one-room school to which they went when they were children. But I think we'd all confess that that isn't the best kind of education, probably, that that isn't the best kind of consolidated use of our resources on behalf of education. I cannot get over the fact, can you, that in the last ten years, education in the United States has been seriously undermined by various circumstances, but at any rate, that tonight we are running rapidly behind in providing our schools with adequate teachers. teachers. The National Association of Education only the other day reported that there are 100,000 teachers in the country who are teaching who are substandard in their certificates and in their qualifications, and that a third fewer teachers are being graduated from training courses these days in this year than in 1941. This in spite of the fact that the school population of children has grown steadily in the last three or four years and is going to grow very much greater in the next ten. Well, I could go on with things of that kind, but you know about it. You know of the inequalities in education. It's quite shocking to realize that New Jersey spent a couple of hundred dollars per student in school last year, but Mississippi only spent $44. And it wasn't because Mississippi was too tight with its money. Indeed, if it spent all of its revenue, the state of Mississippi had spent all of its revenue on its children for education, it still would have been far behind the average expenditure of the state of New Jersey on its children or the state of New York on its children. And so that goes for many states which are poor in resources and can have access to education of an adequate kind only if they're assisted by our federal government to do so. Well, one could go on about this, but how do Americans live in education? Well, they don't live any too well. we can very easily build the schools and equip the schools and train the teachers by which to give every last boy and girl if he's capable of learning this much a high school education. No matter where he lives, on what kind of tobacco road of country or town, we can do that if we but will. Having said education, I'm sure it's apparent to everybody that I'm talking about public enterprise here because long ago we adopted that as a public concern. And the public enterprise in the field of education expanded in the way that it should be on behalf of this remarkably moral and persuasive end would also make a vast contribution to the art of keeping our economy running in the years ahead with full employment, full utilization of our resources, and to avoid that distemper of mass unemployment and failure from which I dare say no modern community again, if it is cursed will it, will survive. Well, what have I been saying? I hope that I've been saying that in a very important sense, our personal and our national security depends upon the success with which we keep our economy with its familiar institutions healthy and in avoidance of that plague of breakdown which we call cyclical unemployment. My guess is that our nation would not survive another mass depression or if it survived one, it wouldn't survive two without profound political and social convulsion. I've attempted to indicate that there are various answers by which this modern distemper can be dealt with. But for one reason or another, two of those answers are not available or should not be available to us tonight. There's the ominous indication, however, that we have been to some measure engulfed in one of those answers, namely the application of the economics of military enterprise to our collective ordinary peacetime needs. That that need not be, I've attempted to say in terms of the concrete elements like education and health and food and clothing and housing and so on of our collective material life which can be provided in a measure adequate rather than inadequate to the minimum needs that all thoughtful people would recognize as relevant. but that kind of achievement cannot be done by a people that is hypnotized for one reason or another into believing that large amounts of its resources must be invested in military enterprise. That kind of an economy and security cannot by any manner of means be won by a people which invests its inventiveness and its imagination and its skill in the art of war. And so you and I in terms of security face a pretty fundamental question it seems to me that is just over the margin of time I dare say of our own lives. Let me conclude with a story having to do with a man whose name I suppose will always be associated with this general theme named Mr. Roosevelt. I've told it on this platform I think before in another connection if you've heard it forgive me for repeating but a number of years ago when Mr. Roosevelt was first president of the United States a great justice of the Supreme Court retired was enjoying his 92nd birthday he was Mr. Oliver Wendell Holmes a friend of mine had come from England Harold Lasky to visit Mr. Holmes on the occasion of his birthday as he'd frequently done in the past and he tells me the story that in the afternoon to everybody's surprise the president of the United States and Mrs. Roosevelt came to call and offer their felicitations to the aged justice Mr. Holmes was delighted according to Lasky and he and the president sat and exchanged yarns about sailing along the New England coast and going to Harvard in their youth and various things that were common to their lives a half hour passed and then the Roosevelt noticed that Mr. Holmes was getting tired so they got up to go Mr. Holmes insisted on taking them to the elevator they got in the elevator and then Mr. Roosevelt turned around and he looked at Mr. Holmes and he said something like this Mr. Justice Holmes you're a very old man for 75 years you've been pretty close to everything of importance that's happened in American life and you've seen most of the important figures in American life you must have learned a great deal I wonder if you have any advice to give me now that I've taken on the mantle of the chief magistrate of the country well Lasky says that a bright light of fire came into Holmes' eyes and he drew himself up to his tall and rather fragile height and he looked back at the president of the United States and replied young fella I was once in a war I learned something from that war I pass it on to you for you too are in a war when in a war you must form your battalions and carry the fight to the enemy what could Mr. Holmes have been talking about we weren't in any war in 1934 were we Mr. Roosevelt wasn't in any war was he what was Mr. Holmes talking about well I think probably although I never had the chance to ask Mr. Holmes I think probably that Mr. Holmes meant this that Mr. Roosevelt as president of the United States was in a war against ignorance in a war against disease in a war against ill health in a war against material conditions that made insanity out of life and made it by popular will so that it didn't even have the dignity of an indictment by the fates themselves that it was wickedness so to speak visited upon people by virtue of their own choice and he was saying to Mr. Roosevelt under those circumstances you must form your battalions and carry the fight constantly to these enemies and it's good to feel that Mr. Roosevelt took that advice in some measure to heart well so far as our theme tonight is concerned scattered as we have been in these last few years distracted as we have been by great events over which we have felt we have had diminishing control distracted and almost paralyzed by the possibilities of the ill so great that the mind fairly shrinks from contemplating them we have in considerable measure lost track of that injunction to utilize our allies and our friends and ourselves in forming our battalions and carrying the fight against older enemies than any of our new ones the fight against ignorance and disease so that in conquering them we actually may put flesh upon the word democracy in America and make it live among men I like to think that that can be done in your and my time thank you very much Dr. Walsh we have numerous questions here we have numerous questions here that I hope we'll be able to get through fairly rapidly I mean we're also being swamped here by some of these doctors the first one here what do you think the United States government is drawing 50 million bushels of potato I'm sure by any reference that has any sense to it that is almost criminal waste isn't it the fact being that the potatoes were terribly needed by lots of people in this country as well as elsewhere yet we destroyed them under circumstances of certain preconceptions to which we committed ourselves on that there's an answer the government of the United States and many people in government are very disturbed by that episode as well as others they are disturbed by virtue of the fact that agriculture is a very fluctuating business and farmers need and should have protection against that fluctuation so that they will not be cursed by income in any particular year so low that they will have depression imposed on them at the same time they should not be protected in a way that causes the waste of products that are needed by consumers now the Brannan plan in regard to agriculture is one effort to design a pattern of public endeavour that will make it possible for all goods no matter where or in what quantities produced to be used by consumers at prices that they would get in the free market at the same time protecting farmers from the fluctuation of their enterprise Dr. Walsh how long can we go on spending I assume the government spending at the present rate without running into serious trouble well I think we already are in serious trouble that's what I was talking about all right sir do you believe that a return to the gold standard would tend to help or limit the wasteful expenditure of the United States government no I would consider that a completely impractical device by which to control or in any consequential way affect the fiscal policies of a government we've become very sophisticated in this whole business of making money we no longer make it crudely by use of the printing press oh we are very much more clever than that these days and with or without the gold standard a government can make whatever money it wants to make in the light of whatever political policies that its people want pursued therefore I do not believe that there's any salvation in the gold standard there is salvation only so far as money and other things are concerned in our capacity to decide wisely what ends to pursue and decide wisely on how to pursue those ends thank you Dr. Walsh and good evening ladies Dr. Walsh I would like to ask you this while it is true that we should spend much more for our education and our housing I would compare our need for military spending to a family man who carries insurance against his accident or against his death so that his family would be protected if anything happened to him now what good is it our building up our education educational buildings or our houses if such a thing as an atomic bomb can come and destroy everything within two minutes all right thank you how about that Dr. Walsh well of course if the atomic bomb came and destroyed those people who were educated it'd probably make their education look a little silly wouldn't it but there's another implication in your question I'm pretty sure that needs a response and not a facetious one it's wise of course for people to have insurance but insurance against calculable risks and against risks that have some reference to their own lives for example I wouldn't consider a family very intelligent that had a house in the middle of the Sahara desert where it never rains and to insure itself against floods would you the particular insurance policy that it becomes the responsibility of a nation to take out in order to preserve its national security against military aggression of course is always a problem and has become a first class and very intricate problem for us tonight I happen to be one of those who believe that we have taken out an insurance policy that has no reference almost altogether no reference to the calculable risk of war in the world and indeed that we have taken out this insurance policy in a way that makes the risk so to speak greater at the same time that it makes the protection less than before all right thank you here's a young man doctor your view seems to be that government spending is necessary to maintain full employment and prosperity since the government obtains the funds it spends from taxes levied on individuals any money spent by the government is simply money that you and I have put into the common pool and that we no longer have available to spend for ourselves in view of this situation what difference does it make as far as maintaining production and employment whether the government spends this money or whether individuals spend it for whatever they see fit I do not agree with the premise of your conclusion namely that if the federal government our government did not tax and spend the people who have the taxes to pay would be spending that income themselves that does not necessarily follow and the historical record of course has been that every time that the prosperity period has come to its end and visited depression upon our economy it has done so because of the unwillingness of us as private citizens to spend that is to say to invest all of our income that we insist upon saving in other words it is not savings that tend to cause our economy to get into difficulty but it is savings that are not used not invested and the use of the public instrument the government instrument of taxing otherwise idle savings and seeing that they are used is the device that fiscally is a specific recipe for that particular inherent illness Dr. Walsh since war is profit motivated how is a hydrogen bomb war profitable well you remember the old phrase that those whom the gods intend to destroy they first make mad and those people who believe that there is profit to be made in war and act correspondingly and I suppose there are many such really in all countries our own country included such people are in my judgment at any rate already half mad as I said lunatics dr. Walsh here is a question how can we make a man of your type president of the United States it sounds as though you had a few votes right in the room can't think of a better place to start good evening good evening Mr. Miller good evening you assumed about the production that is worth 100 billion dollars and then you claim that only 15% 15 million is left on account of saving but there is another problem which you didn't mention the goods that is sold that is produced for 100 billion dollars the merchants by producing by getting a profit on it make it 125 billion dollars the result is that this 25 billion dollars deprives or the high cost deprives so many people of buying their goods that they starve while the others have more than they need the observation is a very good observation and I would accept that as an important addition to any such analysis as I attempted to give very briefly it refers in one way the gentleman does to the whole subject of monopoly in our economy monopoly is a device economically considered by which that particular kind of process is possible and monopoly always has the consequence in the long run if not immediately of causing the economy to buckle and crack and visit unemployment and ill conditions upon people so I would accept what you say fully Dr. Walsh I have a question here are we to sit back complacently and wait for another Pearl Harbor a Russian type of Pearl Harbor this time why must we not be prepared for the worst in other words don't you think this is really worthwhile we're spending all this money in armament well the question of course is begged when you say prepare for the worst of course in the first instance you have to agree or there has to be some measure of agreement as to what the worst is apt to be now there are some people including this questioner who evidently sincerely believes that the Soviet Union has the intention of committing a Pearl Harbor on the United States I happen to be one of those who quite as sincerely believe that that is a mistake a misreading of what is the probable fact I wish there were more time to go into that but I would like to say this if I may Mr. Chairman that I don't say that through any casual or careless way I have done as much reading as I could and much observation as I could of the facts and of the judgment of the close experts and quite literally I do not know an independent and detached and capable scholar in this field who would not agree with what I said rather than the implications of the question although those people in general are not writing or stating what they think because on the whole it is rather dangerous these days to do so Dr. Walsh how are the eastern countries with the people's democracies meeting the problem of unemployment the economic record of the eastern countries the satellite countries of the Soviet Union to which reference is made has been set forth as has been the record of the western European countries by an unimpeachable source a source that has no axe to grind as far as I know namely the United Nations Commission on economic affairs in Europe and that report a very detailed report is worth your examination if you are interested in detail on this question and the record of those eastern countries is noticeably better than the average record in terms of economic production of the western countries that is to say revival from the pre-war and war conditions although the western European countries have made quite a vivid recovery in terms of production too the second thing to be said about this is that according to the United Nations there has been no evidence of unemployment in those eastern countries I know from a matter of personal visit that there was no evidence in Poland or Czechoslovakia last summer and that not only has the production gone up and gone up quite vividly in those countries but that the resources are being continuously used rather than threatened with unemployment the unemployment in Europe today is strictly speaking a western European phenomenon and we shouldn't kid ourselves about it if it is true thank you doctor yes dr walsh if a large part of savings is invested in extra capital goods for still greater production where will the added purchasing power come from to take care of the additional consumer goods isn't this a vicious circle well it's a circle but it's not necessarily vicious that is to say in the production of goods whether they are consumers goods like clothing or food or houses or in the production of capital goods from automobiles let us say to factory equipment in the production of all goods income is distributed which in a circular fashion I grant you in a healthy economy goes right back in the purchase of those goods and there's nothing vicious about it as long as it works well if it works badly that is to say if the circle is broken that's when it becomes vicious it's one of those odd circles that's vicious when it's broken Dr. Walsh would you discuss the unemployment situation in Western Europe with regard to the Marshall Plan well the Marshall Plan has had benign good effects of course upon many thousands of Europeans I have no doubt regarding in the first instance the goods that they have in their own immediate lives secondly it has made a considerable contribution to particular lines such as mining equipment has gone over there a good deal of fertilizer has gone for farms to some degree tractors for farms and so on there's been a considerable rehabilitation of the railroad stock in some of the countries all of which has been to the end of accelerating the speed with which those countries have recovered their productive powers but the unemployment to which I referred as a growing concern in Western Europe at least in some of the countries is incident not to the recovery of production and hence not to the Marshall Plan but is related to the fact that the crisis in Western Europe economically considered is a crisis of markets not a crisis of production and the Marshall Plan has not been able to secure markets for Western European countries market areas that have been denied indeed by the Marshall Plan stating that Eastern and Western Europe should not politically be permitted to trade with each other the Marshall Plan in a way has as a political accompaniment to the economic good has a policy that makes it impossible for the Marshall Plan to succeed if you follow me by denying the right of Eastern and Western Europe to trade with each other it cuts Western Europe from markets that are essential to its own recovery in a full economic sense thank you would you make this one very fast Irving Fisher this evening on the radio I heard a commentator warn that the communists are waiting for our destruction because of our immense military budget I heard Leon Kaiserling one of the president's economic advisors analyze the 1948 and 49 national budget and could glean from that that 95% of the budget 38 out of 40 billion was of military significance if our economy can stand under such a strain what definite plan do you suggest for diverting these same resources right now for food housing health education and the other purposes you so ably outlined well thank you very much and that's a good kind of question in fact it is that consideration that caused me to interject at frequent times in my talk the words if we but will the problem is not a technical one it's not an engineering or technological problem at all it's a problem so to speak of public psychology and political intention if the political intentions of the American people are aroused by such noble enterprises as good housing good health and all the rest of it then there is no technical problem that would restrain us from making a transition to a quasi military or war economy to a full fledged peace economy on the other hand if the will of the American people in a political sense is defective in this respect then I dare say you and I are caught in circumstances over which we have relatively no control and sometime historians may write an epitaph to this period and say how wonderful their resources were how great their skills are not magnificent their talent but how empty their appreciation of the uses to which those things could be put have a peace you you you