Ladies and gentlemen, may I introduce the General Kilpatrick, the chairman of the Suggestion Award Board of the New York City Employee Suggestion Program. It's extremely gratifying to me to see this splendid turnout for the first announcement of the awards of the Suggestion Committee. We hope that this whole program, which has been quite successful so far, will be even more successful. And here's one case where the city doesn't want to save money. That is, save money on the giving of awards. The Suggestions that we've received so far will affect, we think, substantial savings in the city's budget. And we're hopeful that the suggestions that are to come in the months that follow will justify even greater awards than we've made today. Because in the net balance, the city will benefit and save. And I'm extremely grateful that we on the committee have had the enthusiastic support of our mayor. And I take great pleasure in presenting to you his honor, Vincent Impelliteri. APPLAUSE General Kilpatrick, Budget Director Beam, Paul Brennan, the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission, Deputy Comptroller Jim Phillips, Deputy Mayor Charlie Horowitz, and my fellow employees of the City of New York City of New York. I'm very happy indeed to participate in these ceremonies, which, at which cash awards and certificates of merit will be presented to some 30 city employees who have submitted valuable and meritorious suggestions for improvements in the operation of the municipal government. Suggestion systems for many years have been recognized in both industry and government as effective tools of administration. They have also proven their worth as an integral phase of good employee relations. A well-organized and directed suggestion plan encourages and helps employees to develop and submit their ideas for the mutual benefit of both workers and management. The results of such a program, generally, are reflected in better employee morale, increased efficiency, reduced costs of operations, and improvements in service to the public. An essential feature of successful suggestion plans is the provision of monetary awards for adopted suggestions. As an example, the State of New York has operated a suggestion program for over five years, during which time, over $20,000 has been paid out in cash awards. Cash awards are, of course, a stimulant for a continuous program and afford a tangible form of recognition for employees who submit valuable suggestions. In connection with the City's Management Improvement Program, the Bureau of the Budget conducted a survey of employee suggestion plans, both in industry and in government, and developed a proposal for such a type of program for the City of New York. Based on this study, the Board of Management Improvement recommended, one, the establishment of a citywide employee suggestion program to be centralized in the Municipal Civil Service Commission, two, the appointment by the Mayor of a non-salaried suggestion award board, and three, the appropriation by the Board of Estates, of the Sum of $20,000 on an annual basis to the Municipal Civil Service Commission, to initiate and conduct this program. Of this sum, $10,000 was to be earmarked for cash awards to employees submitting adopted suggestions, and $10,000 for the personnel and other than personal services required for administering the program. Establishment of the New York City's program was approved by the Board of Estimates on April 24, 1952, at which time the sum of $10,000 was appropriated for the administration of the program. Postrequently, I designated General John Reed Kilpatrick, Comptroller Lazarus Joseph, Budget Director Abraham Beam, and Municipal Civil Service Commission President Paul P. Brennan as members of the suggestion award board. as members of the Suggestion Award Board. This board, which directs the program, elected General Kilpatrick as its chairman, designated William H. Rocker of the Municipal Civil Service Commission as its executive director, and adopted a manual of policies and procedures governing the administration of the program. I'm sorry to tell you that Mr. Rocker is ill and will be unable to participate in this first award ceremony. I know you all join me in wishing for him a speedy and a full recovery. The Suggestion Program was officially launched at a meeting of department heads, which I held here at City Hall last August. And at that time, the objectives, policies, and procedures of the program were discussed. The heads of the various City agencies were asked to designate Suggestion Coordinators and to appoint committees committees to study and evaluate employee suggestions pertaining to the operations and the activities of their respective departments. The wide acceptance of the program by City employees is shown by the fact that 65 City agencies and approximately 170,000 employees are now actively participating, and more than 1,000 suggestions have been submitted since the inauguration of the program. At a meeting in December, the Awards Board approved 17 suggestions for cash awards ranging from $10 to $100 for a total of $470, and 13 suggestions for certificates of merit. It is estimated that some of these suggestions might eventually produce an annual saving of many thousands of dollars through improvement of municipal government operations and services to the public. I don't want you to believe that all of these suggestions at times are constructive. General Kilpatrick told me that a great number of them are. He said some of them, when they're evaluated, are really just complaints about the bosses. At its meeting yesterday, the Board of Estimate appropriated the sum of $5,000 for payments of cash awards during the fiscal year 1952-53, and approved the payment of the cash awards recommended by the Suggestion Award Board. To me, the number of suggestions submitted by city employees, some 1,200 in four months, is indicative of the commendable interest of our employees in their own work, and augurs well for the continuing success of this program. The awards which I am happy to present today are additional evidence of the fine intelligence and high caliber of our city employees, and of their keen devotion to public service. With such resources, the City of New York can look forward to continuing progress and very significant accomplishments. And finally, I should like to express my own personal appreciation, and the appreciation of the people of the City of New York, to General Kilpatrick, an outstanding leader of our community, who's perfectly willing to take time out of his own very busy schedule to head up this program. And I'd also like to extend my personal thanks to Comptroller Lazarus Joseph, to Budget Director Abraham Beam, and to Paul Brennan, the Chairman and President of our Municipal Civil Service Commission, for their very valuable contributions to this program. Thank you very much. Mr. Mayor, the first and chief award today goes to Miss Elsie A. Knight, Clerk Grade 2 of the Department of Sanitation. Will Miss Knight please? Her suggestion was for the installation of high-quality rubber hose to replace existing lines and institute inspections and reports for the control to affect savings in the use of hoist oil. Now this award is rather interesting, because if the savings, if the suggestion is being put into effect, and if it works out the way I hope it will, a very substantial saving will be made in the cost of hoist oil. And at the end of the year, and I hope this will come about, Miss Knight, an additional award to you will be recommended, provided the savings are as great as I hope they will be. Now, I'm going to ask Miss Knight to please stay here a moment, because she also wins the second prize. and award of $50 for the use of water level indicator on measuring sticks to establish the presence of water in unsealed tanks. and the next award is the first prize. Once again, please. Thank you, Governor. Now, can we come over here? Yeah, yeah. Where do you want to go? Over here so they can get the crowd in the background. Now the photographers are taking pictures of the award winners. General Kilpatrick and the award winner and the mayor are all being photographed. And in just a moment, we will be continuing with the ceremonies. The next award of $50 goes to Arthur Fox, Clerk Grade 2, City Register. Subject, Procedures. Use of Window Envelopes for the Return of Recorded Instruments. Now, unfortunately, Mr. Fox is ill, but his boss, City Register Orgel, will receive the award for it. Cut. Yeah. Congratulations. Now, it's understood you don't keep it. Fox gets it. I get it. I get it. I get it. I get it. I get it. I get it. I get it. I get it. The next award of $50 goes to Kenneth R. Douglas, Foreman of Mechanics, Department of Sanitation. Subject, Apparatus. Installation of a device on refuge collection trucks to replace the handle, slide, and slide holder, which have become damaged through use, will permit cheaper repairs and reduce difficulty of operation. Thank you. That's a question. That's a question. That's a question. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And, award of $25 to Harvey Polskin of the Department of Welfare. He's a typist. Grade 2. Subject, Procedures. Preparation of Case Reconstruction Manuscript. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. An award of $25 to Frank J. Green, bridge operator, grade one, public works, subject safety, providing traffic signs for movable bridges. An award of $25 to Louis R. Masser, clerk, grade four, police department, subject methods, lamination of identification cards issued to licensees using different type of plastic called coated acetate. An award of $25 to Amelia M. Engel, supervising public health nurse, the health department. The subject of the award is extension of use, no, sorry, annual appraisal and inventory of school medical rooms to be prepared in health center district on prescribed form. Will control yearly issuance of equipment, decrease oversupply, and enable maintenance of check on outflow. The next, an award of $25 to Laura Multer, clerk, grade four, city register. The subject, the subject of the award, procedures, extension of use of form letter for return and rejection of instruments received by mail. Congratulations. An award of $25 to Judith Perlman, clerk, grade two, health department, subject procedures, liaison between premature transport and premature payment program to result in improvement in payment procedure. Congratulations. The next is a joint award of $10 each to Tanya Seltzer, stenographer, grade three, welfare, and Edward Boehm, senior accountant, welfare. The subject, ediphone discs. Equal awards approved for Ms. Seltzer and Mr. Boehm for suggesting that transparent envelopes be used for ediphone discs and for improvement devised by Mr. Boehm consisting of envelopes with punched holes permitting contents to be noted from the outside. Thank you. A $10 award to Augustus T. McDonald, assistant civil engineer, Board of Water Supply, and the subject, construction, to bag and save rock dust for future construction use. This award is made with the proviso that a supplementary award will be considered if subsequent information relating to the extent of annual savings based on pilot installation warrant such action. An award of $10 to Emil J. Tanner, foreman, CNS, Department of Transportation. Subject, transit equipment. Installation of cushion rubber draft gear to save time and increase safety. A $10 award to William J. Hart, foreman, Department of Sanitation. Subject, truck code numbers to be stenciled on center area of tailgate of trucks. A $10 award to Naomi R. Arrington, clerk, grade two, Department of Health. Three, I'm sorry. Is that a recent promotion? Subject, forms. That means a difference in salary. Yes, sir. Use of maiden name on certain forms of tuberculosis clinic in order to eliminate duplication in case numbers on female patients' record file roster. An award of $10 to Helen Brenner, Department of Health, clerk, grade three. Subject, procedure elimination of duplicate copy of Form 99-K, Board of Education, request for medical examinations of pupils suspected of truancy. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Now, in addition to the CASH awards, a total of 13 certificates of merit were recommended for award to date. The first of those to Mitchell M. Heller, Investigator, Controller, Excise Taxes. Louis M. Colbert, Senior Accountant, Welfare, Finance and Statistics. James Gordon Colby, Auto Engineman, Borough, President of Queens, Highways. Congratulations. Ida Armuth, Clerk Grade 4, City Register, Kings County. Isidore Weinberger, Reporting Stenographer, Investigation, Clerk Grade 5. Jean Hurley, Clerk Grade 2, Health Records. Katherine Wellenkamp, Stenographer, Grade 2, Law, Tax Leon. Miss Lyon. Gabriel Tehan, Clerk Grade 4, Controller, Accounting. Irving Levy, Towerman, Transportation, BMT. Congratulations. Now, Mr. Levy gets a second award, so congratulations again, sir. Vincent J. Casso, Civil Engineer, Public Works, Bridge Operation. Katherine E. Tierney, Clerk, Grade 5, Borough President of Manhattan. Jeremy U. Newman, Civil Engineer, Borough President of Manhattan. Jeremy U. Newman, Civil Engineer, Borough President of Manhattan. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations.cell appleve 미국 Westen, reserve power supporting.iffer4 Pollт菲安,