This is Dinah Shore. Singing of the finer things in Carolina reminds me that there are a great many fine things in the other 47 of our United States. Our churches, cathedrals, and synagogues, our schools, town meetings, and free newspapers, our radio stations, books, magazines are the finest and the freest in the world. It's up to you to keep them that way. When you vote in a free election, you're voting for freedom. Remember that when you go to the polls in November, be sure to cast your ballot for democracy. But remember, you can't vote unless you're registered. Hello, everybody. This is Dinah Shore. I have a favorite song that I'd like to share with all of you. It's a song that I carry in my heart. It's the wonderful song that is America and its people. If America sings in your heart, keep that song bright and alive by exercising one of the most precious rights of citizenship. Register and vote. This is William Holden. I've been thinking of something that strikes me as being a strange piece of irony. In Asia, Americans are dying to preserve the democratic way of life. Those men are suffering and dying to prevent communism from robbing millions all over the world of their freedom. To prevent communism from taking away our own rights, among them the sacred right of a free ballot. Yet right here in the United States, 50 percent of American men and women fail to exercise a right that our GIs are dying to protect, the right to vote. Don't think for a moment that what you see happening in other countries can't happen here. It can. It can indeed. So please register for the coming election. This is William Holden. Do you know that right here in the United States, 50 percent of American men and women fail to exercise a right that our GIs are dying to protect, not only for ourselves, but for the other free nations of the world. 50 percent of our voters don't even bother to vote. So please register for the coming election. Hello. This is Ruth Hussey. I've been proud to have been able to appear before you on the screen and to receive your support and approval. I want to use that confidence now for a minute to remind you of your obligation of citizenship. It's a very simple process and takes only a few minutes. Do you know that almost 50 percent of the eligible voters in this country do not go to the polls? Nothing can be more important than this obligation. Your home, your job, your children depend on it. It's the future of our country that you're voting for. Be sure to cast your ballot for democracy. But remember, you cannot vote unless you register. This is Ruth Hussey. Like most women, I'm constantly thinking ahead. I want to know that my children and yours will be living in a world where they will continue to enjoy the benefits of free education, free speech, and freedom of worship. Will you take a few minutes of your time to cast your very important vote for America's future? But remember, you cannot vote unless you register. This is Eddie Cantor. Have you ever written a letter to your congressman telling him you don't care how he votes, you don't care what he does, and that you will do whatever he and his colleagues tell you to do? I think there are very few Americans who would write such a letter. There are still fewer Americans who would even think of delegating their citizenship and their freedom to someone else. And yet, almost 50% of the eligible voters in this country do exactly that every election day. They do it by not voting. Sometimes, if you ask one of these non-voters why he or she did not vote, the answer is, I forgot to register. This is a reminder for you to register if you want to vote on election day. Remember to register and cast your ballot for democracy. This is Eddie Cantor. Do you know that there are few Americans who would ever think of delegating their citizenship and their freedom to someone else? And yet, almost 50% of the eligible voters in this country do exactly that every election day. This is a reminder for you to register if you want to vote on election day. This is Fanny Hurst speaking. You don't throw away gold coin if you are lucky enough to have one in your pocket, do you? Well, your vote is worth more than gold. It's worth your democratic way of life. Revere it. Dignify it. Use it. The right to vote in a two or more party system is the high and alienable right of American citizenship. Now, these are pretty hazardous times in which to deliberately throw away that priceless privilege. The non-voter is really a sort of man without a country. So register, America. Vote, America. This is Fanny Hurst speaking. Now, one of the many things that constantly surprises me about practical America is our impracticability, namely the reckless manner in which we throw away our right to vote by failing to register. And what a dangerous negligence. The vote is our safeguard against the hazards which threaten our way of life. So register, America. Vote, America. This is Ben Grauer speaking, friends. There are people living behind the Iron Curtain who would give their all for one particular right American citizens have. That right is the right to vote, to choose our public officials in a free election. But no citizen can vote unless he registers, and registers now. Get your family, your friends, to register, and then get them to vote in November. That's one way we can show the communist world that we take our freedom seriously. Register now so that you can vote in November. So remember, you can't vote unless you do register. This is Ben Grauer, friends. It took years of hardship, privation, and sacrifice to achieve American freedom. It will take you only minutes next November to help support it. For part of American freedom is the right to vote. Use it. Remember, you cannot vote unless you register. This is Frank Sinatra. During my recent trip to Europe, I saw what the effects of being unprepared and being unconcerned with the duties and obligations of maintaining your own freedom can mean. Towns devastated, people still finding it hard to earn enough to pay for food, and all because too many of them didn't care what happened in their own country's elections. It might seem like a small thing, but every guy's own little vote, when used, can protect the whole country. So don't throw away that little thing that's your biggest privilege. Every American should vote in our free elections. It's our form of service. So be a full-time American. Be sure to cast your ballot for democracy. This is Frank Sinatra saying, remember, you can't vote unless you register. Friends, this is Frank Sinatra. Every American should vote in our free elections. Don't throw away that little thing that's your biggest privilege. Be a full-time American. Be sure to cast your ballot for democracy, and remember, you cannot vote unless you register. This is William Holden. Do you know that right here in the United States, 50% of American men and women fail to exercise a right that our GIs are dying to protect. 50% of our voters don't even bother to vote. Today is your last day to register, so please do it now. To vote in November, you must register today. Hello, this is Ruth Hussey. I've been proud to have been able to appear before you on the screen and to receive your support and approval. I want to use that confidence now for a minute to remind you of your obligation of citizenship. It's a very simple process and takes only a few minutes. Do you know that almost 50% of the eligible voters in this country do not go to the polls? Nothing can be more important than this obligation. Your home, your job, your children depend on it. It is the future of our country that you're voting for. Be sure to cast your ballot for democracy, but remember, today is the last day to register if you intend to vote in November. This is Ben Grauer speaking, friends. There are people living behind the Iron Curtain who would give their all for one particular right American citizens have. That right is the right to vote, to choose our public officials in a free election. But no citizen can vote unless he registers, and registers now. Get your family, your friends, to register, and then get them to vote in November. That's one way we can show the communist world that we take our freedom seriously. Tomorrow is the last day to register to vote next November. Your American right to vote is too precious to lose, so use it. Be sure to register tomorrow. This is Ben Grauer, friends, with a reminder that tomorrow is the last day to register to vote next November. Your American right to vote is too precious to lose, especially these days, so use it. Be sure to register tomorrow. This is Dinah Shore. Singing of the finer things in Carolina reminds me that there are a great many fine things in the other 47 of our United States. Our churches, cathedrals, and synagogues, our schools, town meetings, and free newspapers, our radio stations, books, magazines are the finest and the freest in the world. It's up to you to keep them that way. When you vote in a free election, you're voting for freedom. Remember that when you go to the polls in November, be sure to cast your ballot for democracy. But remember, you can't vote unless you register. Today is the very last day you can register. Hello, everybody. This is Dinah Shore. I have a favorite song that I'd like to share with all of you. It's a song that I carry in my heart. It's the wonderful song that is America and its people. If America sings in your heart, keep that song bright and alive by exercising one of the most precious rights of citizenship. Register and vote. Today is the very last day you can register. This is Frank Sinatra. During my recent trip to Europe, I saw what the effects of being unprepared and being unconcerned with the duties and obligations of maintaining your own freedom can mean. Towns devastated, people still finding it hard to earn enough to pay for food, and all because too many of them didn't care what happened in their own country's elections. It might seem like a small thing, but every guy's own little vote, when used, can protect the whole country. So don't throw away that little thing that's your biggest privilege. Every American should vote in our free elections. It's our form of service. So be a full-time American. Be sure to cast your ballot for democracy. This is Frank Sinatra saying, remember, this is your last day to register. This is Frank Sinatra. Every American should vote in our free elections. Don't throw away that little thing that's your biggest privilege. Today is your last day to show that you're a full-time American, because if you don't register right now, you'll lose your chance to vote on election day. So get out there today and register so that you can cast your ballot for democracy. Thank you.
