Who lived upon this land whereon we stand? Green shores and wooded hills, Indians, warriors bold, some savage enemies, slaughtering bitter foes, some kindly neighbors bringing white men grain to feed the stranger lest he starve in winter cold, the English settlers ewing trees for homes, the Quakers pleading for a place to pray, the Negroes fleeing from harsh masters, all seeking and finding freedom to speak, assemble, print, and pray. And now we reap the fruit of all their gains and live in peace and plenty. And shall we hand it on, this great free gift? As to our shores come others fleeing too, seeking the freedom all before have sought. Now give we them the gift we value most, freedom to live in peace. I meet at Ward, the principal of Flushing High School. It is my happy privilege today to announce our Diamond Jubilee. Seventy-five years under the supervision of the Board of Regents of the State of New York makes us the oldest free public high school in what is now greater New York City. We are celebrating our honorable age by a series of festivities that will culminate Monday, May 15th, our actual birthday, in a pageant. This pageant shows dramatically the long history of the school and places it in the longer history of the town of Flushing. It is this pageant in capsule form which you will now hear over the air. The theme of our story is the emblem of Flushing High School, the lamp of learning, a spark from the sacred fire of liberty which was caught up by eager hands and cherished by generations for over 300 years. Let us go back in spirit to this spot on earth in 1878 to our first graduating class of six girls and a very nervous group of girls it is as they wait anxiously in the dressing room of the Flushing Opera House before appearing before the townsfolk to give their graduation speeches. I'm so scared. I know I'll never remember my speech. I could cry. You would be valedictorian. But don't worry, Clara. You won't be nervous once you get started. Just remember the first three words. You never were tongue-tied in chemistry. Oh, where did I lay my essay? I wish I didn't have to read this. Essay on Charlotte Corday. Who cares about Charlotte Corday on graduation night? I don't. Whose bright idea was it anyway to have each of us read or speak tonight? Six graduates, six performers. Just imagine, girls. In 10 or 20 years from now, there may be as many as 15 or 20 graduates. Think of having to listen to all 20 speak. It's a good thing there are only six of us. My speech tonight is, Be prepared. I'll never be prepared. Before long, Flushing High School's attendance began to increase unbelievably before our eyes. More and more, the school reflected the life of the community, a pleasant residential town. Certainly, Flushing High School owes a great deal of credit to our beloved Mr. Howell Wood, a science teacher and our earliest athletic coach and mentor, and Pop Alfred, the father of one of Flushing's loyal sons. Although not a member of the faculty, devoted his time and energy to coaching outstanding football teams. It was they that indeed laid the groundwork for a long and successful athletic career for Flushing High School. At the World's Fair of 1904 in St. Louis, Flushing High School won the championship in the final playoffs of the international tournament in basketball. Give them the X, the X, the X, Give them the X, the X, the X, Give them the X, the X, the X, Where? Right in the neck, the neck, the neck, Right in the neck, the neck, the neck, Right in the neck, the neck, the neck, Right there! And now, with only about one minute left to play, and a St. Louis team leading 67-66, Flushing takes the ball out in a mid-court stripe. The ball is passed to Smith, and there goes Flushing's man, dribbling it down court. Smith passed to Hillman in a foul circle. Hillman shoots. The ball hits the rim, spins around, and goes in! And there's the end of the game, and Flushing wins the international championship of 1904, 68-67. St. Louis will never forget this inspired Flushing team. This was only one of the many triumphs in Flushing High School's spectacular sports career. Not many years later, in 1919, another team won us a national championship, right here in the town of Flushing. This football team played the Champions of the West, a team from the suburbs of Chicago. Ree, ree, ree, ree, ree, ree, ree, roe, rum, rum, Run, get a rat trap, bigger than a cat trap, Run, get a rat trap, bigger than a cat trap, Cannibal, cannibal, sis, boom, bah, Flushing High School, rah, rah, rah, Team, team, team! And what rejoicing when Flushing won the championship from the big Chicago team. In addition to the crack teams just mentioned, Flushing High School also had outstanding track and tennis teams. Then the orchestra and band and senior plays followed in rapid succession. School was work, but I have to admit it was a lot of fun, too. Hey, what about us? Many apologies, girls. Why, yes, of course, even the girls went on as an athletics, and what teams they were. But these are only a few of the many activities going on in Flushing High School. Some of its alumni, destined to become very famous, were Judge Charles S. Colden, a great athlete, Charles Dana Gibson, the artist originator of the Gibson Girl, and Donald R. Hamilton, authority on radar. And let us not forget about one of the most important foundations, the Organization of Arista, the Honor Society of Flushing High School. Many of our older alumni have distinguished themselves by their scholastic achievements, and our more recent alumni have followed in their footsteps. Among the most recent honor winners is Robert Mazzo, who, in 1948, won the Westinghouse, Harvard, and Pulitzer scholarships. Indeed, the Flushing High students of today have a glorious past to live up to. But all of us aren't geniuses. How many students have sympathized with the sentiments expressed in the poem, Trials of the Regent's Nightmare, published in the folio in 1898. Where, oh where, are our great expectations, hopes for high marks in the Regent's exam? Wearied our brains are with faces most sorrowful. Now, for next June, let us hurriedly cram. Fail is the one word which sets our hearts beating, firm with the bond of a true sympathy. Better luck next time, the chorus repeating. On each goes to his sad destiny. The work and enjoyment of school was interrupted December 7th, the day of the bombing of Pearl Harbor. And before long, a world-shaking war was upon us, requiring of Flushing High School her eldest son. And then came at last D-Day. The principal called an assembly and read the 91st Psalm. As Dr. Walsh read, our alma mater stood in spirit beside her children in France, in India, in Africa, in England, scattered everywhere over the entire face of the world. I'm in the U.S. Marines. I used to run on the track team back home. And believe me, I never once dreamed that someday I'd be using this skill, dodging bullets on a beachhead in Italy. They always said I was a born leader. But to think of all the people in the world, I would be leading this troop of infantry across India under the blistering sun of this cruel blue tropic sky. Did you ever stop to realize how it might feel who have 88s come screaming through the air towards you their song of death and hate? I'm a pilot, and believe me, I know. I joined the WAVE soon after my graduation. I'm stationed here on a lonely island. I joined the Navy, but I'm not seeing the world. I can hardly keep from dreaming of my happy days in school. But I must keep a clear head. But how can I help myself, completely surrounded and left in a water-filled foxhole in a screaming-infested jungle of Africa? But I must keep a clear head. I must. I must. I must. But these were only a few of the many who contributed their time, energy, devotion, and even their lives to the cause of freedom. To conclude this prayerful D-Day, a young girl's voice formed the words that were in the hearts of our boys and girls who were scattered over the entire face of the world. Father, be thou my guide. Though dire the summons that gives to death greeting, Thou givest day when life is fast-splitting, O for that moment my soul prepare, Father, O grant my prayer. During the last five years, an increasingly large number of boys and girls from other lands have come to Flushing, seeking the opportunities denied them in their homelands. Our alma mater welcomes them. Boys and girls, you are welcome. Henceforth, may our heritage be your heritage. This is my wish for you as we stand on the threshold of the fourth generation of Flushing High School's history. Let us resolve to fulfill even more fully the message of remonstrance as dictated by the Sheriff of Flushing in 1657. Therefore, if any, come and love unto us. We cannot in conscience lay violent hands upon them, but give them free egress and regress into our town and houses, as God shall persuade our consciences. May it be said with just pride by your children and your children's children. This is my heritage. Pray God I may be worthy. The truth is laid. America, America, God shed his grace on thee and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea. In its long history, Flushing High School has not only held high the ideals of scholarship and sportsmanship as befitted school, but has always been one with our community of Flushing in striving for the fullest expression of brotherhood among men. May the years ahead, to our 100th anniversary and beyond, find us still sending out into our great city young men and women of goodwill committed in the best sense to the service of the city and our Borough of Queens. We are honored today in hearing from the president of the Borough of Queens, the Honorable Morris A. Fitzgerald. Flushing High School's Diamond Jubilee makes us pause and take stock of what the school has meant to Flushing, the Borough of Queens, and the city of New York. Flushing High is the oldest free public high school within the confines of greater New York. It was a free secondary school at a time when Flushing was a town and before Flushing and Queens became part of greater New York. In the 75 years since the establishment of the high school, great changes have occurred in Queens. Throughout those years, Flushing High School has played an important role in the history of Queens. We are proud of the school's contribution toward the enrichment of the lives of our youth. We are proud of the services rendered by Flushing High School graduates in time of peace and of war to their community and country. But now let us pause and see what we have done for Flushing High School. The institution is terribly overcrowded. There are 2,053 students for 1,200 seats, and the school is on double session. We have acquired the old Wells estate next to the school for an addition. The time has come when we must construct that addition. The fight for this improvement has gone on for years. I hope that this year, the Diamond Jubilee year of the school, the Board of Estimate will provide for the construction of the addition in the capital budget. Congratulations to the students and teachers of Flushing High School and to the people of Flushing. With the support of the parents and civic-minded citizens, I am sure Flushing High School will go on to greater and greater achievements. Thank you, Mr. Fitzgerald. You can be sure that Flushing High School is looking forward to its next 75 years. This special program in honor of the Flushing Diamond Jubilee has been brought to you by transcription from the Board of Education radio station. Glory, glory, hallelujah! Glory, glory, hallelujah! Glory, glory, hallelujah! It's moving, part in, Lord! Glory, glory, hallelujah! Glory, glory, hallelujah! Glory, glory, hallelujah! It's moving, part in, Lord! Amen! Amen! Amen! Amen! Thank you.
