The Office of War Information presents its director, Elmer Davis, in the fourth of a series of weekly reports to the American people at home and to America's fighting forces overseas. Each week, Mr. Davis will summarize the progress of the war on the fighting fronts and will discuss home front problems closely related with the progress of the war. Elmer Davis and his weekly review of the war. Mr. Davis. The news is still good this week. Our armies are pushing ahead in Africa. And when I say our armies, I mean all three, British, French, and American, for their recent operations have been first-rate teamwork. The other day, when the British Eighth Army attacked Rommel's latest position on the coast, the American Second Corps was attacking his flank farther north. Rommel had to detach a good many of his men and a good many of his tanks to keep our troops from breaking through. But he didn't have enough to be strong enough in both places at once, so the British broke through. That process is likely to be repeated in the 175 miles he has still to go before he tries to hole up in Bezerda. At two points along that line of retreat, American troops are still threatening the German flank. And still farther north, the British First Army is keeping up its pressure towards Tunis. Rommel evidently means to fight delaying actions wherever and whenever he can. But if he concentrates too much force to stop Montgomery, any of these armies on his flank might break through and cut off his retreat. And if he can manage to hold them, Montgomery will keep on pushing him back. However, so far he's retreating in good order. Since the Allied offensive began on March 21st, a total of almost 20,000 Axis prisoners have been taken. But add Rommel's losses in killed and wounded to that, and he still probably hasn't lost much more than 10% of the whole enemy army in Tunisia. Not a great deal of his material has yet been captured, tanks and artillery and so on. But quite a lot of it has been destroyed by the incessant American and British air attacks on his retreating columns. If that goes on, he might fold up sooner than now seems probable. But if he gets back into northern Tunisia, he will have naturally strong positions which have been heavily fortified, and he may be able to keep on fighting quite a while. Two things, however, seem pretty certain. The first is that the Germans mean to hold on around Tunis and Bezerda just as long as they can, for they are still sending in reinforcements by air. Engineers and specialist troops, probably, who can strengthen the fortifications of those last positions. And the other certainty is that they know that in the end they are going to be licked. Rommel, of course, has long been in command of both German and Italian troops. And while he was winning, German propaganda very naturally ballyhooed him. Now, all at once, propaganda spokesmen in Berlin tell neutral reporters that Tunisia is really an Italian theater of war, and that Rommel is only a sector commander under an Italian commander-in-chief. The Germans take the credit for the victories, and they want to make sure that the Italians get the blame for the defeat. Now, Tunisia is not yet conquered. There's likely to be hard fighting and heavy losses before Rommel is finally wiped out or chased into the sea. And after Africa is cleared of the enemy, there lies before us the much larger job of invading Europe. But certainly, in the last three weeks, our armies have done a good job, a thoroughly professional job. And note that one of the principal reasons for the Allied victories has been our superiority in the air. Fighter planes and light bombers attack the enemy's positions and cut up his retreating columns. Other fighters shoot down many of the planes that bring in his reinforcements. And the heavy, long-range bombers sink supply ships and keep pounding the Italian ports that serve as bases for reinforcements and supplies. This is one more proof of what a difference it makes to be strong in the air. Every commanding general knows that, and naturally, every one of them wants more air power. We had a reminder of that this morning from Australia, where somebody who was described as an authoritative source at Allied headquarters said that here at home in the United States, there is a reserve pool of at least 10,000 combat planes over and above the needs of the front. Obviously, if there are 10,000 planes lying idle here at home, it would seem that we could spare quite a lot of them for Australia. Well, the only trouble with that argument is that it simply isn't so. The exact number of combat planes in this country is, of course, a military secret. But they are not lying idle. Some of them are needed to protect the sea frontier, the steady patrolling to watch for submarines, which have again begun to appear, one or two of them, in the neighborhood of our coasts, and which might appear in larger numbers if there were no air force to hit back at them. Other combat planes in this country are just about to be sent off to the fighting fronts. Still others, a considerable number, are used for training. An air pilot can begin his training in a training plane, but pretty soon he has to learn to fly the kind of plane he's going to fight in. And you can't make him learn that at the front. If you do, he won't last long. The training of bomber crews is a particularly complicated matter. And if you send them off before they've learned their trade, you are likely to lose both crew and bomber. That is what most of those so-called idle planes in this country are doing. They are being used by the men who are going to fly and fight them, but have got to learn how first. It's natural that General MacArthur and Prime Minister Curtin should want more planes in Australia. As I said two weeks ago, every commander in every theater can put up a perfectly sound argument why he ought to have more. But there simply are not enough to meet every man's demands, and the Joint Chiefs of Staff here in Washington have to distribute them where they will be most useful at the moment in furthering the purposes of long-term strategic plans. General MacArthur is going to get more planes. Secretary Stimson promised that yesterday. And his flyers will use them well. In the recent operations in the Bismarck Sea and at Kaviang, they inflicted great damage on the enemy with comparatively few planes. Give them more and they'll do even better. But other fronts need planes too. If a lot of them hadn't been sent to Africa, our recent victories might well have been defeats. The Japanese seem to have reinforced their air strength in the South Pacific. The other day, almost a hundred of their planes attacked some of our shipping at Florida Island in the Solomons. A much smaller American air force went after them and shot down 34 Jap planes while losing only seven. That news you heard yesterday. What you didn't hear till today was that the enemy did some damage to our shipping, sinking a destroyer, a tanker, and a corvette. The reason you didn't hear that sooner was that the Navy Department here in Washington didn't know it yesterday. This time, it happened that the good news came in ahead of the bad. But in both cases, the Navy put out the news as soon as they got it. The Japanese story of that action, by the way, was a piece of fiction even more romantic than usual. They claimed they sank a cruiser, a destroyer, and ten transports. Twelve ships. Well, they didn't. They got only three, and two of those were little ones. Here at home, government agencies are working out the details of executing the President's new order, freezing wages and prices. There's no doubt about its intention to hold the line against inflation. And the only way to hold the line, the President declared, is to stop trying to find justifications for not holding it here or not holding it there. All goods that affect the cost of living are to have ceiling prices put on them, something that could not have been done, at least not without long argument, if Congress had passed the bankhead bill over the President's veto. Wages are not to be raised except according to the Little Steel formula, which means that they can't be upped more than 15% beyond what they were at the beginning of 1941. And nobody can hire a man away from his present job by offering him more money unless the change of employment would help the effective prosecution of the war. Most of the burden of carrying out this program will fall on the Economic Stabilization Director, former Justice Burns. He said today that he gets an extension of authority over borderline and hardship cases. And there are signs already that some government agencies are going to find a lot of borderline and hardship cases and pass them on to him and let him take the heat. However, Mr. Burns is one of the people, there are quite a few of them around Washington, who don't mind taking it, and he can dish it out too when he has to. The President said today that the anti-inflation program was a four-legged stool, its four legs being control of wages, control of food prices, rationing, and lastly, taxation and savings. That last leg still needs stiffening. The administration program looked toward raising an additional $16 billion this year in taxes. But the Treasury and various groups in Congress have so far completely failed to agree on a tax bill, so it looks as if this year, once more, the taxpayers will have to wait a long time till they know how much they owe. Now, freezing of prices may work hardship on some people, freezing of wages on others, but nothing like the hardship that would come down on all of us if we let prices go skyrocketing. Life is less comfortable here than it used to be, but it is still far more comfortable than in any other nation at war. Not all of us realize that, apparently. Yesterday's papers carried an Associated Press dispatch from the South Pacific about mail from home, and the writer quoted some of the letters that soldiers and Marines get when they come back from days in the swamps under fire with no sleep and little to eat. That dispatch by J. Norman Lodge ought to be pasted up over the writing desk in every home that has a son or a brother or a husband at the front. For what do some of these men, after days of hardship and danger, read when they come back and get their mail from home? Well, I'll give you some of the quotes. We're really in this war now. Pleasure driving is out for the duration, and it's so tiresome riding on a bus. The food situation's getting terrible. We have to stand in line for butter, and then it's 59 cents a pound. We know there's a war on now. And so on. Remember that next time you write to your son at the front. He knows there's a war on. You don't need to tell him. Well, that's the way some people take it, but fortunately not very many. For some observers who've predicted lately that the American people couldn't take it have been proved wrong, so far as concerned most of the people at any rate. Before rationing of canned fruits and vegetables began on March 1st, some prophets of doom said it was complicated and unworkable, but most people seem to have learned how to work it. When point rationing of meats and fats began, again, some pessimists said it wouldn't work. There were difficulties the first few days in various places, but it's working. Not perfectly, but in most places pretty well. We're certainly a lot better off than if we let all the meat go in a mad scramble to the people who had most time and most money. But the prophets of doom took their real licking on March 15th. The air was filled before that with dire predictions that millions of taxpayers, especially the new ones, simply wouldn't pay at all, and that a lot of those who did pay would have to cash in their war bonds to do it. But on March 15th, 40 million people filed income tax returns, five times as many as three years ago, and they paid in more than $5 billion, 40% more than the Treasury ever received in a single month before. A few people did have to cash their bonds to pay taxes, but not many. A few people have to cash bonds every month because they need the money in a hurry. But in March, there were $18 billion worth of cashable bonds outstanding, and those that were cashed that month were less than three quarters of 1% of the total. And the same month, the amount of new bonds purchased was seven and a half times as large as the amount that was cashed. That wasn't the rich buying in either. About three quarters of those sales were in small denominations to people of modest means. All of which looks as if there really aren't very many people in this country who think of the war just as something that makes you ride on the bus or stand in line for butter. The Japs said we couldn't take it. The Germans said we couldn't take it. They said we loved luxury, the American standard of living, so much that we'd take a licking rather than give it up. That seems to have been one more time they were wrong. You have just heard Elmer Davis, director of the Office of War Information and his weekly War Review. In these weekly reports to the American people at home and to America's fighting forces overseas, Mr. Davis summarizes the progress of the war on the fighting fronts and discusses home front problems closely related with the progress of the war. Elmer Davis and his weekly War Review will be heard again at the same time next week. Mr. Davis spoke from Washington.
