Today, we pay solemn tribute to the deported members of the police department, who in their term of service worked efficiently, bravely, and conscientiously, irrespective of the many risks and the jeopardy involved. Our sentiments prompt us to recall with reverence their many worthy and heroic deeds. By their faithful service and sacrifice, they have rightfully earned our gratitude, esteem, and respect. But the symbolic value of any memorial homage serves its purpose only to the extent of fulfilling our responsibilities to the living. Yet never permitting the embers of cherished memories of our fellow officers to burn into oblivion. Because life moves on, I maintain the true spirit of commemoration does not achieve the desire expression unless we dedicate our combined efforts in furthering a deeper interest in our work, thereby contributing to the progress and welfare of the community. It is a proven fact that high morale and corruption are opposing forces and can never go hand in hand. In fact, anything morally unsound is bound to crack up. On that basis, honorable principles and personal integrity must be upheld and maintained on the highest level. We must be worthy of the confidence placed in us. Otherwise, we shatter the moral framework. Not to take these things seriously is to temper with public safety. There are no reasonable substitutes for ethics. The police department is a vital protective system in the life and history of our great city. And we intend to keep it so. We must dissociate ourselves from anything and everything that does not bring up true loyalty. Time moves too swiftly to attempt to crowd the meaningless and the destructive practices into our lives. The Israeli put it this way. Life is too short to be little. Rather, let us follow the example of noble and unselfish personalities who endeavor to reduce human suffering and who fearlessly cry out against injustice. To stand on the principles of truth, respect human dignity, uphold spiritual values and decency, is to sustain ourselves against all forces of recklessness, temptation, and evil. And none shall make us afraid. From time to time, we must meet with sad disappointment and bitter discouragement. Things don't always turn out the way we planned. We look forward to a day of reward for our labor, but it does not always materialize. Every day I encounter people who scowl that life isn't worth the energy we put into it. They frankly confess they don't feel equal to the struggle. They have lost all interest in living. They are fed up with guiding principles. All sense of usefulness has been replaced by uncertainty. Every day, books come off the press on the key to happy living. Well, perhaps my modest formula would not fill a volume, nor would it be the deciding solution, but some value may be found in a few essential directives. To those people who feel life is so hopeless, who fail to believe in themselves, I question their principles toward achieving success and happiness. Have they an honest approach to peace of mind? Or do they rely too much on destiny? Are they content with the simple things in life? How well do they get along with others? Have they the will to rise above envy and petty jealousies? Are they governed by narrow prejudice rather than reason? Have they caught the quality and spirit of goodwill? Instead of escaping from reality, face it with courage and self-confidence. To evade is not to solve a problem, but to have the power of understanding is to learn the lessons of life. And only then can we accept our burdens and struggles with less resentment and more balance. Zestful living will grow as each absorbing interest characterizes its value to the individual. I further contend life doesn't offer more than we put into it. Moreover, life is never so complete that there isn't more to be desired. Material results do not always bring satisfaction. However, the person who takes the view that happiness is never perfected until it is shared lives with a meaning and purpose in life. The human heart is capable of both love and hate. It is up to us to choose which serves the best. If we choose hate, it will eventually destroy us because anything contrary to human dignity is a mockery on life itself. If, on the other hand, we choose love, we serve in the vineyard of the Lord who offers peace to the world. If men will seek it. Despite a world wounded and divided by disunity and mistrust, we must cling to hope and faith in God, but dare not sit back indifferently and wait for disaster to strike. The danger of human weakness is ever-present in the individual. Without spiritual strength, we are lost. Without more perspective, we eventually become a wanderer. The religious organizations of the police department have an abiding influence that contributes to the well-being of the men. It provides a sympathetic understanding and serves as a source of spiritual strength. It deals with emotional tension. It destroys discouragement and offers moral support, stability, and fortitude compatible for the job. In short, it acts as a sanctuary. Often the policemen have pressing problems. The obstacles not easily overcome and not entirely comprehensive to the public. It takes a strong character to work well on the mental pressure. The men and women of the department are doing a colossal job, often under strain, stress, and anxiety to meet their obligations. The high cost of living makes their obligations a difficult burden to carry. Yet despite increased demands, multiple duties and hazards, we chaplains recognize their devotion to duty, their loyalty, and integrity in many noteworthy respects. There is a definite bond between our devotion and loyalty to our specific work and allegiance to our country. Today more than ever, there is an urgent need for understanding, for a closer bond in human relations, and a forging of unity, strength, and wisdom if we hope to establish a more equitable and fortified security for posterity. Each of us must support everything that rings of true democracy. We may have our differences and contrary sound opinions, but surely this does not call for disrespect and mudslinging. Rather, let us stand on common ground to abolish bigotry, race discrimination, and unjust prejudice. These are the detriments unworthy of Americans. Yet unfortunately, they do exist. And as long as they exist, there can be no true brotherhood. Sometimes we have to struggle for the good things in life. If everything came easily, life in general would be dull and uninteresting. More often, it takes a few setbacks, a Korean struggle, to arouse our consciousness. And only then do we attach serious importance because our very survival hangs in the balance. True in these United States, the priceless gift of freedom provides us with security. But like a great many things in life, when we are too sure of possession, there is always the danger of losing it. There is a proverb to the effect, that which costs little is less value. How often do we have to be reminded to cherish our privileges and liberties? How often are we blinded to the fact that the very soil we tread is sacred because men have died to preserve it? Freedom is one of the treasures of life. We must guard at will. Therefore, nobody is truly exempt from responsibility. It isn't enough to retain our way of life. We must strive to make a better world. We have the resources and ability. Let us also have the ideal and the spirit. To those policemen who are no longer here to share our purposes, aims, and determination, we praise and extol their bygone heroic service. We honor their noble deeds and sacred memory and engrave this epithet on the scroll of time, vigilant in life, faithful to duty, gone in body, but ever living in the human soul. I am very happy to welcome to this pulpit an old friend, our deputy mayor Harwitz, who has a message for us at these services. Chaplain Frank, Commissioner, members of the police department, ladies and gentlemen, as the official representative of Mayor Impeletari, I deem it a real honor and a privilege to participate in these memorial services and to bring to you not only the warm greetings of the mayor and a tribute from him to the members of our great police department, but also to add my humble words of tribute to the deeds of valor past and present and the glorious record of our police department. The city of New York has innumerable agencies constituting its great structure of government and by a coordinated effort each one participates in contributing something to the good and welfare of the city and to the people of our community. Thank you.