Mr. Mayor, for several years, under your direct supervision, the Municipal Broadcasting System has been presenting a series of distinguished informational programs under the auspices of the American Chemical Society, entitled Headlines in Chemistry. These programs have been extremely important in keeping New York's housewives and consumers aware of the latest developments in the chemical laboratories of America and showing how life can be made richer and fuller by reason of chemistry. And today, sir, WNYC is extremely proud and honored because Dr. Edgar C. Britton, the President of the American Chemical Society and the Director of the Organic Research Laboratory of the Dow Chemical Company, is here to take some tangible recognition of this public service activity on the part of the city station. And here, sir, is Dr. Britton. Mr. Mayor? The American Chemical Society is presenting this plaque to honor radio station WNYC and New York City for their outstanding service in broadcasting scientific information and news on the program Headlines in Chemistry, as composed and edited by the American Chemical Society News Service. This service, established in 1917, has an enviable record of contributing to the lay public's appreciation of chemistry and chemical engineering as it applies to our slogan, Chemistry Key to Better Living. The problem of translating scientific publication into lay language is a difficult one, but it has been happily solved by our new service. The role of the American Chemical Society and the American Chemical Society and the lay public. The American Chemical Society on this occasion of the American Chemical Society on this occasion of the fifth anniversary, offer our heartish congratulations and present this plaque as a token of our esteem. The plaque reads as follows. To station WNYC and the City of New York, this award is presented by the American Chemical Society on the fifth anniversary of the inauguration of the American Chemical Society's new service program, Headlines in Chemistry. In recognition of the outstanding contribution made by Station WNYC to the broadcasting of the outstanding contribution made by Station WNYC to the broadcasting of educational and scientific information. Thank you very much, Dr. Britton. I assure you and the members of the American Chemical Society that I, as mayor of the City of New York, am indeed proud and happy to receive this citation on behalf of WNYC and the people of the City of New York. I want to particularly congratulate the members of the members of the people of the City of New York for providing the people of our city with this very interesting and educational program very properly called Headlines in Chemistry. I also, on this occasion, want to congratulate Mr. Seymour N. Siegel and his staff for providing the City of New York and the people of the City with educational programs which have great value for all the people of our City. May I hope that this program, Headlines in Chemistry, will continue for a great number of years to come. Thank you very much for this presentation. Thank you, Mr. Mayor.