Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the reviewing stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year. 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the reviewing stand asks, how far should we go with credit controls? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the purpose and effects of consumer credit controls. Do we need such controls? Are they fair to people who can't pay cash? And now our moderator, Leighton Boren, director of the reviewing stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Our guests today are J. A. Covey, counsel for the National Appliance and Radio Dealers Association. Byron Coon, president of the American Finance Conference and chairman of the board of General Finance Corporation. And R. B. Heffelbauer, professor of economics at Northwestern University. Gentlemen, I should like to open our discussion by asking this question. What do we mean by consumer credit controls? Mr. Coon? Well, the present consumer credit controls include Regulation W and Regulation X. Regulation W deals with installment credit and restricts the ability of the consumer to buy durable goods by setting high down payments and short maturity periods. While Regulation X sets high down payments on houses. These, Mr. Coons, are quite similar then to the controls we had during World War I, except at that time we added a control over consumers' monthly charge accounts. But I do think it is important, if I may interpose, to say that credit controls by themselves are not so important as they are when viewed as part of the overall program of mobilization and preventing of inflation. The present terms on automobiles, I think we should keep in mind, are just as stringent today as they were during World War II when there was no production of cars at all. While today in most durable goods industries, I think we should keep in mind that production records are actually being broken. These controls, aimed at the consumers, are compulsory. Unlike the voluntary controls on the banking and Federal Reserve systems, where the new money, that is the inflationary threat, is actually created, rather than only distributed, as it is in consumer buying. I fear, Mr. Coons, that some misinterpretation might come from the idea that there are no controls over the banks. They are controlled through their reserve requirements. But I will agree with you that the general bank credit situation is quite loose, and it would be advantageous in controlling inflation to tighten that up. Mr. Coon, do you make a distinction here between voluntary and involuntary credit controls? Well, I believe I covered that when I stated that the controls for consumers are compulsory. Well, what are the specific purposes of these controls? Well, the Federal Reserve Board originally stated, and they're the ones that administer Regulation W, and gave the following reasons for this extraordinary control that affects the lives of so many million Americans today. First, their purpose was to check the inflation by reducing credit available to the public for the purchase of goods that are in short supply. And second, to save essential materials by reducing the demand for durable goods. I'd like to say here that I'm sure that no responsible American argues that it is unnecessary to curb inflation and save essential materials. But the issue is whether Regulation W accomplishes these purposes and what is the effect it has on the welfare of the nation. Do you think Regulation W does that, Mr. Cobby? No. The figures, since Regulation W was reactivated, prove definitely they do not reduce consumer spending. Purchases of durable goods for cash are up more than 35%, while sales of durable goods are down only 5% to 7%. This means that people are cashing savings bonds and taking money out of savings accounts to buy for cash. Instead of conserving the purpose of retarding consumer spending, as was prophesied by the Federal Reserve Board, buyers have actually spent more in order to avert the restrictions of Regulation W. In the nine months ending March 31st, liquidation of e-bonds exceeded purchases by $1 billion, and withdrawals from savings accounts exceeded new accounts by $750 million, and this in a time of great income. May I interpose a different interpretation of some of those data? It seems to me that Cobby's own figures lead to a different conclusion. If the increase of sales for cash has been significant, etc., then if there had not been restrictions on installment credit, the increased demand for durable goods would have been that much more. And to assume that all of the liquidations of e-bonds and so on as related to installment credit seems to me to be highly questionable. In the latter part of 1947, when we had a sharp increase in prices, there was a similar liquidation of e-bonds and borrowing on open charge account and so on. Whenever prices advance sharply, people do not cut their expenditures correspondingly and they go into debt. So a lot of this, I'm sure, was for the grocery bill and for clothing and so on. I'd like to add one thought here because I feel that any possible inflationary effect that Regulation W might have is very small. Actually, the proportion of the installment sales credit has never approached the normal pre-war levels. And the increase in 1950 was about 10% of the increase in disposable income, which is around normal experience. And the amount of installment credit at the end of 50 was only 3.9% of consumer purchasing power. Now, Regulation W only applies to about 1%. And if it was as effective as the Federal Reserve Board originally stated, it might have, might reduce it 30%. Well, when you sum that all up, it doesn't amount to more, in my opinion, and according to our facts, and about a half of 1% of the money that people have to stand. And it's for this small amount that the great majority of American people, in my opinion, with modest incomes, are being made the whipping boys of the battle of inflation. Well, I want to interpose strongly on that point, Coons. And that reminds me to emphasize again that this is part of an overall program. No one of the parts of the program does the whole job. And therefore, just because credit control is not representing a large portion of the total increase, it is a marginal factor. When you increase retail sales in the neighborhood of $10 or $12 billion, as they have been increased, and you have an increase of $2.5 billion in consumer credit, of which $1.5 is installment credit, it seems to me that's an important ingredient. Furthermore, this is not a normal relationship that we're trying to preserve, they're trying to create an abnormal relationship. That is one in which installment credit is low relative to consumer expenditures. The idea is to cut down on that source of consumer spending that does not come from current income. And when they borrow, they're able to throw into the market now future income. And most of our inflation to date has come, not from the government expenditure, but from people anticipating the increase of prices or shortage of goods and borrowing or liquidating assets. Do you agree with that analysis, Mr. Cobby? Well, I don't. For this reason, he, the professor is using this as a method of rationing, as part of the overall picture. True, this is a rationing device. They are the most unfair rationing devices it's possible to have. They take the supply of goods and make it available to the man with money, and keep it out of the reach of the average man. Essential transportation and appliances are rationed out of the reach of the people who need them the most. Regulation W restricts only the persons who need credit in order to buy. It makes, as Mr. Coon says, a whipping boy out of the worker and the farmer who are the backbone of our national strength. This is exactly contrary to the American principle of government equality to all men. Mr. Cobby, commodities are always rationed by some device or other, and no rationing device meets everybody's idea of justice. Now, price is a rationing device, and if we don't have effective control over the movement of prices, and this is part of the program of affecting a control of prices, then the people who have low incomes won't be able to buy not merely durable goods but food and things of that sort. And it's difficult for me to see that rationing because a man can't make a large down payment is any more serious than rationing because he can't pay a high price. I would like to supplement Cobby's remarks there and state briefly some reactions and statements from Labour. The excerpt from the statement of James B. Kerry, Secretary-Treasurer, the CIO before the House Bank and Currency Committee, May 21st, he stated, in no field has the concept of equality of treatment and sacrifice been more violated than with regard to credit controls. Those who have sought to engage in speculation on the necessities of life and national defense have been left free to use the nation's credit, but the small man who wanted only to participate in the decencies of life by the purchase of a refrigerator, radio, or an automobile, or a house, found the full weight of the government turned against him. And I think there's many sizable factors here in speculation and other items that will have more effect on the inflation battle than Regulation W. The question is whether Mr. Kerry is speaking there as a representative of those workers who may have to shift jobs because of a curtailment of the defense program, or whether he is concerned about the most effective ways of overall control of inflation. Because often the unions have felt that could be done simply by price control, which in my judgment, after some bitter first-hand experience, is the least desirable method. I want to call attention to one thing here, that this is done in the way that it is operating. I am informed by our managing director, Al Bernschone, that each day the number of letters returned with stamps no longer in business is increasing, so that the people who have gone out, have stocked up with a plentiful supply of goods, not raw materials that could be used for something else, and have them there to sell, are refused this opportunity to sell to the only market that wants the goods. Mr. Corby, I wish there was some way we could mobilize for war, move three million men into the armed forces, increase substantially the number of men employed in factories bearing directly on the defense effort, and keep everybody on his present job and his present employment. But that's just not possible within the bands of arithmetic, within the limits of arithmetic. We've been talking here, I think, about the prevention of expansion of consumer spending. I think there are other purposes involved in some of these regulations, namely the transfer of essential materials to defense industries, and the transfer of labor to defense industries. I wonder if those things have been accomplished under the regulations. Coom? Well, this no doubt raises various questions. But I think first that the only effective way to conserve materials is by allocating them at the factories. And I think that this is being done and can be done under the National Production Authority materials allocation program. I think it's obvious that credit controls do not curb the use of materials, because we find in all durable goods industries there's the heaviest inventories in many years. And the factories are breaking production records with the materials that are available. It was only yesterday that Walter Tower, who is president of the American Iron and Steel Institute, said there will be plenty of steel for both military and consumer purposes, and that there is no real threat of shortages. And we are supposed to be running into these shortages way back in September when Regulation W was put into effect. Mr. Chairman. Ever since then, the production's been increasing, and we're still wondering where there'll be any shortages. So it seems to me that we're getting a little in advance on these stringent credit controls. Coons, that seems to me is the, is rather a compliment to those who are engaged in control. For once they're ahead of the game instead of being months behind. I think all who look at the present scene recognize that we're in a lull between the effects of the anticipatory buying by consumer and business, and the augmented flow of military goods, with increased employment in military establishments, and the payment by the federal government. Well that brings up this question that have the controls been needed the past eight months, and are they needed in the conceivable future? This is one question we can answer with surety. Because we have lived the past eight months, and the answer is definitely and indisputably no. Mr. Chairman, I must impose objection that the answer is so clear and indisputably no. It seems to me that the inflation control program as a whole has not been successful until recently. And that we have had too much increase in bank credit, too much increase in consumer credit, too much increase in consumer incomes. And all of that has been reflected in a very substantial increase in prices that has occurred under a balanced federal budget. In fact, a budget with a surplus. Well, to continue, I want to say this, and then we'll argue that. That they are not needed in the future. They have failed in the past. Again, the answer is no. Mr. Hefley-Bauer disagrees with you on that point. He says the answer is yes. All right. I want to tell him why I think it's no. They didn't foresee the present situation. It was supposed to be a shortage in supply. Instead of that, we have an overage in supply. Every warehouse of every dealer of these appliances, TVs, radios, stoves, is full. There are some appliances, apparently, in which there is a backlog at the present time. There are others, I think, including some of the major automobile manufacturers, in which that is not true. But if you look ahead and see the sharper cuts that are in the offing, in the available materials for the manufacture of many of these commodities, then in a sense we're building an inventory for the period of lower production. Give us those cuts. Give our manufacturers those cuts. And let them get out what kind and type of machine they can get out, but let them sell it if they can get it out. I think Mr. Martin, the Federal Reserve Bank, made the remark that Regulation W is being affected because it had made a reduction in time sales outstandings of some $360 million. But he didn't add that at the same time it's increased an increase of the wholesale or the inventories of automobiles in the country, $400 million, so that we haven't had any debt reduction as far as I can see. And what we really need now, it seems, to take care of some of these automobiles and various types of appliances and consumer products, is more warehouses and customers. But each day I pick up the paper, I see notices of cutbacks by automobile manufacturers and other people because they are now running out of materials. We must realize that the materials for final military production that have been taken by final military production thus far have not been large, but that it will be stepped up very sharply in the months ahead. And you think perhaps this fall, Mr. Hefley-Bauer, that the situation will become even more critical? That's what all of the evidence. I think that rarely can we look ahead with as definite evidence as we have now. Well, I think the Federal Reserve Board had perhaps the best of intentions to help this defense program, but they're really contributing a great deal to the disorganizing of the labor force. For example, let's take the electronics industry that I think is harmful to the defense program. And what we need is a loosening or some flexibility in the administration of this regulation, W, so that the average man who simply wants to buy a useful product can keep labor working in vital defense industries instead of seeing vital skilled people like in the television and electronics industry being let out of work because of lack of employment. And then when they are needed for defense work, they're not there. Now, we see 10,000 workers at Ford being laid off and railroad companies laying off people. And these are all vital defense plants so that it's disorganizing the labor force in the defense industry. I must object. The Ford Motor Company as an automobile manufacturer is not a defense plant, but the Ford Motor Company as a tank manufacturer is. And I don't see how you can get people to leave their regular employments in their regular localities and move to temporary employment and defense plants as long as everybody is employed in their regular occupation. We have to have some looseness in the defense, in the labor situation. And you think, Hapsley-Bauer, that credit controls are possibly one of the methods to facilitate the movement of labor to essential industries? Is that the manufacturers are not having a strong pull on them from the point of view of demand. Listen. The... you're talking here of the overall picture. That's right. You're talking here of rationing and of labor and time. That's right. Let's get down for just one minute to what the regulation has done and is doing to the time buyer that is working today. There are plenty of them working. That's important, but it's not basic. The typical buyer... well, it is important. They're human beings. The typical buyer is an earnest, hard-working man earning, say, $65 a week. He has a family of four bright, happy children. And his refrigerator is broken down. He's always supported his family. He's kept off of the charity rolls. He certainly can't go out, though, and buy a new refrigerator under existing Regulation W at that salary with that family. And he is in the despicable position of the poor of the underdeveloped countries that we talk so much about now. Not the position of an honorable laboring man of the greatest country in the world. And they won't even permit him to take that old broken down refrigerator in and take it down to an honest dealer and get what it's worth as part payment for the down payment of a new refrigerator. Well, for each example of that sort you can give, you can give examples of men who've had pulled out of their employment to go into the armed forces. Or the widow who's living on savings, which will not buy as much as it would at one time. The question is whether anybody is being seriously damaged. I see in the papers a substantial listing of used refrigerators for sale. Well, there's automobiles. I think that perhaps we should get back here to this question of what kind of a situation money goods were these controls designed to meet? Now, these controls, I think, were instituted on the theory that they could reduce the speed of dollars chasing after a limited supply of goods. Well, actually, there's been no shortages at all. And I'm sure Mr. Cobby's dealers and the automobile dealers find there's no dollars chasing their goods. And we've really got a selling job before us today and one that in a free economy would have a liberal flow of installment credit to assist those sales and the move these inventories that have been backing up and keeping these men working in the defense plants where they're so important to keep them there. That's a very good statement of the difference between a normal economy and the problem we have. I would be delighted if we could get back to that situation. But unfortunately, the Russians won't let us. Well, I think that we're trying to presume too much about what the future is going to do when none of us know exactly what the future does hold. But Coons would... No one in Washington. I'd just like to make this statement of J.A. Livingston, the financial editor of the Business Outlook. And he says, great decisions in the making and the battlefields of Korea. That's why domestic decisions are being made and Korea not here. Now, I could go in and take a lot of time on that, but our problems in the future are going to be based, I think, a great deal on what happens to Korea. And I don't know what's going to happen there at the moment. Now, would you rather have the government, in dealing with this problem, look ahead or only look back? I think they should look back and look forward. And they should also look at the present conditions today and the need of the automobile dealers and the appliance dealers and the consumer in dealing with the current situation and the current needs and to recognize that this installment credit is a small factor in inflation and needs some liberalization now. Don't you think we have to make some assumptions about the future, though, Mr. Kuhn? Don't you think that, for example, it's foolish for us to assume that we're either going to have complete world peace or a third world war? It's better to assume that we're going to have complete mobilization and we must meet... No, no, I'm opposed. Substantial mobilization. Substantial mobilization. And we must meet these crises in terms of that assumption. We have to make some assumptions in our business and in government and what we do tomorrow. And I think that Mr. Wilson and I quoted previously here a man in steel that they think that we can still go along and do a good job in taking care of the civilian needs and so forth as well as the needs in defense. I was going to say that one of the advantages of having these controls at all is because we're supposed... They're supposed to be able to act quickly to control the situation. Now, last September, the Federal Reserve Board was told by its economists and advisors an emergency existed and that it must do something. In addition, the board had before it the emergency acts of World War II. Most of these acts had proved themselves 100% wrong. So the board... May I interpose? That's your judgment. In my... well, no judgment. All right. So the board and its advisors were in a quandary. They were in a quandary, that I guess would mean. The result was the reenactment of Regulation W, designed to apply to an economy of scarcity of consumers' goods, when in fact there has eight months now has shown that there is an abundance of such consumer goods. Why, Mr. Coon seems very unhappy about present controls. I wonder, do you think that purely voluntary controls would be adequate? I think that they can, because Regulation W cannot stop the government. If the government will stop throwing out headliners that scare people into scare buying and spending sprees and fear of shortage, I think that that's true. I think that's not worn off now from what you tell me. Uh, I'd like to restate here quickly that in my opinion Regulation W has not curbed inflation, but in many respects has contributed to inflationary aspects such as liquidation of bonds and savings accounts. I've stated it does not save essential materials, and I think we should keep in mind that consumer purchases do not use materials. They only distribute the product after materials are used. It also injures the war effort by making it difficult for workers to get essential transportation to get to work, creates traffic hazards by keeping unfit cars in the streets, and is administered in an arbitrary manner. And, uh, I believe it's clear that Regulation W should be entirely eliminated, but if Congress does retain it in the Defense Production Act, it should at least establish a floor of credit terms below which the Federal Reserve Board cannot go, and I'd like to recommend this floor of a third down and not less than 18 months and no restrictions on used cars, and I hope that those listening to us will take this opportunity before the Defense Production Act renew June 30th to express their opposition to these unfair credit controls to their Sanders and Congressmen. How in the world can we have government when each group tries to tie the hands of the administrative bodies and give them no discretion at all with respect to operating controls like those on credit or the allocation of materials or anything of that sort? It seems to me that while it's perfectly proper for Congress to act, there must be a zone of discretion for the administrative body. Well, I think that when any body is given dictatorial powers and authority, and between September 18th and October 16th, they can reduce maturities for what consumers need from 21 to 15 months, that's a 28% reduction, without any discussion with industry. And when the Act says that they should consult with industry, then I think that certainly Congress has to put a floor under it below which they can't go because even business is entitled to some protection. What Mr. Coon said relative to used cars is particularly true of all types of appliances. Those appliances, the TVs, the radios, the stoves, they're made. They're on the dealer's floor. It's not taking any essential materials. It's only holding them away from the people that come by to hold Regulation W. The problem here, I think, is there may be room for some changes in the administration of Regulation W. But I do not see that there any case has made against this kind of control as part of an overall move to minimize the inflation that we are facing in this country. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is just about up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. How far should we go with credit controls? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs only $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were J.A. Cobby, Byron Kuhn, and R.B. Hefley-Bauer. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, Who should drive automobiles? Our guests will be James Stannard Baker, Research Director of the Traffic Institute at Northwestern University. Fred P. Williams, Assistant Chief of the Division of Drivers Licenses in the Department of Motor Vehicles for the State of California. And Agnes Sharp, Director of Research and Chief Psychologist for the Psychiatric Institute for the Municipal Court of Chicago. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Who should drive automobiles? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Koffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Cody, Dr. Paul Football, University Нав know. Go to the University of Arizona State déjà defibricularSee a student of Florida. Here at this point, the interview show notes do complaints after we've been given a few minutes before. The milk research test shows compared to theôm company. The bird moon who's playing pitch today at 성공 necks, in me being to live as an Troy board member, The better locations will be ondulese. All clients will be ondulese. Attendance by Dave voix. The gas point液 costs viaうわ Canadian bases. All clients take their habit and rains that are not safed while in other fino cases. Today is going to relax the time, the amount ofuso heel which 1993 part of date is broadcastới. Maybe there is no otherichen川 relying in theirhex Peterson's being met.