Radio's microphones are now in the Skyline Ballroom of the Hotel Teresa at 125th Street and 7th Avenue in its seventh biennial convention and the 25th anniversary of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters. Mr. A. Philip Randolph is about to introduce the Secretary of Labor, the Honorable Morris J. Tobin. Mr. Randolph. Does not only come to speak in his own right as the Secretary of Labor, but also to speak for the President of the United States. When I first heard Secretary Tobin at the FFL convention, I said that at the first opportunity, I was going to make an effort to bring him before a convention of the Brotherhood for two reasons. One, the substance of his talk, the content of his speech, and second, the eloquence and force with which he made it. And so, we have been fortunate in bringing him here on this occasion. Only an hour or so ago, he joined with us in a luncheon given by the City of New York under Acting Mayor Impeletere at the Waldorf Astoria for the members of the board of the International Board of our organization and its offices. And so, Secretary Tobin, we are glad to welcome you here. And let me just mention this sidelight. We have under the Railway Labor Act what is known as the National Railroad Adjustment Board. It is the agency for the adjustment of disputes that arise in the railroad industry between carriers and their employees. The Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, though representing and qualifying, are under this act has been denied the right to select members to sit on this board. And the organization proceeded to correct that condition. When we presented this matter to Secretary Tobin, he forthwith and immediately took action on the matter, caused a hearing to be held in the auditorium, in the office of the Department of Labor. And as a result of the initiative, the forthrightness with which he handled the matter, the organization, the Brotherhood was able to sweep aside the obstacles and barriers that stood in the way of the Brotherhood selecting members to sit on the National Railroad Adjustment Board. Today, we enjoy that right. We now are preparing to have a porter sooner or later to sit on the board as a member and through his judgment to pass on questions involving claims and grievances of the various railway employees of this nation. We are paying our way. And I may say that at a considerable cost, because the railway unions that practice before certain divisions of the board must pay for the maintenance of the board. must pay for the maintenance of the personnel. And so Secretary Tobin comes to us as one who has directly participated in the struggle of our organization to establish its right to participate in one of the most important agencies of the government affecting railway workers. And so delegates and officers of our convention, I'm delighted and happy to present to you Secretary Morris J. Tobin of Labor of the United States of America. Thank you, Mr. President. President Randolph, Mr. Joseph Keenan, the head of Labor's League for Political Education, officers and delegates to this 25th convention, or the rather the silver anniversary convention of the founding of the Brotherhood of the President. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you Room. Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you. đã pec of the founding of the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters. As your president has said, I am appearing here today in a dual capacity, first as Secretary of Labor, but in a more important respect as the personal representative of the President of the United States, Harry S. Truman. And I have here a personal letter from President Truman to President Randolph, which I would like to read aloud, Mr. President, with your permission, to the delegates of the convention. It reads, The White House, Washington, August 22, 1950. Dear Mr. Randolph, I have great pleasure in extending warm felicitations and hearty congratulations to the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, American Federation of Labor, on the occasion of the Silver Jubilee Convention. Once again, those who cherish freedom and individual dignity are involved in a great struggle for the minds, hearts, and loyalties of millions of human beings all over the world. In this struggle, America's Negroes are destined to play an evermore historic role. All America is proud of the valorous performance of our Negro fighters in Korea. Their courage, skill, and high morale will give new impetus to the measures we have undertaken to ensure that America's armed forces will be the most democratic in the world. Their achievements on the battlefield indicate the more important role which American Negroes are destined to play in our new program to help the long-oppressed peoples of Asia and Africa help themselves toward freedom, dignity, and self-government. I am especially grateful for your organization's continued support and encouragement in the achievement of effective civil rights legislation, which I still regard as one of the major pieces of unfinished business before the Congress of the United States. With best wishes for a successful convention, which will launch your organization on its second quarter century of progress, I am very sincerely yours, Harry S. Truman, President of the United States. I am delighted to join you in the celebration of your silver jubilee. There are younger unions which have done well, but none of them has had to face the roadblocks which stood in your way. None of these, none of them, has had to overcome the peculiar handicaps over which your organization has already triumphed. You have had to fight not merely hostile management, you have had to fight a hostile world. As though such odds were not enough to contend with, you have had to deal with civility and fear within your ranks and supplant them with the self-respect and courage without which freedom is an empty word. That you have won through in spite of these handicaps, that from being rejected men on the fringe of labor, you have become the equal of any labor organization in the land is proof not merely of the rightness of your cause, but of the quality of the leadership which your organization has enjoyed. The journalist who took over the guidance of the little group, which was the nucleus of this great brotherhood, was the happiest choice that could have been made. For your president is a rare instance of personal power dedicated to a noble aspiration. He is as genuine as he is eloquent, as devoted as he is strong. There are not many Randolphs in this world, and you should count yourselves infinitely fortunate that you have found such a man to lead you out of the wilderness into the present promised land. I asked a distinguished Negro for an estimate of your president, and his reply was that Negro leaders throughout the country hold his major attribute to be his integrity. And I'll quote him directly. They may differ with him on some matters of judgment, but they never doubt his sincerity. They rank him with Mrs. Bethune in that respect, and in their eyes, he is considered to be as constant as the North Star. End of the quotation. I can think of no finer tribute. It establishes Mr. Randolph as a leader not merely by right of performance, but also by the right of his moral greatness. At last year's convention of the American Federation of Labor, your brotherhood presented a plaque to President William Green. As your spokesman, Mr. Randolph said, with his usual confidence, that this was a symbol of the esteem Mr. Green enjoys among the members of your organization by reason of the aid and comfort he had given to the brotherhood and by the reason of his fight, and I quote Mr. Randolph directly, for the elimination of discrimination because of race, color, religion, national origin, or ancestry. At that time, Mr. Randolph further declared, and I quote him directly, people who are prejudiced against one minority group are hostile to other minority groups. To fight discrimination on account of race while disregarding movements of anti-Semitism, anti-Catholicism, anti-foreignism would be ineffective, futile, and naive. So long as a Jew in Poland, or a Catholic in Czechoslovakia, or a Japanese in California, or a Hindu in Vancouver, Canada, or a Mexican in Texas, is denied fundamental human and civil rights, the security of the Negro, or for that matter, a white Protestant, in the labor movement anywhere, cannot be assured. Verily, the fight for justice and freedom for minorities and labor is indivisible, because freedom and justice are indivisible. The end of the quotation from an able statement by the president of your organization on the occasion of his presentation to Bill Green. That is a high-minded view of the problem. It is also a thoroughly American attitude. Into the fabric of our life have been woven many and diverse strands of blood and background, but we are united in the singleness of a common aim and a common sense of human values. We are one in regarding freedom and justice as the indivisible birthright of all Americans, whether belonging to a majority or to a minority group. We are not a people of one start. All of the races, all of the peoples of the earth, have brought us their memories and their traditions, enriching our life without diminishing, in any respect, their loyalty to the United States of America. What binds us together is a set of principles which permeates the American heart and soul. What binds us together is the realization that this republic owes so much to men and women who came to these shores to build our railroads, to dig our canals, to till our soil, to fill our factories, to settle the Great West, to lay the foundation for the great growth, for our great wealth and our great population, which are today not only the mainstay of this great American republic, but the mainstay of civilization in the whole world. And now, as Americans, we must recognize the debt that we do owe to the world. We cannot forget that America is what it is because of the contribution of all of these races. Many of the countries that contributed the flower of their young manhood and young womanhood stand today in desperate need from some place in the world, and the one agency that should be generous enough to extend that helping hand should be the United States of America. So out of saying, we will repay for the great bounty which you have given to us. That is the reason that President Truman has put forward the so-called Marshall Plan to give to the people of Western Europe an opportunity to build back their shattered economies, to give them a renewed confidence in themselves, to give them a renewed courage that they can once more be the powerful nations that they have been in the past, to give them the confidence that the culture of generations is a better culture than the culture of aggressive communism. And these people needed that help. And I've been to Europe and I have seen how a confidence has been rebuilt, has been built back in France, has been built back in Italy, has been built back in the Low Countries, has been built back in Italy. But, oh, there is so much yet more that is yet to be done. And then we've got to give consideration to the debt that we owe to Africa, whereas most of the people who came from Western Europe came here voluntarily and on their own for the purpose of seeking a haven in which there might be equal social justice and an economic opportunity for them to bring up their families' indecency under great, broad American principles. But America should never forget that the people of color in the United States, in the main, did not come here voluntarily. They were taken out of the fields and the forests of Africa, involuntarily taken as captives and placed in the holds of ships and taken to this country as slaves. Yes, we owe much to Africa. And under the Point Four program, giving to the people of Africa and to the other backward nations of the world our know-how that has been developed here, they can make great and high democratic living standards for themselves with the help and the contribution of American know-how and that is Point Four, simply that and nothing more. Today, our top military leaders have given public expression to the great courage that has been demonstrated by our fighting boys of Negro blood. They have stated that they have been the equal of any fighting group in the whole of the Korean campaign. They have held the line when they were told to hold. They have advanced when they were ordered to advance and they have been a great credit to every man and woman present in this room and a great credit to every one of the 150 million Americans that go to make up this great republic. So, President Truman, five years ago, with a recognition of the aggressive intentions of communism, started first with Turkey and with Greece. And when a vacuum was created in Greece, when the British had pulled out, President Truman ordered 500 of the best minds of the American army to go in there to build back a strength on the part of the military of Greece to defend that country from the aggressions of the Balkan communistic satellites that boarded the country. At the same time, he gave to Turkey economic and military aid and a know-how to rebuild their industry, to rebuild their roads and to rebuild their railroads. Until today, Turkey stands as a bastion of defense for free, freedom, and for democracy. Because within the year, there was a complete turnover of government, brought about in a democratic way, but there wasn't the slightest recession from the determined intentions of the people of Turkey to preserve Turkey for the Turks and to withstand any communistic aggression from over their borders. Then came the day when the President had an opportunity to repay all that we owe Western Europe, and this country owes a great obligation to Italy. All you have to do is just take a look at the roster of any battleston, you will always find, if it's five or six or ten, one or more boys of Italian descent. And with courage, he sent into Italy the food that was necessary to build back a confidence in these people whose economy had been ravaged as a result of five years of war. And today, Italy stands as a much stronger democracy than it was five years ago. But the job is only partly done, and I am confident that Italy's strength will be built back, a haven and an opportunity will be given for the overpopulation of that country to find peaceful living in some other part of the world so that those left within that peninsula will not exceed the numbers that can be economically supported. The Marshall Plan has built back the economies of these countries, but more has to be done. The North Atlantic Compact gave them the confidence to build together in a military way. And now, the military implementation of that program is rapidly on its way. Not for a war of aggression, but for the purpose of preserving the free world with the hope that eventually, under good common sense, there will be an extension of democracy, an extension of the recognition of the human dignity of every human being in the world, not only on this side of the Iron Curtain, but in a peaceful manner for every quarter of the globe. And I know there has been no finer spokesman for this kind of program than the able president of your organization, Mr. Randolph. We must, 150 million Americans, regardless of our racial background, be we black or be we white, be we colored, be we red or be we yellow, we are all Americans. And we must stand together for the kind of philosophy that recognizes the human dignity of man, the kind of a philosophy that recognizes that these rights are not given by any government. They are not dictated by any individual. They are innate rights that come to every human being from a supreme power, God Almighty. And under that recognition, all working together in a democratic way, the kind of democratic way that has built your organization in a quarter of a century, from six members to a point at today, I think you have 99% of the Sleetland Carporters of America, members of your organization, built in a democratic way with the help of your government through the enactment of the Wagner Act, a law that bears the name of one of the greatest United States senators that ever served in that great body and formerly the senior senator from this state, a law that protected your right to organize and enabled you to make a real contribution to the soundness of America's private enterprise system. Under this private enterprise system, with insurance policies that have been written in the last 17 years, like old age and survivors insurance, unemployment compensation, and other buttresses to the economy like the minimum wage law and the like, our economy has grown to the point where it is stronger than ever before in American history. I was saying today at the luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria that in the month prior to the Korean situation, we had reached the maximum number of people gainfully employed in America far greater than ever before and actually seven million higher than the peak period of employment during the Second World War which occurred during the year 1943. Anything in the way of increased employment since can be attributed to the Korean situation, but we didn't need any such incident to contribute towards the building of a stronger economy in this country. But this great strength that has been built in the last 17 years, the confidence that has been instilled in the minds and in the hearts of the membership of your great organization makes this a stronger country. Their children are better fed. Their children are better clothed. Their children are today better educated. They are in a better position to take their proper place in the development of this great democracy of ours. And I'm confident that all of us working together as Americans that the United States with its great economic strength and with its determination to do right and justice by the rest of the world without a desire for one square inch of territory that all of us working together as Americans can be able, we will be able to make our contribution to the preservation of peace in the world and dedicated towards the day when all of God's children in every part of the globe will enjoy the freedom and the economic justice that is ours as representatives and citizens of this republic. We have heard the address of the Honorable Maurice J. Tobin, Secretary of Labor, before the seventh biennial convention and the 25th anniversary of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Clow Porters. He was introduced by their president, Mr. A. Philip Randolph. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. William baseball Mr. A. Philipав