This is Ray Perkins of KFEL in Denver, Colorado. And the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis has asked me to be chairman of the National Disc Jockey Division for the 1951 March of Dimes. And really, I'm very proud of it. Very proud of being asked. And you've all heard from me by letter now, so all I want to say here is that I'm serving this up as a sort of a label on a medicine bottle. The directions to be read before you take out the cork. Well, now, let's keep the cork in a minute while I remind you of what the medicine is for. Of course, that's the usual first thing on any set of directions. And this record that you're listening to, I hope, is just the medicine that we need to help raise as much money as possible for the 1951 March of Dimes, which will run this year from January 15th through January 31st. Now, you all know about the March of Dimes and what it's for. Everybody knows how hard you all have worked in the past, you fellas. But what you don't know is that your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, which is supported by March of Dimes funds, is in a pretty tight financial fix. We've had three disastrous infantile epidemics in a row with over 100,000 cases. Now, nobody can forecast how many cases of infantile paralysis there will be in 1951. But if the last three years are any indication, we just better be prepared for the worst. And it adds up to the fact that the 1951 March of Dimes, fellas, really must be a complete success. It has to be because of the thousands of cases, the National Foundation is broke. It started 1951 with no money in the till to take care for this year's victims. That's what this bottle of medicine is for. Now, here's how it works. Following after this talk of mine, there are a number of short March of Dimes announcements by well-known recording artists. They're good announcements. They all start out about the same way with some such words as, hold that record for a second or something of that sort, you know. And they end up with, all right, let's hear the music or some variation of that. Now, to use these spots, you simply announce a number by a particular artist, sandwiching the same artist's March of Dimes spot between your announcement and the actual playing of the record. So it ought to be very effective, and certainly it's very simple, as most of you know. Now, this record is good, strong medicine, and if you need more, don't forget your program director has a lot of live copy that you yourself can use just as well, perhaps, just as well, no doubt about it, by using your own fertile imaginations. Well, I've served my purpose as a label on the bottle, a set of directions. We're ready to pull the cork for the 1951 March of Dimes. Once again, high greetings to you all, and the very best to you. This is Ray Perkins of KFEL, Denver, chairman of the Disc Jockey Division of the 1951 March of Dimes. Hold it a minute, Mr. Disc Jockey. This is Patty. And I'm Laverne. And this is Maxine. Together, we make up the Andrews sisters. Naturally, to be a successful trio, it is important that we work together. Just one of us making the effort isn't enough. We've all got to work together to make the harmony come out. And that's just the way it is with the March of Dimes, too. It's the working together of all of us that makes possible all the wonderful work of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. Maxine is right, friend. Why don't you join the March of Dimes today? That is right, Patty. And this is Laverne joining my two sisters in asking for your support. Now, Mr. Disc Jockey, how about one of our records, please? Before we have any more music, I'd like to talk to our listeners. Friends, this is Carmen Cavallaro. I just want to remind you that the 1951 March of Dimes is on now, and that your contributions help to prepare your community for any infantile paralysis emergency. Remember, the disease is on the increase, and you never know when your youngster will need help. You can't prevent the crippler from striking the ones you love, but you can assure them a fighting chance against it. Join the March of Dimes. For your own peace of mind, keep the lifelines of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis available to your family. Please send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. And now, the record. Say, hold it just a sec, will you? This is Nat King Cole. Before you give a listen to that platter, give a thought to this. Last year, we all lived through the second toughest infantile paralysis epidemic in history. The thing that really hurts the most about infantile paralysis is that it chooses mostly little kids to cripple. Whether or not these kids ever walk again depends completely on you and me and the bigness of our hearts. So dig way down deep when you send those dimes and dollars of yours to your local March of Dimes headquarters. With all that big heart of yours, join the March of Dimes, okay? Now, how about that disc? Hi, everyone. This is Perry Como. Do you mind if I hold up that record for just about a half a minute? I'd like to tell you a story about a little boy in Amarillo, Texas, whose most cherished possession is a clumsy contraption made of leather and steel. He values it highly because without it, he would be unable to walk. You see, he was one of the thousands of victims of last year's terrible infantile paralysis epidemics, and you helped him buy that brace by giving last year to the March of Dimes. So for the sake of those children who might be afflicted by this horrible disease, please send those dimes and dollars now to your local March of Dimes headquarters. All right, now on for the record. Can you hold that record? This is Don Cornell. You know, being a singer, I guess I'm conscious of something that most people never even think about, something we take very much for granted, breathing. But some people slowly count each breath they take, and each breath means that life has been sustained in them that much longer. These are the victims of infantile paralysis. They breathe only because an iron lung pumps life into them. It's your dimes and dollars, given to the March of Dimes, that are the very breath of life that keeps them going. Don't stop them coming. Give and keep on giving to the March of Dimes. Thank you. Okay, and now if you'll let the platter go, I'll sing for you. Interruption, please. This is Jimmy Dorsey. Before you spin that record, I'd like a word. Okay? Thanks. Friends, have you ever noticed how much little children run? Sometimes it seems they don't know how to walk. They've got to run. Kids get a lot of joy out of life. Well, friends, I'd like to think for a moment about children with infantile paralysis who can't even walk, much less run. What does childhood mean to them? Tragedy? Well, not always. Not if you help them get better. And there are so many needing your help. I plan to give more than ever to the March of Dimes this year. How about you? Join the March of Dimes today, won't you? Well, thanks. This is Jimmy Dorsey saying, okay, man, spin that record. Do you mind if I interrupt this show for a minute? This is Tommy Dorsey, folks, and I'd like a fast word with you. You know, it takes a lot of breath to play a trombone, but after you've been playing it as long as I have, you don't think about it anymore except sometimes. You sort of stop taking it for granted when you think of all those little kids who were hit last year in the second greatest infantile paralysis epidemic in our history. They breathe only because an iron lung pumps life into them. And this breath of life comes from you. So keep that breath of life coming, folks, by sending every dime and dollar you can to your local March of Dimes headquarters. And do it now. Okay? Well, how about that record? Would you hold up that next record a second? We're the Fontaine sisters. I'm Margie. I'm Jerry. And I'm Bea. We just want to say a few words. You know, teamwork is a pretty important thing. That's true when three sisters are singing together like us. Yes, and it works the same way in our fight against infantile paralysis. Everyone's on the team. That's right. All of us must do our part to support the March of Dimes this year, particularly since last year brought the second worst epidemic of infantile paralysis in the history of the country. So please, for the sake of America's children, keep those dimes and dollars coming into your local March of Dimes headquarters. And do it right now. Some child will thank you. And so will we. Okay, let's have another record. Before we hear the record, may I break in for a moment? This is Al Goodman. May I have a word with your listeners? Folks, right this minute, there are thousands of little victims of polio lying in hospitals, fighting for a chance to walk again. Think of them. Children, just like your kids, except that they can't run around like your kids can. Think of them. And help give them a new start in life. Help the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis fight on their side by seeing that they get the finest patient care available. Join the March of Dimes, won't you? Please. Thanks. Okay, let her spin. Say, wait a minute. Before you spin that record, may I get a word in? This is Tiny Hill. I interrupted the fun here to tell you about something not very pleasant. Something that interrupted the fun of thousands of little kids last summer. Infantile paralysis. I'll be finished talking to you in just a minute, then you can go back to your dancing. But the kids who are polio victims can't dance. They can't even walk. You are the only hope they have of ever being able to walk again. So friends, interrupt whatever you're doing just long enough to send all the dimes and dollars you can spare to your local March of Dimes headquarters. These kids desperately need you to join the March of Dimes. Okay, now. Spin the record. Now, just a minute before you play that record. This is Eddie Howard speaking, and let's wait just a second. Think of the long wait thousands of little crippled children are having, waiting to walk again. They're struggling along, fighting off the crippling effect of infantile paralysis. And certainly this summer won't go by without thousands more being stricken. Those little fellas will need dimes and dollars in order to be able to walk again. See that they get them, won't you, by joining the March of Dimes. And now, spin that platter. No, no record, man, not now. Don't play that record yet. First, first, let me get something off my mind. You know, hardly a week goes by that I don't read or hear about some child coming down with infantile paralysis. And frankly, it frightens me just as it does you. You know, I've got children, too. And I know there's no way to protect your child from the crippler. However, by giving to the March of Dimes, you support the search for a vaccine or serum to prevent or cure infantile paralysis. The sooner it's found, the sooner your child and mine will be safe from the terrible disease. So for those you love, please join me. Yes, please join the March of Dimes. And folks, give and give generously. And now, now let's get back to that disc of flying. Just a moment, please. This is Gordon Jenkins interrupting for a moment. Remember when you were just a kid, the fun you had? Then take a minute to ask yourself a question. What do you suppose a little boy lying on a hospital bed with his legs paralyzed by infantile paralysis thinks about? Baseball? Skating? Bicycle riding? Thousands of infantile paralysis victims depend on you for a chance to recover and get some fun out of being children. Help them, won't you? Join the March of Dimes. Do it today. Okay, let's hear that record now. Excuse me, my friend. I want to make an important announcement here. Music lovers, this is Spike Jones. I just wanted to warn you that a very dangerous situation exists today in the fight against infantile paralysis. In caring for four out of five of the 100,000 polio victims during the last three years, the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis exhausted its funds. The reserves that assured your child of the care he would need should infantile paralysis strike is gone. With infantile paralysis on the increase, you can't afford to be without this protection. So please give generously to the March of Dimes. Your contribution is needed to prepare your community to protect your child against the ravages of the crippler. So be generous, please. Join the March of Dimes today. Okay, a little music now. Hold that record, will you? Just a minute, please. This is Stan Kenton speaking. I just want to tell you that the 1951 March of Dimes is in full swing. Get into the march and lend a hand to the thousands of those little infantile paralysis victims who need your help to swing their legs out of their beds and to get on their feet again. There are a lot of those youngsters and they have a long struggle ahead of them. They need your help. Last year was the second greatest infantile paralysis epidemic in our history with more than 30,000 victims. Perhaps someone you know is one of those 30,000. Think of them and then give as much as you can. Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. Join the 1951 March of Dimes. You're needed, really, in the big fight against infantile paralysis. Don't forget, please. Now back to the music. Hiya, friends. Would you mind holding up proceedings for just a bit? Folks, this is Frankie Lane. And I just want to get a few words in here. I know I won't be wasting my breath because I'm here to remind you of those who literally have no breath to waste. I'm talking about the thousands of victims of infantile paralysis, mostly kids, of course, who were struck down last year in the second greatest epidemic in our history. They have no breath to waste. The only breath they have is the mechanical breath of the iron lung. And it's your dimes and dollars that supply those iron lungs. And this year, the need is greater than ever before. So give and give and give generously to the 1951 March of Dimes. Okay? All right. Let's have some music now. Say, will you hold that record just a minute? This is Freddie Martin. I just want to remind you that the dime you give to the March of Dimes may someday save your own child's life. Infantile paralysis is on the increase. You hear about it on the air. You read about it in newspapers. You see more and more people crippled by infantile paralysis on the street. You probably know a few. And you hope your child will be spared. But no one knows when the disease will strike. So please, don't trust to luck. Make sure that if infantile paralysis strikes your home, your loved one will have the care that has saved so many other victims. Support your National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. Join the March of Dimes right away. Okay, now, on with that record. Could you hold that record just a second? This is Patty Page. And I sing songs for a living. You know, one of the biggest kicks in singing is making people happy. That makes it all worthwhile. But you don't have to be a singer to bring happiness to others. All of you listening to me now can make someone happy by joining the March of Dimes. Somewhere, a little boy will play baseball again because you helped. And somewhere, a little girl will walk again because you helped. Yes, friends, you can help spread happiness by fighting infantile paralysis. Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. Thank you. All right. How about that record now? Say, would you mind holding up the next number for a few seconds? Thank you. This is Frank Sinatra with a message for all of you from a little girl in Council Bluffs, Iowa, a victim of last year's terrible infantile paralysis epidemic. She'd like me to thank every one of you who gave last year to the March of Dimes. She wants me to tell you that she's walking again because you helped. But, friends, next year, infantile paralysis will strike again. And when it does, let's be ready for it, huh? Let's send those dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. And make sure that all of those who need help will get it. Thank you. Okay, now, for that record. Record man, may I interrupt a moment, please? Thank you. Friends, this is Margaret Whiting. I just wanted to ask you to please help keep springtime from being heartbreak time for thousands of children crippled by infantile paralysis. It's so hard on them when the days get warmer and they see other boys and girls roller skating, jumping rope, doing all the things they themselves used to do before the crippler struck. Please help replace the ache in their hearts with hope, hope of running and playing again like other children. Give generously to the March of Dimes to give them the medical care their families can't afford. Think of it. The loose change in your pocket or purse could change the life of some crippled child. So join the March of Dimes today. Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters now. Thank you. And now, let's have some music. Hey, hey, fella, wait just a minute there now. Wait just a minute. I got something I want to say. Friends, this is Hank Williams. You all remember what happened last summer, what happens every summer, infantile paralysis. But last summer's attack was the second worst one we've ever suffered and it lasted way into the fall. A lot of the victims have recovered by now and do you know why? Because you gave to the March of Dimes. You made it possible for little crippled kids to start walking again. So don't stop now. Your help is more needed now than it's ever been. So get up those dimes and dollars of mercy and send them to your local March of Dimes headquarters. You happen to fight infantile paralysis every time you join the March of Dimes. Now, fella, you can go ahead with that record. ...