Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its Centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Our program today is presented as a part of the Centennial Conference on the Arts in Modern Society. This conference includes lectures and discussions on modern art, special productions in music and theater, and distinguished exhibits of modern painting, sculpture and design. Today the Reviewing Stand considers the role of the artist in a technological society. Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the status of modern art and the responsibilities of the artist and of society. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Alfred Frankenstein, art and music critic of the San Francisco Chronicle. Egbert G. Jacobson, director of the Department of Design with the Container Corporation of America. And Thomas M. Foles, professor of art and chairman of the Department of Art at Northwestern University. Now, gentlemen, in opening our discussion, tell us what is art? How do you define art, Frankenstein? There is no great basic axiomatic definition like that that can be universally applicable, to which there are not some exceptions and to which there are not some foggy edges. But I should say that in general, the work of art is a product of imagination and craftsmanship, which is produced primarily for its own sake. You go along with that, Jacobson? Yes, quite. But I should say a little more. I might say that art is not just something we find in museums and art galleries or in old cities like Florence and Rome. If I'm to quote Herbert Reid, whose definition I think is very excellent, Art is more than description or reportage. It is an act of renewal. It renews vision. It renews language. It renews vision. It renews language. But most essentially, it renews life itself by enlarging the sensibility, by making men more conscious of the terror and the beauty and the wonder of the possible forms of being. I should say that art is anything made by man that stirs our senses. That might be literature, music, poetry, architecture, ceramics, tapestry, painting. It might be a chair or a glass for drinking water, a lamp, an automobile, a bridge, a radio tower. As Osenfant says, it does, if it's art, represent the apex of human effort. How do you see these definitions? I think I would agree with both of those. They're essentially the same idea. Jacobson has merely taken Frankenstein's definition and he's illustrated how that applies to more than what we normally call the fine arts. The important thing, I think, to realize here is that the artist doesn't create a work of art to please someone else, but for its own sake, as Frankenstein said. That seems to me essential to know. He makes it to move deeply. Whom does he move? He moves, presumably, those people who are willing to look at the work of art. How does he create the work of art? I think that's important to realize here. I'd like to quote from Picasso on that. The artist is a receptacle for emotions that come from all over the place, from the sky, from the earth, from a scrap of paper, from a passing shape, from a spider's web. And Picasso also points out that above all, an artist works of necessity. What's important there is that the artist is not working according to formulas. He's frequently breaking new ground. And breaking new ground is disturbing to many of us who like to settle within old horizons. Well, now, when you say that art, as you did, Jacobson, appeals to the senses, it's man-made something that appeals to the senses. Would it appeal to the intellect? Well, it has to appeal to the intellect through the senses, that is, through the eyes or through the sense of touch. The intellect is simply a collection of experiences that we gather from the time we're born until we die. And would this appeal to the senses have any utility? It is, are art and utility consistent or compatible? What do you think about that, Frankenstein? Well, definitely. But it seems to me also that the quality which distinguishes art from utility is something over and above its mere utility. I mean, an object can be very useful without at the same time being a work of art. It can also be a work of art and likewise be useful. There's an over plus. There's a quality over and beyond utility which defines art. Someone once facetiously defined a work of art as something that outlives its utility, which would indicate then that no one realized it was a work of art when it was being useful. It seems to me that utility can help to shape the work of art. Any work of art is created within certain limitations. A photograph, a black and white photograph, uses no color, uses no pigment. A painting works only on a flat surface. Architecture works in three dimensions, but it must make many concessions of social use. A chair must be something you sit in. It is basically a symmetrical design. And when we consider that utility then can be a part of the functional drive of a work of art. That the artist, if he understands what he's doing, he can make use of this function as a part of the expression. How do you distinguish Frankenstein between good art and bad art? You've used the expression great art. You've used the expression quality art. What do you mean by that? Well, one of the most important aspects of quality art is that it demands that one experience it more than once. It doesn't yield itself up immediately. It has certain mysteries about it with repeated experience. One must come back to it over and over and over again. I'm thinking now of an interesting experience I had in the Chicago Art Institute two or three years ago. When looking at the Chester Dale collection of modern paintings, a number of people were going through rather rapidly and one man saw me making notes on one of the pictures. And he said, Mister, you seem to know something about this picture. At least you're interested in it enough to write down a few notes. Tell me, what's it all about? What does it give? And I asked him how much time he had. And he said, Well, looking at his watch, I have roughly seven minutes. I told him if he would come back and spend seven hours, perhaps we could get somewhere. Because after all, when you read a book, you don't look merely at the first page and the last page and then pronounce judgment on it. But he was willing to pronounce judgment on a great French modern painting within the matter of seconds. Can these, can this modern abstract art, was that the kind of art you were looking at in the museum that day with your friend? I don't think it was basically abstract art. All good art is abstract because the artist abstracts or, uh, he draws ideas, images out of his, his experiences in the world around him. To most people that would have been abstract or at least semi abstract. But can this modern abstract art ever hope to appeal to very many people, do you think? Well, I think it does appeal to a great many people. The museums all over the country, particularly in the small towns, are bringing this modern art to the people. Uh, very beautiful prints are available, uh, which, uh, reproduce the originals almost exactly. And the magazines, uh, reach, uh, and publish thousands of pictures every year, which reach hundreds of millions of people. Furthermore, we are seeing the influence of abstract art and commercial art and commercial design of every sort. It's seeping down in every conceivable level of artistic activity and expression. I'm thinking of a, of a painting you showed me at our, uh, exhibit out there at Northwestern Falls, which I must confess I couldn't appreciate. It looked like, uh, color here, color there, uh, paint here. Uh, I, I could see nothing in it at all. Now, is that kind of, of modern art going to have much of a following? I think it already has a large following, but it's a matter of education. In this, uh, generation, and in fact the generation before, we've begun to realize that, uh, the world is so complicated today. There are so many stylisms, the historical stylisms that we've inherited from the past. That we, uh, as a people must, uh, know more about the arts just as we learned, uh, four or five generations ago. We must learn, uh, to know something of modern literature. There was a time, you know, when, uh, universities had no courses in contemporary literature in their curriculum. There was a time when one studied, uh, uh, modern literature, English literature through, through Latin and Greek. Today, we realize that the visual arts must be studied from childhood on up. Must be a part of our thinking. Not something that is done after hours, after one leaves. Well, are you suggesting that you've got to have that kind of education, that kind of background in order to appreciate art? Not necessarily. I didn't mean that all people have to have a formal education. I merely mean that, by and large, uh, education doesn't come out of nothing. It's something one works for. Uh, that education is, uh, part of the college, part of what follows when you're through college or through high school. There are these great, uh, developments of adult education all over the United States that are bringing us closer to what the artist is trying to do. It's, uh, it's a process of learning. To whom is the artist trying to appeal, anyway? Or is he trying to appeal to anyone in, in, uh, particular Frankenstein? I should say that the artist is primarily concerned with saying what he has to say within his own medium in the best possible way. Do you think he has a responsibility to try to, uh, to appeal to the, to the public? Uh, I think his first responsibility is to be true to himself. That is to say, he has to decide what he wants to do with his life and then devote himself to that. If he wishes to communicate, he will try to do so. And then he will adopt a language that most people will understand. If he does not succeed in communicating this way, then he must keep on trying. By being true to himself, he will discover something of value for himself and eventually for others. Because no artist is so completely unlike the rest of the world that he wouldn't say something that some of us wouldn't understand. Now, if he, he may not wish to communicate, in which case he's still expressing himself as a non-communicative person. But sooner or later, when he works with such integrity, he will discover something of value. Well, you gentlemen will forgive me for saying that from the discussion thus far, I get the impression that, that art is an esoteric, uh, sort of thing for the few, uh, that, uh, appeals to those who have, uh, cultivated their, their, their tastes. That it's, it exists in sort of a vacuum, uh, uh, apart from the great, uh, unwashed. I wouldn't, uh, say that. When you say esoteric, uh, that, then I would say football is too. Uh, the, I'm not very much interested in the opinion of the person who goes to a football game and sees it for the first time. Uh, they see the spectacle, they see men moving on the field. There are all kinds of exciting and subtle plays going on that are missed by this person. Is football esoteric? Is music esoteric? What about plays that we go and see in the movies and, and, uh, books we read? All of those things we must come, uh, we come to know through experience. And the fact is that until comparatively recently, the visual arts and music too, uh, have been outside the educational experience of the American, uh, child and youth. But don't you think really, really, uh, great art, Jacobson has an enormous impact on, on people quite apart from education. You, you were saying, uh, earlier that in the presence of really great art, you, you, you, you take off your hat. You, you recognize it as such, with or without an education. Yes, uh, it seems to me that is true if you walk into the, uh, at St. Peter's at Rome and look at the magnificence of the proportion and the structure, the paintings there, you're, you're, uh, silenced, you're awed, you can't speak. Because you're in the presence of a terrific effort and a successfully, and a successful effort. If you should go into the caves of France where the early men painted their buffalo and their reindeer, you would be equally stunned and awed by the beauty and the, the, uh, wonders of these things. That is the kind of, uh, experience that gives us standards to go by. That's how we know a great piece of art when we see it. It awes us, it elevates, it elevates us, it moves us. I would like to take issue a little bit with what Jacobson says, though I think, uh, fundamentally we agree on, on that. And that is that the St. Peter's as an illustration may be a little misleading because it's, uh, it is a great work of art, architecture, but it's also vast in size. Uh, the caves, uh, people going to see that, of course, would be impressed by the tremendous scale of the interior. Uh, they would be impressed by the paintings on the caves because they would have assumed in advance that cavemen couldn't have painted. And here they say, see something which is, to them, excellent. However, I think it would be possible for the same people to go and see an El Greco and not be impressed. Yet, if they had looked at painting and understood what the painter is trying to do, and this particular kind of painter, to them it would be as great an experience or intense, as intense an experience as either of the other two. In other words, uh, people who go to the Louvre don't necessarily buy postcards of the best pictures there. I think it's quite revealing to see which ones the public does choose. It's the ones that have been propagandized the most. Well, isn't what you're saying the same thing, uh, as you said about the football game. You only enjoy things that you understand. In other words, you bring to a piece of art, uh, your experience, and you can only get out of that piece of artwork what your experience brings to it. What you put into it. Yes. Do you think that, now we're talking as you know about the role of the artist in a technological society. Do you think art, as you gentlemen have been, uh, discussing it, is consonant with a technological society? A society characterized by speed, by mechanization, by urban living, by complexity, by stereotyping. I should say that in a democratic society, perhaps the prime function of, of technology is to provide more leisure. Its prime function is to get over the drudgery of living as quickly as possible, to provide as much leisure for other things as possible. Consequently, it produces an enormous increase in the appeals to our leisure. Produces an enormous increase in the amount of things that are made available to us for contemplation during our leisure time. Consequently, we are faced with a certain confusion in that fact. We have such an enormous quantity of things in the fields of the arts today hitting us from all sides, constantly appealing to us, constantly asking us for such leisure as we have by virtue of our technological society. And it is for that reason that the role of education in the fine arts has come to be such an important thing. We must know how to use our leisure intelligently. But are we giving our leisure to the arts, do you think? To a very large degree, I think, we are. At least to an infinitely greater degree than we were. Another aspect of this technological society in which you ought to be interested, Jacobson, is mass production. Well, you were asking before, has an artist a place in a technological society, and what does it do to him, or what can he do to it? I think the technological society is a wonderful place for him to be. He has a thousand new phenomena to examine and to understand. He has cameras to record things that he couldn't possibly record. He has microscopes to see things he couldn't see before, and telescopes to see distances he couldn't imagine before. He has new tools, in other words. He has new dimensions. He can fly, and he can go under the ocean. He has magazine reproduction to repeat by the millions the things that he paints. And he has the reproduction of prints as well. In addition, he has projection machines, which can enlarge his paintings to almost any size. And then he has this wonderful new television. Well, I respect both points you men have made. The matter of leisure time, which you can turn to art, and the availability of tools, not possible before. I return, though, to this point I was about to make about mass production. Take in the case of furniture, when you're turning out chairs by the thousands in a single mold, in the old days, each chair fashion for itself. In your own corporation, where you're making boxes by the millions, I take it. Where does art enter into that kind of a production process? Well, it doesn't take any more money or any more time to print a nice thing on a box than to print a poor thing. So that production, mass production, has nothing to do with beauty. You could make anything beautiful, anything that you can make beautiful, you might say you could reproduce on a large scale. This glass that I have here, for example, is nothing more than a tumbler, and it does nothing more for me than hold water. But it could be a work of art. So that when I look at it, I have great pleasure, and when I touch it, I enjoy the feeling of it. The same would be true of a chair. You can make a chair that is simply a number of legs and backs put together in an uninteresting way. But if Mr. Eames makes a chair with plywood and metal, and it's beautiful, he makes it not only because it's beautiful, but because it can be mass produced. One thing that disturbs me in my visits with you, Jakeson, here you pick up a glass and you say this thing could be beautiful. Actually, it's ugly. You passed a lamp post the other day. You said this thing could be beautiful, but actually it's ugly. Well, now, is ugliness typical in our kind of society? We seem to be encountering it on all hands. Here's what I think has happened. I think there's a confusion between designing for mass production and designing for handicraft. That many of the things we see, such as Jacobson's lamp post, many of those are hangovers from handicraft and from other materials. That is, the Windsor chair was designed for a particular kind of small shop factory production in the early part of the 19th century. The Eames chair is designed for huge mass production in modern factories with new materials. To make a Windsor chair and have it turned out by the hundreds of thousands by our modern methods or any colonial or early 19th century chair which had hand rubbing on it. And to produce a machine which will imitate the hand rubbing process of the early 19th century is the sort of thing that leads us into this kind of mess. It seems to me then that there is a difference between the artist who paints a single picture or the artist who designs or paints something that is to be reproduced on the cover of Fortune magazine. Many of the color reproductions we have today, for instance, work backwards from original paintings. But there are artists, particularly certain commercial artists, many of them in fact, who design for the printed page, just as Eames designed for mass production. Once we can clear up that point, it would help us. I'd like to add something that I took from a recent work of Edgar Kaufman who was connected with the Museum of Modern Art. He was talking about modern mass production. He says, compare two coffee pots, 1750 and 1950. The older silver pot is an elaborate symbol of aristocratic dignity, expensive to make and troublesome to polish, a showpiece. Its pineapple finial, foliate trim, and membered moldings are reminders of classical influence. In the newer stainless steel drip pot, coffee is made as well as served. Convenience and efficiency are expressed rather than the dignity, though the bold, sensible forms are eminently graceful. Joints and edges are featured now as 200 years ago. But today, cleanliness, strength, and simplicity govern the detailing. And this is the important thing about mass and machine production. Those tough steel can be shaped thus only by machines more powerful than the hands that shape the silver. Well, now, you're an advocate of the newer coffee pot, I take it? I don't say I wouldn't have a coffee pot made by a craftsman, but it's the craftsman who develops the ideas from the metal. Then the production man comes along and puts it into mass production. Well, I still have the impression that we encounter an enormous amount of what you gentlemen call ugliness in these commercial objects. Am I right or wrong in that? Right, definitely. I think, however, that we are encountering less ugliness in commercial objects than we formerly did. That's a long time. We are learning that modern design should express the methods used to make an object. Not disguising mass production as handicraft or simulating a technique not used. I should like to stress the idea that the really good modern design is going back to the spirit of traditional design. That we've had mass production before, although not on as great a scale as today. The Windsor Chair was merely one example. It seems to me then that what we have to do is to understand what is good basic design as opposed to merely covering something with historical mannerisms. There was a time when a bank couldn't be built without a Greco-Roman columns on either side of the entrance. I think we've gotten past that. Our automobiles aren't scrambled with older forms of art, even though they could be improved, most of them in design. Now that's a matter of getting a good designer at work. It must be clear then that the aspect of the arts change, not because of fashion, as is often thought, but because the new conditions that affect society and the artist bring with them new demands. Well now, what attitudes do you encounter among businessmen, salesmen, and other entrepreneurs in modern society, so far as art is concerned? Well, if I had to be very brief about it, I would say that most businessmen are shy about art, and modern art in particular. Although there are many exceptions. But in the shyness, I'm afraid, is due to their ignorance. The main interest of most businessmen is production, administration, law, accounting, finance. They simply don't know what you're talking about when you talk about modern art because they haven't given it any attention. It doesn't mean that they couldn't know. They're very bright. Otherwise, they wouldn't be successful businessmen. But they have no standards of judgment. I should say, however, that the great activity in the support of modern art through museums, through foundations, through universities, and the greatest amount of the purchase of contemporary art comes from these very businessmen. There must be at least a very sizable minority of so-called practical men who have some understanding of art and some interest in art. I would say that what we must teach all of our people, all ourselves, everyone today to realize, is that the artist, there must be artists among us who are constantly pushing towards new ideas, breaking new grounds. That we must support those men as well as the artists who obviously work directly for production. That the painter is important. And even though his painting has an immediate commercial use, that he must be supported just as your pure research scientist must be. But how, folks? How is this creative artist, the man who is producing, I take it for the love of it, because he has something to say? Because he can't help himself. Well, he should be given an opportunity through teaching as a resident artist in a university, one way or another, depending upon his particular temperament. Some men can't teach and paint, some men can't do commercial art and sculpt or paint, but somehow we should keep it in our minds that these men are necessary, that we must plow new ground. Should society undertake to subsidize artists of the kind you're talking about? What do you think about that, Jacobson? Well, I think it does, to a certain extent, subsidize people like that in museums and universities where artists live as resident artists and have time to study and make experimental work with their students and for themselves. There are scholarships and Guggenheim fellowships and so on. Certainly, we do a lot for students. We always, in schools, look for the talented young people and see to it that they get help during their student years. After that, they have to look out for themselves and if they can find people to support them well and good. But the history of art is that men worked because they had to work, regardless of whether they were supported or not. And, of course, you have Cezanne and Matisse and Van Hock and all the rest. There are 30,000 artists any day in Paris. There must be three or four hundred thousand of them in this country. I should say 30,000 art students. Who's going to support all those if they won't make a great deal of effort for themselves? Well, you make a distinction between the creative artist folds and the commercial artists. I'm concerned about this creative artist. I am too, but I think that many commercial artists are creative artists too. The main problem of the commercial artist is that he is working for men, frequently, who have, are rather terrified of a mythical public taste. And they will say to him, no, you can't do that. That won't sell. This won't sell, but this will. In effect, they say to the artist, you must cease being an artist when you work for me. The only answer to all of this, it seems to me, is education, whether formal or informal. Whether through... I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Role of the Artist in a Technological Society. Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Thomas M. Foles, Alfred Frankenstein, and Egbert Jacobson. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will debate the controversial question, Should college students be drafted? Our guests will be Colonel Paul G. Armstrong, State Director of Selective Service for Illinois. Charles S. Heinemann, Professor of Political Science at Northwestern University, and Robert K. Sommerbelle, Professor of Chemistry at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question, Should college students be drafted? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .