This is an official New York City air raid alert drill. Take shelter. Leave your loudspeakers turned on. Take shelter without delay. This is an official New York City air raid alert drill. New York City air raid alert drill. New York City air raid alert drill. This is an official New York City air raid alert drill. This is an official New York City alert drill. In a moment, we shall bring you additional information and instructions. This is Mayor Impeletary speaking. This is a civil defense drill. It is a rehearsal. The red alert has sounded. Theoretically and only theoretically, enemy aircraft might be approaching the city. But thank God, this is only a drill. We hope that all of you have followed instructions and that when you heard the wobbling sirens, you took shelter. Please remain in your shelters until the all-clear signal sounds approximately 12 minutes from now. This will take place in a few minutes from now. This will take place in a few minutes. But for now, all of us must remain in our shelters. The city's civil defense plans are adequate to protect you in an emergency. But your cooperation is of very important. The city's civil defense plans are not allowed to protect you in an emergency. The city's civil defense plans are not allowed to protect you in an emergency. The drill. Remain in your shelters until the all-clear signals sounds. Above all, do not use your telephone. Do not use your telephone. We need every communications facility during this drill and during any emergency. You will be protecting your loved ones by not calling now. I repeat, it is vital to keep all communication lines open. Do not use your telephone. If you should be driving in your car, when you hear the wobbling siren, you should draw immediately to the curb. Look for the nearest shelter or the nearest building. Be sure to follow the air raid warden's instructions. Your city's civil defense forces are on the job to protect you. Please cooperate with them. Today's drill has been ordered by the New York State Civil Defense Commission in order to test out the civil defense forces of our city. The center of today's drill will be in the Borough of the Bronx. A vast concentration of city employees and equipment will converge at Southern Boulevard and Boston Post Road. In addition, thousands of your neighbors, who are volunteers in the Civil Defense Organization, will participate. Obey your air raid wardens to prevent confusion. Cooperate in every way you can. Keep your radio turned on. I am talking to you now over every radio and television station in the city. This is part of the splendid arrangements made by the broadcasting industry, which has cooperated wholeheartedly in the public interest. This is the manner in which city officials will communicate with you and give you complete instructions in case of an emergency. The city's civil defense organization has been making plans and organizing for your safety and the safety of your loved ones for the past two years. They are prepared to cope with any emergency. So don't become panicky. Stay calm. Obey the instructions of your air raid wardens and other emergency workers. Remain in your shelters until the all clear sounds. You will receive full instructions over your radio. And we will bring you news and information over these same facilities. For now, remain in your shelters, please. And keep tuned in. This is Mayor Impelletary speaking. And now, here is a word from the Director of the New York City Office of Civil Defense, Herbert O'Brien. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. By this time we hope that everyone knows that a civil defense test exercise is underway in New York City. All of the city's sirens have carried the red alert signal as a test. I hope that all of you are in your shelters and that you have been following the instructions of the air raid wardens. The emergency divisions of the Office of Civil Defense will begin to function in a few minutes. Thousands of city employees and even more thousands of your neighbors who have patriotically volunteered to become a part of the civil defense organization We'll all participate in today's drill. Speaking of volunteers, this is a very good opportunity for me to remind you again that we need a great many more volunteers in case of an emergency. The basic principle is one of self-help. The magnitude of an atomic explosion is so great that the regular professional civil defense forces will only be able to handle the broad overall requirements in the protection of life and property in this city. The well will have to help the sick. The well will have to help the sick. The young will have to assist the old. Neighbor must help neighbor. The better prepared each of us is to help the other, the less loss of life should an emergency arise. So I appeal to you on the occasion of this public participation test drill to join the volunteer forces of your city's civil defense organization. There is this, the air raid wardens service, the medical emergency division, the welfare emergency division, the public works emergency division, the communications division, and the auxiliary fire forces. You can join the civil defense organization at any fire station, police station, or hospital in the city. Or you can go to 500 Park Avenue, which is the recruiting center of all civil defense forces. Plan to do this today or Monday. Don't let the opportunity go by to better prepare yourself, be of help to your neighbors, your city, and your country. I am talking to you over a special network of all the radio and television stations in the city of New York. I wish to add my thanks to those of Mayor Impuletari to the entire broadcasting industry for the contribution that is making in order that the public may be well kept well informed. To all the other industries of the city of New York, to business, labor, and the professions, I also offer my thanks for the cooperation in making this civil defense drill a success. I hope all of you are remaining in your shelters. The all-clear signal will sound in just a few minutes. But in the meantime, I should like to present the State Director of Civil Defense, who is responsible for ordering this special civil defense test exercise. Here is Lieutenant General C.R. Huberman. Thank you, Director O'Brien. This is a civil defense test exercise. With the action now being taken throughout the entire city of New York, is exactly what must be done should an enemy attack. Let me give you a quick glance of what is happening around you. The red alert has been sounded, and the entire city is taking cover. The air raid wardens are now making a last-minute check to see if all persons on their beats have heard the public warning and have taken shelter. The ground observers are scanning the sky for hostile aircraft. Our own Air Force is on the alert to shoot down as many intruders as possible. Your civil defense staff is manning the control centers, making last-minute preparations in anticipation of a possible attack. Members of the various local civil defense services are on the alert, ready to proceed to their posts. This is a picture of a city prepared to meet an enemy attack. For the past two days, the State Civil Defense Commission, together with your local defense organization, has been studying and perfecting the plans developed for your protection against a disaster of enemy control. At this moment, these plans are being translated into concrete action. However, even the best of plans can succeed only if given your wholehearted cooperation and support. Where an atomic attack actually dropped in the Bronx, there would be over 600,000 casualties in a matter of seconds. I repeat, over 600,000 casualties in a matter of seconds. The physical destruction would extend over a distance of many square miles. Numerous fires would develop from both the effects of the bomb and from structural damage. There would be some danger from residual radiation. This is an unpleasant prospect, but one of which we must face realistically. We are now living in an atomic age, and we must adjust our lives accordingly. Civil defense is now an important part of our everyday life. It must be prepared to come to the aid of the fallen and bring about recovery from such a disaster. For a moment now, let us look beyond the city of New York to see the reaction of your state government and of your neighboring communities if the city were attacked. Under the direction of the State Civil Defense Commission, a state plan exists to bring the available state resources to your assistance. In line with this plan, certain predetermined help requested by your local civil defense organization, in accordance with its plans, would proceed automatically from surrounding Westchester, Rockland, Putnam, Orange, Dutchess, Ulster, and Sullivan counties to the city of New York on word that it had been attacked. As soon as the State Civil Defense Commission is advised of the extent of the damage and what is urgently needed, additional help would be drawn from the remainder of the state. State-owned supplies and equipment will be rushed to your assistance. The stockpile of vital supplies and equipment, particularly those required by the medical service, will be placed at your disposal. If the state resources have proved insufficient, plans exist to draw upon men and resources of the surrounding states, the federal government, and from military sources. Time is an important factor in our civil defense operations. Some of the injured must be treated within a matter of hours. Fires, if they are to be kept from spreading, must be contained. Persons who are buried in the debris must be removed as quickly as possible. There is not much time. Our forces must be adequate in every community to move as rapidly as possible. The city of New York, if properly organized, and if its civil defense forces are trained and ready to move, can produce a very large share of its own protection. Your civil defense will be only as good as you make it. Your local and state governments in themselves cannot provide an adequate civil defense unless they have the cooperation of all the people of the city of New York. Lieutenant General C.I. Huebner, the State Director of Civil Defense, has just spoken to you following City Civil Defense Director Herbert O'Brien and Mayor Impelletary in this special program in connection with today's civil defense test. Parts of the program were transcribed for presentation at this time. The program originated in one of the specially constructed control centers, which is part of New York City's Office of City Civil Defense. And now, by authority of the Director of Civil Defense, soundly all clear. The National Public Television The National Public Television The National Public Television The National Public Television The National Public Television This broadcast in connection with the New York City Air Raid Alert Drill is now at an end. All stations may resume normal activities. We return you now to your studios.