This is Good Health Time in the morning public interest broadcasts of your city station. Thursday morning of each week, we have the cooperation of the Medical Society of the County of New York in bringing you our Good Health speaker. That speaker today is Dr. Howard B. Shukoff, epidemiologist in tropical diseases and physician in charge of the Tropical Disease Diagnostic Service of our own New York City Health Department. Dr. Shukoff's subject is Tick Fever. Here now is Dr. Howard B. Shukoff. For centuries, the human race has been engaged in a continuous battle against the insect world. While many insects are harmless and some extremely valuable and helpful, there are many which in different ways serve to make our lives difficult. Some merely buzz around us. Others bite and make us itch. Some eat our clothing. Others destroy the plants which serve us for food. Some carry germs which cause our domestic animals to fall ill. Others attack us directly, armed with microbes of serious human diseases. Mosquitoes carry many plagues, including malaria. Flies are often responsible for the spread of dysentery and are suspected of a part in the transmission of polio. The dread typhus is spread by the lowly body louse. As the scourge of armies and civilians in Europe, typhus has been known for centuries to physicians, writers, and historians. It has flourished wherever poverty and uncleanliness have abounded. And during periods of serious privation and destruction, usually wars, it has produced fearsome epidemics. In recent years, several diseases closely related to epidemic typhus have been recognized. These diseases, typhus included, are all caused by a group of germs called rickettsii. They are smaller than bacteria and larger than the filterable viruses of such diseases as influenza, virus pneumonia, and polio. They are just visible through the ordinary microscope. Like typhus, its newer relatives are carried by insects, fleas, mites, and ticks. The type which is carried by ticks was first observed in the western United States at the end of the last century and was originally called Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever. Rocky Mountain Spotted Fever, or tick fever, is now known to occur not only in this country, but also in various parts of South America as well as in southern Europe and Africa. There is reason to believe that tick fever is spreading in the United States. It was first thought to be confined to the region west of the Mississippi, but since 1930, numerous cases have been discovered in the east and south. During the past few years, cases of tick fever have appeared right here in New York City. Up to this year, they were always in persons who had visited rural New Jersey or eastern Long Island, but in 1946, for the first time, a case occurred in a child who had been no further than Long Beach and was believed to have contracted the disease while in the city itself. At first, she was thought to have measles, but her mother discovered a lump on the back of her neck and showed it to the doctor. When he examined it carefully, he found it to be a tick. The tick was submitted to the health department and was identified as the type which carries tick fever. Blood tests verified the fact that the child was suffering from that disease. Ticks are unfamiliar objects to most city dwellers. They are flattened, eight-legged insects found usually in rural sections. Ticks spend most of their lives resting on plants, usually in dense underbrush in wooded areas. When ready to feed, the tick attaches itself to some passing animal or human being. It does not bite in the same way as a mosquito. It is equipped with a small, ugly head, armed with tiny spines. After climbing on to its victim, it crawls about for a while, seeking a sheltered spot. Frequently, it selects the back of the neck. It then forces its head into the skin, a process which takes an hour or more, and when its head is completely buried, it begins to suck blood. Once the head has penetrated, any attempt to pull the tick loose results in breaking the insect and leaving the head embedded in the skin where it may give rise to local infection. The tick often remains attached for several days. Tick fever is of greater concern to city dwellers in the east and south than in the west. The tick which carries the disease in the Rocky Mountain area is usually found only in the open country or in forests. The varieties which carry the disease in the south and east, however, are dog ticks. They do rest in underbrush but are fond of attaching themselves to dogs. In this way, they may be carried into homes, not only in the country but also in the city. For this reason, children and women are not infrequently infected here in the east, whereas in the west, the disease occurs most often in men. Only a small proportion of ticks are infected so that not all tick bites are dangerous. When a person is bitten by an infected tick, he usually becomes ill from two to five days later. Occasionally, as many as 12 days will elapse before symptoms appear. The illness often begins suddenly with a chill and a headache, but there may be one or two days of grippy feelings preceding this. After two to four days of high fever, a rash appears. This is usually seen first on the wrists and ankles. From there, it spreads rapidly to cover the remaining portions of the limbs as well as the body and face. Not infrequently, the tick is found still attached at the time when the person first takes sick. At the height of the illness, the patient may have a severe headache and a stiff neck and may become delirious, much like someone suffering from meningitis. The illness usually lasts two or three weeks, but it is several weeks before the patient is thoroughly recovered. Like typhus, tick fever is a serious disease. When it was first discovered in the Rocky Mountain area, it was stated to be fatal in about three-quarters of those affected. Now that the disease is better known, we find that the mortality is not that high. Statistics show an average of about 15% for the whole country. When tick fever is suspected, the doctor will take a blood test to make certain of the nature of the illness. In the first week, and often even in the second, the test may be negative. It is usually necessary to take two or even a series of three before a definite diagnosis can be reached. Until recently, there was no specific drug for the treatment of typhus fever and its relatives. Now it has been shown that a chemical called paraaminobenzoic acid, PABA for short, is apparently effective in shortening the course and diminishing the severity of typhus and its related diseases. The effect is not quite as rapid as that of the sulfur drugs in certain bacterial infections, but most patients begin to improve two or three days after they begin to take it. No matter how good this method of treatment turns out to be, it is far better to try to prevent infection with tick fever. Unfortunately, this is not a simple matter. The tick is a hardy insect. Flies, mosquitoes, gnats, and the like live for only a few weeks, but ticks live one or more years. They may go for many weeks without feeding. A tick which has been infected with the germs of tick fever transmits those germs to its young. Thus, the infection may be kept going indefinitely in ticks. The only way to eliminate the disease would be to eliminate the entire tick population of a particular region. This is usually impractical. In the case of typhus, the louse which transmits it lives in close contact with human beings, and the disease can be controlled if all members of the population are dusted with DDT. But ticks spend most of their time in wooded regions and cannot be effectively reached with any chemical that might kill them. Clearing of wooded areas would eliminate ticks, but clearing of large tracts of land is economically unsound. It may result not only in the destruction of valuable timber, but also in soil erosion. What can be done to avoid becoming infected with tick fever? Perhaps the simplest and most effective way is to stay away from regions where ticks are found. But this is not always feasible. Some people like to spend vacations or go hunting in just such places. Others must enter them in their daily work. Under these circumstances, they may protect themselves in two ways. In the first place, they may be vaccinated against tick fever. This does not give complete protection, but reduces the seriousness of infections if they are acquired. Secondly, they may take precautions against being bitten by ticks. They should wear clothes which fit tightly at the wrists and ankles. They should use high shoes with trousers tucked inside. At the end of each day, they must inspect themselves to see whether they have picked up any ticks. Fortunately, ticks usually crawl about for one or more hours before attaching themselves. Even after settling down, it takes some time before they begin to feed. Thus, a periodic inspection of the body may detect them before they have done any damage. If ticks are found crawling and unattached, they should be removed with great care, preferably with a forceps, since the crushing of an infected tick may lead to tick fever. If the tick has already attached itself, it should not be pulled away until ether or chloroform is applied to it for a few minutes to make it loosen its hold. Once the tick begins to feed, it swells and becomes reddish or brownish in color and is thus easily mistaken for a growth on the skin. In view of the fact that dogs may carry these ticks, great care should be taken with dogs who have been in rural areas or are owned by families in these areas. They should be carefully examined for the presence of ticks before being allowed to come into contact with members of the household. It is best not to allow dogs to enter households in those country places where tick fever exists. The vaccine used against tick fever is similar to that used for typhoid fever. It is composed of killed rickettsia germs and is given in two injections about one week apart. As I have already stated, it does not give complete protection, but if a vaccinated person becomes infected, the disease is less serious than it would otherwise have been. There may be reactions following the injection of vaccine similar to those which follow typhoid vaccination. The symptoms are usually soreness of the arm in which the injection was given, together with headache and fever. The protection given by the vaccine lasts for about one year. After that, it must be repeated. The preparation of the vaccine, as well as all laboratory investigations in the rickettsial diseases, are dangerous processes. Infections amongst laboratory workers are frequent. A number of important persons have died heroically while engaged in the study of rickettsial disease. Among them, Dr. Ricketts, who was the first to discover these germs and after whom they are named. It is of some historical interest that it was not in old-time typhus, but in the newly discovered tick fever that he first found them. So far, no satisfactory repellent for ticks has been developed. The efforts to discover such a substance are of great importance and are being watched with interest all over the world. For tick fever is not the only disease spread by these insects. They carry several others, including a disease called Q fever, which has been found in the United States and in Australia, tularemia, or rabbit fever, and in the southern United States and in many other parts of the world, relapsing fever. Thus, the tick is, at the same time, one of the most important and one of the toughest insect enemies which we have. Thank you, Dr. Shukoff. That was our Good Health speaker for this morning, Dr. Howard B. Shukoff, who spoke on the subject of tick fever. Dr. Shukoff is epidemiologist in tropical diseases and physician in charge of the Tropical Disease Diagnostic Service of our own New York City Health Department. He was heard through the cooperation of the Medical Society of the County of New York. Tomorrow at 11.45 a.m., we'll bring you another interesting and authoritative speaker in the regular daily Good Health series, so plan to join with us then. This is a municipal broadcasting system. Thank you. Thank you.