Ladies and gentlemen, this is the meeting of the Speech Association of America devoted to the subject, Criteria for Criticism in Radio. One of the problems that besets the radio industry, educators, and indeed the American people as radio listeners, is that of critical standards. All of us have opinions on the question of how well American radio does its job. Our opinions depend on many factors, such as where we live and what our listening experience has been. But basically our opinions must turn on two questions before we pass critical judgment on radio. One, what properly is radio's job? And two, by what criteria do we judge how successful radio is in accomplishing its proper job? There are many people who don't like what they hear on the radio. Perhaps they won't even like this program. I should say, perhaps, for the benefit of the audience here at the Roosevelt Hotel, that this meeting is being recorded on tape and will be broadcast tomorrow evening at 8.30 over New York City's municipal station, WNYC. There are many people who feel that programs they would like to listen to are not broadcast or are broadcast irregularly or at bad listening hours or that they have to listen to too much advertising or too much unpleasant advertising. All the people who make complaints such as these obviously have some idea of what they think is right and proper in radio. And their criteria of the right and proper obviously differ from the standards of radio executives who feel they're doing a sound job and of the millions of people who make little or no complaint about radio programming. Unless all the people who disagree in their praise and blame are simply caught up in a tangle of words which they both use but do not understand in the same sense, it's clear that we're dealing with a real problem here of critical judgment. Judgment of purposes and accomplishments, of the validity of objectives and the soundness of achievements. What is radio's function? How shall we judge its success in fulfilling its function? Where does the radio critic fit into this picture? On the platform here, we have some of the leading figures in the field of radio criticism in the country and a key executive of a national network. Our purpose in this meeting is to explore the fundamental problems of critical standards in radio, to formulate, if we can, a set of criteria for criticism on which critics, broadcasters, and the general listening public may find agreement. The plan of our meeting is to have two talks representing somewhat different approaches to the problem by an outstanding academic critic and by a professional broadcasting executive, and to follow these talks with an informal exchange of opinion, questions, and comments by a panel of well-known radio critics of leading newspapers and magazines, and to conclude our discussion with questions from the floor. Our first speaker is Professor Charles A. Seatman. Mr. Seatman is Professor of Education and Chairman of the Department of Communications and Education at New York University. He's one of the foremost serious critics of radio in the country today. His numerous books and articles have focused attention on the problem of evaluating radio in terms of its inherent potentialities. His most recent book of criticism, called Radio, Television, and Society, has inspired considerable comment in broadcasting and literary circles. In addressing himself to the question of criteria for criticism in radio, Professor Seatman speaks of the responsibility of leadership. Professor Seatman. Dr. Shester, ladies and gentlemen, as you've heard, I am a radio critic. Mr. Ream is a radio executive. We differ. It's inevitable in one sense, regrettable in another. My own belief is that sooner rather than later, it's important that the gap between radio's critics and radio's executives be closed by a process of fuller mutual understanding and goodwill, as well as candor. It's in candor and in sorrow rather than in anger that I attempt to define for you certain criteria for the criticism of radio and in so defining them to make certain criticisms of radio itself. The subject is enormous and can't obviously be encompassed in a short talk. I've tried to keep to what, to me, are the central and essential features. To start with, I think we have to recognize that radio criticism has a double reference. It can refer to the overall program services of a station or of a network, or it can have reference to specific programs. The two things are not the same. One is an overall judgment and the other is a specific judgment of a specific program. But in either case, everything depends on your conception of what radio is for. Now, if you think of radio as a business, as a money-making proposition, the critical criterion is simple and decisive. Good programs are programs which make money. The critic's function then is simply to count the box tops sent in by kids and the bars of soap bought up by housewives. Radio as a whole, as I believe, has been developed in our country with this criterion predominantly in mind and has proved in this sense a resounding success. Profits have been enormous. They're not enormous any longer. But some of the moral and social consequences of this policy, I think, are worth listing because they relate to criticism. I give you five. First, a large part of the initiative and responsibility for what goes out over the air has in practice been transferred from the broadcaster to the advertiser and the advertising agent. Second, the listener consequently has become a means to an end, the advertiser's sale of his goods. Third, programs other than for the greater majorities have always been few and are today fewer than ever. Significant cultural minorities have, on the whole, received miserable and largely intermittent service. There has been no sustained effort to develop new audiences. Fourth, a policy has developed never to offend a single listener. An amoral, if not an immoral policy, as I see it. Fifth, experimental programs and audience building for such programs have been conspicuous, by and large, by their absence. Short-term considerations and a concern for quick returns on money invested have, by and large, predominated. Now, it's possible to think of broadcasting in different terms from those, while candidly recognizing a profit margin as not only reasonable but necessary under our system of operation. I stress that point. The candid recognition of the desirability, indeed the necessity of a profit margin. There are some who see radio as three things at once. A universal voice, a social force, and a distinctive art with huge potentialities for the variant expression of ideas. Now, with this shift in the point of view, there is also, and inevitably, a shift in the criteria relevant to criticism. Let's take those three aspects of radio and see their implications, one by one, for criticism. Since radio is universal, that is, can reach everybody, it owes something to everybody. What it owes depends on the kind of society in which it operates. In Russia, radio's universal reach is used to make everybody think alike, every musician compose alike, every artist and writer paint and write alike. In a democracy, radio's universal reach means acknowledging the respect and recognition due to diversities of interest and taste and outlook. The triumph of a true democracy is that it holds together because of, not despite of, diversities of outlook and of interest. Diversity in programming is therefore axiomatic in radio and, as I see it, a proper criterion for criticism. Now, if radio is a social force, it means that it is accountable to society for the consequences of what it does. This implies responsibility. Radio is, in a quite critical sense, the conscience of the people. It also implies leadership, a continuous effort to bring out the best in people and to articulate it simply and clearly. It means that radio must, as Aristotle put it, think like a wise man but communicate in the language of the people. This makes of radio a vast mining operation. Its job is to dig out and refine the native ore. The more ore that it digs out and the better it refines it, the richer and the happier the society it serves. Here, then, is one more criterion for criticism. Next, because a democracy consists not of a regimented mass with an emphasis on sameness and on conformity, but of an enormous number of essentially individual private people, this means that radio as a social force must exemplify publicly the standards and the ideals that, as private persons, you and I aspire to. Among many such, the following seem to me important. If you or I are anxious to be not just a person, but a personality, we will seek these seven things. First, to develop Catholic tastes and interests. To enter, in other words, into the great inheritance of man's knowledge and genius. Second, to cultivate and cherish always a great love of excellence at every level from the humblest to the highest. Third, to know evil and to denounce it and to bespeak the good and the true as we see it. Fourth, to be ready, consequently, to face unpopularity where principle is at stake. Fifth, to respect others and treat them on the assumption that they are better than they seem. We are all of us like a piece of elastic. You don't test and prove us until you stretch us. We can stretch much further than is commonly supposed. Sixth, to subordinate, though not necessarily to eschew, money-getting, to self-discovery and the service of others. And finally, to take the long view and not trim our sails to the winds of temporary expediency. Here I suggest our seven more criteria for criticism of radio's program services. By these criteria, radio, as I judge it as a whole, is a resounding failure. It has not developed Catholic tastes and interests. It has tended to corral listeners into a few big pens. It has not been conspicuous in its denunciation of evil. It has been too frightened to offend a single listener. It has been reluctant to court unpopularity. It has not tended to treat us as though we were better than we seem, but, taking us in the broad as we are, it has been content and indeed, I suspect, eager to keep us where we are. It has not tended to subordinate profits to public service, but has equated profit-making with its service to the public. And the equation, I think, is false. It has not taken the long view in program building, but, through deference to advertisers, concerned with quick returns on their investment, has concentrated on the short view, and, in so doing, has cut off its nose to spite its face. For, faced with the competition of television, and the prospect of losing a large part of its entertainment audience to this new medium, it finds itself with few reserves of goodwill to fall back on. For it has cultivated few. It has acted much as those who have cut down our vast acres of timber without planting concurrently the seeds of a future crop. The existent interests of significant minorities have been scouted, and the latent interests of millions have not been brought to birth. I know from first-hand experience as a broadcaster, hot miracles radio can work on people's latent interests, given time and patience, given the long view of what radio is, and of what people have it in them to become. Now, let me turn to the far more difficult question, in one sense, of criteria for criticism of specific programs. Criteria for criticism of these programs are harder to enumerate, for they will obviously vary with the program and the problems that it raises. Many of the criteria that I have already mentioned will, of course, apply. Beyond these, however, the following seem to me applicable. The critic has always, in radio, as for that matter in literature, to ask himself two essential questions. First, what does this program set out to do, and how significant is the doing of it? And second, how well has the goal been realized? Or in other words, how successfully have the techniques of radio been used to achieve the desired end? Three examples may illustrate the application of these two criteria. Take soap operas. The goal here is to write a popular serial story with human interest. The techniques were the familiar techniques of dramatic radio. There is nothing wrong here about the goal. What is wrong is the conception of human interest. The substitution of morbid, unlikely, silly, trivial, and often contemptible characters and unreal situations for real people and real situations. There is nothing more romantic nor more tensely human in its interest than life and people as they are. Great writers have found it, and readers have found it too. Real life and real people are rarely portrayed in radio's serial dramas. Or take the dramatic adaptation for radio of films or works of literature. There is nothing wrong about adaptation. What is wrong is the illusion that by reproducing the storyline, the incidents, you reproduce the original. Most radio adaptations neither recreate the original in radio terms nor a living substitute for the original. Or take a greatly different case, the radio news commentators. Here, a relevant and vital point of criticism is not so much what any commentator says, but what radio news commentators collectively should be and do. Should they, or should they not, represent between them a fair cross-section of responsible and variant outlook and opinion? Do they? This is but one of many criteria of criticism applicable to this single program type. It only shows the difficulty of trying to enumerate all the relevant criteria where particular programs are concerned. But let me say this respecting criteria for these specialized programs. The essence of criticism, as I see it, like the essence of democratic radio, is responsible leadership. The speaking out of oneself to the best of one's ability. The relevant application of values that one has come to cherish as the condition of growth and self-respect in oneself, and therefore presumably in others. A critic is a leader, not a pander, not an echo. In so far as he echoes or panders to what others say, he belies himself, lets himself down, and in the process lets others down with him. It is the same with radio. The critic's function is, in all modesty, without illusions of infallibility, and with complete sincerity, to offer leadership to radio, as radio's function is to offer leadership to listeners. It is in essence to be yourself and your best self, and in so doing, to offer opportunity to others to discover and thus to be themselves. No critic has to worry about setting himself up as God Almighty. He is not like God alone. There are many critics, though ideally there should be many more. The same applies to radio. In a competitive system, no one in radio needs worry about being authoritarian. Everyone in radio does have to worry about being responsible. Given a diversity of honest critics, we and radio may perhaps come by that diversity of outlook and of interest, which alone can feed to radio the listeners that in the years ahead it's going to need so badly. Radio's prospects of survival, in strict cash terms, depend, as I see it, on its capacity and will for imaginative Catholic leadership, for that competitive initiative in wide and variant fields a fresh experiment, which, through the bonanza days of its existence, which are now over, it has so rarely exhibited. These conceptions are some of the criteria for radio criticism which seem to me relevant if radio and the society it serves are to survive in dignity, in vigor, and in self-respect. Thank you, Professor Seatman. All of us, I'm sure, have heard of that special branch of the human species known as the network vice president. Our next speaker, Mr. Joseph H. Ream, is a member of that rare and mysterious group, but he is no ordinary member. He is the executive vice president of the Columbia Broadcasting System. Perhaps I should explain just what that means. The Columbia Broadcasting System, as you know if you read CBS publicity, is the network with the biggest audience in the country. Mr. Ream is the executive vice president in charge of all the network vice presidents at CBS. In other words, he has a rather heavy responsibility for the day-to-day operations of that great network. I did not invite Mr. Ream to speak to us today as a representative of CBS, however, but as a man with long experience in broadcasting, who has given much thought to the whole problem of criticism, and who has, as you will discover, the ability to express himself forcefully and clearly. Mr. Ream speaks on the broadcaster's obligations to the public. Mr. Ream. Dr. Chester, Mr. Seatman, well, I'm afraid you're going to be in for disappointment because I can't live up to that billing. That's even better than the CBS publicity department. It seems to me, however, that the title of my remarks could very well be cut simply to the broadcaster's obligations. The words to the public are actually unnecessary. For everything the broadcaster says, he says to the public. Everything he does affects the public, and the broadcaster's continued existence depends on the public's response. In the next few minutes, I'm going to try to describe just what broadcasters do, day in and day out, to fulfill these obligations. The first obligation broadcasters have is a physical obligation, so to speak, to get on and stay on the air. And without physical plants and facilities, there would be no broadcasting. To stay on the air, radio broadcasters of this country spend many millions of dollars each year for equipment and technical personnel alone. We try to make our service technically just as dependable and as listenable as we know how. As we often say, unless they can hear you, they won't listen to you. And 95% of the nation's families do listen an average of four hours a day. The second obligation is to give most of the people, most of the time, what they most want to hear. This, I am confident, is the end measure of the success or failure of our system of broadcasting. We are licensed to operate in the public interest. And in a democracy, majority tastes and desires cannot be disregarded in an evaluation of what is in the public interest. How has this policy worked? Let me cite just two facts. Fact number one. The United Nations, in a survey last fall, rediscovered what we all knew, that the American public relies far more on radio than on newspapers for news and information. For while the United States ranks sixth in per capita reading of newspapers, it was first in radio listening among all the nations. The second fact. In the National Opinion Research Council study conducted by Denver University a couple of years ago, we found that in the average week, more people listen to their radio than read any newspaper or any magazine. To be sure, in the face of these findings, there are those who say that radio appeals only to what they call a mass minority. They point out that in the average evening, in the average evening hour, there are only some 12 million radio families listening, less than a third of radio's potential audience. This, of course, is similar to saying that in a given hour, only 30 percent, or whatever the percentage may be, of all the car owners were driving their cars, and thus imply the automobile had failed of its function. Actually, in the course of an entire evening, something like 75 percent of all radio families listened to their sets, and virtually 100 percent listened sometime in the course of a week. Even a single weekly nighttime program, which lots of people are bound not to like, will reach in the course of a month some 40 or 50 percent of all the radio homes in the country. The third obligation of broadcasters is the obligation to serve minority tastes. This is admittedly a difficult problem if we try at the same time to keep radio a great mass medium within the democratic concept. It is a problem with which we are constantly struggling, and I am convinced there is no ready-made answer. The dilemma is that if we prepare programs specifically to serve minority tastes, we discover, and the minorities discover, that not many people really want to hear them. Take as an example the documentary programs which we at CBS pioneered, and which we hoped would provide the answer to the problem. Take programs such as Operations Crossroads, the story of atomic energy, The Eagle's Brood, covering the subject of juvenile delinquency, The Empty Noose, which covered the story of the Nuremberg Trials, and Mind in the Shadow, the story of mental health. Look at the times these programs were broadcast. One was at 7.30 p.m. and the others at 10 p.m. and then visualize, if you will, our extensive promotional activities for these programs by means of newspaper advertisements, plugs on the air, and many other related activities by well over a hundred CBS stations. All of these programs were prepared without regard to production or talent expense. The topics were, beyond question, of considerable importance. Now let's look at the audience these programs got. They ranged from 3% of the possible radio audience to a high of 6%. The conclusion, I am afraid, is inescapable. The subjects are of minority interest, and the documentary form does not, by itself, attract large audiences. And yet I am not attempting to say that these programs were of no value, for they cannot be measured in terms of audience alone. They did have considerable importance, and some of them, I am pleased to recall, had measurable influences for good. Our problem, I think, is one of impact. We have to strive, and do strive, to imbue our serious programs with genuine vitality. As a case in point, the new Ed Murrow Here It Now program is not just another documentary in dramatic form. But instead, we have made it a hard-hitting, 60-minute commentary on each week's world news. Here is an example, I think, of a program which will appeal to the discriminating minority, and will, at the same time, hold the interest and develop the taste of radio's majority audience. Let's go directly now to two of the most common criticisms of broadcasting, that there is not enough program for minority tastes, and that what there is can only be heard at inconvenient times. I don't know how many times I've heard those criticisms. I have taken the weekly four-network schedule from Broadcasting Magazine for December, and have split all programs into two broad categories. The first group I have chosen to call straight entertainment programs. The second group I have designated as programming for minority tastes. In this second category, I have included the news and classical and semi-classical music programs, the discussions of public affairs and religious programs, and have added, too, some other programs which I think almost everyone would agree are of an exceptionally high character and which are devoted to some impeccable public end. And what does this weekly schedule show? It shows that in the peak nighttime hours, from 8 to 10 p.m., seven nights a week, 46 of all quarter hours offer one or more network programs aimed at minority tastes. For the whole evening, from 6 to 11 p.m., 70% of all quarter hours offer at least one network program of this character. And in some 25% of the nighttime hours, there are two or more programs on the air serving minority interests. In the daytime, Saturdays and Sundays, the proportion goes even higher. Also, we should never forget one further point. Radio, for all its virtues, is not a magazine or a book or a library in one very important sense. Only one thing can come out of one station at any one time. And so radio must ask that discriminating listeners do a little planning and seek out the programs that are especially suited to their needs and tastes. The broadcaster's fourth responsibility, and a most vital one in these critical times, is to keep an audience in being that will be readily available for the many calls of the government in times of national emergency. The net of our experience in radio during the last war was that the only practical way to move information into the minds of the total population through broadcasting was to keep broadcasting as close as possible to its peacetime schedule. During the last war, our government looked at radio and recognized that here was a prefabricated machine to reach the total population. It then yielded to the natural impulse to ask that radio set aside cream times so that government representatives could speak to the people about the problems of the emergency. They took Saturday night and scheduled a single program on all four networks. They called it This Is War and produced the strongest and best dramatic program that the combined skills of the four networks could muster. They filled it with name stars. It lacked just one thing, the elements that people find interesting. And the end result was that the people paid no more attention to this four network program than they did to the low cost sustaining programs which it replaced. Remember that this was not a speech or a lecture. Remember too that this program was the only program broadcast by the networks at that time. And yet its four network audience was less than tuned to a single network to hear any one of 16 different entertainment programs that were regularly on the air in those same months. Now I'm not going to say that this program's messages weren't more important than Jack Benny or Kate Smith or the Lux Radio Theater. I'm merely pointing out that given the time and the facilities and the talent this program failed in its objective. But even more important than the limited number of people reached was the kind of people reached. I don't believe it requires an elaborate documentation to convince you that the majority of the people who listened were the people who were already convinced of the need on their part to support in full the activities and requests of their government. And the corollary is that the people who had to be reached, the very people who had to be sold on saving gas, not hoarding, enlisting, not patronizing black markets. These were the people who were conspicuous by their absence. The solution was fairly self-evident. It was simply to use the existing popular programs as carriers for government messages. They had Kate Smith sell bonds. They had Frank Sinatra sell tolerance. They had the Aldrich family do a program where instead of getting into a car and thus using precious gas to go to a picnic, the Aldrichs held a picnic in the backyard. They had Firm McGee and Molly organize a scavenger hunt on their program one Tuesday night and gather scrap for the war machine. These messages reached all kinds of people. For Kate Smith's audience and the fans of Frank Sinatra and the Aldrich family were all kinds of people. They were potential black marketeers, thoughtless people, and the selfish in all walks of life, as well as those who understood their country's needs. I am convinced that today the broadcaster's prime responsibility is to keep radio and television, too, operating in the broadest way possible. In terms of programs, this means broadcasting material that most people want to hear most of the time. In terms of physical facilities, it means keeping virtually all of our 2,000 stations on the air. For although we could physically reach most of the people with fewer stations, in actual practice we would not engage their attention nearly as often nor for so many hours a day. It is competition among broadcasters and a choice of many programs among listeners that has built our great volume of listening. It is rare, indeed, that one network program ever reaches as many as half the people who are tuned in at any one time. And it is only when we add up the listening to all programs from all stations at all hours that we get the volume of listening which has made broadcasting in America the medium it is. To sum up, it seems clear that broadcasting is a mass medium and that the clock and the calendar insist to a considerable degree on a mass product. Broadcasters, I believe, have achieved some measure of success in their four principal public responsibilities. In first, getting and staying on the air with the best technical facilities. Second, serving the majority so well that 41 million radio families and 10.5 million television families spend four to five hours a day beside their receivers. Third, serving a wide variety of minority interests with specialized network programs in more than half of all night time and weekend hours. And fourth, maintaining an immense waiting audience in being ready at any moment to listen and respond to the needs of their government in a time of national emergency. It is my hope that with goodwill, intelligence, and open minds, we can measure up to our obligations in the critical days ahead. Thank you, Mr. Rehm. I think it's quite clear that we have a difference of point of view here on the same basic question as to how we shall evaluate radio's performance and what criteria are operating in the minds of the two speakers we've just heard. I think there would be value now in turning to our panel of working critics whose job it is day after day to write criticism of programs and to get their reactions to the rather theoretical presentations that you've just heard. Our panel of critics is made up, reading at my left, Mr. Robert Louis Chayon, who writes criticism for the Saturday Review of Literature and the Christian Science Monitor magazine. And Ms. Elizabeth Forsling, the radio and television editor of Newsweek magazine. At my right, Ms. Harriet Van Horn, the radio and television editor of the New York World Telegram and Sun. And at the extreme end of the table, Mr. Saul Carson, the radio critic of the New Republic magazine. Perhaps we might start off with Mr. Chayon. Mr. Chayon, do you have any reaction to the speeches you heard? Well, yes. My first reaction is to keep this discussion from following the path of an American town meeting of the air in which two points of view are presented and they each travel on unilateral pathways. I'd like to see a meeting of minds here. Of course, the assumptions which Mr. Seatman have volunteered and the statistics which Mr. Ream has offered are subject to examination and differences in interpretation. But I think the heart of the problem is to be found on the second page of Mr. Ream's speech. And I'd like to address the attention of this group to what I consider to be that point. Mr. Ream said the second obligation is to give most of the people most of the time what they most want to hear. Dr. Seatman approaches this problem from a philosopher's point of view. He's interested in things as they should be. Mr. Ream approaches it in a more practical way. He's interested in things as they are. Now, I would like to hear from Professor Seatman a rejoinder to the specific point the second obligation of the broadcasters to give most of the people most of the time what they most want to hear. Well, let's take the statistics. Mr. Ream tells us to my very great surprise in discussing minority tastes that CBS's efforts to give us programs presumably by minorities in the documentary series were a failure because, as he put it, not many people apparently wanted to hear. And yet he gives us the figures that to him are disappointing that those programs ranged from three to six percent of the available audience. Now, let's take the highest figure. Six percent of the available audience would be, in my judgment, an audience not to be sniffed at, an audience worth cultivating. I wouldn't care to say how many millions of listeners that means, but it's mighty near six percent of our population. Now, I don't think that you can write that off as a failure, particularly as this is the one effort of one network. If you multiply the figure of six percent by four representing the four networks, programs of that kind might muster twenty-four percent of available audiences. And as Mr. Ream has told us, only about a third of the people are there at any given time. So if you think in those terms, the figures are highly significant. My next point would be this. Those figures would be even more significant if CBS has had the courage to go on. when did you last hear a documentary on CBS? They've lapsed. It's weeks and months since we heard any. Now, I know, and I'm not talking now as a philosopher, I'm talking as a person who for twelve years plied broadcasting as a trade. I know from practical experience that given time and continuity, you can build audiences for the most unlikely programs. And if I may give you just one simple example, it's an example out of Britain where I was born and raised and forgive me for that, but it's nevertheless relevant. The British are in no sense different from us as listeners. In England, we found that there was a gross and appalling ignorance of life and things in America. And when Raymond Swing, who was at that time in England, came back to this country, I put him under contract to broadcast at a significant evening hour every week on things America. And we kept him there for eight years, not worrying about very much whether his Hooper rating was high or low, whether it was 3 or 6 or 16 percent. We believed that a good broadcaster, given time and continuity, can build audiences. When Raymond Swing left the air at the beginning of the last war, he had a regular listening public of 22 percent of the entire British population. I say that that shows what continuity of effort can do to build up the great reserves of audiences that are not yet in being but are ready to be made if broadcasting has the faith that I've expressed in people's potentialities. That, in essence, would be my answer to the point that has just been raised. Mr. Rehm, do you want to say something? Well, I find myself in agreement with Mr. Seatman on most things, but it seems to me, on the other hand, that he's missed the fundamental point of my approach to this, and that is that as broadcasters, we are licensed by the federal government to operate in the public interest. We have, at our command, so to speak, a vast resource to reach all the people, and if we use that resource to reach 3 or 6 percent of the people, and that's our goal, and it was a, that was the highest we got on the documentaries, it seems to me that we are not really operating in the public interest if we do that with any great proportion of our time. The people expect programs that they like to the extent that we can. We provide it in most of the time, and to say that we should change that philosophy and method of operation and cater, so to speak, to the minority, it seems to me, is being requerent to our trust. Mr. Cheyenne, do you feel that both of the speakers have met your question, or do you want to pursue that? No, not quite. It's still America's town meeting of the year. What I'd like to know is whether or not Mr. Ream recognizes an obligation beyond the second obligation, namely, to give most of the people, most of the time, or at least some of the time, what they do not want to hear, but what they ought, in a given frame of reference, to be acquainted with. It is true that most people do not want to think. Teachers generally are aware of that point. It is true that they want to escape from the realities of this critical time. It is true that a child, if he had his way, and this is a familiar metaphor, would want nothing than to have dozens of ice cream sundaes every day. But we all know that the essence of mankind's advance is a nice balance between what he wants to do and what he must learn to do in order to achieve the fullest possible growth of his inherent potentialities. Now, doesn't a broadcaster have a responsibility to the whole man, which is the public, of discovering and exploring techniques, of teaching him, and I use teaching in the highest sense rather than in the lowest sense, things that he ought to know, particularly in these times of international crisis when our values are at stake, doesn't the broadcaster have a responsibility beyond and above a given percentage of isolated documentaries and news broadcasts to infuse into his total motivation an effort to communicate existing insights and bodies of knowledge about human relations and of how to think about the world in which we live and its problems, doesn't he have a responsibility to communicate these ideas not only to the minority of the people, but definitely, very definitely, to the majority? He most certainly has. As a matter of fact, I'm sure Mr. Cheyenne doesn't mean to imply it, but in case there's any doubt, it's an obligation which we recognize and which we strive to fulfill. And the idea of a few isolated documentaries being the sum total of our minority audience broadcasting is completely erroneous. As a matter of fact, on the weekly schedule, I can read you some of these programs which we broadcast. They're not, I won't read them all, but the nighttime programs, for example, we have Capital Cloak Room. We have We Take Your Word. We have Where the People Stand with Elmo Roper. We have You and the World, which is a weekly series at 6.15. We have a lot of serious music and I think most people will agree we have the most comprehensive and far-flung news and news analysis coverage of any broadcasting network and we're very proud of it. In addition, of course, on Sundays and Saturdays, we have all kinds of programs that are directed at the minority tastes of which perhaps the most long hair is invitation to learning and if that doesn't stimulate the intellectual processes, I don't know what will. The idea, of course, we have the obligation and I think for one, at any rate, CBS is trying really hard to fulfill it. Thank you, Mr. Rehm. Mr. Cheyenne, do you think we've diverged from town meeting of the air now and become a program of our own? Not quite. I think it's profitable to explore it further, but I certainly would be interested to hear what some of my colleagues on the platform have to say about the matter with just one footnote. Professor Seatman points out that news is not a minority taste. It is said to be the most popular of programs. Perhaps we'll have an opportunity to return to you, Mr. Cheyenne, a bit later. I'll ask Miss Elizabeth Forsling of Newsweek magazine if she has any comment that she wants to make or question to ask. Well, I think maybe this is going to disintegrate perhaps into an let's attack Mr. Rehm program, but we'll see. Anyhow, one of the things that Mr. Rehm said in his comments a few minutes ago was that the four networks tried during the last war to present one program which would be of information and I presume entertainment to everyone and called it This is War. And he points out that it utilized the best efforts of the creative geniuses at all four networks and yet failed substantially to provide what he referred to as the elements that people find interesting. Well, I would like to know, I don't remember that program too well to tell you the truth, but I would like to know why, in Mr. Rehm's opinion, it's impossible for four networks presumably to devote a good bit of money, time, effort, production know-how and not come up with a program that can be both interesting and entertaining. What were the elements that people find interesting that were among the missing? That's a fairly difficult question to answer, but I think perhaps I could summarize it this way, that the program was a serious program pretty much from start to finish. It dealt with heavy subjects, it was a preachment in spite of being in dramatic form, and it didn't have the entertainment elements that we all recognize of comedy and situation and that sort of thing, which people generally prefer. It was a serious, heavy program. Well, is this to say, Mr. Rehm, that if this effort were to be made again, that it is impossible to incorporate the elements of entertainment in an informative program? Does it always have to be heavy? I don't think anything's impossible. Well, are you going to try? I don't think so, Ms. Forsling. We found a much better solution. What's that? It's to carry the government messages on the established programs, and the government is all for that. I'd like to take violent exception to the assumption which Mr. Rehm offers that people are not interested ipso facto in, quote, serious, unquote, programs. I can think of the reportage covering the death and funeral of Franklin Delano Rosto. I can think of no more subject which is more serious. And yet, the interest, as we all know, in such an important event was tremendous, and it had a great radio audience in all its facets. The This Is War program may have failed to attract a wide audience because it was one of the first and earliest steps in exploring the techniques of communicating serious subjects to a mass audience. I remember some of those programs particularly, and research revealed that one reason why people did not listen to them was because they were pregnant with violence and stereotypes and images which were unpleasant to face, and therefore, they ran away from them. On the other hand, we also know that crime programs which also deal with violence and violent stereotypes are very interesting for mass audiences. becomes a question then of giving certain types of programs the same amount of money, the same amount of time, the same amount of exploration in order to discover the yet completely unknown techniques of communicating serious and unpleasant subjects to mass audiences. we'll turn now to our third critic, Miss Harriet Van Horn of the New York World Telegramming Sun to get her comment on the development so far. Well, the inevitable conclusion is one that I've lived with very sadly as long as I've been writing a radio column, namely that about 80% of the population prefers trash, enjoys trash, and gets trash on the radio because it prefers trash. So the problem is to lift up the taste and lift up the minds of the people and that is the sacred moral obligation that Mr. Siegmund presented so beautifully. Somebody once told me that during the, I don't offer this of course as something we ought to do, but in Germany when Nazis were in power there was so much Wagner on the Nazi radio that people who had no interest in music eventually became devotees of Wagner, liked Wagner, and really gave themselves to it wholeheartedly. Well, I don't think we should go into any kind of totalitarian program, but the fact remains if you do give people good things, eventually they're going to sense what is shoddy and what is fine. Of course, I differ with Mr. Ream too, much as I admire his speech and his candor and his remarks, but I do think you've just got to go on giving people good things to give them a touchstone of comparison. But I don't think the obligation is entirely radios. I think educators have a responsibility here too. I think if we're going to preserve our democracy and our ability to think for ourselves and govern ourselves that we're due for kind of a cultural renaissance, an educational renaissance. I like to think of the old days in Boston when everybody read Virgil for a few hours before breakfast, when the classics were part of our daily life, when books, when thinking, when intellectual seminars were as normal as the Cathy, Clatch, and Lindy's we have these days. So I don't think you can blame radio entirely and I do think we've got to look to our schools and to our colleges to lift up the minds of the people and to give them an appreciation of better things. Then, by golly, I think they'll rise up and demand better things. I think Miss Van Horn's comment on the educators probably strikes home to some people here in the audience and we will provide time a few minutes from now for you to ask some questions if you have any precisely on this point. We'll turn now to Mr. Saul Carson, the radio editor of the New Republic. I'm awfully glad Miss Van Horn brought the discussion back to where it really belongs. I don't think that this ought to end as a beat-Joe Ream party. I think that the easiest and most futile thing we can do is whip the poor, bedeviled vice presidents. I'm all for attacking radio broadcasting rather because I include television head-on. I'm all for attacking not the heels and the bastards and I'll be cut off the tape. I'm sorry, Seymour Siegel. I'm all for attacking the nice people in broadcasting. The trouble with us most of the time is that we attack the cads and leave the nice people out of it. So it's perfectly okay to attack Joe Ream and Sarnoff and Paley rather than the out-and-out scoundrels whose names a good many of us know. But what's more important is not to attack but to help radio even in spite of itself build the desire for the good things that are possible on the air. And to do that is the job not merely of the radio critics but the job of the people in education. And if anything comes out of this meeting I hope it is the impact of Harriet Van Horn's warning to you people in the educational field. I don't know how many of you run courses in radio criticism. If you don't you are remiss. I don't know how many of you have contact with radio listening councils in your community. If you don't do that you are remiss. I don't know how many of you make it your business to read every radio column in the newspapers in your area and at least a number of magazines and to keep in contact with the people who write those columns and make them be on their toes all the time so that their columns will really be a reflection of public attitudes and public thinking. I think that those things are much more important than beating vice president. I'm afraid that it might seem as if I have an imbalanced panel here. When I invited Mr. Ream to participate he said he thought it would turn out to be a beat Joe Ream discussion and that it was perhaps inevitable that critics whose work it is to criticize programs would tend to criticize the programmer when they got him. I'm afraid that can't be helped. I do now want to turn back to either Professor Seatman or Mr. Ream to return to some of the questions that have been raised already to see if they want to explore any one further or to reply to any charges or comments that have been made up to now. Professor Seatman do you have anything you want to say? Yes. There's at least one thing that I'm very anxious to say. The fact that I spoke in critical terms does not imply that I have spleen or an embittered attitude to radio and least of all to people like Joe Ream. The things that I was trying to say were in terms of a meeting of the minds. All I was suggesting was that Joe Ream should remember that aspect of himself that exists. outside of his professional function and bring it more into line with his professional operations so that radio may come nearer the heart's desire as he, a private self-respecting citizen, sees the heart's desire. I don't believe that that is impossible. And I've suggested one practical outcome of this which I still think the broadcasters have to learn and I say that in all humility. I offer Joe Ream my 22% audience to Raymond Swing. Doesn't he want 22% audiences for his programs? They can be built but they won't be built on a short term run. And my basic plea would be that not broadcasters should give 6% audiences programs all the time but that they should give 6% audiences some of the time at significant hours at reasonably frequent intervals. I would ask that every network without exception gives for instance to the music lover at least an hour of decent music in a week. And I mean from Monday through Saturday. If that were achieved that would be an immense improvement on present services. You don't get an hour of classical music on each of the four networks. I don't see why you shouldn't. And I say that on the basis of CBS evidence. Some years ago I was at hearings in Washington before the Federal Communications Commission when another CBS vice president spoke contemptuously of the music lover as a potential listener. And he said CBS statisticians had found out their numbers. He said why just look at the figures. A mere 5% of the people want good music on the air all the time and less than 10% of the people want good music on the air half the time. And I held my breath and wondered whether this vice president knew what he was saying. He was saying that 10% of the broadcast public wants classical music on the air for half its total time. If that's a statistical fact, radio has already realized a cultural revolution. I say get on with it. applause, I think, on the show. Well, as I suspected, we are winding up here with very few differences between the broadcasters on the one hand and the critics on the other. and let me say that our performance has never and probably will never measure up to our ideals and our desires. There's all kinds of practical reasons that enter in and make it difficult. If I knew the, if we knew the answer to serious programs that would hold really significant audiences, we'd be a lot smarter than we are now. We think we've got a pretty good format in this Ed Murrow show, which you should listen to tomorrow night if you're in town or wherever you are. And maybe that won't be it, but we're always striving for it. Contrary to Mr. Seatman's opening remarks, I kind of think we, we continue to experiment and we do devote choice hours for that experimentation. Obviously, we want to do a better job than we're doing and I would like to pick up where, where, what Ms. Van Horn said and what Mr. Carson said. We are very much affected by what the listeners say about us. A hundred letters to a radio network can create quite a significant effect upon policy sometimes. I'm amazed sometimes that we do not get more letters. We do offend listeners. Our letters indicate that. And we've been unsuccessful in that endeavor, I can assure you. But if the audience and the critics and the whole population let us know what they want, we will do our best to provide it. All right, Ms. Forsling. I just have one little question here to ask Mr. Rehm. He says we are vastly, we are affected by the listener response and then a minute later he coupled in the critics. I'm perfectly willing to admit that there perhaps is some poor quality of criticism, radio and television criticism in this country. But if, as Mr. Rehm says, they do heed the people who write letters and listen to the critics, how does he explain the fact that the critics have, who have centered on the central theme pretty much embodied in Mr. Seatman's remarks, that after 27, 28 years of commercial radio, they're still making exactly the same criticisms and practically in the same words that they started out with back in the days when radio first became commercial. If we are listened to, how does it have its effect? Well, I'm afraid I can't quite admit the premise. You mean you think the arguments have changed in the last 27 years? I think the programs have changed and I think the arguments have changed. I think it's time now to open the question period to the people in the audience here. And since there is a radio listening audience, I think it might be advisable, if you wish, to state your name and the college you come from or the place you come from. All right. I think that if you had talked about the best public interest instead of wording it, let's go to semantics, in the common interest, perhaps we come to a better understanding. I also think that there's been no mention here at all about some of the common interest being the parent groups who really are thinking in terms of their child listeners, whom you really could educate by giving them something worthwhile at hours when they could be listening. I just wondered what your test was as far as the common interest and those things that are wanted by the common people. Is it just a listening survey or how do you judge? Do you ask them what they do want? Another thing I'd like to ask is whether your doors have been opened and whether you have a round table where you would permit some members, articulate members of this common mass, to talk over with some of the objections and whether, too, you admit at this round table for discussion some of the educators who have really a good deal of background and knowledge. I think that's all. I think that's quite fair. Let me take up the last first. We do meet with groups of educators with some degree of regularity. We try to plan programs with their help and advice. We do have representatives of our company, for example, go to various listener council group meetings, and we try to learn from that. Perhaps we should do more of it. I quite readily admit it. Certainly, we are not going to spurn any avenue which will enable us to give a better service. And the words I really used were public service and not just common service, whatever that was. Yes, Mr. Carson. Just one word, and that is that if nothing else practical comes out of this, at least I'll voice an idea a number of us in my end of the racket have had for a number for a long time. And that is, we feel that radio ought to have radio criticism on the air. That's something that they are all afraid of, because if they put a radio criticism on their network, they don't want their own network's shows wrapped. They don't want their competitors' programs praised. But radio, because it is accountable to society, should and must have programs of that kind on the air. How would Mr. Carson sell his magazine? Let the publisher worry about that. All right. We have a question down here. My name is Robinson, and I'm the director of my The Director of the Journal. I kind of shed crocodile tears over Mr. Reed from Mars, because it seems to me that it represents the stock answers of the broadcaster as a kind of apology to what is being heard of any of today. For example, they try to tell us that, well, they're giving us mystery programs, and they're giving us sub-offers, and it's a kind of excuse. They say, well, look at your documentary programs, and that seems to me the wrong approach. Now, I agree very much with Professor Siegman that there is a great middle ground, which is to have been left untouched. For example, there are writers, and there are directors, there are actors, a few around, who can present something which is not Shakespeare, and yet which is not soap opera, and which will appeal to a vast listening public. And my impression is that there's a kind of a number of censorship about these things, and people who have those ideas either have recognized more of that by the studios or just are not given any opportunity, and consequently the same negative happening thing keeps going on. Any producer or any writer who's got a good idea for a good program will welcome with open arms. We're looking for it all the time. Radio uses up a tremendous amount of material every day and every week. A play is written and runs on Broadway for two or three years, and we use it up in a half hour. Is there a question for Professor Siegman? Robert Hawkinson, Temple University. Professor Siegman, in his speech, said that the radio industry was entitled to a certain margin of profit, some margin of profit, and I would assume that implies a radio commercial. And I hope I don't leave the discussion off the very practical and valuable thing that it's in now. But I wonder if you could develop certain criteria for criticism of commercials, if you would allow them. I think if you think back to the principles that I spoke of when I first spoke, the same principles would apply to radio commercials as comply to radio programs. You would apply the same standards of decency and self-respect that you would apply in your private life and your public life. I have no quarrel with commercials as such, other than in terms of their excessive frequency. My particular quarrel with them is as to their content and not their frequency. I don't see that it's necessary, I don't think so lowly of the American public to suppose that it is necessary to sink to some of the bestialities and vulgarism, basic decency and basic respect for people. My name is Dr. Andrews. I'm from Texas. I'm from the University of Chicago, President of Ohio State University. I'd like to ask this as a point of information. It was stated, I believe, that the documentary was dropped because it killed only 3 to 6% of the listening audience. Now, is there any case on CBS, let's say, where a person, a talented person has been hired, who appealed to, let's say, only 3 to 6% of the people, who has been retained on the program, given they've built up with the hopes that he would become popular, and is still on the network. And if he had such a low rating to begin with, why was he not dropped after the same trial period as the documentary was given? I think I should create the impression the documentary was not dropped. We are not doing it with as much frequency now on CBS as we did a year or two ago. Last night, as a matter of fact, we had a documentary on called Through the Curtain, made up of recorded excerpts from people who had escaped from Russia. It was a straight documentary program. Yes, we have had artists on the air who subsequently developed into great stars that started out with very low ratings. And Mr. Seatman is entirely right when he says that if a program is kept on the air, and particularly if new thought and new energies and new creativeness is put into it, it will, by the general rule, develop substantially above its starting ratings. I wonder if I may ask one question here, at least to the critics on the panel. That is, when they are reviewing a program, do they ask themselves, is this program good? That is, by standards that may be implicit in my thinking, do I think this is a good program, regardless whether 10 million people will like it or 500,000 people will like it or 25,000 people? That is, is the goodness of a program dependent upon the popularity of the program? Mr. Carson or any of the other critics, I'd like to know what goes on in your mind when you judge a program. Well, if you'd like, I'll take the first crack at answering this on behalf of a good many of my colleagues. I am convinced from reading many, many columns, and I read all of them when I was in the trade paper end of radio coverage, that practically none of the radio TV critics worth that name start out by judging a program by its Hooper rating. They review a show. And therefore, I've got to be for it. They listen or look and review. I'll say one other thing for the practice of radio criticism in this country. I think that on the whole, America ought to be proud of its radio TV critics. I don't know of a more conscientious group of people. And I know personally probably more than half of the people practicing that trade in this country. I can say something else for our end of the work. About two and a half years ago, I was in Europe, and I had the great fortune to meet with a very famous Soviet Russian journalist, Mr. David Zaslavsky, who is on the official communist newspaper, Pravda. And we were discussing radio criticism. And he said something about the New York Times. Asked me whether the New York Times has a radio critic. I told him it had an excellent one. He said, how does he stand on social issues? I said, he stands exactly where I do, and we don't see each other more than once a year, and then we don't talk business. He says, that is impossible. You work for the New Republic, don't you? And Mr. Wallace was editor of the New Republic then. I said, yes. He says, that is not so. Well, Mrs. Zaslavsky, having read neither Jack Gould nor me, knew it was not so. I happen to know that it is so. I happen to know that in almost every instance, your radio TV critics are far ahead of the editorial writers in their own newspapers and magazines. The only trouble is, and the reason that they are not given sufficient attention by the broadcasters, including the networks, is because you people on the educational side have not educated enough of your people to back us up. If you give us one-tenth of the backing that we could use, I think that we could change broadcasting for the better inside of five years. But you don't do it. I think Miss Forsling would like to make a comment, too. I'm not going to be quite as complimentary about my colleagues as Mr. Carson is. There are certainly a great many exceptions to the rule that I'm about to put forth, but I think that there has not been enough criticism of radio criticism in this country. Too often, when I get outside of New York City and pick up a local paper, I read in the so-called radio column, usually there's a byline on it, the identical words that I have read in press releases from the networks in the previous week. Many, too many of the critics in the local communities around the country are people on the newspaper who didn't have anything else to do and showed very little promise, and as a consequence, the editor has said, oh, well, take over the radio and television column. And I do think that you educators particularly could help that situation. I think by occasionally sticking your own local critics and ask them for a little honest criticism rather than a mere repetition of the golden words put out by the press department, press departments of the networks. But I do think that someday there might very well be a panel on the faults of radio criticism because it is beginning to, I should say, acquire a little bit of stature around the country. Mr. Cheyenne, Mr. Carson, Ms. Van Horn, Mr. John Crosby of the Tribune, and certainly Jack Gould of the New York Times are all excellent critics and honest critics. But I don't think that that's necessarily true throughout the country, and I think that maybe you might tell your classes someday that they could kind of write their papers once in a while and ask for some better criticism. I'd like to ask just one final question following up the earlier one. If critics do judge programs on apparently objective criteria, what they think is good regardless of popularity, how do radio executives judge programs when they're in the planning stage? That is, when a program is auditioned, Mr. Rehm, at CBS, does the CBS program planner listen to it and say, I like this program, I think it is good, or, well, I don't like this program, I think it's terrible, but my hunch is that it'll have a large audience. Well, I suspect sometimes one thing and sometimes another, to give a perfectly candid answer. Good programs that we may like as individuals, we may decide can't possibly get an audience. And if it's in the entertainment field, that's enough to damn the program. The kind of programs which we are looking for are those that we as individual, individual citizens, as Mr. Seatman says, like ourselves, and which we at the same time think has the potentiality of interesting a large audience. Thank you, Mr. Rehm. I note that the time scheduled for this meeting has now expired, and so I think we had best draw to a close. On behalf of the Speech Association of America, I want to thank our guests, Professor Seatman, Mr. Rehm, Mr. Cheyenne, Miss Forsling, Miss Van Horn, and Mr. Carson, for joining us and giving us the benefit of their views. The meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I want to thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
