Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, what does the election mean? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the meaning of the election for our foreign and domestic policies and the relations of the new president to Congress. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are George Blankston, Associate Professor of Political Science, Gail Brosan, Professor of Economics, Roland Robinson, Professor of Banking, and Jacob Scher, Associate Professor of Journalism, all members of the faculties of Northwestern University. Now while we have two men on our panel who supported Stevenson and two who supported Eisenhower, I think I should say here at the outset it is not our purpose to review the election. We had a tremendous turnout at the polls. The people have indicated their choice. And now we want to know what does this choice mean for America. I do believe though it is relevant to ask right here at the outset, how do you explain the election, this enormous preference for General Eisenhower? Robinson? McBurney, I believe that General Eisenhower's election was a product of two massive factors. First place there was an enormous protest against the disastrous Korean venture. There was protest against domestic policies such as inflation. On the other side, there is no doubt that General Eisenhower commanded respect that around the country, both personally and in terms of the policies that he advanced, he showed that he was a man who would give leadership. I think both factors are important. I think that without the issues, the campaign might have been weak. Without the man, the venture, the crusade might not have been successful. Do you share that view? No, I don't. I don't think that Korea or inflation were the basic issues. I think the slogan, it's time for a change, best represents what happened. I think there were vast crossings of class and group and block lines, and I think that it was a personal victory for General Eisenhower. He defeated the Democratic Party, and the Republican Party did not defeat Stevenson. Rosen, how do you explain the election? Well, the history of American elections shows that a change in the party in power occurs only when there is a large protest vote. Now, Sherr has said that people believed that this was a time for change. Well, they believed it was a time for change because there were many things they didn't like about what was going on. In particular, they didn't like the attitude of softness toward communism, the cover-up of communism, calling it a red herring. They don't like high taxes, and they don't like the centralization of power in Washington in the hands of labor union leaders. And labor union members were protesting this along with all other Americans who believe in the traditional American creed of decentralization of power. Where do you stand on this, Blankston? It seems to me that the result of this election, like the result of almost any election, is a product of a great number of factors. But one factor which, to me, stands out as especially important in this election is the personal popularity of General Eisenhower as a war leader. I think this is supported by the fact that the general ran so far ahead of other Republican candidates in this election. Well, I believe, Blankston, that the personal popularity of Eisenhower is overrated as a cause for his election. He ran ahead by a fairly small percentage of the party in the northern states. His large percentage in the majority vote that he ran ahead was due to the fact that Democrats in the south voted for Eisenhower's president, though they did not vote for Republicans to other offices because there weren't any Republicans running there. But in some of the traditionally Republican states, such as Wisconsin, certainly Eisenhower ran far ahead of Senator McCarthy. Because the Republicans there were specifically disowning McCarthy. Do we need to deny the great personal appeal of General Eisenhower while, nevertheless, enforcing and emphasizing the great differences in policies that the two campaigns and the two parties presented? I believe that the issues were important just as well as the campaign. Well, Robinson, I think that Eisenhower in part had this personal appeal because people felt that they didn't like what was going on. And Eisenhower looked like the man who could change what was going on. Therefore, he had appeal for that reason. Well, I was about to say we could pursue this kind of analysis for some time. It's going on all over the country. More specifically, though, I'd like to ask what you think this election means in terms of the new president's relations with Congress, Blankston. The Republicans, of course, will control the new Congress in the sense that there will be more Republicans than Democrats in the new Congress. For example, in the Senate there will be 48 Republicans as against 47 Democrats. And in the House of Representatives there will be 220, possibly 221 Republicans as against 207 Democrats. So that there will be a Republican majority. But the thing that strikes me in Congress is that it remains essentially stable. Blankston, I really believe that your analysis understates the strength of Eisenhower in Congress. First place, in the Senate races, only one-third of the seats or slightly more were at stake. And among those at stake there was a very large number of Republican victories. Furthermore, if we want to take a look at the House of Representatives and at the Senate, even in the Democratic ranks there's a large number that would be classed as conservative. So that I would say the conservative majority in Congress is much larger than that indicated by the figures of dividing between Republican and Democrat. Well, that's in line with the question I was about to ask. Do you think that Eisenhower Blankston will be able to command a congressional majority to support his policies? Eisenhower, like every new president, will have a certain honeymoon period, perhaps for the first session of Congress, in which his relations with the legislative body should be fairly cooperative relations. But this, of course, depends in part on how much of General Eisenhower's program you conceive of as being a legislative program. And many of the things that he has stressed as emergency measures and needing immediate action might not be of this kind. Well, why would you expect that he might have difficulty with Congress? That's implied, I think, in what you're saying. Yes, I think so. Well, partly because of the narrow margin of the Republican majority, especially in the Senate, and partly because I think the Democratic Party, as an opposition party, might be expected to react somewhat differently than it did as a party in power. I think as an opposition party, the Democrats might be expected to be more united than they were in the past. But on the other hand, Blankston, Eisenhower's vote led the Republican vote, and this gives him a great deal of power in terms of the fact that people are going to be unwilling to displease a man who might turn the voters against him. Also, there is the fact that in the South, you elected a good many Democrats who might be called Eisenhower Democrats. They were the states where Eisenhower rolled up a majority to get the electoral votes, and yet in which there were Democratic members of the House and Senate elected. These members, I think, will go along with an Eisenhower group as distinct, perhaps, from a Republican group. For some people think we'll have some Eisenhower Democrats and some non-Eisenhower Republicans. Well, I'd agree with that, that there are some beginners in the Republican Party who don't go along with anybody. The estimate right now is that Taft has about 25 sure senators and that Eisenhower has about 18 sure senators. I wonder what will happen when the chips are down and the difference of policy between Eisenhower and Taft. Do you think a difference in policy between those two men is inevitable, Sheriff? Yes, I do. There was the clear indication of that in the agreement of Morningside Heights, in which Senator Taft emerged to say that they agreed on domestic policies but not on foreign policies. I think that underestimates Mr. Taft's personal sense of order and his sense of respect for authority and party regularity. He's a man who has clearly shown himself a regular in party organization. Unless very great differences of opinion arose, I would expect him to remain within the leadership. It's one thing to demand order and to expect order in the party when you are the recognized party leader. It's another thing to expect the same thing when somebody else, your great rival, is the party leader. And it may be that Taft might not feel the same way about this matter when the new Congress meets. I would still believe that Taft is a man who can take orders as well as give them. Do you think this election shares an indication of political realignments in the South? It was said earlier that we could expect considerable support for Eisenhower from the South in Congress. I think it is the beginning of a two-party system in the South. I think it will take a long time to develop. I think also that it's a healthy thing. But I don't think that this realignment would necessarily redound to the Republicans entirely. I think there's a new South emerging, industries going down into the South, and I think that the Republicans, in order to get into the South, will have to lift the poll tax, which will mean that the Negro and the white working man will be able to vote, and he'll probably vote Democratic. Well, sure, I think that you're overly optimistic about there being a resurgence of the Republican Party as a party in the South. We had the same sort of victory for the Republican Party in 1928, but it did not create a Republican Party in the South. Now that we've had this victory for the Republican presidential nominee in the South does not mean it was a victory for the Republican Party as such. Even many elections didn't even have a Republican running against the Democratic nominees in those elections. Brozen, do you think the situation is comparable? In 1928 there was a Smith fight in the South. It was a religious issue. Here we had more clearly a political issue. Well, I think that the issues that underlie the reason for one-party dominance in the South remain, and the Smith fight was simply one manifestation of the kind of thing that has led to one-party rule in the South. I think the thing that is going to happen is that instead of there being a birth of Republican Party in the South, there will instead be a realignment, a new compromise within the Democratic Party, and the labor union leaders and the neoliberals in the Democratic Party are going to learn they can't win elections without the Southern Democrats, and are going to learn how to compromise with them and line up with them in order to keep their votes. Well, now there's one issue, gentlemen, in which the American people are enormously interested. I personally suspect it had a very strong influence in the election. I'd like to know what this election means in terms of our foreign policy. Do you think it means a withdrawal from international cooperation through such agencies as the United Nations, Brozen? Well, I think, if anything, that this means we have more genuine international cooperation. What do you mean by that? Well, the kind of international cooperation we've been having is a kind where the United States carries the whole load and tries to drag some reluctant allies along with it. Does that apply to Korea, in your judgment? In the case of Korea, Korea has been a voluntary ally that would like to do a lot more, and this administration that we've been having has been unwilling to let the South Koreans do as much as they would like to do. I think our new administration will arm the South Koreans, some of whom they said are already trained and ready to bear arms, and will, in addition, provide the necessary wherewithal so that more South Koreans can be trained who are willing to volunteer for this duty. Eisenhower has said with respect to Korea that if there must be a war there, let it be Asians against Asians with our support on the side of freedom. It seems to me that this proposition does not support the basic tenet involved in genuine international cooperation, in genuine collective security. You don't approach an international problem in that kind of a term. I don't remember the context in which that statement was made, but I still believe that actions speak louder than words, and that the actions of General Eisenhower, as a NATO administrator in Europe, strike me as being the actions of a man who understood the true problems of getting real cooperation from those who have a will to cooperate, a will to resist communism. They may also be the actions of a man who agrees that Europe is more important in the defense system of the United States than Asia, and perhaps this joins together NATO and Korea in a general overall pattern of foreign policy, which places much greater emphasis on Europe than on Asia in the defense system of the United States. Certainly if John Foster Dulles, the Secretary of State, were going to have a confused foreign policy from what he said up to now, he was in the Orient at the time of the Korean outbreak, and at that time he said that the United States should intervene and use force. Later on he said again that President Truman, with bipartisan support, acted promptly and vigorously. Yet it was he, as the drafter of the foreign policy plank of the Republican Party, said, we charge the administration plunged us into war in Korea without the consent of the citizens. But, sure, I think that's entirely a consistent statement. That is the, what he, what Dulles is saying here is that the administration made mistakes which led to the attack of the North Koreans on the South Koreans. Now, once the attack has been made, that is the fatal fact that you've got to face. Once that fact has been, has occurred, then you've got to act on that basis. And the basis of acting then was to enter into South Korea and resist the aggression of the North Koreans. There is the other factor that during the campaign, there was a great averting of the basic issue of some of the Asian problems. For example, this morning Colonel McCormick writes that in Indochina, the United States bears about one third of the cost of military operations to suppress the people fighting for their freedom there. He has the correct concept that part of this business of what we call communism is the fight of the Asiatic for freedom. Freedom from imperialism and colonialism and that sort of thing. We didn't get that during the debate except from Governor Stevenson. I suppose a Russian who is criticizing high military expenditures in Russia would make exactly the same statement about the Russian adventure in Indochina. And that is that they're spending too much to support a group that is resisting the fight of the people who, with the aid of the French, are trying to obtain their freedom. Now to pull this discussion together a bit, let me ask Robinson what he would expect the broad outlines of our new foreign policy to be. Indeed, will it be a new foreign policy? I suspect that one of the great strengths of General Eisenhower is that he will be able to make a real transition from our present foreign policy to one that is neither entirely new, that draws of the good features of the old, but nevertheless revitalizes it. For example, these words might sound reminiscent of what is said before, but I think he will give them sincerity. We will try to show necessary true friendship for those people who love freedom and are willing to fight for it. And among other things, we will try to aid those. We will try to aid them in ways that are domestically important. We will try to improve productivity. That sounds like the Marshall Plan, and I must confess that I agree that I think that has been a success. And I believe that the outlines of it will be continued. Furthermore, I think that that aid might much better be in that form than in purely military aid, and that in the long run we will end up with more friends abroad. Despite General Eisenhower's statement, the Republican Party is committed to a high tariff, and we cannot discuss foreign policy without discussing tariff. The health of the world is important. And the Republican plank on that clearly indicates that they are committed to a high tariff policy. Well, sure, I thoroughly agree with you that high tariff policy in the present world would be fatal. It would mean that in order to support activities abroad that are tending to resist communism, we would have to go on with the vast aid program, when if we eliminate our tariff, it could be on the basis of trade rather than aid. However, the Republican Party is not as clearly a high tariff party today as it was in the 1920s. The plank in the platform that you refer to here is confused in its own statement. The plank starts out saying, We favor the expansion of mutually advantageous world trade. To further this objective, we shall press for the elimination of discriminatory practices, to press for the elimination of monetary licensing restrictions and other arbitrary devices. Our reciprocal trade agreements will be entered into and maintained on the basis of true reciprocity. Now then it concludes saying that we don't want to have unfair import competition. Well, certainly it's a contradictory plank. However, there is a strong low tariff wing in the Republican Party, and Eisenhower made a couple of important speeches saying he is a low tariff man and will support trade. But the man he called to meet with him tomorrow, and the man who will probably be the man who will sit down with the budget group in Washington, is Senator Milliken of Colorado, who is a very strong high tariff man. You're not suggesting he's meeting with him to propose a high tariff law? No, but he is calling in as his principal advisor on finance, a man who is a high tariff man. But this is not advice on foreign trade or advice on foreign policy. The budget will be determined partly by it. I wonder if we are suggesting here that all of the Republicans are low tariff Republicans except those in Congress. Well, I'm much less excited about this tariff issue than I am about Korea and the Far East. Do you gentlemen believe that a lot of Americans voted for Eisenhower in the hope that he could liquidate this Korean situation, get American boys back home, draw these lines of communistic containment a bit more realistically than they've been drawn in the past? Yes, I think that that was part of the thinking, but I was very appalled that it became a political football because if we construe it as a vote against Korea, we are playing right into the communists' hands. Well, it's not a vote against Korea, it's a vote against the mistakes that have been made in Korea. It's not a vote simply to liquidate the Korean situation on any terms, it's a vote to reduce the drain on American resources and to liquidate it either on the basis of going in and doing a quick job or else of using the South Koreans to do their own job. McBurney, you suggested that one Republican objective here would be to draw the lines of communist containment more realistically. I wonder if you mean by that that the new, more realistic line would exclude Korea from our area, and if the conclusion of that means that we would be forced to withdraw from Korea entirely. I suspect that a good many people feel that it ought to have excluded Korea originally. Whether that's possible now, I wouldn't know. What do you think about it, Robinson? I am not a military expert. That is a question that I don't feel that we really can answer at this table. In trying to pick up the pieces of a broken and obviously disastrous policy, I don't know exactly how to do it. But I do believe in the beginning it was a mistake. Well, I know you men are experts on our domestic policy, and I want to reserve time for serious consideration of what this election means on that score. Do you think it means a withdrawal from the social policies of the New Deal and Fair Deal, Blankston? I believe that the overall major New Deal and Fair Deal policies, such as Social Security and the basic elements of our labor legislation during the Democratic administrations, will be preserved. I don't expect any major large-scale overturning of those policies during the Eisenhower administration. So I would say that we can expect to see those things continue. Any expansion of such programs, I believe, will proceed much more slowly in the immediate future than they have in the past. Now, a good many people have labeled the New Deal and Fair Deal, which you think is going to be continued, as a kind of creeping socialism. Are you suggesting that socialism is going to continue to creep? What do you think about that, Robinson? I would say that there is a lot of things that we don't like. I suspect that there is something in which there is very broad social agreement. I agree with Blankston, that much of it is now within the range of a common agreement, and it was not an issue in the campaign. I do think that in practice that the way in which these programs are administered may be changed considerably. That first place, a little more frugality in the administration, a little more care in them, might be a very, very therapeutic thing and certainly an economical thing. There probably, too, I think, Robinson, will be less of a dog-in-the-manger attitude in the part of the administration. I'm thinking of cases where the administration in some of the water power cases has argued that it would not, it would rather not see water power developed at all than to have private enterprise do it. Now, certainly, I don't think we'll have the continuance of that kind of attitude. How do you think the business community as a whole will react to the new administration? Oh, there's no doubt the business community has welcomed the change, and I think what's more, it will continue. For example, harassing of the businessmen for the sake of political capital certainly will stop. I expect the antitrust laws will be prosecuted much more sensibly, that much of the Sicilian doctrinaire sort of prosecution will be eliminated. On the other hand, I don't really expect that the administration will be pro-business in the sense that the McKinley administration was pro-business, or in the sense that the outgoing administration was pro-labor. I expect, and I certainly hope, that it's going to be an administration that is for all of us, that tries to balance these factors. You think the administration will be anti-labor, Sheriff? Well, I am more pessimistic than Robinson about this. First of all, I think whenever a crisis arises, the tendency will be to take it out of the hides of the working man. I think that labor is jittery right now as a result of the election because it feels that there will be greater anti-labor activity, not on the part of the President, but on the part of the Senate, on the part of those people who make the laws. After all, Mr. Taft is going to be the major policy maker, the leader of the Senate. Some of these other people who have been outspokenly against labor have gotten strong places in the new Congress. Well, Cher, I think this is a complete misrepresentation of the Republican Party to say when a crisis arises, they'll take it out of the hides of labor. Let's take as one example the crisis of 1930. One of the first things that Mr. Hoover did was make a plea not to cut American wage rates. The prosperity in America was based on the high American wage rate. And by and large, the business community attempted to follow. When you talk about the labor unions, for instance, the Taft-Hartley Act is not written to reduce the power of labor. It's written to reduce the power of the labor union leader and increase the power of the labor union member. I can't agree with you at all, Brosin, if after 20 years of speeches and statements and attempts to pass law and thwarting of laws, the Republican Party still can pretend to be pro-labor, why I haven't read the stars rightly. Furthermore, I do not believe that we will gain any labor confidence in the new administration to tell labor, and that the Eisenhower administration will approach labor problems in the way the Hoover administration did. I can think of no way that a party can commit suicide more rapidly than make itself clearly anti-labor, and I am sure that the Republicans aren't that dumb. Uh, Robinson, do you think the administration will be able to control inflation? I believe that they will be able to do a much better job. Which is not completely unrelated to their relations with labor, by the way. It certainly is not. I believe they'll be able to do a better job on it, though it must be admitted that there is something that you can't start in and just do overnight. It will take some time. I think that the changes of the policies, the fiscal policy and the monetary policy that will be required for that may take some time to work out, but I have hope that we can do something along that line. What are they likely to do? Well, I think that, uh, to take this to the negative side first, they're unlikely to use the methods this administration has used to fight inflation. They're unlikely to continue wage controls and price controls. Now then, actually, these methods don't fight inflation. All they do is keep the index down by which we measure inflation. I think the Republicans will attempt to get at what is genuinely the heart of inflation, and that is the increase in the money supply. They have already said in the Republican Party platform, and they've said it in speeches, that they intend to use the Federal Reserve System to control the quantity of money in the country in such a way as to prevent inflation. Now, that answer sounds very, uh, pat, but I suspect that the, uh, the Truman administration was anxious to control, uh, inflation. Why didn't they seize on that, uh? Well, they seem to feel that the low interest rate was far more important than taking the steam out from under the price rise. And in attempting to keep the interest rate low then, they turned the Federal Reserve System into an engine of inflation, an engine which manufactured money to maintain the price of government bonds at these low interest rates. I once heard a politician say that he was against inflation, and he was also against deflation, that what he wanted was simply flation. And, uh, the question I would like to raise is, what do we want to see happen to price levels here? Do we want them stabilized where they are, or driven down, or, or what? All right, Blankston, I'm against sin, too. Uh, uh, on the other hand, uh, there is no doubt about the fact that this is a tough problem, because many of us enjoy a little inflation for our income, and none of us like inflation for our expenses. On the other hand, I believe that the problem of the outgoing administration was the fact that it was much softer on inflation than on deflation, because it knew that inflation had some real political advantages, and that the costs of it wouldn't be evident immediately. In part, the country has suffered from what might be called a deflation phobia. They've been so frightened of deflation that they've been willing to take enormous risks of inflation in order to avoid deflation. Do you think this election will mean many changes in governmental, uh, personnel, uh, share? Well, I think that, uh, there will be the changes of the two or three thousand top administrative people. Most of our government now has civil service. But I do think it will go much deeper than that. First of all, many of the people who will not be in sympathy, the former New Dealers and Fair Dealers, who will not be in sympathy with the Republican administration, will leave of their own. And secondly, I think there will be a certain, uh, wave of fear on the part of those remaining, that some of the policies of, uh, ferreting out so-called subversives may be carried on to them. After all, this now will be the Republican administration. I don't see how that can be a political football anymore, but it may be used in the sense of getting out of office some of the people you don't like, and getting into office some of your own followers. Do you think the administration will be tougher on, on communists in, in government? Well, this depends, of course, uh, on what's going to happen to, uh, McCarthy now that he is, uh, reelected, uh, back in the Senate. Uh, my own, uh, feeling is that, uh, there will probably be less of this kind of charge of, uh, uh, leveled against people working in the Eisenhower administration. And by and large, we, uh, can be pretty sure that Eisenhower's disowned the, um, unsavory aspects of McCarthyism. He has already said he doesn't like McCarthy methods. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Does the Election Mean? We want to thank our guests for today. George Blankston, Associate Professor of Political Science. Yale Brosen, Professor of Economics. Roland Robinson, Professor of Banking in the School of Commerce. And Jacob Scherr, Associate Professor of Journalism. And Chairman of the News Department of the Medill School of Journalism, all of Northwestern University. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question, What form of international organization should the United States support? Our guests will be Admiral, Admiral Harley Cope, Director of the American Sovereignty Campaign of the Veterans of Foreign Wars. Porter McKeever, Executive Director of the Chicago Council of Foreign Relations and former Director of Public Information for the United States delegation to the United Nations. Vernon Nash, Author, Journalist, and Lecturer for the United World Federalists. And Clarence K. Streit, President of Federal Union, Incorporated. We hope you will join us next week for a timely discussion of the question, What form of international organization should the United States support? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jack Fuller. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.