Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses God and Man in the Universities. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around some of the controversial issues raised by William F. Buckley in his book, God and Man at Yale. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are William F. Buckley, Jr., author of the book, God and Man at Yale. Curtis D. McDougall, professor of journalism at Northwestern University, whose most recent book, Understanding Public Opinion, comes from the press tomorrow. And Rockwell C. Smith, professor of rural sociology at Garrett Biblical Institute. And now chairman of the Evanston Council of Churches. Now in this book, God and Man at Yale, as I understand it, Mr. Buckley argues that the impact of the educational program, at Yale specifically, and most likely, I think he suggests, is agnosticist to religion, that is anti-Christian, and collectivist is to social and economic philosophy, that is considerably left of center and hostile to the free enterprise system. And if I understand him, he objects to the kind of academic freedom which fosters these doctrines in the university. Now Mr. Buckley's book is specifically about Yale University, from which he was recently graduated. In our discussion here today, we are no more concerned with Yale than any other college or university. Now I think we ought to begin with Mr. Buckley's position. How would you state it? Well, thank you, Mr. McBurney. To begin with, you've got me wrong already. I don't object to the kind of academic freedom which fosters the doctrines of atheism and socialism. I object to academic freedom, as it is understood today, altogether. I should object to it just as much if it were used to obstruct the educational overseers of a college dedicated to furthering secularism and socialism from dismissing from the faculty advocates of Christianity and freedom. Now you understand I consider the educational overseers of the school to be the parents, the alumni, and the supporters of that school. The case I have made in talking specifically about Yale University can of course be applied to any other private educational institution. I wrote in my book, which is incidentally subtitled The Superstitions of Academic Freedom, that the net impact of Yale education is agnostic and atheist. I go on from there to say that if this is what the educational overseers of Yale want, then everything is as it should be. But if it's not what they want, they've got a duty to do something about it, and the totalitarian instrument of academic freedom ought not to be allowed to stand in their way. You've no doubt guessed, and you most certainly know it if you have read my book, that I consider values to be an important part of education. Much of education is concerned with the relaying and the absorption of factual data, but certainly of equal importance are the ideals, the values that are infused into those factual data to make education meaningful. Now we are face to face today with many competing ideals, as you know. There is of course the battle between religion and skepticism. Also we see the battle of freedom versus totalitarianism being waged in most of the countries of the world. Every moral man has got to commit himself on these issues, and every moral man, if he believes he has perceived the truth, is logically committed to the proposition that competing doctrines are an error. In other words, if I believe Christianity to be true, I necessarily believe agnosticism to be false. In the circumstances, for me to support a university that tries to convince its pupils, perhaps even my own son among them, that it's the other way around, is for me to act as inexcusably a moral human being. It is tantamount to a Democrat's giving funds to the Communist Party. And it's really worse than this, because the future of our country and our civilization, as a matter of fact, is being determined, as always, much more by education than by politics. National policy is nothing more than a reflection of education. Therefore I repeat, for a moral man to support an educational institution which advances values he considers to be false, is the worst, the most supine and humiliating sort of treachery to one's ideals and responsibilities. This is happening every day, because of the superstitions of academic freedom. Now may I ask you one question before we go on? Are you limiting your case to private education? No, not necessarily. I'm definitely not limiting my case. Now what's your reaction to Buckley's position, Mr. Smith? Well, first of all, I find myself very sympathetic to Mr. Buckley, both in the earnestness with which he pushes his case, and also in his insistence that a moral man has an obligation to take a part in the significant issues and their decision in our life today. I think my point of difference with Mr. Buckley is in my attitude toward and my feeling for what is religion. It seems to me that Mr. Buckley is confusing theology and religion, and that he has more faith in theology than he has faith in God. I believe in a God who has power to work in the lives of men, a God who has made men free, and who expects them to use their freedom in reaching decisions and in making commitments for good or ill forever. If God has made men free, then it seems to me to take that freedom away from them by any system of indoctrination in any educational institution is a very wrong and an immoral thing. And you suggest that Mr. Buckley's position would deny men that freedom. It seems to me that academic freedom stands or falls on the freedom of the individual to have all points of view presented to him and to reach his own creative and personal decisions. Now where are you standing, Dougal? I certainly agree with Buckley that what is taught in a university should be the concern of the parents and the alumni. I believe beyond that, it should be the concern of everybody because not only Yale alumni, but all persons are affected by Yale graduates or the graduates of any other school. There is great danger, however, in the use of these terms, collectivism and agnosticism and so forth, that you may confuse the differences of opinion regarding means rather than ends. And Mr. Buckley would say this is collectivism, whereas to somebody else it was for the proposal to develop and increase the degree of individualism. I don't think any university can arrogate to itself the belief that it has determined for all times what is truth. And I think it would be greatly dangerous and detrimental to the democratic process if every university taught its own brand of truth to the exclusion of all others. The university is a clearinghouse of different points of view. New ideas have been experimented with and have grown out of the universities. It's a place where we teach young men and women who are going to be future voters and citizens to investigate and to evaluate different points of view so they can make the decisions regarding them throughout the rest of their lives. Now, in one way or another, if I follow this discussion, Buckley, the three basic assumptions in your book have been questioned here. Some of the assumptions you make about the nature of religion, the role of the individual in society, and the function of a university. Now, to give some order to this discussion, let's take up those assumptions. First, this matter of religion. You heard Mr. Smith's point of view on that. What do you have to say to him? Oh, I say that it's impertinent. It's impertinent to the discussion, much as some of what Mr. MacDougall said is impertinent to the discussion. I am not going to let my case stand to fall on definitions with which you might agree or disagree. I'm using, when I talk about Christianity, I use the definition of the World Council of Churches and the definition of Webster in his dictionary. But I don't care if you don't accept it. I don't care if the alumni don't accept it. I want... Now, you really do care there, don't you? Oh, well, not theoretically. Naturally, I care. I'd like everybody in the world to agree with me. I think that's a consummation devoutly to be wished. But what I'm talking about is that all I am driving at is to say, let whatever definition of religion suits the alumni of the private educational institution, and let them take those definitions in mind and decide what value they want to give, for example, to religion in their colleges or to individualism. Now, going on from there, I would say that the transcendent duty of the university, which is, it's true, as Mr. MacDougall puts it, is to teach young men, but it's to teach young men to act in the right direction. Now, who's going to decide the right direction? I say the people who are responsible for that university, acting as self-sufficient, educated, and dedicated human beings. They ought to do their best. Well, now, if I understand Smith, he's saying that there is a concept of religion which would be denied by the kind of university you would create. Certainly. Certainly. I've never made any claim whatsoever, nor am I ambitious, to ascribe to religion exactly the same meaning that Dr. Smith does. Well, it would seem to me that we don't need necessarily to agree on our definition of religion, although we have very profound differences there, it seems to me. Right. But it seems to me we do have to ask ourselves, what is the best way of commending whatever our religion is to other people? Now, you say indoctrination is the best way of commending religion. I say, no, on the contrary, the free acceptance of religion and the commitment of a man's will to certain values are the best way of making him religious. Oh, I agree with you. I agree with you. And to that end, I would have the professors of a university urge the man to accept, as a result of his free will, those religious values that he himself believes. And surely when you teach, Dr. Smith, there is no human possible way for you to gorge your truths, your values down the throats of your students. But you try to bring them around. You try to bring them around to a conscionable and exhaustive and earnest acceptance of what you have to say, because that's your duty as a moral man. Yes. As much as you're trying to convince me today. Yes, I feel that's true, but at the same time, I do that in a framework in which other people have a chance to commend certain other values to them. And I feel I do a better job when I throw my point of view up against a conflicting point of view than as if I were arguing in a vacuum. That's why I believe in the freedom of the university. And in subsidizing error. You also believe in that, obviously. I certainly do. Well, I don't. After a person graduates from a university, he's going to come in contact with all other different points of view. The essence of a democracy is that all men shall be tolerant and be able to get along with each other in the solution of problems. If you do not expose these people as undergraduates to these different points of view, let them study them and think them through themselves, are you adequately preparing them for their future role as citizens in a democracy? I want to expose them, Dr. Magdalena. But you want to expose them for the sake of debunking, of breaking down, of saying these are the different points of view, but only this one is correct. We have predetermined that by some vote of the alumni. No. Or in some other way. It's correct according to me. If I were the faculty member, I'd say it's correct according to me because the only reason I am there is because my values happen to tally with those of the educational overseers. But there's no reason why I should breed credulity in the student. If I were teaching freedom, for example, I would say here's Hitler. Here's Stalin. Here are all the great dictators from Alexander the Great on to Mussolini. Here they are. Herein, I believe, they erred. And I would go into a very exhaustive and scholarly examination of what I consider the error, the basic falsehood behind tyranny. Now, I can't understand why you would have a reduction to an approach of this sort, nor why I would necessarily breed credulous Democrats. Now, you recognize, don't you, that throughout history a great deal of error has been taught not recognized as error as such. That's right. Or how would that ever have been corrected under a closed-minded system such as you have if the new ideas could not be presented in the universities, talked about, and ultimately discarded? What would you do with a student who became skeptical of your brand of truth? Would you expel him from the university? No, definitely not. You can lead a horse to water, et cetera. I would not expel him. But you would expel the professor. Absolutely. How would you avoid a segmented society? As I said before, Yale men are going to have to get along with Harvard men and Northwestern men and all other men when they get out. If you've got everybody there with a bigoted framework of ideas, he's been taught the truth, period. And then he comes up against other people who've been taught the truth, period. Isn't that going to make for conflict, for intolerance, for prejudice, for confusion? Of course it will. Destruction of democratic principles? On the contrary, the dynamism of democracy has to do with the clashing of ideas in the political arena later after you graduate from college. And since I believe in freedom, Dr. McGoole, there is no reason in the world why you can't found your socialist university or your atheistic university. And if the students who graduate from mine come out and buck yours, I have got absolutely no objection to it. But I believe in intolerance towards error. as one sees it. I am intolerant towards tyranny. And I shall always be intolerant towards tyranny. And if this makes me bigoted, then I have no objection to the idea. You don't question your own ability to determine what is error. I would never say that I had the absolute answer, but I've got the best answer that I know how to arrive at as a moral and reflective human being, as you do. A while ago, Mr. Buckley said that I was in favor of subsidizing error, and I said that I was. I want to explain in what sense I mean that. I mean by that that I believe in subsidizing error because it seems to me that God in creation subsidized error. that is, he made men free, and to be free means to be wrong as well as to be right. And it seems to me that if basic to the structure of the universe there is this possibility of error, if men are to enter into conflict, as Mr. Buckley says they are, when they get out into the democratic arena of life, a college shouldn't be alien to the society of which it's a part. It shouldn't safeguard people from error, which they later will meet in life. If it's to make autonomous, if it's to make free, if it's to make responsible citizens, it has to confront them in their formative days with the conflicts with which they will later deal. And that's why I believe in subsidizing error, as Mr. Buckley puts it, through academic freedom. I believe that a century and a half ago Thomas Jefferson expressed a point of view which both Smith and I hold to in a letter to prospective members of the faculty of the University of Virginia when he said this institution will be based on the illimitable freedom of the human mind for here we are not afraid to follow truth wherever it may lead nor to tolerate error so long as reason is left free to combat it. And the danger of Mr. Buckley's position is that it will contribute to the present hysteria and orthodoxy and reaction which already is bringing tremendous pressure upon teachers in the public school system and the universities throughout the entire United States. if any new idea is considered dangerous and unorthodox whereas if allowed to develop a hundred years from now it may be orthodox itself. Well Dr. McDougal in the first place I've got no objection in the world to disagreeing with Thomas Jefferson. He wrote something like 57 or 8 books and I think it would be extraordinarily unusual if I would agree with everything he said or if you would agree with everything he said. And here Dr. Smith over here is trying to put me on the opposite side from God but I would remind Dr. Smith that Jesus Christ also gave this injunction to his disciples he said go ye out to the peoples of the world and teach them the ways of the Lord. Now this is precisely what I want to do and I want the most efficacious level of teaching which is the classroom. Well you see there's no disagreement as to what is the word of God. Let's talk on some specific issues if you don't mind McBurney. Suppose you confront your students in the classroom with some of the problems which exist today. The problem of inadequate housing for millions of people of inadequate health facilities of inadequate education and the different approaches the different suggestions as to how to meet this problem are presented. Now you as I understand it because you use this word collectivism almost synonymous with all kinds of government activity would discharge a professor who gave a favorable presentation of a public housing proposal. Now that professor might believe that he were acting absolutely in accordance with that principle that you have just quoted that principle of Christianity of improving the lot the dignity and the human values of the individual. I have no doubt it would. You see you are confusing ends with means. Oh no. On the contrary. You're questioning the motives of that man just because he has a different way in which he wants to put into actual practice those Christian principles. When did I question his motives Dr. McDougal? There's enough things that you can criticize me for without criticizing But you wouldn't want him on your faculty would you? No but I'm not criticizing your motives. I think he's a very sincere man like I think and hope you are. Well you probably labeled him as unchristian or collectivist or something else. Yeah collectivist sure but that's not necessarily an anathema. I'm sure Harold Aski or the labor government. That's something else again and it's a different discussion whether it's unchristian or not. To a certain extent I believe it is. Now you say would I fire this fellow? I would fire this fellow if on the basis of advocating public housing you were able to generalize on his whole attitude towards our economic structure and towards our social organization. If he to use your word arrogated to the state the duty of welfarism of providing for the individual then I would definitely fire him as advocating a philosophy which in my opinion again can only lead us to tyranny. I am saying that this man sees these hundreds of thousands these millions of people who don't have adequate housing that he sees that that is a cancer which spreads which affects him which affects you which affects me and so we consider what are we going to do about it and if we say that as a part of the program maybe somebody would say as all of the program there should be some activity by government just because it is by government you would say call him a collectivist and you wouldn't want him in your particular institution you say have him go teach somewhere else and those who already believe in public housing can go there and have their beliefs fortified protect them against any ideas which would shake their faith in public housing let me follow McDougal's line of reasoning here a bit would you admit this man's book in your classroom this man he's been describing most certainly I would most certainly I would I can't conceive of an educated human being who hasn't canvassed the alternatives but I believe that they ought to be canvassed under guidance but you wouldn't admit the man there to support his doctrine no certainly not because I cannot conscionably subsidize error in this way I cannot conscionably expose students whose education I am in charge with two doctrines two notions that I believe if implemented would ultimately lead to the destruction of our freedoms do you think his position would get a fair hearing at your hands Edward at mine sure you think it is necessary then to have a representative with that point of view present to express it certainly not any more than I would want a communist in the faculty to preach the word of Stalin is it possible for a a collectivist on a faculty to teach objectively without any attempted indoctrination at all surely factual knowledge yes but not values and as I mentioned in my introduction I believe values are an important and indispensable part of education and we ought to treat of both in other words you want preachers on the faculty who are working for their point of view and for their values yes and also educators educators in the sense that there's no reason why they shouldn't be the most profound scholars in the world take Frederick von Hayek here at the University of Chicago he's a devoted value wise he's a devoted individualist but I have no reason to believe that he's inadequate as a teacher of the basic truths of economics either have you no not at all I've quoted Thomas Jefferson before I'd like to quote a president of a contemporary university and ask Mr. Buckley what he'd do with this man this is what he wrote in inviting people to participate in the 200th anniversary of his institution in considering what would be the most appropriate theme for Columbia to emphasize in its celebration the trustees aided by a committee representing the faculty students and alumni have agreed that there is one principle which all free universities unfailingly must defend this is the ideal of full freedom of scholarly inquiry and expression the right of mankind to knowledge and the free use thereof for many centuries a civilized world has held that this privilege is essential to human liberty welfare and progress unhappily it is now being subjected to serious and systematic attack in many lands that was authored by President Dwight D. Eisenhower of Columbia University would you fire him? now you know that doesn't awe me you're mentioning that it was Dwight D. I would certainly fire him because in the first place he's not equipped scholastically to teach anything of course that's irrelevant that's irrelevant yes no Mr. Eisenhower mentioned something which you're aware of I think that in my book I definitely believe in full freedom for research but I believe that the functions of research and the functions of teaching are not inextricably interwoven and therefore I would seriously differentiate between the new organizing and the college under your kind of educational system how are you going to develop the scholars who are going to be capable of this research? how? precisely by the means I'm talking about by indoctrinating them that black is black and white is white that there's a dichotomy between truth and error that only you are capable of telling? no I'm not saying I'm the only person capable of saying it there are all kinds of different ideas in every field how do you know which ones are the correct ones? is there any reason why this man shouldn't be aware of the fact that other people disagree with me? certainly I'm going to tell him I'm going to say for example there's a fellow called Dr. MacDougall in Chicago who disagrees with me fundamentally and this is his background this is what he's got to say and this is why I think he's wrong this doesn't make him credulous Hayek everybody does that every day in his classroom Dr. Hayek does it in the University of Chicago does that breed a credulous individualist? but you'd mention me only for the purpose of rebutting me you wouldn't invite me to your class no I'd also mention you for the purpose of enlightening them as to your fallacies well now you made one statement a while ago see if I understood you you would admit agnostics and collectivists as research workers right? yes sir subject to whether the alumni wanted to support them and you wouldn't have any fear that their insidious doctrines would enter into that research in one way or another that they could keep their value judgments out of that oh yes I have a fear it's not insidious I have a fear that there is no such thing ultimately as objective completely objective research because everyone brings to everything that he does his own values you and I and everybody else well then after this research was discovered if it was iconoclastic research you would disseminate it among the alumni of this school and ask them to take a vote whether they now will allow the professors to mention this in the classroom? ultimately they would and I'll give you an example which you can really floor me on and that is for example suppose it were on earth that Jesus Christ was an extraordinary fraud from beginning to end it was just a fable and if enough evidence could be adduced to make it beyond question of a doubt that our values had previously been founded on inadequate research and lies then I would expect us to face up to it it would be published in the scholarly journal and that would be enough just as it was published a few days ago that Masaryk committed was killed instead of committed suicide the whole world knows it and it becomes as of that time a matter of error to teach at Masaryk committed suicide now there's a second whole area of discussion that we've got into not at all here today in the in your book Mr. Buckley you make the position that at Yale at least the faculty is loaded with agnostics and collectivists do you honestly think that's typical of colleges and universities generally I don't know my guess is yes judge from the direction in which our country is headed as I say I think you can always generalize on what's being taught by what direction we're moving in national politics national morality no I think that's a great compliment to us as educators that we're able to well use that amount of influence unfortunately I don't think it's true and I don't think your basic assumption is true either as a matter of fact my experience with several universities is that college faculties particularly those in the fields that you're most concerned with are a pretty conservative lot and if they're not conservative today they're scared stiff into saying anything that is anything but conservative they certainly haven't been scared by me not yet one of the things I'm concerned about is the idea of a university which it seems to me Mr. Buckley has and the authority of the university to me a university is ultimately a part of our culture an organ and instrument not of its trustees or students or alumni or faculty but of our general society our society as a whole makes the universities possible and they in turn serve it by passing on its tradition and wisdom developing its leaders and criticizing its trends and movements in the most ultimate terms it can do this only when its students and its faculties are free persons and when a university ceases to be free it ceases to be useful to a democracy I think that's the essence of this discussion as I follow well it may be the essence of this point of view Dr. McBurney but it's not the essence of mine I believe it's perfectly true that the universities are a reflection of our culture but I also believe in self-determinism in freedom in shaping and fashioning our own destiny to the extent of saying if we don't like parts of our culture we ought to try to change them and where do you go for efficacious action of this sort to the classroom would this be a dangerous extension of your doctrine and point of view that if you had your way you would deny a position in any group to a man who disagreed with you it would be a very dangerous extension I would never utilize a police force to do anything but you would deny you would virtually use a police force in the university well to the same extent that you would utilize a police force to remove somebody from your house if you was an unwelcome guest and refused to go sure and you would remove from your house I take it any member of the family that promulgated doctrines that were inconsistent with yours no I wouldn't because I've got some sort of a transcendent loyalty and I would always hope to bring them around but I'm not going to be in this sort of contact with my teachers I'm sorry gentlemen but our time is up you've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion God and Man in the Universities we want to thank our guests for their appearance today William F. Buckley Jr. author of the controversial book God and Man at Yale Curtis McDougal professor of journalism at Northwestern University's Medill School of Journalism and Rockwell C. Smith professor of rural church administration and sociology Garrett Biblical Institute and president of the Evanston Council of Churches Evanston, Illinois we invite you to send for a printed copy of today's broadcast complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed copies are available for 10 cents in coin or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next four months $2.50 for an entire year write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois now our moderator James H. McBurney will tell you about next week's program next week we'll mark the 101st anniversary of the founding of Northwestern University and concludes may I add our centennial celebration the reviewing stand and will observe the occasion with a discussion of the question how should we educate for the future not wholly irrelevant to the matter we've had at hand today joining us will be Henry T. Heal president of Illinois Institute of Technology and chancellor elect of New York University Lewis L. Mann Rabbi of the Chicago Sinai Congregation and Guy S. Reed executive vice president of the Harris Trust and Savings Bank in Chicago we hope you will be with us next week to hear these men attempt to answer our question how should we educate for the future the Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual this is the world's largest network the Mutual broadcasting system we'll make sure we'll make sure we'll make sure we'll make sure that keine turn or winning because the way you have to see in the near world's lovely and the end especially the day coming kald this is the thing the wayʏ will make sure that the wayziej Bom along the way