Great Americans. Your city station in cooperation with the Juvenile Welfare Council brings you another in the series of authentic biographical sketches of outstanding Negroes in American life. This evening we shall hear a dramatization of incidents in the life of Samuel J. Battle. Oh, oh, oh. There you go. Hi, Joe. Hello, Kelly. How's Tips today? Oh, pretty good. That cracked cream came in from Chicago this morning. And I done right smart. Me too. I sure was glad to see this lunchtime roll around. Boy, oh, boy. Apple pie. That mall of mine sure makes good apple pie. I'll say she does. All right, Hungry. There's a piece for you. Mm-hmm. Good. Man, oh, man. I mean, I did some hustling this morning. Seems like every bag I carried had a load of lead in it. Joe, what do you reckon those people from Chicago carry with them when they travel? I don't know. But if they were as heavy as the loads I was toting, they was plenty heavy. I had to walk up to 43rd Street to get a handsome for an old lady. Hello, boys. Oh, Jesse. Hiya, boy. Oh, in the pink. Sure was a rush this morning. You boys got your share? Sure did. I called the senator from Missouri. Things must have been pretty good down in Washington. Because the senator really showered down. Oh, shucks, Joe. You know how to make the senator generous. I heard you. You rush up to him and holler in a loud voice. Hello, Senator. It sure is good to see you again, sir. And then when all the people turn around to look at him, that makes him feel so good he really breaks out with that tip. He sure does. He broke out enough this morning for me to hire Rick Sunday and take my guys driving. And, boy, there's only one thing my girl likes better than driving around a fast horse. What's that? Driving behind two of them. That woman ain't pleased unless she's squashing along at 20 miles an hour. You're going to get picked up with speeding one of these days, Joe. Not me. There ain't a cop in Central Park that can catch one of Joe Benson's horses. Ain't you got any lunch today, Jesse? Yeah, it's here in my locker. Well, get it. And come over here and sit with us. Oh, thanks, Joe. But I can't. Why not? More reading? Yep, that's right. You're the readinest man I ever did see. That's right, Jesse. What you trying to be, a professor? Nope, a policeman. A policeman? A policeman? Well, fuck. Are you crazy, Joe? What makes you think that, Joe? Jesse, you ought to have better sense than that. Well, what's the matter with wanting to become a policeman? Well, for one thing, how many Negro policemen do you meet walking up and down, doing them fancy twirls with their clubs? Yeah. And when did you get to be an Irishman, Jesse? Well, shucks. Just because there ain't no Negro policemen don't say there can't be none. Jesse, you're a piece. What makes you want to be a policeman? Well, about a year ago, I got to figure into myself. This red capping's all right. You make good money at it. But there ain't no future in red capping, and I got a family to support, and kids to think of. How much does the cops make? Well, not so much. Not as much as we do. Boy, you're a case. You want to leave the red capping where you make good money to be a cop for less money, when there ain't no Negro cops on the force. They don't want none. All because you're thinking of your family. That's too deep for me. Me too, Jesse. I don't get it. Well, that's right. The pay is less. But you got a future. And when you work for the city, after you get old, you get a pension. And just because there ain't Negro policemen now don't say there can't be none. Some of us got to start sometime. So it may as well be Samuel Jesse Battle. Phew. What you got to do is get to be a cop. Knock somebody down. Show how fast you can run. Or how you can ball out the driver of the handsome cab. No. You got to take a regular civil service examination. Civil service examination? Boy, that's something. When you going to take yours? Oh, I've taken that already. I'm just waiting to hear if I pass. Well, for old clothes, ma'am. Ain't said a word to nobody either. If you took it already, why do you still have to study? Oh, Jesse's got his eyes on being a commissioner. Just because there ain't no Negro commissioners, they don't say they can't be. Well, that's our first good sense you've made all afternoon, Joe. Is that you, Jesse? Yes, Florence. Have a hard day? Well, not too hard to kiss my wife. Oh, I almost forgot. Here's a letter for you, Jesse. It's from the police examiner's board. It came this afternoon. Why didn't you open it? Oh, I wouldn't do that, Jesse. I wanted you to be the first to see it. Oh, Florence, I passed. I passed. Oh, that's wonderful, Jesse. But I knew you would. You studied too hard not to have passed. Listen, Florence. It says you are directed to appear at police headquarters for an examination as to your physical fitness. Oh, aren't you a policeman yet? Darling, I'm practically in uniform. Because the one test I can pass is a physical. I'm not worried about that one at all. How long before you get your uniform? Oh, I don't know. About a week or two, I guess. Oh, I'll have to watch out now more than ever. Watch out for what? Oh, I see all these girls around here making eyes at you. And when you get in that uniform, there will be no holding them down. Oliver, it's the first one that says hello. Then the city will have to build itself a new jail. Because there won't be nothing they can stop when they see New York's handsomest policemen step out. You men who have just arrived can go into that room, D'Andreas. Battle's next. Is Battle ready to be examined? Yes, Doctor. Are you Jesse Battle? Yes, sir. That's me. But you're a Negro. Negro. You're sure you're the man to be examined for the appointment to the police force? Yes, sir, Doctor. I'm the one. Hmm. Let's see your papers. Here you are, sir. Well, they seem to be in order. Come on. I'll examine you myself. That's mighty nice of you, Doctor. Thank you. Now, take a deep breath. Mother. Well, it seems to be all right. I'll examine your heart. All right, Doctor. But there isn't anything wrong with me. I've been keeping myself in shape just for this examination. We'll see. Here, let me put the estethoscope to your chest. Here we are. Pretty good, isn't she, Doctor? I'm not so sure. You're not so sure? Quiet, please. Nope. Sorry, Battle. But you won't do. You... You mean there's something wrong with my heart? Oh, it's nothing serious. But I can understand it. Just a slight murmur, that's all. Anyone might have it. Well, then... No use, Battle. A man must be in the finest physical condition to be a policeman. While your heart will never give you any trouble in civilian life, you wouldn't do for the police force. I see. Oh, you can always get a job with that big body of yours. Try the docks or driving a truck. But the police force does not want you. The docks driving a truck. The police don't want me. Battle, you're as fine a specimen of manhood as I've ever seen. Dr. Cutler, you sure there's nothing wrong with my heart? I'd stake my reputation as head of the cardiac department of Flower Hospital on it. Will you... Will you give me a letter or certificate certifying that? Why, certainly. And doctor, if you don't mind, would you put all of your titles and connections down? This has got to be very impressive. Sounds like you're trying to convince the mayor. That's just the man, doctor. How did you know? Battle? That's right. Got a letter for you. Here you are. Thanks. Florence! Florence! Coming, Jesse. Oh, listen. Listen to what it says. I've been appointed. Oh, Jesse, that's wonderful. Listen. After a thorough investigation and review of your case, together with the certificate of health by Dr. Cutler, I find that your claim of being wrongfully excluded from the New York City police force to be entirely justified. Therefore, I am pleased to advise you that the new police commissioner, Commissioner Ryan Lander Waldo, will appoint you at once as a patrolman and assign you to whichever precinct he feels can use your services. Sincerely, William J. Gaynor, Mayor. Oh, Jesse, Jesse. I knew you'd get that uniform. So did I. Because I know if you really want something hard enough and you're willing to fight for it, there isn't anything in the world that can keep you from getting it. When I joined the force, I never thought I'd be serving in the same station house with no Negro. Me neither. First thing you know, they'll be getting to be captains and inspectors and they'll be ordering us around. Yeah. I'd you like to be saluting a Negro and saying good morning, Captain, to one of them. Well, what are we going to do about it? Are we going to stand for it? No. Wait a minute, boys. Don't be so hasty. What's the matter with you, Jim? Ain't you with us? Sure you know I am, Tom. And Jim Calder ain't taking this lying down. Only I say let's be smart. Yeah? How? I say let's make Battle quit of his own free will. That way we'll keep our noses clean. Well, how are you going to do that without giving him a good bit? Give him the old silent treatment. What's that? When he talks to any of us, just make out as if you don't hear him or look through him. He won't stand that very long. Say, that's a good idea. Yeah, I think so too. All right with me. I disagreed and I guarantee we'll be rid of him in a couple of weeks. Maybe before. I never saw a Negro yet that could take it. Officer, officer. What's the trouble? There's a fight in the alley around the corner. Where? In the alley there. All right, let's get going. Show me where. There's six of them. You better get some help. Come on, man. We got no time to get help. We got to do the best we can. He's down. Take him. Kill the lousy copper. Let him have it. Suck him. Get around here. Here comes another cop. Let's give him the work. Yeah, we might as well make a night of it. You men are under arrest. All right, boys. Get the work out here. This guy is murder. Come on, Tom. Let's get out of here. Right with you. Calder. Calder, you all right? Sure, and I think my leg is broken. Wait a minute. We'll have a look here. Take it easy. Sure. I slipped, and that's when they got me. Say, you're some man. Four guys laid out. And I recognize the other two who got away. You had me plenty scared. One against six. Is that other fellow hurt bad? Well, looks like his leg is broken. Say, will you go over to the police box on the corner and phone for the wagon and tell them to send an ambulance, too? I don't want to leave these guys. Some of them might come, too. Sure. I'll be glad to. Jesse? Yes. Jesse, you're a good man. I got those tough guys. Well, I got in some pretty lucky punches. Sure, and you was good, not lucky. Battle, you're right ready with your fists. Well, I know a little something about boxing. Jesse, I guess I had this coming to me. I deserve it. The way I've been after treating you. Oh, I knew sooner or later you'd come around. Jesse, it was me who kept the boys from talking to you. We figured we'd make you quit. We didn't want to work with you because you're a Negro. I knew that was what you wanted me to do, but I worked too hard to get to be a policeman to quit. Jesse, will you, will you be after shaking hands with me? Sure, Jim, sure. Thanks. Sure, and I was just dumb, Jesse. I didn't realize it ain't the color of a man's skin that counts. It's what's inside. Commissioner McLaughlin will see you now, Officer Bevel. Thank you. Just this way. Officer Bevel, Commissioner. Oh, yes. Come in, Officer. Thank you, sir. That's all, Miss Mason. Yes, sir. Bevel, I've been looking over your record. Yes, sir. It's a good record. Thank you, sir. I see your name on the list of patrolmen recommended for promotion. Yes, sir. Been there quite some time. A number of years, as a matter of fact. I know that, sir. Well, have you any idea why you haven't acted on this before? Well, I... I have. I've made inquiries. I can't find any reason in your record why you shouldn't have been promoted, except one. What's that, sir? You're a Negro. Well, that's not reason enough for me, and isn't good enough reason for this administration either, because we've got no room for that kind of prejudice. You're a good patrolman. You deserve promotion, and you're going to get it. You're going to walk out of this office a sergeant. Thank you, Commissioner. May 1935. Sergeant Jesse Battle. This will confirm your promotion to police lieutenant of the city of New York. Oh, Jesse, darling, I'm so proud of you. Well, the new commissioner will be down this morning for the first time. Yes..
