Today is Brotherhood Day in New York City, and from the Council Chamber and City Hall, the Mayor's Committee on Reception is inaugurating Brotherhood Week with the full cooperation, particularly of the youngsters of the school system of the city. A very fine program has been organized, and the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee, will make some very interesting introductions in the course of today's meeting here in the Council Chamber. Robert Montgomery of Movie Land is receiving quite an ovation from the youngsters, and now Mr. Whelan. Will you please be in order? We'll open the ceremonies today with the singing of the Star Spangled Banner. The Star Spangled Banner. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? The Star Spangled Banner. Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight, all the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming? The Star Spangled Banner. The Star Spangled Banner. And the rock is red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flight was still there. O'er the land of the free and the home of the brave? The land of the free and the home of the brave? And now, Mr. Whelan, chairman of the mayor's reception committee, Brotherhood Day at City Hall. On February 8, 1950, acting mayor Vincent Impelleteria issued the following proclamation. Whereas grave dangers and great opportunities lie before us in this critical period, and only the spiritual and moral power of brotherhood can stem the tide of selfishness and crime, heal the disruption and hatred characteristic of post-war period, enabling us to think clearly and act nobly as citizens and open the way for the future, nobility as citizens and open the way for the future welfare and progress in our great commonwealths. And whereas we are grateful for the goodwill and cooperation that exists among the many religious, racial, and other groups in our state, and whereas here in the world capital, we can demonstrate such real democracy and religious life as shall keep the heart of America and the world sound and enable us to fulfill our God-given destiny of leadership and service in a confused world. Now, therefore, I, Vincent R. Impelleteria, acting mayor of the City of New York, do hereby proclaim the period of February 19th to 26, 1950, as Brotherhood Week in the City of New York and urge our people to cooperate in this, the 17th annual observance designed to overcome prejudice and bigotry and create goodwill. In witness thereof, I have hereunto set my hand and cause a seal of the City of New York to be affixed this eighth day of February 1950, signed, Vincent N. Paltteri, acting mayor. We have the great privilege today of having with us one of the founders of the National Conference of Christian and Jews, a distinguished business executive, president of the, or rather chairman of the board of the American Smelling Corporation, and vice and co-chairman of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. It's a great privilege for me to present to you, Mr. Roger W. Strauss. Thank you, Mr. Whalen. My theme is, what is brotherhood? Brotherhood is a fact because God is the Father of all people, and we are therefore members of one family. That is our faith as Christians and as Jews. This family of mankind is a very big family, to be sure, and its members are scattered throughout this huge planet. But no matter how big the family is, and regardless of where we live, we are all brothers. That is a big idea, but it takes big ideas to live in this 20th century. If we are going to keep A-bombs, H-bombs, germ warfare and jet planes from destroying us completely, we must think big ideas and make them realities in our lives. In other words, the only real answer to these tremendous forces of destruction is brotherhood. Now, what does that mean in terms of what we think and do every day? In the first place, it means that we must begin with ourselves to live brotherhood. And are we treating other people as we want ourselves to be treated? If not, we are denying our belief in brotherhood. Do we believe that people of all races, creeds and nationalities, should have the same chances for jobs, education, homes, and political opportunities as we have? If so, then we are practicing brotherhood. If not, we are actually helping the forces of destruction in our world. Do we apply derogatory names to people of other races and creeds? Do we think of them as naturally inferior to us? Do we refuse to associate with some people because of their chit or color? If we engage in such day-to-day denials of goodwill and brotherhood, we are actually helping the forces that seek to destroy freedom in the world. There is nothing more desired by the tyrants and dictators today than to see groups of people in the free parts of the world hating or fighting one another. These dictators know that freedom will survive if those of us in the free nations respect one another and work together to make strong societies. This may sound like something far away from the everyday problems we face, but actually it is very close to us. Nothing is more personal than what we think and feel about our neighbors. And that is where brotherhood begins, with us and with our neighbors. The peace and freedom we all want is as close as that, as close as our day-by-day actions as they concern other people. To be sure, that is not the whole problem of peace. We must continue to develop the United Nations. We must deal realistically with Russia and our satellites. For another part of the problem, we must work constantly for effective international control of atomic energy. I believe we can do these things and avoid war, at the same time helping extend freedom in the world. No dictator attacks unless he thinks he can win. He knows he cannot win against a nation of equal strength if its people are united. That is why he so desperately tries to divide the nation as he plans to attack. In short, our leadership in the world depends in large part on how well we practice brotherhood in our daily, everyday lives. The peace of the world and freedom of people everywhere depend on the sincerity of our belief in brotherhood and how well we live it. That is why the theme of Brotherhood Week this year is Brotherhood for Peace and Freedom. In sponsoring Brotherhood Week, we of the National Conference of Christians and Jews call upon each Catholic, each Protestant, each Jew to intensify his own religious belief and through that inspiration to work together to make this country, this world a better place for everyone to live in. We pray that by living up to the principles of our individual religions, we will together make man-made governments carry forward God's will. And now, let me close by defining brotherhood as the National Conference of Christians and Jews defined it. Brotherhood is giving to others the rights and dignity we want for ourselves. Thank you. Thank you. The next speaker will address himself to the subject Brotherhood, America's Responsibility. And it's a delightful privilege for me to present a distinguished radio commentator and producer, Robert Montgomery. There is no place that I would rather talk about tolerance and goodwill than here in New York. I'm no stranger to this city and this state. I was born not far from here, 60 miles up the Hudson River. Trips to the city were kind of big holidays for me when I was a kid. I speak of this for I feel strongly that no one can live in or near New York or even visit it briefly without having brought home to him the full meaning of the word brotherhood. On one street in New York you will find a Lutheran church, a Catholic chapel, a synagogue, yes, perhaps even a mosque. On one street in New York, in fact, on almost every street you will find a block-long United Nations. What would happen to New York if for one day each separate nationality, each separate nationality group reverted to the old rivalries and to the old jealousies? Ladies and gentlemen, no bomb yet made could destroy New York so completely than if this city forgot tolerance for 24 hours. Now, I don't say and you would, I hope, not agree with me if I said that New Yorkers are all perfect, that there are no lingering traces of outworn prejudices and outworn hates. But as there are, we must conquer them. For New York, the largest city in the world, meeting place for all America, gateway for new Americans, must have the largest and the warmest heart of all. We must not only give the lesson of tolerance and give that lesson well, we must be ready in turn to seek it from others. Uptown, here in New York City, not more than a mile from here, there is a small plain room. It is the headquarters of a refugee government in exile, composed of men driven from Central Europe because they attacked both Nazism and Communism. I visited that room a few weeks ago. There were men there united against tyranny. They spoke a tongue which was strange to me, their names I could hardly pronounce. But we were brothers. We were comrades in arms in the common cause today against all types of fascism, from the right or from the left. And we were brothers in the cause of tolerance. Let me tell you who these refugees were. Several were Protestants. Two wore the collar of the Catholic Church. Two were Jewish. One still bears the numbers of a German concentration camp on his arm. They are men from the Social Democratic Party, men from the Conservative Party, a lawyer, a former prime minister, a great trade union leader. These men are thousands of miles away from their native land. It may be years before the Iron Curtain will be lifted and they can return home. These men have learned by experience. Men have learned by experience. Well, is there hope for the future? Let us learn from these newcomers. Let us also look beyond our great bridges and see what is happening to the rest of the country. It has been a good year for tolerance. I want to cite some of the encouraging things that have happened, not so that we will relax and say the job is done, but so that we can say this has been done. Let's do some more. Here is a partial roll call of the American conscience in 1949. New Haven, Connecticut. The captain of the Yale football team was Levi Jackson, a Negro. It was only 20 years ago that Jewish football stars like Benny Friedman and Marshall Goldberg attracted special attention. Now, with the election of a Negro football captain, the beginning of another great Dutch is the beginning of another great touchdown march against bigotry. Miami Beach, Florida. A city ordinance forbids advertising that discriminates against any religion or race. Incidentally, it is you and I far more than laws who will finally end this business of advertising bigotry. Never patronize a place which has hate on its signboard. Washington, Mississippi, Jefferson College, hard-pressed for endowment funds, was offered $50 million if it would agree not to admit a Negro and a Jew as a student. This small southern college gave an answer heard across the continent, a very simple answer. No. That no was heard even in Moscow, for the greatest ammunition communism has, always has had, always will have, is not a super bomb, but the hatreds of one man for another because he worships in a different form, because he speaks with a different accent, because he comes from a different walk of life. That is why one of the biggest guns in our spiritual arsenal of democracy is an organization dedicated to the spread and growth of true democracy. This organization dedicates itself 52 weeks a year to the service of brotherhood. It is not enough for us to talk about brotherhood for one week a year, we know that, nor can we legislate tolerance, although certain legislation is most necessary. No government can make its citizens tolerant. It is for each of us, each individual, each citizen, to take the full obligation, the full honor, of respecting his fellow man. It is only in our hearts that we can make brotherhood live with us 52 weeks out of the year. In all our words, in all our actions, to you, my fellow citizens in New York, I thank you with all my heart and with all my sincerity for the chance to speak here today during Brotherhood Week. May the year ahead, may the year ahead, may the year ahead bring us even closer to you. Thank you very much. Thank you, Miss Montgomery. We will now have several selections from the Police Department Glee Club. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I am an American. I am from the heart of me. It's a boy, a man, no, and this message we do. Just give a shout, wherever you may be. Your helmet leader. I am an American. I'm proud of my liberty. Oh, say, can't you see how we love liberty? On the farms, in the schools, let's have one set of rules. Come on and shout, wherever you may be. I am an American. I am every part of me. I am an American. A delightful and charming artist will now address herself to the topic, Women and Brotherhood. I am a Pratice Moselle of the Met Pound Opera Company. Thank you. You know, I've found that prejudice works both ways. It hurts the groups it's used against, but it hurts even more the people that use it. Women certainly have the largest part to play in teaching brotherhood to our future citizens. Since a child is influenced most in its thinking and forms most of its opinions in its adolescent years when the bond between the mother and the child is the strongest. Just as a mother brings aid to a child who is infected with a disease, so can a mother administer knowledge to her child as a preventative against the germ of intolerance. In this way, I think we women must make it our aim to carry brotherhood throughout our lifetime and throughout the lifetime of our children, because they're going to be the future leaders. And a leader without tolerance can never be a great leader. Thank you. Thank you, Miss Montel. We shall now hear from the President of the City Council, the Honourable Vincent Impeletteri. Mr. Whelan, ladies and gentlemen, and particularly the children of our public school system here in the City of New York. On behalf of Mayor O'Dwyer, I am very happy indeed to greet you here today in this historic council chamber as the official representative of the City of New York. I want to pay my respects to the officers and members of the National Conference of Christians and Jews for the outstanding contribution they are making in the great cause of brotherhood through their sponsorship of Brotherhood Week, which we are marking here today. I am particularly grateful for the privilege of participating with you at a ceremony which I know is dedicated to the same ideals of human decency which have motivated your present city administration in its efforts towards the elimination of racial bias and bigotry in our great city of New York. Today, more than ever before, we need the wonderful inspiration that is provided in the observance of Brotherhood Week. And we need the combined efforts of all organizations such as yours, as well as the individual efforts of every one of our citizens in the advancement of human understanding. New York City, as you all know, is now literally the capital city of the world. For representatives of the United Nations meet here in an earnest effort to create a pattern for global harmony. it might be well to realize that their efforts can be rewarded with success only if we have a universal adherence to the principles of brotherhood. And it is up to the City of New York to set this inspiring example. your city officials are making every sincere effort to make New York City a metropolis of genuine brotherhood where the seeds of racial or religious discrimination cannot germinate. I haven't time to tell you at great length of these efforts, but I would like to point out that it is our particular concern that this spirit of brotherhood shall be fostered in every possible way, particularly as it affects the character and attitudes of the children in the schools of our city. We have no place in the educational institutions in this city which in any form whatever nurtures or gives comfort to the methods of intolerance. And I can assure you that wherever such un-American practices might appear, this administration will take emphatic and proper steps to ensure their speedy elimination. We will fight vigorously all forms of racial or minority prejudices and persecutions. It is important indeed that this, the world's greatest city, drawing its strength from people of all nations and all religions, should set a very high standard for the rest of the world and should give great impetus to the cause of brotherhood. Tolerance and a consideration of fellow man without distinction of race, rank, or religion, represents the underlying hope for any solution to world affairs. Surely we, as citizens of the greatest city of the world, should apply a vigorous determination to wipe out the forces of bigotry and bias wherever they exist. and that job properly starts in our own city, in our own neighborhood, and with our own children. I have full confidence that the people of this city can be depended upon to carry forward the spirit of brotherhood that is exemplified in the tenets of the National Conference of Christians and Jews. I have full confidence that the observance of Brotherhood Week will not be confined as declared in the proclamation to a single week of the year, but will be continued every week of the year, year in and year out. It is indeed true that brotherhood and freedom go hand in hand. In this critical period of world affairs, freedom is undergoing its greatest assault in history. There is a futility in any action we take to withstand this assault unless it is on a solid, firm foundation of brotherhood. I wish Godspeed to the attainment of the objectives brought into sharp focus at this meeting today. Thank you. Patrice Manchel will sing God Bless America. Thank you. Thank you. To the mountains, to the prairies, to the oceans, white with foam. Oh, bless America, my home sweet home. Oh, bless America, my home sweet home. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And so with the beautiful voice of Patrice Munsell echoing that wonderful statement, God bless America, we bring to a conclusion the Mayor's Committee reception to Brotherhood Week here in the Council Chamber in City Hall. The good and the welfare and the tolerance of all that is good and worthy in our citizenship. And now we return you to the studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
