Ladies and gentlemen, I have the distinct privilege of presenting to you and to the listening audience, His Majesty the Shah of the Red. Mr. Mayor, it is one of the great privileges of my visit to the United States to be welcomed to the metropolis of New York. I thank you most sincerely, Mr. Mayor, for the far too generous words you have just spoken about me. I hope I deserve at least a few of them. I shall strive to deserve more under the inspiration of this hour which will last as long as I live. The certificate of service you have given me, I accept, with deep emotion. It represents, I know, the esteem in which Iran and its people are held here in this great center of population and culture. Iran is not unacquainted with imposing cities, for throughout the centuries great and noble structures have arisen on our soil, some of which survive in splendor to this hour. nor have we been remiss in building for modern life and the modern world. But I must confess, Mr. Mayor, that except for our mountains, nothing in Iran is as tall as the gigantic buildings which, in all their magnificence, give New York its most characteristic aspect. But I well realize that its buildings alone do not represent New York, which is famous throughout the world for its commerce, its superb seaport, and for its cosmopolitan culture. Iran is itself one of the most cosmopolitan countries. Therefore, I have a special appreciation of the many cultural strains and backgrounds that converge here in this great center. Those whose forebears were born in many lands or were themselves born here live and work together here in an atmosphere of toleration, peace, and freedom. It is a great honor and a great pleasure to be greeted in New York, both because of its own special standing among the cities of the world and because it is the seat of the United Nations. I look forward to knowing New York better as I see more of it, which I hope to do. So, on all possible accounts, Mr. Mayor, I most truly thank you and the citizens of New York for this most thrilling welcome. You have just heard the Shaw of Persia, his Imperial Majesty, as he replied to the Mayor of the City of New York. Now the cameramen are demanding some pictures and it's truly amazing. The police club will render a few selections. Mr. Whalen has announced the police glee club. Choi, dude, Mount Duke voor applying May copy their virtues bold Courage in heart and a soul in hand Who's ready to fight and who's ready to die for all the land Who needs bidding to spare by a trumpet blow Who likes bidding to spare for the deal is won Who would fight before when alone the last And both see the true as cows might do when peril is fast Glory and love for the men of all Their sons may copy their virtues bold Courage in heart and a soul in hand Who's ready to fight for all the land Now to home again We come along and fire each strike the battle over Restless plans and matters One of the stars of beneath the stranger's son The one who's ready to say A maiden fair Is waiting here to greet a true and soldier lover And many a heart will fail and proud Prepare to hear To hear the tale of true apparel he has run And many a heart And many a heart will fail and proud Prepare to hear the tale of peril he has run We are at home We are at home We are at home We are at home Glory and love for the men of all Their sons may copy their virtues bold Courage in heart and a soul in hand Are ready to fight for all the land Are ready to fight Are ready to die for all the land Are ready to fight Are ready to die Already to die For all the land Mr. Whelan Will our distinguished audience please remain seated Until his imperial majesty and the mayor And the immediate guests of the staff Leave the room We are We will proceed to the front of the city hall Where his majesty will review his escort The entire audience is asked to come down Remain on the steps until the review is over When the crossroads of history merge here at city hall As they so often do One cannot help but wonder At the poetic grandeur and the drama of the scene When we go look back through history and art and literature And hear of the accomplishments of the ancient land of Persia And the grandeur and splendor of the shores The imperial shores of that great land And yet we see this young man here in city hall Greatly concerned to turn around and address the mayor As he is speaking every time he refers to him It was painful for him to converge on the microphones Because courtesy seemed that he should speak his words directly to the mayor And this young man Turning as he did The imperial Shaw of Persia To give his words directly to the mayor And concerned at the same time with broadcasting as well There was something as we say poetic Beautifully poetic about it Because here Our own mayor A man An immigrant boy Rising through the ranks of life and accomplishment To become chief magistrate of the city Is greeted and so deeply and highly respected By this long line of descendants From the cradle land of humanity itself The ancient land of Persia These are the significant factors Of these gatherings here at city hall And as we said before It's an interesting fact and commentary That the youngest child of all the nations The United States of America Is the inspiration for the cradle races Who have existed for centuries And are amazed at the accomplishments And the developments of commerce industry And all the factors That are so visible and concentrated Here within the region of city hall itself And now the mayor of the city of New York Is conducting his imperial majesty The Shaw of Persia With his entourage To the reviewing stand in front of city hall Where the massed military And civic groups are there Ready to pass in review Of this distinguished company That is about all we can bring you From city hall at this time Through the medium of radio And now we return you To the studios in the municipal building This is the municipal broadcasting system of the nation's To the people that believe in here Of this time We return you Under the discussion In the future Of this time Over the doors And this is the county The floor Of this building Tell the floor Of this building That's the middle part Of this building