We have with us in our studios here at your city station at this time a representative of the state of Florida whom I think you're going to be glad to meet. He is Governor Fuller Warren who is here in New York City visiting our great city and we're going to be interested to find out what some of his impressions are, what he thinks of us, what he has to say about his part of the country and just lots of things of general interest. First of all I'll get the basic items over with Governor Warren so we can talk about the things we really want to discuss. You've been in town how long at this point? I arrived here the night before last sir. The night before last? Yes. I see and how long do you intend to stay? I'll have to go back tomorrow. Oh you'll have to go back tomorrow? Yes sir. Does that meet your approval? No sir I'd like to stay here much much longer. Hmm you really mean that or is that the sort of polite thing you say when you're on the air? No it's not. During the war I shipped into New York often and the only thing I liked about the war was getting to New York so I you might say have formed a habit. I see. You're uh you'd like to consider yourself a uh a kinsman of we New Yorkers. That's right. Well I think that's very good what with this one world emerging little by little huh? Sometimes we get the feeling that our states are isolated from each other. We have so many fine New Yorkers in Florida that we feel very very close to New York. Well we can't seem to keep our New Yorkers out of Florida. At the present moment I think half the staff of WNYC is enjoying their uh winter vacations down in our state. I hope they come back benefited. Well uh they should from what we've heard definitely. It's been a long time since uh I myself have been down that far south Governor Warren but uh what I remember I like very very much. Uh it seems kind of passé to talk about the things that appeal to tourists uh when it comes to traveling in a state like Florida because it's so obvious. There is so much to see but suppose you talk about it uh from your own point of view. Maybe there's some special thing you want to hit upon. Well uh of course we've got that same fine climate in Florida we've always had. We have more good weather more of the time down there than probably any other place on this earth. But in addition to the good climate that we've always had. We have more facilities now for taking care of tourists than ever before. We've built up splendid hotels and plenty of them so that tourists will not be crowded uh and they'll have plenty of room and accommodations. Uh we've recently uh made a move that uh for the benefit of the tourists and our permanent residents. That is that we've passed a law removing livestock from the highways of our state. They used to give tourists a whole lot of annoyance and inconvenience and uh we've finally after a 20 year uh effort uh passed legislation putting livestock off the highways and we think that it'll be a lot more pleasure to a tourist to drive through Florida after year after than before. I must confess I never considered the uh the problem of livestock on the highways of Florida. I just don't connect up that much livestock with Florida. Well now it would would come as a surprise to most people but we are one of the leading uh livestock states in the country and we've become that just in the last few years. Yes sir. I didn't know that. Yes sir. Uh our livestock last year we realized nearly a hundred million dollars from the sale of livestock in Florida. Well then uh I'm safe and assuming that something else grows and happens in Florida besides lemons, limes, and grapefruit and oranges. Yes sir. We have uh uh a vast uh agricultural development and we are making some industrial development down there. Along what lines? Well it's just small manufacturing companies nothing very large. They manufacturing some airplane parts and just incidentals. It hasn't taken a distinctive character yet. I see but it is on the way and something to look forward to. Yes sir. Yeah. Well one of the things that bothered me uh in my particular profession about Florida was occasionally I think you'd run into some names that uh were not easy to remember or to say. I remember during the uh hurricane period, I won't say which one because there's been a lot of them not just around Florida but all over the south, we had to think about a place called Okeechobee. Am I right? Yes. How do you say it? We say Okeechobee too. You do say Okeechobee. Yes sir. But we have some tougher ones than that. For instance, for instance Weewahitchka and Caloosahatchee. They sound like Indian names, am I right? Yes sir, they are. You know the Indians. Pure Indian names. Yes sir. The Indians were the early settlers there and they gave their names to many of the outstanding places in Florida. For instance, Tallahassee, the state capital is an Indian name. That's very interesting. Tell me Governor Warren, uh I seem to remember back in my uh grade school days uh something to the effect that citrus fruits or at least uh some of the main fruits were not originally native to Florida but were brought there. Is that true? I think uh that is uh the general belief. I don't know whether it's ever been fully established that probably the Spaniards brought some of it over and uh maybe some of us brought from Sicily and probably some of the Mediterranean. Some of the South Sea Islands probably too. Yes sir. For instance, what what was the uh something was known as breadfruit. Uh I don't believe I'd heard of that. Yeah. I remember reading some some uh old English novels where they talk about breadfruit and I'm not sure but that I think uh now grapefruit is what breadfruit used to be. Oh is that right? I didn't know that. It was sort of a staple island food somewhere at one time. Well I'll say that Florida grapefruit is just about as nourishing as bread. Oh well that's one thing New Yorkers like is a lot of fine grapefruit. We're producing the some of the finest down in. We even got it uh colored now. This red uh pink colored. The pink uh grapefruit. Yeah. Well my family hit upon a novel idea not too long though although I don't suppose it's too novel. We uh we just take uh pure honey and pour it over the grapefruit and bake it in the oven for oh maybe uh 15 minutes or so. Uh that is you take a real cold grapefruit out of your refrigerator and then you get this kind of baked Alaska effect. You see it stays cool on the inside and hot on the outside. It's delicious. Have you ever done that? No sir never have. That's a new way to do it. I wish you'd give me that recipe. Well suppose you bring my my grapefruit recipe back down to Florida. I'd be very happy to know about that. Uh you're only going to be here such a short time but I don't suppose you're going to be able to take in uh too many of the uh entertainment uh items that are going on around New York. Am I right? No sir I won't. I would love to go see them. I've heard a lot about many of them down in Florida and a good many people from Florida have made special trips up to see some of your better entertainment but uh I'm just a public servant that uh has to do about twice as much as uh he can do and uh I've got to get on back to my work. What about this old adage of all work and no play? Doesn't that apply here? Why don't you send a telegram down about that and remind them? Well I think that's a good idea if it would work. You know New York City is uh sponsoring now a uh its own ballet uh corps. I wonder if you've heard about that at the city center. It's uh uh it's kind of a new venture and I was hoping you'd have time to get over there and catch one of the performances. It's a group of young people. Yes sir. I'd like to but I'm afraid I won't. I'll be just I'm filled up for the entire day today and I've got to go back tomorrow. There just isn't going to be time for that sort of thing. No sir there is. I see. Well it's been a friendly visit though you would say that. Yes sir. Very friendly. Very friendly as have all the visits I've ever made to New York. We're certainly glad to hear that. When do you expect to come up this way again Governor? Well just the first time that I can get a few days off but um I've got a job down there that I never catch up with my work on you might say. It just goes on too long. Yes it seems to me from what I heard this morning about Mayor Dwyer's job that my job is nearly as busy and hard a job as his. We'll see that you don't end up in the same place. Thank you very much Governor Warren. We've liked having you here and we hope it'll be not too long before your next visit. Well thank you very much and I sure appreciate the courtesy that you've extended. It's been a pleasure.
