Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago... Before beginning today's discussion, may we call to your attention that printed pamphlets are now available of last week's roundtable, in which Mr. T. S. Eliot, distinguished poet, essayist, Nobel Prize winner, read and discussed his own poetry. By special arrangements with Mr. Eliot's publishers, the roundtable pamphlet reprints all the poems which were read last week, as well as Mr. Eliot's comments on his poetry. If you heard the broadcast, you will want a souvenir copy. Or if you missed this program, you will want to read and enjoy poetry by T. S. Eliot. Listen for details at the close of today's discussion on how you and your friends may order these pamphlets. And now to open today's discussion on the Chinese nightmare, we present Herman Feiner, political scientist of the University of Chicago. Mr. Feiner. We discussed the Chinese nightmare. What is a nightmare? It is involvement in a horrible set of toils that oppress the dreamer, to which he can find no solution, for which he can discern no explanation, and from which he can discover no escape. For the United States of America, what is the Chinese nightmare? It is the fear that we may be bogged down in a war with Communist China, involved in a war lasting interminably, and involving incalculable losses, while suddenly the Soviet Union attacks and makes havoc in Europe and the Middle East. What do we face? The dreadful bloody fact that Chinese Communist soldiers have intervened in the fighting in Korea. Their leaders are threatened not to stand supinely by while the American aggressors, as they officially refer to them, are in Korea. They say United Nations imperialists are copying the old trick of the Japanese bandits, first invading Korea and then invading China, that the aggressive forces should be withdrawn from Korea. At the same time, the Chinese have invaded Tibet. They are alleged to be lending an armed hand in Indochina. They claim Formosa, and want the green light to get it. Here is a million people. It has claims on us. What shall we say to them? How can we avoid war? Earl Pritchard, you are my colleague in history and an expert in Far Eastern and Chinese affairs. Do you think that Mao Zedong is out for war? Well, Finer, while I don't pretend to know exactly what is in Mao Zedong's mind, I'm rather inclined to think that the Chinese are not looking for a war in the ordinary sense of the word. For example, they are indicating that their troops in China are only volunteers. And this, I think, gives a key to what their attitude is. They want to intervene to a certain extent, but probably not to create a regular war. They undoubtedly have some objectives that they have in mind. And I think we should try to find out what these objectives are. Uh, Wright, do you have any ideas on this subject? I think this is the most serious situation we've been involved in since 1945. But I don't think it's beyond the possibility of negotiation. I believe that the main problem the Department of State has to deal with is whether public opinion will permit it to negotiate. There's been no, there's no problem in which it's more necessary that the public should be informed and understanding. I must say that what worries me terribly in this situation is the fact that, uh, this country, through Mr. Acheson and Mr. Truman, as inventive and as sensitive as can be in this situation, over the last three assurances to China that their legitimate interests, where we have constantly said, we, we don't want war, we would find every way to avoid this, it would be a terrible disaster for the world. And yet, they don't seem to believe these assurances and only the other day, um, issued a statement from Pai Ping to the effect that they don't misunderstand assurances of this kind. Well, let's consider, Finer, just what China wants. Of course, we can use such evidence as available. Some people have thought that China wanted a base in Northern Korea, uh, from which, uh, guerrilla activities could be carried on to embarrass United Nations forces there. Uh, I have some doubt whether that's, uh, the main objective. It seems to me that, uh, uh, while they want to embarrass, uh, the United States, uh, doubtless, that it's more likely that they're interested in protecting the vast power resources on the Northern border. Uh, for, for my own part, if I were, uh, concerned, uh, with avoiding a war, I shouldn't mind, uh, a, uh, territory of twenty, thirty, forty, fifty miles come to that, providing, providing it was fairly enough north of Ponyang, in which they could cultivate their guerrillas if they wanted to, because even if we went right to the Manchurian border, there are still mountains beyond that, uh, which are in the hands of China, where they could know. So, if that were a question of appeasement, I mean, and I mean appeasement in the good sense, of making, uh, uh, a legitimate attempt, uh, to pacify the other man's state of mind, I would concede that. Well, Finer, then, you're inclined to favour the idea of perhaps making a demiliter than frontier, or offering that, uh, in which United Nations troops will not go. What do you yourself think about that, Pritchard? Well, I'm rather inclined to think that that wouldn't, probably wouldn't help the situation very much. I'd suggest that before we consider what our policy should be, we try to take a realistic view of the, of the Chinese Communist policy. And I'd like to emphasize the tremendous importance to them of the power resources, uh, on the northern boundary of Korea. They regard Manchuria as the, as the key to their plan for the economic, economic development of China. And they consider that these power resources are essential for the development of Manchuria. Uh, they regard that as very important. And, uh, constantly I think there is evidence that, uh, uh, they're primarily, uh, seeking to gain an agreement which will, uh, protect those, uh, resources. I think that could probably be, be supported by this fact, which I don't think is really too well known. That, uh, the riches of China, uh, are not to be measured by the size of its territory. But all the economic plans that have been, uh, established for the development of China have all concentrated on the power resources of Manchuria, where the metals and coal happen to be together and where the hydroelectric power is available. Well, I'm quite ready to agree with you people that the power facilities along the Yalu River are very important and something the Chinese want protected. I'm also inclined to think, however, that their objectives go a little beyond that. They'd like to have a finger in the total settlement of the Korean situation, I believe. I think they're trying to exert pressure on us so that we will agree to a negotiated arrangement probably in which they will have, uh, a say and in which they will, which is to reorganize the new government in Korea. Unless they will have an entree into Korea and be in a position to exert influence there in the future. You, you think they don't want to get us out of Korea entirely. You, you think that it's more a policy of a certain voice in the, in the control of, uh, of Korea. I think they're going to try to drive us out at this point. I may be, of course, entirely wrong. Maybe this present law simply indicates a regrouping of their forces and a preparation for a new attack. But this emphasis on the fact that they're, the troops that are in there are only volunteers and so on, lead me to believe that they're really not trying to drive us out, but forcing us to come to terms which will be favorable to them. Of course, it might be that they want to lure us to a point in Northern Korea where they, we'd have to have a very much longer line than we would across the narrow neck of Korea. And then they will have a counteroffensive. I've recently, uh, read of the great importance of the Communists, uh, the Communists, uh, look upon the counteroffensive, uh, put forward by, uh, Klausowitz as a strategic measure. And, uh, uh, then they would, uh, turn on us and break through this longer line and take the whole of Korea. Is that a possibility? So there seem to be two, uh, alternative explanations. Uh, yours, Quincy, that we're being lured on, uh, in the end for, uh, a thorough, uh, defeat. Whereas, uh, Earl Pritchard holds that this was tools to draw our attention, uh, to, uh, China's interests. Uh, what, uh, nature of the propaganda being at present reported from, uh, Communist China? One, that these, that the men who are going into Korea from China are only volunteers. And that would give you, uh, the possible influence would be, uh, therefore that, uh, government does not, as a government, as a state, uh, wish, uh, to intervene. Uh, supposing they said to us, you go out of Korea, it would be faced because there's, that is, that is also in their propaganda. We're interventionists, we're not supposed to be there. That would face us with a very, very serious, uh, moral issue, namely the abandonment, A, of the United Nations, uh, attitude towards Korea. The South Koreans, to the mercies of the Northerners. I, I, I don't see how we could possibly do that from any point of view of policy or our commitments to the United Nations. And I am inclined to agree with Pritchard that we, that they don't really have the idea of driving us out of Korea. It, it seems to me that if they had had that intention, they would have attacked long ago when we were holding a small bridgehead to the South. I am inclined to believe more that it's, uh, to bring pressure upon us to, uh, make an arrangement in regard to the, uh, power resources, and perhaps also to gain admission to the United Nations. I am inclined to think the, uh, Chinese, uh, government wants to be admitted to the United Nations. Well, there is this real possibility that it's been upon war. There's some reports to the effect that, uh, that is the real intention of the Mao government. I think we ought to analyze that a little. Oh. Feiner, do you have any ideas on whether or not you think they really intend to force us into a war? Well, I, I simply do not know. I mean, this is one of the, uh, it is, it's worse, worse than trying to get at the opinion, for in a way China has always been an iron curtain country by reason of its size, the, uh, complications of its history and public opinion. And that is the point where I'm really baffled. I don't know how, uh, what kind of evidence to look at, to try to discern what is their state of mind. Well, I, I can't think of any gain that the Mao government would, uh, achieve through making the United States. Uh, I can, I can see how others might profit by that, but not the, the Mao government. So far as I know, the only evidence of this is, uh, is Hanukkah, the Indian ambassador of the United States, reported to have said that, uh, uh, Mao did want to make a, a major war on the United States. Now, uh, I, I don't know what his evidence for that, uh, might be, but, uh, it seems so contrary to what Communist China to be, that I, I just can't believe it. Yeah. Well, at any rate, what we could do is to consider what he could gain. We'll be determined a little by what he thinks he can gain from carrying through his idea. Now, what could he gain? What, what is there in the Chinese situation, or the world situation, which would, uh, which would make, uh, Mao Tse Tung want a war, which has its disadvantages? Well, that he could gain, uh, actually, by forcing the United States into a general war with him. You may argue that they could take Hong Kong, and they could push into Indochina, that sort, and take Formosa, but they can manage to do all these things without really getting involved in the general war with us, as far as I can see. Yes. Is there anything in this other point that is being made, that, um, a little unsure, uh, of the, uh, extent to which the, uh, population supports his regime, or will support it, during a time of sacrifices and so forth, uh, would he invite an attack, uh, in order to consolidate, and, so far as is necessary, further convert the Chinese mind, uh, from its, uh, alleged traditional affairs. Alleged traditional affection for the United States. Well, that's a possibility. It's, uh, often said that foreign war is a, uh, is a remedy for internal dissension, and it is very likely to, uh, a hundred thousand, uh, bandits, uh, or guerrillas, whichever you want to call it. Uh, uh, we also know that there is, uh, uh, there are many Chinese that still entertain the traditional affection for the United States, and it's, uh, possible that, uh, Mao, uh, may think that, uh, a foreign war would, uh, uh, would sponge out those internal oppositions he has. I don't believe it. I think that the losses he would inevitably have through our superior bombing capacity, the wiping out of the industrial resources in Manchuria, would be so enormously greater that he can't entertain the thought of going into such a war. Well, I agree with you entirely on that. I really can't see any reason whatsoever which should lead them to really seek a war or want a war. I still come back to the point that I think they're trying to create a situation where they can bargain with us and get something which they want in regard to Korea, perhaps also get us to withdraw our fleet from Formosa and let them have a free hand there. In other words, they want a stronger hand for bargaining on various particular issues. That's what I think, yes. Yes. Well, I think then we might consider some of the other evidence. After all, they're not just fighting in Korea, but they're in Tibet. They are anxious for Formosa. They are supposed to be participating in the insurrections in Indochina. Does that throw any light on the mentality of that regime? Well, they are expansive. It's natural for an organization such as the Communist Party of China that has won its way through severe fighting for a long time after they've won success initially in taking over continental China to be expansive. They feel their oats and they want to get all they can get. And there are special reasons why they should want to take Formosa. They want to sponge out Chiang Kai-shek. And they regard Formosa as part of China. And so it's perfectly natural. They should want to go in there. And I think also one can attribute the movement in Tibet to the idea of taking over another area which they regard as part of China and also perhaps to get in there before the Soviets do. That intrigues me very much, Quincy, above all, that the Soviets, having been the traditional enemy and invader of China for 300 years or more from the north and having control of the great Tsing-Kyong province today, is being offset by this outflanking movement of the Chinese Communists into Tibet. Yes, the diplomacy of the 19th century figured around Tibet to a considerable extent. The British, while in India, were always afraid that Russia might get it. And the Russians were afraid the British might get it, so it was a sort of a neutralized zone. And the Chinese always claimed it was Chinese territory. And at various times, they sought to penetrate it and to exercise an actual administration. It's possible that the aggressiveness of the militant regime has anything to do with the increasing power and productivity of Japan. Are they looking to that? Are they attempting to set up a situation in which, in general negotiations, they might be able to cancel out the threat of increasing power in Japan? Well, of course, they don't like to have a ring of American bases on the coast of China. They don't like to have us in Japan. They don't like Formosa to be out of their hands. As the Philippines, they would doubtless like to have us on the other side of the moat, that is, the other side of the Pacific Ocean. But I can't believe that they're contemplating a war. At least they would have to win an outright victory over the United States to get us out in order to achieve any such objective. It seems to me we ought to relate these objectives of the Communist China up with Russia for a moment. Well, before we actually got down to that, there's one point, if you will allow me, which we took up en route, but I think didn't examine quite as realistically as I would like. And I know that you're both authorities on this subject. I ask myself, what would Mao lose if he were in a war with the United States? If you're thinking of it from the standpoint of the deterrent effect on a person's mind, even if he's belligerent, would I be right in saying this? That you could hold Korea at the narrow neckline of Korea with not too great an expenditure of American manpower for a long time. And though we would sustain losses, it would be quite a drain on him. Two, he would lose his industrial centres in Manchuria. Three, I presume you could, without the use of the atomic bomb, really destroy the great cities of the mainland together with a certain propaganda. These things would go together. And though you could not occupy China in the long run, nevertheless, you could cause a really serious disintegration of the economy and the political institutions of the regime, say, for two or three or four years. That's right. And those losses would be so tremendous, I can't think that Mao, who has plans of building up the industry of China, can think of a war to destroy those. The only gain he would get, it seems to me, would be a possible cementing of opinion in China against the United States. Doubtless after such a war, all the Chinese would hate the United States. And if Mao wants that, the expense of any economic prosperity for a couple of generations, then he might contemplate it. I don't believe he does. Therefore, Mao has something that we can give him, that's immunity from war. He's got something to lose. If he's got something to lose, he's got something that he can ask us for. And therefore, this may lead us, if he's thinking of his own interests only. China alone, there may be some hope that we won't get ourselves involved in the nightmare. But I interrupted you, Earl, and I'm terribly sorry. You want to introduce this question of the Soviet. I just want to try to relate this up with Russian policy. Wright, do you have any ideas on what Russian policy really is in regard to the policies? Well, it seems to me that China, Mao, has no interest in getting into war with the United States. But I can easily see why the Kremlin might like to see Mao in war with the United States. It appears that the Kremlin has a definite policy of expanding through satellites, avoiding direct participation in the war, which might make Moscow and the big cities of Russia vulnerable to bombing attack. But getting as much expansion through satellites, bothering the United States and the United Nations, keeping these wars going on on the fringes, and particularly, in this case, getting the United States and the United Nations in force in the Far East, absorbing all their forces in the vast areas and population of China, which would mean that they couldn't give as much attention to Western Europe, and that would then become vulnerable. In other words, what the Russians really want is to get the United States involved in a long war in the Far East. If we take the bait and allow ourselves to get involved, we'll be doing just exactly what the Kremlin wants us to do. I agree with that. Well, you know that if you were to take the voices that we've heard in this country in recent weeks on the right wing of politics, though they appear discordant since they sing individually and not in a choir, nevertheless, if you consider, take them all together, the discordant voices, they make a surprising harmony. And that is to say that you would prefer, as it were, the MacArthur solution of putting America's interests and power in the Far East and neglecting the West, and subordinating the Marshall policy of keeping our eye on the Western target. That's how it has seemed to me. I can't see how that would be good American policy. I can see how that would be very good Soviet policy. I can't imagine anything the Soviets would like better than to see us bogged down in a war in that area. What you say indicates what is so often true if the extreme right and extreme left come together. They have a common policy. And I think we have that illustrated on this occasion. Well, we seem pretty well agreed, then, that we shouldn't get ourselves bogged down in a war in China and hence lose sight of the area which is our chief objective, and that is strengthen Europe and being a strong position there. And that's in toward the Far East. Well, I think we should contemplate the possibilities of negotiation. We shouldn't, and you can't negotiate unless we recognize. Consequently, we should get into relations with the Mao government of China, find out precisely what they're after, and after we have done that, see whether it isn't possible to negotiate. I believe our policy should be defense without provocation and conciliation without appeasement. We've got to ask ourselves whether the non-recognition of the Mao government is an act of provocation as it's required by defense. And then we've got to ask ourselves what concerns North Korea in regard to Formosa, in regard to these other matters, which would not be appeasement, but would be a fair conciliation. Well, for my part, though, I would have some qualms, and nevertheless, taking the whole situation into account, I would say that the de facto government of China should be recognized and admitted into the United Nations. Pritchard, do you see that there would be disadvice offsetting that? No, I really do not. I think that's the realistic approach to the matter, that we should accept the fact that the Chinese communists are in control in China, and try to deal with them, and talk with them. By doing so, we will have a better chance, in the long run, to perhaps wean them away from Russia, and make possible the development of the Titoism in China. We've already indicated that, historically, enmity between Russia and China is a thing which really exists, and it can reappear again. As a matter of fact, Russia has positions in Manchuria today, which is a limitation upon Chinese control there. And given the satisfactory circumstances, those conflicts are likely to develop again. We have to remember that Mao, like Tito, is the only state, or communist government, activity. It's very different from the cases of Poland and Czechoslovakia, and the other satellites. And I think that suggests that he will think of China, not merely think of the Kremlin, and the negotiations he might enter into. I think that's right. The problem we have to face is one of our national interests. And it seems to me, altogether, we will suit our national interests best by dealing realistically with the situation, and try to negotiate with the Chinese, work out some sort of settlement here in regard to Korea, which they will accept. I would go to the point of agreeing, if necessary, to let them take part in a committee which will set up a government in Korea. Well, I think that we've got to this particular point, and I think perhaps I could speak for the three of us. We want to talk peace with China. We want peace. If we are forced into a war and attacked, we can't do anything other than to defend ourselves. But we would not want that. We have no interests, which bring us into a violent conflict with China, and they, we think, have none that bring them into a violent conflict with us. We can solve the Korean question. We can solve the Yalu River question. We can solve the Formosa question. We can solve the United Nations recognition question with China around a council table if they are interested in Chinese interests rather than ideologically fanatical in the interests of some idea or some other power. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on the Chinese nightmare were Herman Feiner, political scientist, Quincy Wright, expert on international law, and Earl Pritchard, historian, all of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and special supplementary materials to help you understand the relations between China and the Western nations. The pamphlet also contains letters from listeners, special reading lists, and questions for you and your friends to discuss. This week's pamphlet on the Chinese nightmare is available for 10 cents in coin. We wish also to announce that printed copies of last week's roundtable on poetry by T.S. Eliot are now available and contain the selections of his own poetry as they were read and commented upon by Mr. T.S. Eliot. Individual copies of this pamphlet are also only 10 cents in coin. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copies of the roundtable pamphlets. A full year subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with last Sunday's program on poetry by T.S. Eliot. I'll repeat the address. The University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the roundtable discusses the Bible and new discoveries of ancient manuscripts in a program titled The Dead Sea Scrolls. May we invite you to join the new roundtable home study course in human rights, especially prepared for you to do in your own home. You may enroll and begin at any time this four-lesson course in human rights. Write the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, for the brochure describing the course and telling you how you may register. Today's roundtable originated in the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The roundtable is directed by George E. Propt and is a public service presentation of NBC. This is Charles Martin speaking, and this is NBC, the national broadcast.