Presenting Careers in Art. This series of programs prepared by WNYC for the American Art Festival is presided over by Elizabeth McCausland, author of Careers in the Arts. Today, Ms. McCausland will be talking to two established artists, William Zorak, sculptor, and Robert Guafni, painter. Now by transcription, here is your moderator, Ms. McCausland. Thank you, Mr. Allen. I would like to add a word about our two guests today. William Zorak is not only a well-known and established sculptor, he's also a fine teacher of younger sculptors and a friend of younger sculptors. He teaches at the Art Students League. Similarly, Robert Guafni is a painter of reputation and also a teacher who sincerely believes that a practicing artist may teach without sacrificing his integrity. He teaches at Cooper Union and the New School of Social Research in New York. Our series of programs has dealt with careers. We've approached the question from the point of view of young art students, from the point of view of an art educator, and now we're going to see how artists look at it. I would like to ask both Bob Guafni and Bill Zorak exactly what is a career in art. We might ask Zorak first. What is a career in art? Well, to me, art was my life, in a sense, my religion. I don't know whether that answers it, but it's everything to me. I mean, it isn't a question of... I mean, I imagine the average human being goes to work and works at something that very often he's very unhappy about doing. But an artist loves his work, and it's very often my wife has said to me that for a nervous man, your work is very calm, you know. That's very good. But I always say that when I'm working, I'm very calm. It's only when I have to do things like this that I'm nervous. Well, Bob, I don't think you're nervous, are you? No, I'm not nervous, and I must say... Well, I'm not really nervous, but I mean, it's outside the field, you know. Yeah, sure it is. But I must say some happy circumstances sort of mitigated in my particular case. I always wanted to be an artist, I always did, but I was always afraid I would never be able to do. But now I am. I must say I must think it's the most liberating profession in the world, and especially if you can make ends meet. Now, that is a difficulty. You get nervous about making ends meet, I think. I get nervous then. Well, I didn't know that we were going to get so serious to begin with. So I would like, since we've gotten serious about making ends meet and giving one's life to art, I would like to ask a basic question that I think we often shy away from. This is the question, what is art for in any given culture or civilization? And before either one of you answer that question, I would like to just say something that's happened to me recently. I've been kind of in exile for six months down in Washington, working on a big exhibition called American Processional, which is American Life and History in Pictures from Columbus to 1900. And in those years, our artists were telling us something about our world. Now, in the period that we live in, live and work in, artists have found that they had different functions for art. And if art is something that we do, though it's hard to do, and though it causes us a certain amount of economic insecurity, why do we work at it? That's the question I'd like to ask. What is art for today? Now, Bill Zarek? Well, to me, art is a recording in permanent form humanity's ideals and aspirations. And what was that question you asked me again? Just what does art amount to in our time? Well, it touches every phase of our life from the very minute we wake up and go into wash our hands and faces and everything. I mean, it touches our lives, the furniture, our clothes, and our architecture, and our landscape gardening, and everything industrially is affected by art. In fact, industrialists have no qualms at all about taking all the ideas of artists and sort of draining their imagination, you know what I mean? And putting it into commercial forms, and very often not crediting the artists for all these new ideas at all. I mean, what I mean to say simply is that it touches, art touches, and is part of every phase of our living. That's true, and the applied arts. But how about the fine arts, Bob? Oh, I think that art is deeply rooted in the people always. I think it's a definite reflection, not only reflection, but an integrated part of our social and economic forces. I think art, like Bill says, touches every piece of our living life. And the important thing about it, if you can be versed in the arts, that it will give your life, your everyday activity, an added dimension. That, to me, seems the most important thing. Well, what good is a painting or a sculpture today? What does it do to you? Well, I think a painting or a sculpture, again, I mean, gives you this extra dimension that I call living. An extra dimension of living, not just a sheer three meals. That's certainly a part of it. But it also is a dynamic force that might project even the future, and certainly should. When they ask me why sculpture or why painting, I would say, why music? Why Michelangelo? Why Rembrandt? I mean, these things have a very vital part of human development and human life. I mean, if you go into a house where there's a bare wall, I came into this office here just now, and I looked around, and I wanted to say to the little girl, I said, how can you live here without a picture on your wall? You know what I mean? Yeah. It gives you another dimension. It gives you something that takes you out, away from a lot of prison. You feel imprisoned without a painting or even a piece of sculpture. Well, I would like to say this. I don't think it's purely escape, of course. I think it's more definite. It's more positive than just sheer escape. Now, for instance, a sociologist said recently that no country is ever appreciated by its fellow countries unless its art is as well appreciated. For instance, if we believe in the conception of one world, we've certainly got to have our culture appreciated in the rest of the world. Well, if we appreciated the culture of all the peoples all over the world, we would really believe in one world. I believe that. Absolutely. Absolutely. Because it's the ignorance of the great development of the various races throughout the world that causes our antagonisms and our prejudices against these various peoples. Well, I can stamp that 100%. So you really began to appreciate your own American tradition, Bob, after spending a year away from the United States. Is that true? I certainly did. After a year in France last year and visiting the other countries, I found that they still consider us rather barbarians in a very nice way, incidentally. And individuals, of course, always accepted. But certainly if the French or the English or the Italians believed that we had a fine culture in America, then I'm sure it would be accepted certainly more wholeheartedly than today. Well, we've got to learn to develop an art of our own and not be so in awe. But why don't we appreciate even what we have? Why don't we appreciate what we have in our own American tradition? Because we were talking before the broadcast began about Shaker Furniture. But we have also very fine American folk painting and folk sculpture and the ship's figureheads, for instance, the carved eagles that were in signs, all of those things. And yet so many American artists, painters and sculptors don't draw from that tradition. They draw from another tradition. Well, the School of Paris has been very persuasive. It really has. It's been well advertised. It's had good propaganda. Well propagandized. Regardless of this traditional art that we have with the folk art and all that, we have a tremendous reservoir of talent right here in this country. But it's got to be encouraged and appreciated. I mean, I've been teaching for 21 years and I see thousands of people going through the art schools. And out of these thousands, I mean, there are perhaps 1%, 1 out of 500 that ever becomes an artist or ever finds a place for himself in the art world. This is an industrial world and it's a scientific world. We're sort of caught or we're sort of in the cauldron of science, in a sense. And even our art is being influenced by that. It's running sort of parallel with it. And that's the danger to me as far as I'm concerned. It's lost a certain human touch, a feeling of humanity. Without humanity, what would it all be? I mean, we have right here on these walls a mechanical design. It's a decoration, all right. But art has got to give me something more. It's got to give me a quality of humanity, of permanence, of the eternal quality that was run, of the thread of art that's run through the ages. That's got to be, we've got to realize that today. We had two very fine painters in the 19th century in America, Winslow Homer and Thomas Akins, both of whom based their work on humanity, on human experience. You think that that's one way that art can be of use to society today, to go back to human experience as a source and a subject. Do you think, Bob? Well, I certainly think that we all are part of a grand tradition. And I think American artists do have a grand tradition. I was struck by this several times before. A friend from Haiti was in New York, a painter, and she was very much struck by the idea of what she termed technique in America, in American painting and so forth. She felt that in Haiti they were dealing too much with the primitive aspects and kowtowing to it, almost 100%. Now, my feeling is certainly this, that America has this great tradition which alleviates the notion of what we call a high technical form. We have that. Primitive people don't have that to any great extent. Now, in Europe, again, I saw that we had counterparts of all of these phases of development in America. And I'm in a very strong example of all of them, all of them, seriously, up through the 1850s. Everything is comparable to the European of that period. But you see, Bill Zorick has said that ours is an industrial society. Certainly, the quality of industrial achievement is Finnish, isn't it? It is technical achievement, streamlining all those things. Now, what does that do to the arts of expression? Well, I would say this. Now, certainly the high industrialization would certainly lead to a sort of impersonal quality in so many things that we touch. Now, if we could only unite the so-called applied arts with the so-called fine arts, then I would think that would be a grand ideal. And I do agree with Bill that there are many painters today, many artists today, I should say, that certainly are overboard in the industrial sense to the extent that they squeeze out all the human quality, the fine quality that Bill speaks of. Well, there's a danger in that, too, in combining industrial with fine arts. You see, I feel, for instance, there's so many young artists today that they look at art and they say, when they go to an art school, how can I make a living out of this? Yes, you see. And I always tell them that under no circumstances ever do anything that you think will sell or please the public. But once you've done something to the best of your ability, to the highest integrity that satisfies you, that thing has got to be sold, whether you sell it or whether somebody else sells it. Well, I'd like to say this, certainly this, I believe, like Bill said, I will not broach compromise. Yes. Yes. On the other hand, there still is this basic economic problem. This is the only one of our series where we haven't gotten mixed up with economics. We've been talking, I take it, almost entirely about aesthetics. However, then you go back, say, maybe to teaching as a foundation. Economically? Yes. Well, teaching is a pretty safe thing, you see, teaching economically, you see. Mm-hmm. And, but the only danger is that I've found in teaching, you teach more artists to be more artists, to produce more art, and there's no place for them. Well, then we've got to find a place for it. You've got to find a place for them, absolutely. Our program. A place for their work. For instance, when you think of all the homes and all the walls. And there's no, no art to go on them. At the end of our program, we didn't get to economics. Uh-huh. Thank you. You've just heard William Zorak, sculptor, and Robert Guathney, painter, in a discussion with Elizabeth McCausland, the moderator of Careers in Art. In tomorrow's transcribed discussion, Miss McCausland will talk with Hudson Walker, Executive Director of Artists' Equity. This has been a feature presentation of the American Art Festival. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.