Dr. Pabst, members of the faculty, members of the graduating class, their parents and friends, it's a great honor to be invited here to address so distinguished a class of 700 members. All of the fine things that Dr. Pabst has said about me are just a trifle exaggerated because no one man could do all of these things unless he had the support of faithful, loyal teachers and faithful, loyal students. And these things I have had in my time. You know, we have a wonderful school system in all we do. And the class here tonight and this school, Brooklyn Tech, are just evidences of what the schools of the city of New York can do. Of course, not everybody believes that. Perhaps it all depends upon what newspaper you read. If you don't read the right newspaper, you get a wrong impression. But I will leave the case as one might to a jury, to the parents of the boys and girls of our city, to say whether or not we have a fine school system and do so much for children. And of course, Brooklyn Tech is an outstanding example. The mention was made by Dr. Pabst that your education here is not one-sided. And he referred to your prowess in athletics and dramatics and whatnot. There's another side of your education here, in addition to your skill in technology, technical science and whatnot. And that's the side of your education which has to do with what we call culture. That is your acquaintanceship, your knowledge of, and your interest in good literature. That is the name of this school, to develop in every student a taste for good books, a desire to read, to develop a good reading habit. And while I do not want to preach, that is a phase of your education that I know that you will carry on. Because no matter how skilled you may be in technology, after all, you are good citizens. And good citizens must be well educated. And so your interest in books, in history, economics, in art, and so on, I'm certain the beginnings that you've had in this school will continue to animate your interest. So in addition to being skilled engineers, as many of you will someday be, you will have this other side of life with all the interests that go to make for good citizenship. You know, as one stands and looks at a class of this kind, the thought that comes to one's mind is, what tremendous power is represented here. The young men who, a few years from now, will take their place as grown-up citizens of our city, be interested in its life, in its civic affairs. What a power is represented here. And the power comes from the training that you have received. It's not preaching to say that, as we look forward into the life of this city, the life of our country, that we have nothing to fear, nothing to worry about. Dark days are here now, and they may be darker. But with young men trained as you men have been trained, there is always the safety of the country assured. I think Dr. Pabst talked, or at least the young man talked, about peace not being here. That is true. The material peace is here, in that the firing is over, the armies are disbanded, the navies are put up, as they say, in moth balls to keep them from the ravaging moth for some time. These things are true. These things are true. The material peace is here. But the peace of the spirit, the real peace that must endure, has a long ways to go before it will be accomplished. We read today of the anniversary, I think it is, of the United Nations. A tremendous experiment designed to bring together the peace-loving peoples of the world. And yet, when you read of their deliberations, it's almost like a debating society in Brooklyn Tech. There are as many views as there are members. But out of this disturbance and out of this uncertainty, one day will come the spiritual peace for which we all yearn. And the peace of the world, of course, rests in education. If the minds of men are molded and trained in the way of peace, then peace will follow. If the minds of men talk of warfare and of strife, it follows inevitably that strife will succeed. And so you young men, trained as you are, have a tremendous responsibility to go out and in your minds and in the minds of others, to induce the thinking of peace without which there will be no peace. I have a prepared address here. I don't know as I should read it. Perhaps that might lead to a little cheering on the part of the young men. I'm almost going to say if anybody wants the manuscript when I'm through, well, he can come up and get it. I might even sign it, autograph it, and so on. I'd much rather talk to you informally, as I have been doing, than to read this rather formidable document. Well, I'll think about it. I don't know. I'm not convinced. I'll have to put you to the test of that thing called, what is that, a kind of a sound meter or something like that, that you can judge the appeal of the audience by the amount of applause. Is that the way you do it or something like that? Some kind of shaving soap they have where you... You judge the impression you're making by the applause you get. There's another thought informally comes to me. That so much of the welfare of the future depends upon science, upon men trained in scientific ways. We read every day of atomic bombs and jet propulsion and so on. These startling inventions and contrivances are just the beginning to my mind of what the world is going to see. And not very long, possibly. Science is going to contribute to the welfare of mankind, even to a greater degree than ever before. When I was at college, and it wasn't so many years ago, I am talking about how I feel about it. We had a course in physics. And many principles in physics were developed. For instance, take the one where it has something to do with the compression of a gas and either the release of heat or something like that. Well, isn't it? No, there's something like that, isn't there? Well, all right. As a gas is compressed, what happens? Is heat required or not? Well, it's 50-50. Well, anyhow, we learned this, and it was told to us, well, this is the basis of the ice-making machine. Well, that was so many years ago. Nobody put that scientific fact, that scientific truth, to use. But what happens today? Why the gas or the electric refrigerator, using that principle, has brought so much to the betterment of our living. Simple thing of that kind. We studied about electricity, currents, and all this and that. But in the last 10 or 20 years, what a tremendous contribution to our living, developments in electrical science have brought. And so, as I say, if we look ahead, as it says in the Bible, I have not seen nor ear heard the wonderful things, et cetera, et cetera. This world will be completely transformed. And in our day, because of science and technology. And I'm sure it's a matter of great pride with you that most of you will be able to take some part in this wonderful development, which is just ahead. Never mind, you do the same thing. When you are up to recite, if you can get away with it, you always carry notes with you. Oh, that. And so, if our country, and there's hardly any if to it, is to maintain itself in the high plane of living to which we are accustomed, if for us production is to continue so that prosperity will rest upon our land.