The Veterans News Service. The New York City Veterans Service Centers, in cooperation with Station WNYC, present the News of the Week in Veterans Affairs. New York City's own Veterans Service Centers, established to serve veterans and their families, are located in Manhattan at 500 Park Avenue, at the corner of Park Avenue and 59th Street, and in Brooklyn at 105 Court Street, two blocks from Borough Hall. Later in this program we will tell you about our free offer, a summary of expiration dates on various benefits of the GI Bill of Rights. We will also mention our previous offers, a digest of National Service life insurance benefits and regulations, a handy chart showing the medical, dental, and hospital care benefits available to veterans, and also a summary of the GI Bill of Rights itself. But now the Veterans News Service, reported by Anthony Cohutt of the New York City Veterans Service Centers. Good evening. In passing the so-called Veterans Omnibus Bill, and in having it signed by the President, Congress has authorized increases for general compensation for dependency allowances, death compensations, World War I presumptive service-connected cases, and new compensation ratings for veterans suffering from service-connected tuberculosis, which has been arrested. However, for those veterans who wish to qualify for additional dependency allowances authorized by this new law, called Public Law 339, they must be ready to submit the usual proof of relationship, such as marriage and birth records. Where the veterans' dependents are on record with the Veterans Administration, and in those cases where the necessary evidence of relationship and dependency is furnished within five months, that is, before next April the 30th, the increased dependency allowances will be made effective December the 1st of this year. If this evidence is not furnished within the five-month period, the effective date will be the date on which the evidence is received by the Veterans Administration. Right now, the Veterans Administration is reviewing the case files of veterans rated between 50 and 60 percent, so as to include those over 50 percent as entitled by the new law, and to be able to advise those veterans of their possible entitlement to dependency allowances under the new bill. The people of New York State really came through for New York State veterans at the recent general elections held on November the 8th. In approving Amendment No. 2 on Election Day, the people made it possible for veterans who had gone into service from New York State and who are otherwise eligible for the bonus to receive that bonus money, even though they have not lived in New York State since their discharge. Those veterans who entered the armed forces from New York State but who now live outside the state may apply at any time, beginning immediately, for their bonus money. The New York City Veterans Service Centers have the new type of application forms and will be glad to supply out-of-state veterans who write in for them and also the relatives of out-of-state veterans who may wish to send them these application forms. Simply call at one of our two officers and we will be glad to supply them. Of course, the payments on this bonus will not be made before next January the 1st, but it is well to apply as quickly as possible. Those of you who have already received the New York State bonus, remember that active duty outside the continental limits of the United States for any period from December the 7th, 1941 through September the 2nd, 1945, brings a bonus payment of $250. For active duty of more than 60 days within the continental limits of the United States, $150. And for 60 days or less within the continental limits of the United States, $50. The closest official estimate is that approximately 150,000 persons are eligible for this bonus under the new law. And the Bonus Bureau is getting set to distribute approximately $25 million to these veterans. Here's good news for veterans who are looking forward to borrowing money for home loans. For the past several months, there has been serious effort in Washington to increase the interest rate on GI home loans to 4.5% from the present and past rate of 4%. Just before Congress went home, they reestablished the full secondary market for 4% GI home loans up to a maximum of $10,000. The old maximum was $5,000. It is expected that this will assure a plentiful supply of mortgage money at only 4%. This action, it is reported, was really brought about through a decision of nine large life insurance companies to resume making these loans at a straight 4% rate. Beginning next Thursday, December the 1st, and continuing until Tuesday, December the 20th, veterans will be able to obtain application forms for the long-awaited examination for patrolmen in the police department of the City of New York. Many veterans have been especially interested in this coming examination for patrolmen with New York City's finest because of the special dispensation to be allowed veterans of wartime duty during this last war regarding the age limits. The Administrative Code provides that only persons shall be appointed patrolmen who shall be, at the date of filing application, less than 29 years of age. However, veterans of wartime service during World War II may deduct from their present age the number of years and months of military service in making the age calculation. There are no formal educational requirements for this position of patrolmen, but anyone who has been convicted of a felony or petty larceny will not be eligible. Neither will veterans with a dishonorable discharge from the service be eligible to take this examination. There are, of course, the usual physical requirements, such as being at least 5 feet 8 inches tall and having 20-20 vision without glasses. When the examinations are taken later on, a grade of 70% must be obtained in both the written and physical tests. The application forms for this examination, incidentally, are not going to be distributed through the Municipal Civil Service Commission offices, but will be issued and received at the office of the City Collector in the borough in which you live. The location of these offices are as follows. In Manhattan, in the Municipal Building, Room 100 Center and Chamber Street. In Brooklyn, in the Municipal Building at Court and Juraliman Streets. In Bronx, in the Bergen Building, Tremont and Arthur Avenues. In Queens, at Borough Hall, 120-55 Queens Boulevard, Kew Gardens. And in Richmond, on Staten Island, at Borough Hall in St. George. By the way, the application forms will not be issued or received through the mails. Further, the application forms must be notarized and a fee of $2 must be paid at the time of filing at your City Collector's office. I'll be back in a minute, but right now, here's our announcer with an important message. By just sending a penny postcard or letter with your name and address to the Veterans News Service, station WNYC, New York 7, you can receive a mimeographed summary of the GI Bill of Rights and a brief digest of GI insurance benefits and regulations. Also, a mimeographed chart of medical, dental, and hospital care will be sent you. And if you would like to know on what dates the various benefits of the GI Bill of Rights expire, just mention that on the postcard. The address again is the Veterans News Service, station WNYC, New York 7. We'll repeat that later, but here again is Mr. Coet with more news. The long-suppressed, army-made documentary film detailing the horrific rise and fall of Nazism is now available to veterans' organizations and veterans' group for showing in their home localities. This movie, called Nuremberg, its lesson for today, is a must for veterans interested in reminding their friends of the brutal nature of totalitarianism and its effects. Without going into detail concerning the terrific scenes in this masterpiece of documentary movie-making, it is sufficient to say that the first semi-public showings which took place lately resulted in many enthusiastic comments. One or more prints of the film are now stocked in each of the 75 film libraries of the Army Signal Corps located throughout the country. Any interested veteran groups should apply to the nearest point of distribution for permission to borrow and show the film. There is no charge, but usually the film may be borrowed only for overnight periods. New York City veterans groups, for further information, can contact the Army Signal Corps Photographic Center at 35-11, 35th Avenue, Long Island City. Here's news for all Seabees and former members of the Civil Engineer Corps. In two exciting volumes has just been published the story of the Bureau of Yards and Docks of the Civil Engineer Corps and of those amazing Seabees whose construction feats during World War II thrilled the country. The title of this two-volume set for your library is Building the Navy's Bases in World War II. Probably for lots of us veterans this two-volume set is a little expensive, being $7 a set. But for all ex-Seabees, students, historians, librarians, and educators, it is a wonderful document proving the vital and necessary work of those links of the military supply line. This set can be obtained from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington 25, D.C. And now for some questions from the mailbag. The first question is, as a World War II veteran with a bad conduct discharge, am I entitled to any benefits under the GI Bill? The answer is, you should contact your nearest Veterans Administration Office for a decision as to whether you were discharged under conditions other than dishonorable. Or, you may apply to the armed service from which you received your bad conduct discharge for a review under Section 301 of the GI Bill. The second question, I am now receiving compensation from VA but feel that I should be getting more. Can you advise me as to who may assist me in presenting my claim before the Veterans Administration Rating Board? The answer is, any organization accredited under Public Law 844-74, Congress, any attorney or agent recognized by VA, or a VA contact representative may present your claim before the VA Rating Board. The Veterans Administration will recognize anyone you wish to represent you in your particular claim provided he files a proper power of attorney with the office where your claim is located and a statement that no fee will be charged for the service rendered. The third question, I am taking on the job training under the GI Bill in a hazardous occupation. Will the Veterans Administration pay for my hospitalization if I am injured while in training? And the answer is, no. Any disabilities incurred while in training under the GI Bill are considered non-service connected. Of course, if you are otherwise eligible for hospitalization by the Veterans Administration as a war veteran, you may be furnished such hospitalization in a VA facility if a bed is available. And now for that list of reunions of wartime units meeting here in the city or nearby. 82nd Division. All former members of the 82nd Division in the First World War are looking forward to their annual reunion on Saturday, November the 26th, at 8 p.m. This reunion will include a banquet dinner at Memorial Hall, 28 East 39th Street, Manhattan. Tickets may be obtained from Manuel Safferman, whose address is 104 West 48th Street, New York City. A time and place again, Saturday, November the 26th, at 8 p.m. to be held at Memorial Hall, 28 East 39th Street, in Manhattan. Chemical Warfare Service. All Chemical Warfare Service veterans of both wars are now in service, who are interested in attending a reunion in New York City next January. Contact George W. Nichols, Secretary-Treasurer of the Chemical Warfare Veterans Service Association, RFD-4, Kingston, New York. USS North Carolina. Former shipmates aboard the USS North Carolina will hold their first reunion here in New York City. If you served aboard this ship, write for further information to Jack Hatkes, H-A-T-G-I-S, 9709 25th Avenue, Jackson Heights, New York, or to Edward G. Schultz, Junior, 164-11 76th Avenue, Flushing, New York. That last name is Edward G. Schultz, Junior, 164-11 76th Avenue, Flushing, New York. At this time, the Veterans Service Centers would like to wish you all a very happy Thanksgiving. Good night. See you next week. The New York City Veterans Service Centers offer free to veterans and their families the following charts and summaries. The expiration dates of benefits of the GI Bill of Rights, a summary of medical, dental, and hospital benefits, a digest of the GI Bill of Rights, and a listing of National Service life insurance benefits. Just send a penny postcard or letter with your name and address to Veterans News Service, Station WNYC, New York 7. And don't forget, the New York City Veterans Service Centers is distributing free to all veterans the application forms for the National Service Life Insurance Dividend. This program is brought to you each week by New York City's own Veterans Service Centers, located in Manhattan at Park Avenue and 59th Street, and in Brooklyn at 105 Court Street, two blocks from Borough Hall. Listen in again next Thursday evening at 6.30 for the next edition of the Veterans News Service. This has been a public service feature of the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Circuit Service夾, center and a local staff out verde difficile, on top basis you can use public service called Associated Coronavirus por他, and the ability of the citizens are not to website within the legislature and live-wide. Theцевers, centroising community members are available to us