Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a discussion program in its 18th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand asks, what kind of vacation should you take? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the psychological, physical, and business benefits of vacations, together with suggestions for planning and taking a vacation. Now, our moderator, Willis Butler, Jr., Assistant Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Butler. Our guests today are Ms. Elizabeth Hatch, Personnel Director of Carson Perry Scott & Company in Chicago, Dr. Jules Masserman, Associate Professor at the Northwestern University Medical School and President of the Illinois Psychiatric Society, and Mr. Bruno Travalletti, President of Drake Travel Service, Incorporated in Chicago, and President of the Midwest Chapter of the American Society of Travel Agents. Now, Ms. Hatch and gentlemen, let's begin today by making sure that we're all talking about the same thing when we use the word vacation. What is a vacation, anyway? Is it an extended rest from work? Is it play? What does a vacation mean to you, Ms. Hatch? Vacation means to me freedom from the routine to do the things that I enjoy doing without the restrictions and obligations of a daily routine pattern. Dr. Masserman. A rest and a vacation in part overlap, but there are some essential differences. A rest is a period of recuperation from a task in progress already done. A vacation is much more than that. It's a period of freedom from the usual routines to do about what you like, within the limits of the social and moral requirements of the places you're going. Mr. Travalletti. In my estimation, I think a vacation is mostly freedom from daily routine or freedom from normal social obligation and also a chance to do some of the things that you have dreamed about for perhaps a long time. Well, now, what's the difference between a vacation and a different kind of work? I think the two merge in a vacation. May I use some personal examples? Ordinarily, I'm a psychiatrist sitting in a quiet office, as comfortable as may be as my patients will let me, or lecturing to some relatively sleepy medical students. Three years ago, I took a vacation of this nature. Last year, I sailed my boat. But while sailing this boat for three weeks, I finished the manuscript of a book. Now, was that play or was it a vacation? Two years ago, I took a vacation consisting of sewing and drilling and welding and soldering, building another boat. It's exactly what I wanted to do. It might be called work or play, depending entirely on whether or not you enjoyed it, and I enjoyed it. Last year, I traveled through 14 European countries for the United Nations, lecturing twice a day, working relatively hard at this business of being a lecturer, but enjoying every moment. You could hardly distinguish between work and play. It's exactly what I wanted to do, free of the usual restraints. In other words, what you're saying is that a vacation doesn't necessarily consist of purely leisure time. No, that is a rest. Well, now, what are the purposes of a vacation? We all know that vacations are very pleasant things to take, but are there any more serious reasons for taking a vacation? You ask me that as a psychiatrist, I presume, and psychiatry is really deep common sense, sometimes tartingly explicit. The purposes of vacation are manifold. First, of course, there's escape from the usual duties and routines and requirements of an everyday existence, work and other obligations. But there's also freedom from the usual obligations to neighbors, friends, and sometimes even family. Every human relationship, however pleasant, also constitutes a bond, and we want to get away from such bonds occasionally. There's an opportunity for mastery of the environment we all yearn for. We climb mountains or sail boats or shoot animals and reassert how dominant we can be. And then, of course, there's a return to the activities of childhood, camping or fishing or lulling on a beach or exploring. Not that these are so essentially pleasurable in themselves, but they do recall a secure and happy period of our lives. All of these join to make a truly, deeply satisfactory period of re-exploration and self-assertion enjoyment. Well, Ms. Hatch, what about the business point of view? There's no doubt that there's much more social consciousness on the part of business today. However, the primary concern of business still is to make a profit for the stockholders. Therefore, socially sound policies must be practical ones. In my opinion, companies give vacations because they believe that what is good for the individual will be good for the company. There is, managements have become, have begun to grow up in this matter of human relations. And the vacation is a part of improved human relations, which is a good investment for the company. Now, several years ago, when we had another program on vacations on the reviewing stand, we got a letter from one of our listeners who said that he doubted very seriously whether vacations resulted in an employee's doing a better job when he returned to his job. He cited the weekends as an example and claimed that the accident rates were higher on Monday and that people, well, it took a long time for them to kind of get back in the groove on Monday. That's true. Generally, we consider enlarging our medical staff during the summer months. Even though the employee may spend his first morning in the medical department being treated for sunburned poison ivy, we still believe that he does a better job. After a time of freedom from the job, he comes back inspired. The vacation does what we are talking about today, reviving the body and the spirit. The employee will do a better job. Mr. Traveletti, I believe at the preliminary luncheon, you mentioned something about incentive plan vacations that companies were having these days. Could you explain those? Yes. Many of the large companies have found a new way to promote sales, to promote enthusiasm in their salespeople. By giving them a free vacation. You have large firms who have sent hundreds of employees on a week's trip to Bermuda or on a fishing trip, paying all their expenses. They found out that this type of reward to an employee brings greater effort on their part than the usual extra pay or overtime pay or a watch or some other physical present that they might give them. How does that sound to you, Ms. Hatch? Sounds fine. In this tight labor market that we're in today, many companies are giving vacations as recruitment rewards. Another interesting phase in the realm of vacations in business is the tendency to give extended vacations to people during the, say, four or five years prior to retirement as a means of preparation for retirement. Whereas a person has been eligible for one month's vacation, the five years prior to retirement, that would build up an additional month each year. Well, now, does everyone need a vacation? I know of one businessman who bragged to me about not having had a vacation for ten years. He said he couldn't spare the time. What about that, Dr. Massimo? Sounds a little odd. Either he was so intense and worried and anxious that he had to keep plugging all the time, or he thoroughly enjoyed his work. The first, of course, is not nearly as healthy as the second. But to say one doesn't need a vacation is like saying one doesn't need sleep. Even though early in the morning you might not be quite as alert or as efficient as you are later on in the day, if you'd had no sleep at all, your work and efficiency would suffer very greatly during the day. So that vacations are absolutely necessary. Matter of fact, in the most advanced countries, socially speaking, like the Scandinavian ones, vacations are required by law. Well, now that we've given very sober, serious reasons for taking our summer vacations this year, what kind of vacation should we take? How should we choose the vacation that will be a most benefit to us? Dr. Massimo, do you have any ideas on that? I think we covered some of that point earlier in the discussion. You do exactly what you anticipate the most and what you like to do best within the limits of your financial and professional limitations. Can you have a vacation by staying at home? Yes, I think a person can have a vacation by staying at home. I think generally it's better for us to see new faces, new surroundings, to get away from home. But the person who knows how to live can enjoy a vacation at home. What about the family that packs the children into the automobile and drives 800 miles to see the relatives in the distant city and plans to spend their vacation with them? Is that good? Is that a real vacation? Mr. Traveletti? I wouldn't think so. I think it might provide some pleasure for the people taking a vacation of this kind and also for the relatives who might visit for a short period of time. But all in all, I do feel that a vacation should be planned for the person taking the vacation and not to please others in their family or friends. Well, now, is it possible that the best vacation for the husband is not the best vacation for his wife? I'm thinking, for example, of a husband who might be an avid fan of fishing. And perhaps his wife dislikes fishing intensely. But yet he has just two weeks a year when he can go out on this fishing trip. What should they do? Well, that depends on how you define the term best. It might be best for him for two or three weeks, but the rest of the year it may not turn out to be to his best advantage if he'd vacated himself from his wife. Generally, if two people are married, it is implied that they have large areas of common interest. And there's no reason why they can't find one or more such areas in which to spend their vacation. Are you suggesting that he give up his fishing trip, Dr. Massimo? I don't see that giving up is quite the word. He is choosing something that will be of much greater benefit to him in the long run. Namely, the allegiance of his wife. That's worth more than a two-week fishing trip. Well, now, should the married couple leave the children at home and take a vacation by themselves? Do you have any ideas on that? Yes, that also refers to this business of visiting the family. There are some people who feel so close to their families, who want to have such a solid family group, that they're unhappy away from their children or their mothers or their in-laws or whatnot. In which case, there's no use telling them not to visit their families. They'll be unhappy. They'll feel lost. The kind of people, incidentally, who they do go will go on group tours. In many instances, however, the children would enjoy a camp better than being yanked around the country or dragged to Europe at everybody's discomfort. And there's no medical or psychological reason to insist that family groups remain together 52 weeks a year. Mr. Traveletti, do you find that most people traveling to Europe take their children with them? No, it depends on the age of the children. From teenage on, many people going to Europe will take their children, although sometimes they regret it. It is obvious that the interest and the fun that a child can have out of a trip are entirely different from that of his parents. And in addition to this reason, there is also the question of cost. I think it is a poor investment of people's time and effort and money to drag some children to Europe who do not care to make the trip at all and cause inconvenience to the parents and perhaps to other passengers as well. I think they are much better up to make other provisions for their children, not necessarily deprive them of a vacation, but send them to camp or, as is now possible, send them to trips that have been planned that are supervised by especially for young children or teenagers. What kinds of trips are those, Mr. Traveletti? I don't think I'm familiar with those. It's a group which is operating in the East and has for years now planned trips for children beginning at the age of six until college age. Now these trips have both educational features and pleasure features and are supervised by professors and with a complete medical staff. That's very interesting. Now how long should the vacation last? Dr. Massiman? That depends upon two opposing factors. It takes a week or two or longer to get away from one's routine and get into the psychological set of enjoying oneself. Then there comes a period when there's a mounting interest in what's going on at home. Is the roof leaking or is the garden going to pot or what's happening to little Tommy? And how about the office? You start getting a little restless and anxious. Where those two curves coincide, where you're enjoying the vacation less and there's mounting anxiety about what's going on at home or a real desire to return to your life work, that's about the time to start planning to terminate the vacation. That may vary from a couple of weeks to a couple of months, depending on the individual and his daily obligations and routines. Is there any minimum time that a vacation should last to be of real benefit? Generally speaking, a vacation of less than two or three weeks is hardly a vacation at all. It's a prolonged weekend. It's an interim, but not a vacation sense of getting away. Are several short vacations more beneficial than one longer one? With a charming lady present and a world traveler, I think I'm talking too much. But that depends again on the traits of the individual, his interests, and his age. As one gets older, there's a strange parallelism between sleep and vacations. Older people need shorter periods of sleep, but more frequent ones. The same for vacations. Getting away from their usual routines and obligations, perhaps for shorter periods, but more frequently during the year. Mr. Trevilletti. I think this also will have to be adjusted to the type of vacation you want to take. It's obvious that if you're planning a trip to Europe or a trip around the world, you will require more time for this vacation than if you were going to spend a week fishing somewhere or just merely going and visiting California. Ms. Hatch, how do companies feel about this? Would they rather have their employees take their vacations all at one time, or is it all right to split up the vacation period? In some businesses, it may be difficult to break the vacation into several periods. There are many manufacturing companies that close their plant and give the entire employee population a vacation at one time. Our type of business is different. We have fluctuations during the year, and we are glad to have the employee break his vacation. The entire calendar year is a vacation year. We encourage our older people, Dr. Mazeman. I was interested in your remarks about the older person. We've been encouraging the older person to break his month's vacation into two or three periods. You feel that we are being sound in asking our employees to consider that break? I believe so, quite sound. I wonder also if you wouldn't comment upon the academic custom of every seven years or so giving a sabbatical, a really prolonged period of travel, of new ways of living, coming back completely refreshed. The universities have found that very advantageous from an academic and scholastic standpoint. How about in business life? I don't believe we're quite so progressive yet, and yet I believe our managements are thinking a great deal about that, particularly in the executive level. Many companies are now not having maximum vacations for executives, minimum time of vacation for executives, and encouraging the men who carry the great responsibility to get away. It's a very interesting approach. I'll be glad to think about it at Carson's on the sabbatical. In that same vein, I know of large firms, commercial firms, who are starting a new trend with their younger employees, particularly with buyers. They are sending him on trips in foreign countries to see and learn how the goods are manufactured, which they later import and sell here. I think this is a trend that will probably be developed considerably later on. It's obvious that those young men going on this trip will know more about their product this way. Mr. Traveletti, what kinds of vacations are people taking this year? Are there any certain vacations or travel areas that seem to be more popular this summer? Yes, I think that Europe has attained the greatest popularity it has ever had. At the same time, we find that Hawaii has had more success than ever had before. And frankly, I think travel is increasing. It's definitely on the increase in practically all directions, even the Far East now. Do you think that a person can really afford a beneficial vacation? Yes, I think vacation can be arranged to fit almost any person. How much would it cost a married couple to take a two-week job through Europe? That will depend on a few factors. For instance, what class they will be traveling and the type of hotel they will be using. But a trip to Europe from New York, using tourist class on one of the large steamers, and covering all the normal expenditure that you would have in Europe, such as your hotel, your meals, your transportation, some sightseeing and theater tickets, so on, can be done today for approximately $650, and from Chicago for perhaps $750. Now that can increase to perhaps twice that amount, to $1,500 for first-class travel, deluxe hotels, and so on. In other words, you would say that foreign or international travel is not out of the question? Not at all. For a great many people who might think that it is. Dr. Messler. In this term, afford, I might say that occasionally I tell patients of mine that they can't afford my fees anymore because they must take a vacation. It's like affording proper diet, or clean surroundings, or a healthful place to live. It's not a question of a luxury. It's a necessity of life. Now, Ms. Hatch, what kinds of vacation opportunities are business organizations giving their employees these days? I think that in the whole realm of vacation, we're really talking about the realm of improved human relations in business. Companies are beginning to realize that employees need something in addition to the job, and a vacation is part of it. The five-day week is part of it. Retirement plans are part of it. Businesses today are becoming much more liberal in their vacation allowances, both in the time of the year that the person may go, how much time he's given. There are many types of rewards on the vacation pay for perfect attendance, for no tardiness. Businesses today have found that the employee can be more productive when some of his outside needs are met. It is socially sound, but it's also practically sound. Do companies make any provisions in their vacation schedules for the convenience of married couples when both the husband and the wife are employed? Yes, they do, and not just when the husband and wife are employed by the same firm. Firms are very, very considerate, and will give usually the wife, we have so many women in our department store, will give the wife the preference in the department for the vacation time. Well, I have all of my reasons for taking a vacation. My company has given me the green light, and now I'm wondering how to get ready for a vacation. Dr. Massim? In a sense, you've been getting ready for it since you were a child, because you've been anticipating, longing, and yearning for certain experiences. You've had certain interests, you've been reading about it, you've been educating yourself. Just before the vacation, however, you ought to have a period of kind of a decrescendo, so that you slow down, you don't work up until the very last moment, and depart on your vacation harassed, and troubled, and worried that some of the last-minute requirements hadn't been fulfilled. I would recommend some special reading, some individual anticipation, some talks with people who have been there, a kind of psychological preparation, which just enhances the last delicious week before you leave. Mr. Traveletti, what about the actual physical arrangements? What is the role of the travel agent in helping with these arrangements? The travel agent is an expert on travel, or should be, and can take away from the passenger all the irritating and time-taking details of preparing a trip. Does it cost more to have a travel agent help you? It does not, insofar as transportation are concerned. Of course, the travel agent must charge for his time in coordinating the various parts that make a trip. Also, there is one big advantage that the traveler will find in dealing with the travel agent, that he has all his travel requirement under one roof, instead of having to purchase his rail ticket, one window waiting in line, and then a ride to his hotels and arrange for his sightseeing. He will find all that in one place in the office of his travel agent. Supposing I wanted to get ready to travel to Europe, when should I make the arrangements to go? It will depend on the time of the year when you will be traveling, and on the class. If you want to travel to his class, and if you want to go during the normal vacation period, that is from June to September, you should make your reservation one year ahead, at least that, to be certain of the type of space that you will want. And won't some types of people enjoy their vacations a great deal more, if you plan it for them, those unaccustomed to their own initiative and their own planning? Yes, they will, Doctor, because if they have their plans made and their arrangements completed, the entire time that they have been able to secure for their trip will be spent enjoying it. Otherwise, they will spend one-third or one-half their time on their trip, making arrangements from place to place. Ms. Hatch, are large department stores assisting vacationers with any special products or services? They certainly are. There isn't a department in a large department store that isn't getting in on the show for vacation. The average large department store has travel services, counseling services, new products, new types of fabrics, everything packable, everything easy to take care of and easy to take on the trip. So the department store is doing everything it can to work with the vacationer. What clothing would you suggest for a married couple to take on a two-week trip to Europe? Orlon and Dacron, the two new synthetic fibers, and I believe that the man and the woman can get every piece of apparel he needs in one of the two fabrics. I traveled through Europe for two months with two shirts, one of these synthetic fibers. Took a shower in it just before going out to dinner, and it was nice and clean for dinner. Well now, Dr. Massiman, should we train for a vacation at all? Supposing we plan to be out in the sun for an extended period, that is to go to a tropical climate, should we begin to get our exposure to the sun gradually? Yes, that is part of the common sense. There are ultraviolet lamps with which you can condition your skin. It is well to take typhoid or other shots to make sure that you don't pick up some sort of discomfort wherever you're going. Any local physician can advise the prospective travelers to how best to do it, and there are some requirements. You can't get back into the country unless you fulfill those medical requirements. Do you think there's any real skill or art in taking a vacation? Is it easy to take a real vacation for everybody? That's like the art of living. You can take a good vacation if you've developed how to live. periods that are not vacation. Those that can't take good vacations need a little advice about their life in general. What about the businessman who has to maintain daily telephone contact with his office to make sure everything is going smoothly? We talked about that before. He's in trouble. What should a person do in order to get maximum benefit from his vacation then? We've also covered that in large part too. If he fulfills his yearnings, his plans, his plans, and has a period of true enjoyment, that's what a vacation is for. Now, Mr. Travoletti, do you have any advice for the American planning to visit Europe? Any special advice that we haven't talked about? Yes. I would say that the American planning to visit Europe, especially if he plans, if it's his first trip to Europe, should bear in mind that Europeans do not leave entirely the way we do. They have different customs, different type of hotels, and he should be prepared to find in Europe something somewhat different than he has at home and make allowance for that. I think his trip will be a better one. Well, Miss Hatch and gentlemen, what you've been saying today seems to indicate that there are sound medical, business, and educational values in taking a vacation. You've pointed out that probably the most beneficial vacation is the vacation one would like most to take. You've said that more people than ever before are this year turning to international travel for their vacations. And above all, you've stressed the importance of resolving as many worries as possible before he departs if he wants to have a really successful vacation. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What Kind of Vacation Should You Take? We want to thank our guests, Miss Elizabeth Hatch, Personnel Director of Carson, Perry, Scott & Company, Chicago, Dr. Jules Messerman, Associate Professor at the Northwestern University Medical School and President of the Illinois Psychiatric Society, and Mr. Bruno Travellotti, President of Drake Travel Service, Incorporated Chicago, and President of the Midwest Chapter of the American Society of Travel Agents. We invite you to send four printed copies of today's discussion complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, Willis Butler, Jr., Assistant Director of the reviewing stand, returns to tell you about next week's program. There comes the inevitable time when all vacations must end and you once again return to your job. Refreshed by your vacation, if you follow the advice of our experts today, you may be searching for new ways to improve your work, ways in which to make your career even more successful. In line with this thought, the reviewing stand next week will ask, what makes a good employee? Our guests will be Mr. Laverne Lasseau, Director of the Employee Research Section of General Motors Corporation, Miss Donelda Scheibley, Personnel Director of the Washington National Insurance Company, and Mr. Albert Van Dusen, Associate Professor of Psychology and Director of the Summer Session at Northwestern University. We hope you'll be with us next week as we ask, what makes a good employee? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of the Mutual Network. Your announcer, Don Sims. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. personalization of the United States of the United States of the United States of Historyorsa of Efendimiz of the United States of History of Shore of Schritt of déplacement of Tall