Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable discusses, what about retirement? Participating in this discussion are H.L. Bills, Vice President in Charge of Industrial Relations, Acme Steel Company, Virgil Martin, General Superintendent and Personnel Manager, Carson Peary Scott and Company, Mrs. Elizabeth Breckenridge, Director of the Survey on Retirement, and Robert J. Havighurst, Chairman of the Committee on Human Development, both of the University of Chicago. And now to open today's discussion, Mr. Havighurst. Retirement is the greatest man-made problem in the lives of most of us. Even if we are too young to think about retiring, then we meet the problem of retirement in the lives of our parents. It's a problem for us because work is so important in our lives. Even though we may have a good pension and enough to live on comfortably, retirement is still our problem because work is so much more than a way of earning a living. The average man now, at age 65, has another 13 years to live. Martin, do you believe that he should stop work at the age of 65? Personally, having H.L. Bills, my answer would be a flat no. We cannot long continue our present apparent inconsistency by spending vast amounts of money and scientific ingenuity to lengthen our physical lives on the one hand, but arbitrarily cutting short our social and economic lives on the other. Yeah. Last year's census, for example, showed that we had slightly under 3 million people in the working force who were over 65, nearly all men. But it also showed that we had more than 3 million men and also a good many women who are not at work. Now, of course, many of these people are too old and too feeble to work. But Sumner Schlichter of Harvard has proposed that at least 1.5 million of these people could go back to work and be useful members of the labor force. What this means, then, is that our economy must take account of the older worker. Mrs. Breckenridge, as you have looked at the national picture, does American business and industry have an answer to this problem of retirement? We have not one answer, Mr. Havikhurst. We have a great many answers. The question is, the question these companies are worried about, is which answers are the best? However, in spite of all the talk that we've been hearing about pension plans around the country, we have to recognize that in many companies there still are no retirement plans. And in many more, retirement is straight across the board, usually at age 65. Well, uh, Bills, do you believe that we should expect everybody to retire and get out of the working force at some fixed age, such as 65? That's a good question, uh, Havikhurst. It's become a habit in this country to think of age 65 as some magic age at which employees should be retired. Obviously, the best age for retirement of any individual employee should be from the standpoint of his employer, that age at which the employee no longer justifies his full salary and productivity or efficiency. Such an age varies widely among different individuals, as we all know. Some possibly start to decline in the early 50s, and others remain alert and active well into their 70s. The best interest of a company, and that means the economy as a whole, therefore should generally be served by the use of a flexible retirement age in its pension plan, with discretion as to earlier or postpone retirement, reserved to the company to the maximum extent possible. This is also true from a broad economic point of view. Employees should be retained in useful employment so long as they're able and willing to work effectively in some capacity. As pension plans covering rank and file employees become widespread, it's my opinion that there undoubtedly will be a trend toward later retirement. This would be entirely consistent with improved vitality and longevity, which permit a higher proportion of healthy lives in the upper age brackets. This trend may indeed be necessary to afford effective relief from burdensome pension costs in the future, which in the final analysis will be supported by the public at large. While chronological age does not determine the best time for retirement, in individual cases, it has been customary under most plans to set 65 as a normal retirement age for funding purposes, a practice which makes possible an integration of the company plan with Social Security, which begins at age 65. This does not mean, however, that retirement must be compulsory at such an age, a practice of using age as the factor in retiring people is having a very dangerous effect upon our population as a whole. Age should not be the factor, and this practice is having a mass mesmeric effect, causing people to roll up and die at an early age, or at least thinking that they should be relegated to the rocking chair. Speaking of this tendency for us to expect people to be old at a certain age, that is a rather unnatural age, I've been reading recently about retirement age in France, and you know that the city worker, the average city worker in France, retires at the age of 58. Now, I don't believe this means that the French worker is not able to do as good a day's work as, say, the American worker, but it illustrates your point that when you build up a certain expectation that people are old at the given age, that goes on without any particular regard to the actual productivity of these people. Of course, now, they wouldn't agree with you at the courthouse in Miami, because down there they've found that older workers are literally better in certain jobs than younger workers, and they look for older workers. But that's Florida, you see, where they do everything sort of in advance the rest of the country. I think, Mr. Bills, that a lot of companies would agree with you, but I think also we have to realize that there are certainly a lot of companies that would disagree with you a great deal. I've been talking to some of those companies as I've gone around the country, and I've found that they very frequently say to me, now, unless we have a fixed, definite date at which the employee is going to retire, that employee just isn't going to make a reasonable preparation for retirement. He isn't going to look ahead and take the things into account that he ought to consider. And that's a story that's very widespread. I wonder if there's anything in there. What do you think, Mr. Martin? Well, Ms. Breckenridge, I think those companies are doing it the easy way. But on the other hand, I don't believe that a company that believes in a flexible retirement policy can just say we believe in it. I think it must accept the challenge of preparing its employees for this individualized process of slowing down, in such a way that the indeterminate date for retirement does not become more harmful than the determined date in a compulsory retirement program. In other words, the training for retiring under a flexible policy becomes as important an employment procedure as the training of a new employee at hiring. In fact, it may be more important, because such preparation for retirement must be handled while the individual affected is at a high level of productivity and is an important morale factor in the working lives of his or her associates. It does seem to me, however, that a certain maturity eventually will be achieved by both management and the employee on this whole subject of retirement. Pension plans generally are a comparatively new tool, and many of us in management have been so excited by their possibilities that we've used them with more enthusiasm than judgment, something like a small boy with a new jackknife. Our employees, too, were deceived by the economic security which such plans seem to offer, and when those who first experienced retirement with anywhere near enough adequate dollars, they found that money was not enough, and their disillusionment spread very rapidly. May I say again, that in answer to your question, the company that believes in the fixed retirement date is doing it the easy way, but those of us who believe in the flexible retirement policy certainly must meet the challenge of preparation. Well, if we have a flexible retirement program, that, of course, means that people will go on working, some of them, to quite a late old age. Now, doesn't that raise the question of whether older workers can be used? Isn't it possible that you'll just have too many people who are beyond their usefulness on certain kinds of jobs, and yet are really capable of some kind of work? How do you use your older workers, for example, in your business? Well, having Hurst, I think that we probably have a little easier problem than most industries, because we're essentially a service industry, although we do handle things or merchandise in the process. Very fortunately for us, the demand for our services peak very sharply each day for three or four hours during the middle of the day. And then on a weekly basis, they peak heavily on Mondays and Saturdays, and on an annual basis around Easter and Christmas. Therefore, we are able to conveniently and profitably use aging employees in regular part-time jobs throughout the stores, most of them in the jobs with which they are very familiar. In fact, the use of our peak season or peak hours as a method whereby we can adjust our full-time regular people as they grow older to being regular part-time people is a tool that we're just beginning to use intelligently. I wonder how it is in a heavy industry. Bill, you are in the heavy industry, the heaviest of all, the steel industry. We usually think that most of the jobs there require an enormous amount of muscular strength. Do you find that you can use workers after the age of 60 or 65? Havoc Hurst, I like to answer that question with factual data. I have here before me a record that I obtained from our employment department yesterday showing the actual retirement ages of our retired employees. There was one at 77, three at 76, three at 74, five at 73, three at 72, three at 71, eight at 69, four at 68, four at 67, nine at 66, and 15 at 65. Acme Steel has paid dividends for over 52 years each year, each year and good dividends, and we feel that this has been good business. I think that answers your question with a factual record. Were these people in their regular jobs? Well, I didn't go far enough with my investigation to answer that factually, but I can say from knowing our transferring procedure that the majority of these employees remained on their normal jobs. They did their full job where it's necessary to train an employee for a lighter job because the physical requirements are too great. We go through that procedure naturally. These are two specific cases, both in Chicago area, which do indicate the feasibility, the practicability of a flexible retirement plan. That is a plan which enables the individual to retire under conditions which are satisfactory to him and also satisfactory to the employer and which does not take a special account of age, although, of course, it assumes that the individual as he grows older would be more likely to retire. But as I say, these are examples in the Chicago area. Now, Mrs. Brackenridge, since you've been making a survey of retirement programs of business and industry all over the country, does the picture, how does the national picture look to you? Well, it's a very variegated picture, you might say. Certainly, more and more companies are experimenting with these different kinds of retirement plans. Now, these seem to fall into two groups. The first are designed to enable the employee to become used to leisure time. In other words, they're all sorts of devices for cutting down the regular working hours of the employee. One of my pets is the DCM-DCF plan. This is a company, I hope the university takes this up, where at a certain age you join the DCM club. That means don't come Monday. Then a few years later, you become eligible for the DCF club, which means don't come Friday. Then you only work three days a week. Now, that's the way one company tackles this problem of getting used to spare time so that it won't be too spare. There's another company that I talked to just the other day, a chemical company, where they have half-time employment on an optional basis from 65 to 70. And incidentally, in most of these plans, the companies don't say you have to go on a part-time job. You may if you wish. There's another company right here in town, the Wrigley Company. They've just started a new program where they're trying one month's vacation, one year, two months the next, three months the next, until finally the employee doesn't come down to the office at home. In other words, it's one more form of gradual retirement. There's still another company that gives a year's leave of absence when the employee hits 65. That's so he can try out retirement and see if he really wants to retire. At the end of that year, he can come back to the company in a job, any kind of a job, that happens to be available. Now, he may not come back to the job he left, but still he has the choice between work or so-called retirement. And he can find out whether he can fill up his time in a satisfying manner in this year's leave. Now, the second group of plans center, as Mr. Martin was mentioning, upon preparing the employee for retirement so that he will be psychologically adjusted to retirement when he reaches that point and so that he'll have a really realistic plan worked out so that he can have a satisfying life after he retires. In different units of standard oil, for example, they're using two approaches. In one division, they're trying a series of five lectures on an optional basis, discussing the various things you ought to consider when you're looking ahead to retirement. In another unit, they're trying an individual counseling program, where on a person-to-person, you might say casework basis, they're talking to the employees that are going to retire about the things they should consider. In many companies, and this is quite interesting, there are some very good articles coming out in house organs to sort of alert the total working force to the problems and the pleasures that can come with retirement. Bill, do you have any particular way of preparing your workers for retirement? Yes, we do. I would like to make one comment about the statement that Mrs. Breckenridge has just made. We find that the older worker is more stable and responsible, and his attendance record is better than the younger employee. His production is equally as good, and he has less accidents. In other words, he's a safer worker. So this not reporting on Monday seems to be a practice of our younger employees more than the older. For a number of years, answering your specific question, Breckenridge, it was my function to talk to all of our retiring employees, and with very few exceptions, I'd ever find a case where it was easy for the employee to make this adjustment. This was due primarily to the fact that he had not been mentally prepared for the change. There's a great need today to improve our techniques in handling these cases. We usually start talking to our employees who we have reasons to feel should give consideration to retiring about a year before they retire. I call this the three easy steps in retiring. We hold three or four informal discussions with the employee, which may involve talking with his family or his children. In other words, they as well have to be conditioned for the adjustment. I might say that our program on retirement also includes a very thorough explanation of the benefits the employee will receive from his retirement plan, arranging for his Social Security payments, and then in addition we have a post-retirement program, which includes sending company publications such as our company house organ, Acme News, and other material to the pensioned employee. In addition, we call at the home of the employee periodically, never less than three times during a year. These visits are made by trained counselors. Well, who decides when to initiate the first of these three steps that lead to retirement? That usually initiates with the foreman or the superintendent, who finds that the worker isn't doing the full job. I think that's pretty basically sound, Bells. My only comment is that I think you began your process of the three easy steps at a little late date. We usually try to begin, in all instances, through our medical department, a very thorough review with every employee at their 62nd or 63rd birthday of their present physical condition. And because we believe we have a competent medical staff, and because most of our associates in the store believe that the medical staff is their friend, we find that this approach, this initial approach, on how they can be better physically and how they can live longer physically is usually a good first initial step, a number of years before their discussion of retirement. From there on, we use the employment interviewer or personnel department. Martin, I wouldn't disagree with you to any great extent, but the danger is starting that conversation too early. A year may not be soon enough, but if we start five or eight or ten years before an employee is to be retired, aren't we unconsciously inculcating into his consciousness the thought that he's going to be old at a specific age? Shouldn't our direction be just the opposite? Well, he's got to have some time, it seems to me, to prepare, to take stock of himself, and to develop his plans, so that I would argue that Martin's plan might well go into effect, well, what would you say? I would say perhaps at least by the age of 60. Yes, we have some people at 50 who come in for general checkups, that it's very obvious to medical staff, they should begin seriously considering retirement four or five years hence. Well, that's a good question, and I want to say that I can speak to that point because you're treating each case individually then. This case, this discussion points to the idea that retirement should be an individual matter, and that's what a flexible retirement program is for, that is, to fit retirement to the individual. The reason retirement should be different for different people, I believe, is only partly that some can do a good job at 70 while others are becoming too old at 65 to carry on. I think the reason is also that work has a special and individual meaning for each different person, and therefore his retirement has a special meaning for him. And with our democratic concern for the happiness of the individual, we want him to be happy in his work and also in his retirement. Here at the University of Chicago, we've been studying the meaning of work to the individual, the values that work has for him. We have studied men and women in several different occupations, and we have discovered eight different meanings that work has for people. I'd like to mention a couple of them. To some people, work is a source of self-respect. They believe in themselves, and they think they are worthy people mainly because they're doing well in their vocation. For these people, retirement is a serious problem. Because it undermines the foundation of their self-respect. We find these kind of people have the most difficulty with retirement. But for other people, work is simply a way to make friends and be with people. And they find their friends on the job, at the office or in the shop. They like their work because they find it a place for social participation. For these people, retirement does not need to be a serious problem if they can be with their old friends elsewhere, that is, in a club or at the park or at the church, or if they can make new friends. I wonder whether this kind of analysis of the meaning of work means anything to you people who are in the personnel business. Well, I'm just a small-town boy transplanted to State Street, and it seems to me there are problems of retirement along the very line you mentioned in big cities that certainly are not present in smaller towns. Since I have moved to Chicago from a less congested area, I believe I find more of a compulsory nature of employment here in Chicago than I found in the smaller town from which I came. And I would be interested, is there any pattern of this sort, Mrs. Breckenridge? Because I think it's so directly involved with the meaning of work in big towns and in small towns. Oh, certainly, Mr. Martin. I think, actually, that the worker who retires in a medium-sized or small town has a much easier time of it than the worker who retires in a large city like Chicago or New York or Boston, something like that. For one thing, it's easier for him to keep up his social contacts. And, in addition, the worker in the medium-sized town or the small town, and I've just been going through a lot of those down south and up in Wisconsin, finds that he has other activities. The recreation problem, for instance, isn't as great. And also, he doesn't face the housing problem that we do here in a large city. And that whole complicated area of living arrangements, shall I live with my children, shall my children live with me, shall I take in borders, that sort of thing, doesn't come up so often in the smaller town. Well, not only is it perhaps easier to retire in the smaller town, but people don't retire, you know, in the smaller town. We've just been making a study of all the people over 65 in the town of 7,000. And we find that not over 2% or 3% of these people retire arbitrarily at a fixed age. Most of them choose their own time to retire. I would agree with what Mr. Martin and Mrs. Breckinridge has said completely. I'd like to carry that thought just a little further, however. Our experience has proved that these retired employees want to be identified with something that is contributing to society. Very few of them have hobbies, and being idle is very monotonous. Therefore, they want to get back on the payroll. I think that is probably due to the fact that our techniques of conditioning employees for retirements haven't developed to the point that they should. It's interesting, down in Florida, how many of the people who are retired with adequate pensions go out and look for jobs after they've been there a year or so. Mrs. Breckinridge, if I were starting a business tomorrow, a light assembly business, I would go to St. Petersburg, Florida. The manpower problem wouldn't concern me at all. That raises an interesting question, though, whether it is feasible or wise or a workable idea to segregate older workers, that is, to build up a department or a business consisting entirely of older workers. On that, I think there's a very strong feeling on the part of all of us who are involved in personnel. I believe segregation is not well-founded in any type of segregation, but the important thing with older people particularly is that you don't gain the advantages that their loyalty and stability and skill will give to the younger people in your plant or in your store if you segregate them. And it does, I think, increase any inefficiency if inefficiency exists in the older worker by segregating them. That is, you would say that it is often a useful thing to have older workers distributed throughout the organization because they have a good influence on morale. I would go a little farther than that. I'd say it's not only useful, but it's desirable. I would agree with Bill's comment that the Don't Come Monday Club is more frequently practiced by people who are 50 years away from retirement chronologically than those who are near it. What about productivity in general? Do you find that productivity of a worker goes down rapidly as he gets older? There is an age, and it differs with different people. But that's the way we determine that fact through our foreman and our superintendent. And I think that should be the basis for determining a retirement age of an employee or a retirement date of an employee. Certainly, your actual retirement ages show that productivity keeps up to quite advanced years. That's correct. Well, this roundtable has been good news, I believe. We've learned that flexible retirement plans are possible and are also in practice in some businesses and industries all over the United States. And we've learned from representatives of retail business and of heavy industry that flexible retirement, which is adapted to the individual, is possible. Such a program requires preparation for retirement. It means that people should study themselves and find out the kind of retirement plan that fits them best. It also affirms an important moral and social principle that a person should work as long as he wants to do so and is reasonably productive. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago roundtable on What About Retirement were H.L. Bills, Vice President in Charge of Industrial Relations, Acme Steel Company, Virgil Martin, General Superintendent and Personnel Manager, Carson Peary Scott & Company, Mrs. Elizabeth Breckenridge, Director of the Survey on Retirement, and Robert J. Havighurst, Chairman of the Committee on Human Development, both of the University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion of What About Retirement contains the full text of the discussion and a special article on What It Means to Retire from Work by Robert J. Havighurst. You will want to read the helpful article in the roundtable pamphlet. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year subscription to the roundtable pamphlet costs only $3. Enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program on What About Retirement. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the roundtable discusses What Do We Know About Tooth Decay? Today's program originated from the Mitchell Tower Studios of the University of Chicago. The roundtable is a public service presentation by NBC. Eva Legale-N and New Theater tonight on NBC. NBC.