Ladies and gentlemen, so that our show may get on the road very briefly and quickly, let us present to you, very happily, the Mayor of the City of New York, Mayor Vincent Impelletari. Mayor, I believe that you wish to bring with you Mr. Tannenbaum. Was that so? Ladies and gentlemen, let us have you meet Mr. Martin Tannenbaum, Chairman of the New York Cardiac Hospital. Glad to see you. I am here to say, and this morning in the mail, I received a letter, which I think I will read to you, which is really self-explanatory. Saturday night, at the New York Cardiac Hospital and Home Affair, I was sitting next to a gentleman by the name of Abe Stark, and this morning in the mail, I received a check for $100, which reads as follows. Dear Martin, what you told me about the New York Cardiac Home inspired me to send this additional contribution towards the fine work both you and Barry Gray are doing for the home. I know this drive starts tomorrow, and so I hope this starts the ball rolling. I hope I could make it more. The cause is so important. Give Barry my best. He's a grand guy. Sincerely yours, Abe Stark. Thank you very much, and my thanks to Abe. This, I understand, makes the official opening amount $10,100. We've received an anonymous contribution of $10,000, plus the $100 added by Abe Stark. Marty, did you wish to bring up the next speaker before the mayor? I didn't understand the program events. Yes, Barry. We have a very prominent guest here in the house tonight, the Commissioner of Hospitals, Dr. Colville. And I think he has some few words to say about cardiac and heart diseases, and I'd like to introduce them to the audience. Very well. Thank you very much, Marty. Thank you. Mayor, in the meantime, if you don't mind, you've still got one of the better seats in the house. Right there. Fine. Barry, I'd like to tell you something about this fellow, Dr. Colville. He's the Commissioner of Hospitals. He's spent his entire life in the hospital system of the city of New York. He's a career man in every sense of the word. He served under a number of mayors of the city of New York. When I became mayor, he was the Commissioner of Hospitals. I found that he was an A1 doctor and an administrator, and I continued him on. I thought you'd like to know that before he spoke to the audience generally. Thank you very much, sir. Now, sir, you should like to, you want to tell us about the reasons for the New York State Cardiac Hospital Fund. Am I right? Well, that's right. First, I want to thank the mayor for his very gracious words. Barry, actually, the reason for this, for the need for these funds is that heart disease is the number one health problem in our city. In 1950, it was actually responsible for 34,611 deaths. Now, cancer, which is a formidable killer all by itself, was responsible for less than half as many as heart disease. Few families actually can go through life without some member, younger or old, suffering from heart disease. We can't stop the heart from wearing out. It's one organ that starts working long before we're born, and it has no respite during our entire lifetime. But we as physicians, and supported by such selfless citizens as those behind the McCusker-Hirshfield Cardiac Home, and now this New York State Cardiac Hospital and Home, are working towards three objectives in the overall approach to the heart disease problem. First, we're working towards the prevention of the development of heart disease. Secondly, we're working towards the retardation of the cause of people who have heart disease. And thirdly, we want to rehabilitate the patient with heart disease so that he can accomplish the maximum in his social and vocational activity with whatever he has left. Now, the prevention of heart disease requires a lot more information than we have regarding the factors that cause heart disease so that we may take all the steps that we can to eliminate them. Now, knowing all the factors, it may be possible to remove the susceptible person from the environment in which he operates, or we may learn through research how to render persons resistant to these factors. This is a very great field for really fruitful research. Now, for instance, it was recently established that women who have German measles, and German measles is a relatively harmless disease, if they have German measles during the first three months of their pregnancy, may give birth to babies with structural deformities of the heart, these so-called blue babies that you read about. This was a significant discovery, and it opens a whole field of speculation and research, since there may be other virus diseases which act in the same way. However, investigations are now underway regarding the prevention of German measles during this period, and thus the elimination of much congenital heart disease. This shows you that just a little research, just an interesting discovery of this type, can do a great deal to prevent a good deal of heart disease. Now, rheumatic heart disease, as you know, is the principal cause of heart damage from childhood on to middle life. We don't know the real cause, but we know that the disease is somehow associated with a streptococcus infection. Fortunately, in the city of New York, we're fairly safe in that we drink only pasteurized milk. You know, these streptococcus infections are very often spread through the milk supply, but there are many other ways in which they're spread, and we have to do a lot of things to cut down the incidence of this type of infection in these children to prevent them from developing repeated attacks, which ultimately injures their heart permanently. There's one form of heart disease that's definitely on the increase, and I think those of us in this room and possibly the audience that's listening at this hour is in the group that may be susceptible to this form of disease. Many of us are over 40 years of age, a form of heart disease that's associated with hardening of the arteries. That's very much on the increase. You know, in this wonderful country of ours, where we have a standard of living that's higher than anywhere else in the world, we eat a good deal. We tend to overeat, and one of the main causes for hardening of the arteries is actually overeating. So one nice way to prevent a very important form of heart disease is actually obesity control. Now, it's important to do this. This is a very important measure so that we won't need all of these hospitals, and we won't have to have all of these drives. May I ask you this, Doctor? Why the $2 million, the attempt to raise the $2 million by outside sources? Well, you see, actually, in our democracy, government does not run all of the hospitals, does not take care of all of the hospitalization, doesn't take care of all of the services. A good deal of it is taken care of by voluntary effort. That's why we need all of the people. It's a matter of teamwork. It's the people in the community teaming up with government to provide the best possible hospital service. That's the reason, Barry. Thank you very much, Doctor, and thanks for being here tonight. I realize that it's an unusual chore for you. Thank you. Pleasure. You're very welcome. And now, ladies and gentlemen, the mayor of the city of New York, Vincent Impelitari. Mayor, our thanks for being here tonight. I know your schedule, and I think it's a tremendous gesture on your part to come here tonight. There shall be no discussion of politics for the purposes of the fund. I'm sure that you have a great many interesting thoughts on the subject of the new cardiac drive. Barry, thanks very much for permitting me the opportunity of giving some of the facts to the public with reference to the New York Cardiac Hospital and Home. Dr. Kogel, you slipped up on that one. You followed Barry's lead. You said the New York State Cardiac Hospital and Home. This is not a mental institution. This is an institution that will be devoted exclusively to the care of heart cases. You opened up a very important question when you asked Dr. Kogel of Dr. Kogel, rather, about the reason for the necessity of private institutions of this kind. He pointed out, and very rightly so, that the care of the indigent sick is always a community proposition. You take care in the city of New York. We probably have the largest municipal hospital system in the entire world. To give you some idea of how tremendous it is, right now the city is engaged in a building program and a rehabilitation program that will cost us $150 million. Yet that doesn't cover the need. And we take care of, the city takes care of daily, 250,000 indigent sick in our municipal hospital system. But over and above that, we don't go all the way. For instance, the great voluntary hospitals of our city coming to our assistance take care of 94,000 patients per day. Put the two of them together, and you'll see the tremendous amount of people that must be taken care of. So that it's vitally important that in our community we have civic-minded people, like the people who will come to the aid of this cardiac home, to assist the city in carrying out its obligation to take care of the indigent sick. That's the reason that private funds are necessary at times in order to augment the perfectly wonderful contribution that's made by this city. Now, in this case, with reference to this cardiac home, I've taken over the honorary chairmanship of this committee because I believe the cause is a very good one. This proposed New York cardiac hospital and home will be the very first of its kind in America. With all of these hospitals that I told you about here in the city of New York, both municipal and voluntary, there isn't a single one that's devoted exclusively to the care of cardiac cases. This hospital will be exclusively for cardiac cases. That, in and of itself, is a new turn. It's never been done before. Some of the medical experts seem to think it might not be too good. I personally, as a layman, feel that it's bound to be good. That's the reason I took over the honorary chairmanship. Now, as you pointed out before, this is an outgrowth of the McCosker-Hirshfield Home for Convalescence, which is located up at Hilburn, New York. Now, that was established some 15 years ago. And during that 15-year period, that home has already taken care of over 5,000 victims of cardiac conditions. And as Dr. Kogel pointed out, one in every three people who died in America last year died of heart conditions, so that you can realize the tremendous importance of a hospital and home of this character. This will be a specialized institution. And, of course, the cost always comes into play. It'll cost $2 million. Now, that might seem like a lot of money, but in these days of tremendously high costs, it's really not a lot of money. You take in our municipal hospitals to give you an idea of what is meant when I talk about the high cost of building. Now, normally, we plan our buildings, our hospital buildings and other buildings, long in advance of the actual building. Just recently, there was great need for a hospital that had been planned a long time ago, planned at a time when prices were normal. Our plans and our engineers estimated that that hospital would cost $13 million, more or less. I think that the first figure was something like $12 million. Well, we let that out for public competitive bidding not too long ago, and you know what the lowest bid was? $23 million. And that isn't the answer, because you don't stop there. The minute that the hospital is built, then you're confronted with the problem of operating that hospital. You have to put nurses in there. You have to put doctors in. You have to put cooks, chefs. You have to put attendants in. And everything has gone up. The cost of food, the cost of materials. So that when this cardiac home is asking for $2 million, with these abnormally high prices, it's a conservative estimate. And I'd like very much to see the people of the city of New York get behind this building program, because I think that it's a perfectly wonderful gesture in the right direction. Thank you very much, Mayor. Mayor, this is our first meeting since your return from overseas. And I've heard from others that you have some tremendously interesting stories to tell of your experiences in Israel. And even though the prime purpose of your visit is for the discussion of the New York Cardiac Home and Hospital, I thought perhaps you might dwell a couple of moments on those experiences. I'd be very happy to. I had a most interesting trip to Israel. I went there at the invitation of the distinguished prime minister of Israel, David Ben-Gurion, who I met here in New York. And from the moment I arrived in Israel, 7.31 morning, until approximately four days later, I had what I would call a very interesting, but a very tiring trip. What I saw in Israel is stimulating. It gives me added reasons for talking about the Israel bond drive, for talking about assistance to the UJA programs and drives. It gave me the feeling that I could get up on a platform from what I had observed personally and tell the people of the city of New York that in Israel, everything is going along on schedule. The people are working with a tremendous determination. You can feel it in the air wherever you go in Israel. You see the thousands of immigrants coming in there almost daily. You see them, first of all, in tents. Then you see them in barracks. Then you see them in the first stages of preliminary housing. Then you see the advanced housing. Building is going on all over Israel, both in housing and in industry. The people there, in my judgment, are bound to succeed. There's only one thing that's lacking. They have the manpower. They have the will. They have the energy. They have the determination. What they lack is the capital. That's what they seek from America. We need friends all over the world, but we need them particularly in that troubled section of the world today. And I can tell you without the slightest hesitation that there's a tremendous admiration in Israel for the people of America. And I know that in my visits to Tel Aviv, to Jerusalem, to Nazareth, to Haifa, I saw things that would stagger the imagination. I saw farms springing up from land that if you would look at, as I did in certain parts of Israel, you would say to yourself, how the devil are they ever going to make anything grow? Well, with modern farm equipment, with the energy to do the job, they're actually doing it. In a city like Haifa, it would remind you of New York. By that I mean it's a modern city. The industries are thriving. I saw a perfectly wonderful glass factory, manned entirely by Jewish labor. And that was quite an innovation. Up until two or three years ago, Israel had to import all of its window glass. It had to import all of its bottles. Today, that factory is producing all of the windows that they need, window glass that they need in Israel, producing all the bottles they need. I saw a cement factory, manned by whom? All by Jewish labor. I saw a tremendous assembly plant of the Kaiser Frazier Company, manned by Jewish labor. So that industry is going ahead. Everything that I saw in Israel convinces me that the people there, with that kind of spirit, that kind of determination, are bound to go ahead. And will go ahead. When you arrived home... But I want to tell you something. It wasn't a vacation. Mayor, when you arrived home, when you arrived home just for 30 seconds, because nobody is listening anyway, just tell us, how did you feel when you got into the harbor and you found out that everything had happened, like the strikes and so on, that you really must have been nonplussed by the 60 or 70 things that were going on? Well, that's nothing unusual for the mayor of New York. There's always something going on in New York, whether you're here or whether you're away. I read an interesting editorial just yesterday. I believe that today, or yesterday, concluded your first year in office as mayor. Is that so? That's not accurate. And sometimes the newspapers do make mistakes. I've been the mayor of the city of New York since September 2nd of last year. That's a little over. Well, they said something about the first year has been concluded and there are some people that are pro and some people that are con. I should like to ask you, mayor, what do you say to the opponents of the people that have criticized your activities in office for the past 15 months? When I took office, I pledged to the people of the city of New York that I would give them an efficient city government, that I would continue men in office who were doing a job, and in my judgment, I've kept every pledge that I made to the voters of the city of New York. Dr. Kogel is one example of what I mean by my appointments. Do you feel that recently, in the near future, rather, that the city council will have its proceedings broadcast or televised? I haven't any idea about that. The city council is a legislative body. They're elected by the people. They vote on their own resolutions and it's completely up to the council to decide whether they want to do that or whether they do not want to. Mayor, I purposely, because of the nature of the proceedings tonight, have avoided discussing anything politic. Perhaps I've not asked you a question on a subject that you wish to discuss. Is there anything that you wanted to add? Well, I came up here tonight primarily to put a strong plug in for the New York Cardiac Hospital and home. That's really the reason I came here, and I don't think it'd be dignified on my part to go into extraneous matters. Good. One night soon. Certainly not extraneous. One night soon, Mayor, you must come back and we'll talk about ships and sealing wax. Very good. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Great pleasure to have had you here. Mayor of the City of New York, Vincent Impelitari. And now if you tuned in late, and I take it that many... Thank you.