UNYC now brings you a special program in celebration of Finland's Independence Day. Our program this evening will feature music by Finnish composers well known in their native land, though unfamiliar to most of us. Before we begin the musical portion of our program, we wish to tell our listeners that by special arrangement, this program is being recorded and will be flown to Finland, where it will be rebroadcast through the facilities of the Finnish broadcasting system. The music of Jan Sibelius has become as familiar to American audiences as it is to the people of Finland. His seven symphonies are part of the standard repertory of major orchestral associations in every part of the world. His long-awaited Eighth Symphony is to have its American premiere this season. Serge Krzyzewicki, an ardent champion of contemporary music, will conduct the new work in Symphony Hall in Boston. We hear first the Kuliki Suite for piano as performed by Edward Weiss. When Mr. Weiss toured Europe, he visited Helsinki, where he met Sibelius, who presented him with his complete works for piano. The Kuliki Suite was among them. Now, Edward Weiss performing the Kuliki Suite by Jan Sibelius. The Kuliki Suite by Jan Sibelius. The Kuliki Suite ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That was the Kuliki Suite by Sibelius as performed by Edward Weiss. In celebration of Finland's Independence Day, we are to hear a message by His Excellency, the Finnish Consul General, Raphael Seppler. Mr. Seppler. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I am very happy to have this opportunity to say a few words to the listeners of the WNYC. And first of all, I wish to express my sincere thanks to the WNYC for having kindly reserved this hour for presentation of Finnish music on the eve of Finland's Independence Day, December the 6th. Music and song have, from time immemorial, been part of Finnish life. And they have, therefore, and will always have a prominent part in the celebration of our freedom. I believe I am not too pretentious when I say that Finnish music is nothing strange or unknown in this country. The music of our great composer, Jen Sibelius is both well known and understood here. The reason why this music has found so much understanding among Americans is that the everyday life in the past and the ideas of our people today are much the same. With work, determination and perseverance has this great country and its civilization been founded. And it is with these same characteristics that we in Finland have been able to build up our national life and survive the many trials through our long history. We believe today, as you do, in liberty, democracy and individual freedom of men. These are also the very ideals so beautifully and forcefully expressed by Sibelius in his music. This afternoon, however, we shall hear music by other Finnish composers as well. Not so world-famous as great Sibelius, but their music is cherished and loved in our country. It may be new to many of you, but if you listen carefully, I believe you will agree with me that their music also flows from the same ideological source as that of Sibelius. The tunes of Finnish music are thus like the waters that flow from a deep, clear and pure lake. Some are large and mighty rivers, and some are smaller streams, but in their flow they are just as beautiful. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will enjoy this hour dedicated to Finland and her Independence Day. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Seppala. Our next artist on the Salute to Finland is Karina Orasto, dramatic soprano. A native of Helsinki, Finland, now an American citizen, she received her musical education at the Opera School of the Vienna Conservatory. Known as a versatile singer, she has sung with leading orchestras in Europe and the United States. We hear her tonight in a group of songs by Finnish composers. Miss Orasto sings Mariata's Cradle Song by Kula. Mariata, a beggar woman, sits in her bitter cold hut on a winter evening, rocking her child. She sings, don't look at the stars, don't listen to the wind, sleep. She fears that the child will freeze to death, but the baby quiets down and falls asleep. But after that, if she puts her bud with the Busy, she seems to have come of theOnce bell to fall, she sings. Thank you. She goes down to Beautiful científic Funger de Anderson, konnte diga. Van o' goe Godre, Kalbison ganko' das nye.ının You oh I when are things to experience? LEANGieri molto troppo Here, Jarnfeld's Titania. This describes the dance of the elves in a moonlit glade in the forest. Titania, the queen, is leading the ball. This is the dance of the earth, the wind and the wind. This is the dance of the earth, the dance of the earth. Titania, the queen, is leading the ball. Titania, the queen, is leading the ball. Titania, the queen, is leading the ball. Carina Orasto now sings Kilipean's Elegy to a Nightingale. Oh, one summer only you sang to me. Oh, Nightingale, making me forget the hours, the days that passed away, dreaming of two dark eyes. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh For her fourth and concluding number by a Finnish composer, Miss Orasto sings Marvia's Lover's Promise. The text, quite whimsical, a young man promises, if he could get just the girl he wants, he would pamper her in every way. Buy her all that she desires, a new wrap every week and a new fur coat every winter. Chari Even Chari Lonely tossed and all that Ini You helped me find in Your语peie Yourrovian I can't be so young, I can't be so young, I can't be so young, I can't be so young, I can't be so young. The soprano Carina Orasto has been heard in a group of songs by Finnish composers. We turn now to an instrumental composition by Toivo Kulla, the piano trio in A major. This work had its initial performance on October 7th, 1908 in Helsinki. We are to hear the trio now in a performance by Edward Weiss, pianist, Gunnar Knudsen, violinist, and Fausto Esteves, cellist. Here now is the composition by Toivo Kulla, the piano trio in A major. The piano trio in A major. The piano trio in A major. Here we are. On the keyboard to record playing and Skyrim toفa Cl Ink Queens Baltimore in Austin. Bear on board will umbral прок charities for A major. One Oğlum to a regular country. Here we are, let's see, They are joining and try to suing the arts by Holland. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End