Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses by transcription, does advertising provide a better way of life? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the economic function of advertising, the ethical responsibility of the advertiser, and the checks now imposed on advertising. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are C.T. Berg, Vice President, Sales, the Iron Fireman Manufacturing Company, John C. Maddox, Assistant to the President, Fuller & Smith & Ross, Incorporated, National Advertising Agency. And Dr. Richard Wallen, Professor of Psychology at Cleveland College of Western Reserve University. Now, gentlemen, does advertising provide a better way of life? Maddox, what is the fundamental economic function of advertising? How would you state that case? Well, increased productivity and consumer income and a rising standard of living in our system, I think, depend very largely on capital investment. Advertising stimulates the demand from consumers which justified this investment. And to that extent, advertising has contributed to a rising standard of living. And I think advertising makes an outstanding contribution to our common welfare because it promotes a dynamic, expanding economy. I think advertising is an integral part of our business system in which businessmen are trying constantly to find new products or new features for these products, features that consumers will want. And without an opportunity to profit fairly quickly from these new products and features, businessmen wouldn't look very hard to find them, and they wouldn't risk their money in putting them on the market. Advertising is a tool which permits development of profitable demand. You go along with that, Wallen? No, I don't, McBurney. Maddox's point is denied, I think, by history because there have been many researches and developments that go ahead even before advertising reached its present state. Maddox's point is that you wouldn't get research and development in products unless you had advertising. Well, I think that steam engine and the boat and many of our great inventions come not from advertising but from interested people who are curious about things. What do you think, Burton? Well, in my estimation, advertising is primarily to acquaint the people of America with the things that are available to keep production up, to keep demand up, to keep employment up. Well, now, you were saying, Maddox, in substance, that advertising is a link between mass production and mass distribution. I take it you think it's a necessary link. Well, I think it's vital to keep keeping the whole economic system spinning because advertising makes possible mass production. Mass production makes possible lower prices. The lower prices are, the more people can use them. And the more people can use them, the more people are employed. And it goes around in a circle. Now, do you care to press your objection, Wallen? Well, I simply want to say that mass production has its disadvantages as well as its advantages. And if Maddox is going to claim that advertising promotes mass production, he also will have to say that advertising is in part responsible for the disadvantages that accrue from mass production. I agree. I can't understand any disadvantages to mass production, Mr. Wallen. One of the simplest of those is that the individual worker has lost all sense of creativity and pride of craft in his activity as a result of mass production. Well, I take exception to that. In America, we have workers who are enjoying an abundant life because of mass production, because of the demands of the nation. But you're defining an abundant life as meaning a matter of economic goods, creature comforts, and so on. I'm thinking about a matter of one's own self-esteem. And sociological findings bear me out that over and over again, our workers in this country have lost a sense of individuality. Well, I disagree with that. The self-esteem, we certainly have that in America. What other country in the world has more self-esteem than we have in America? Maddox? I agree with Wallen that one of the big problems that we have to face in this country is the problem of the lack of identification of the worker in a mass production industry with his community as a person of significance and meaning. And that's the problem that we have to lick. But it's with us. And saying that advertising is a part of the cause of it doesn't mean that advertising isn't good for many other things. And the same people that are working on advertising to promote consumer demand are now beginning to give their attention to the problems of the workers in mass industries who need more significance to their jobs. I just can't go along at all with this comment about the worker in America losing his identity in mass production. If the American worker isn't an individualist in this country, what country would he be an individualist in? It is that he is rapidly losing that. Studies of the Yankee City series by the sociologists at the University of Chicago demonstrate this conclusively. It's an important cause of labor management conflict. But I would go along with Maddox that advertising is not solely responsible for it, that it is only one part of the total cog that keeps our industry functioning in this particular way. Well, there is a question certainly how large business should get. As a matter of fact, I remember discussing that question on this Northwestern University reviewing stand some months ago. I want to explore your line of reasoning a bit further, if I may, Maddox. You have made the point earlier that advertising is especially essential in a society where free choice operates. Now, what do you mean by free choice, and what's your point there? Well, it goes further than just advertising and business from my point of view. In our whole society here in this country, we operate as individuals more than probably any other country in the world. And that applies to our political action as well as our action in the marketplace. Now, in order for us to act collectively as individuals for our common good, we must be able to operate freely as individuals, politically and in choosing goods. Advertising helps to put in front of the American people a wide choice of goods of the products of our factories, which they can accept or reject as they see fit. And therefore, the people as a whole are deciding what is good for them and what is not. Now, do you make the assumption that they have a free choice in selecting goods in the marketplace and that advertising contributes to that freedom of choice? Well, freedom of choice is a relative thing, of course, compared to what they had to choose from 50 years ago. The choice is almost infinite today. But there are certain economic limits within industry which may narrow the freedom of choice within a certain kinds of goods. I would want to make the point that it is not simply having a large number of goods to choose from that permits freedom of choice, but that it is having adequate grounds to base your choice on. And I would like to ask Maddox whether he thinks that advertising has been trying to provide the consumer with the grounds on which to make choices among these various kinds of goods. Well, I think each advertiser is a biased advocate of his goods. That's understandable. He does not operate in the social sense. He's not aware of the social implications of what he does. He tries to sell the goods that he has and he presents what features he can within the limited means available in advertising space to get that done. Do you accept that point of view, Burton? Well, I want to make this comment, Mr. McBurney, talking about selling the goods. I feel that the average concern sells what the goods will do, not the goods as such, but the advantages of the goods, the end result. I can give a very good example of my point about the lack of free choice. In the case of glue, most people know a certain brand of glue because it's been highly advertised. It happens not to be the best brand of glue that's available, as shown by actual laboratory tests. Now, this is the kind of thing that can happen. The big advertiser can squeeze out the small independent businessman, and that's exactly what has been happening, by virtue of a big advertising budget that carries his message. But he may not have a product which is the best product available. Therefore, the consumer does not actually have freedom of choice. Would you say that by and large in the marketplace, as a result of relatively free choice and advertising, the best merchandise generally emerges? I think perhaps generally it emerges, particularly in those things which are bought frequently enough that people have a chance to shop around a bit. But I think there are many, many instances where the best merchandise does not emerge as being the merchandise which is most highly advertised. I disagree with Mr. Wallen's statement to the effect that big business has been squeezing out the small business. We have all over, for instances, where small business has grown to become large, substantial business. In a free America like this, everyone has an equal opportunity. All businesses started small. I can point to our own concerns, starting in a very small way. We have grown steadily through effort and ingenuity and aggressiveness. I think this freedom of opportunity is a phrase that can easily get in our way, and I would hesitate to say that we've bettered our way of life in freedom of opportunity by advertising. What chance does a man have who's starting off with a good product, perhaps better than any in its field, if he's faced with a competitor who has a million-dollar-a-year advertising budget and can carry his communication nationwide? If his product is good enough, the tools of advertising will give enough assurance to investors to back him, and he can get it. Absolutely, I agree with that, and I point to our own case again. I'd like to make a point in this connection. Consumer research publications of various sorts have tripled their subscription, the number of subscribers, since World War II. Now, this is the only source of information that I know of where you can actually find out about products, irrespective of the size of the advertising budget that they have. Many of the more progressive manufacturers and advertisers today are putting on the merchandise that they display in stores, what they call informative labels, which has grown out of the consumer movement, in which they detail all the technical information that's necessary to know about the product. That has been very successful, by the way. I know one large concern that has carried that on for quite a few years. Now, before we continue this debate, gentlemen, remember we're speaking to the question, does advertising provide a better way of life? We've had several oblique definitions of what constitutes a better way of life. I think Berg is thinking of it in terms of national prosperity. Wallen here has had a word or two to say about it. Now, let me put the question directly to you, Mr. Berg. Does advertising contribute to national prosperity? Very definitely so. Assuming for the moment that national prosperity has something to do with a better way of life. How does it do it? In my estimation, advertising over the years and the sales effort of the businessman of America has done much to build up our present way of life. This industrial organization that we have covering the nation that's given employment to 65 million people. Back in the early days, the needs of the American public was very small. Their wants were small. And along came the so-called Yankee salesman with his ingenuity. He started making products and started advertising them and selling them and selling them in such volume against all forms of resistance. I'm referring to sewing machines and automobiles, vacuum cleaners, washing machines, and 101 other things. He sold them in such volume that plants had to be built covering acres, stories high. Not only that, but automatic machinery had to be designed to install in these plants to produce this stuff in volume that the American public were buying. Now, is this kind of employment, 65 million, a good index of prosperity? Well, in my estimation, it is the index. You rate the prosperity of a country not by the price of stocks and Wall Street or the money in banks or the natural resources of the country. You rate prosperity, in my humble feeling, by the number of people employed. We have some 65 million people employed today. Back in the Depression years, it was down to 35 million. If we can keep 65 million people employed, we'll have prosperity in America, in my estimation, for years and years and forever. Your colleagues are anxious to get a word in here, but I have one more question for you before we move on. Is prosperity a good index of a better way of life? Well, I think so, of course. What do you mean by a better way of life? Life, are you talking about... Well, that's really my question, isn't it? Are you talking about the commercial things of life, or... That's what you're talking about, isn't it? Yes, uh-huh. There are certain kinds of things that are called commercial, which are almost necessary for a better way of life defined in any way that you choose. Many commercial things are not, but it is perfectly true that people who are underfed, who do not have adequate clothing, who don't know where their next penny is coming from, can hardly learn how to be cooperative, to be kindly, to be centered in humanitarian values. And in this sense, I think general prosperity, defined as a good chance for everybody to get the basic necessities of life and a little bit more, does contribute to what might be called a better way of living. And certainly, a better way of living, so defined in terms of national prosperity, is not incompatible with securing other values. Not at all. Particularly so when prosperity means more real income, that is, more surplus of income above that required for the necessities of life, and at the same time, shorter working hours. The drudgery has been reduced through the invention of labor-saving machines in the home, and they have more time to spend on developing the finer things, and they have more money to buy them with. In my estimation, in America, we have the finest nation on earth because of this industrial empire that we have in America. And our job, as I see it, is to keep the wheels of industry turning in America. These wheels, in my estimation, are made up of, let's say, sales and jobs and purchasing power. Sales makes jobs, and jobs makes purchasing power, and purchasing power makes for more sales, and the gears continue to turn. Industry continues to operate. The driving force is sales. People buying things. People wanting things. People wanting automobiles and vacuum cleaners and washing machines and all the wants and needs of life. And as long as they keep on buying, people will produce. And as long as people produce, they will be paid well. And as long as they're paid well, they'll have purchasing power. And as long as they have purchasing power, they'll continue to buy. Now, in this process, which you have just described so well, Berg, do you think the advertiser, and he's the man we're talking about today, do you think the advertiser has any special ethical responsibilities? What do you think, Walter? Well, I would like to say something about what Berg has just mentioned. His statement overall, I think, may be relatively true, but there is another side to the picture that ought to be pointed out. When you can take two cents worth of chemicals and put them in a glass bottle that costs ten cents and sell them for a dollar and a half, the demand, hoked up by special types of advertising, that is not the kind of thing that is likely to keep the wheels of industry turning or keep people employed. That kind of thing simply means that people are buying something which is way overpriced because advertising has told them something about it. And this is not an isolated example. Now, you're beginning to discuss the ethical responsibilities of the advertisers. You see them. Yes, and I want to say that I think that although much of what Berg says is true, we must not overlook the other side of the picture that advertising is not all one rosy, happy family that's keeping us free and a liberal nation. In a free, competitive system, it won't be very long before some other manufacturer comes along and manufactures and sells that item at a lower price, if the people really want it. But he can't sell it without advertising as both of you gentlemen have agreed already. And if he doesn't have the advertising budget to start off with, if he can't get the space, if we don't give the consumer informative advertising, then you don't have a free competitive market. Products that do not warrant the goodwill of the American public doesn't last long. I can give you examples, Mr. Berg, of a product, a particular mouthwash or certain toothpastes or certain types of patent medicines that have lasted for a long, long time and they've lasted on the grounds of making claims which are shady to say the very least. You're suggesting that the advertiser takes unfair advantage of the psychological weaknesses of potential consumers. He scares people. Well, I disagree with that. You better say some advertisers. Don't include the majority of them. Certainly not a concern like ours and many other nationally known blue chip concerns that I could refer to. They're honest. They're sincere. They tell the truth. I would agree with that. But I would also say that this power of being able to scare people is an effective one and therefore a potentially dangerous power. If you can convince people that they will not get a bride or a bridegroom unless they happen to use a particular dentifrice, then you see you're doing something which is dishonest. And even if this is not contained as a promise within the advertisement, if it is only implied, the same type of dishonesty is present. Mr. Wallen, please, we mustn't judge all of the people by the few. I'm talking about rather big industries now. You know about the TV scare. You know about what the mouthwashes have claimed. You know about what the cosmetic claims are. No, I'm not familiar with it. Then you ought to read the advertisements in the magazines rather carefully in your home because you'll be surprised at what some advertisers will promise you. I do read the advertisers in the magazines and whenever I see an ad over the signature of a substantial concern, I take every word as the gospel. Do you mean that there, for example, in the recent issue of Vogue, there was a concern which is nationwide known as a substantial concern in cosmetics. This concern promised all women, not just some, but all women that they could be beautiful if they would use their products. And this is said to be a solemn promise. Mr. Wallen, in my estimation, all women are beautiful. And beauty certainly is a relative thing. The advertiser didn't put it that way. What do you have to say about this, Maddox? Well, I was... You think all women are beautiful? Well, I think it's up to what they look like to another hippopotamus. But it is relative. But I'm particularly interested in Wallen's comment about the TV campaign taking advantage of parents' solicitude for their children. I'd like to point out that there was quite an uproar in the advertising industry about that campaign and that it was stopped very quickly by pressure from within the industry and from the public. And that's the sort of pressure that ought to operate on those things. Precisely the same type of advertising has been used by soap concerns and it's been used by mouthwash concerns to convince people that unless they used that particular product, they would not have some of the advantages of life that other people would have. But haven't these appeals to emotion and suggestion have been used from public platforms, by political orators, by advocates of all kind throughout the history of America? Are you saying that the use of suggestion and appeals to emotion are reprehensible because they distort people's choices in the marketplace? Is that your idea? I'm not saying that they are reprehensible per se. What I'm getting at is that it's an entirely different matter if a man on a platform chooses to use emotional appeals than it is if a man with a million dollar a year advertising budget chooses to use them for a product for which exaggerated claims or misleading claims are being made. then people do not have a free choice because they have no choice except to believe the things that are told them. But what happens in the courtroom when you have lawyers appealing to a jury? You have emotional appeals, you have suggestion used, yet the assumption underlying our system of jurisprudence is that by and large, out of these clash of opinions and appeals, truth and justice will emerge. Both sides get a chance to present their case in the courtroom of Bernie. Both sides do not get a chance to present their case in the advertising channels. Is that really true? Well, I agree that the seller has some responsibilities because he has advantage over the buyer of a product in that he can present his claims without having an opportunity for a rebuttal or discussion. But I'd like to also mention the fact that the presenting of claims in an advertisement in a magazine or over a television or radio does not mean that that makes the final sale decision. There are so many things that happen between that point and the final purchase at the point of sale that advertising becomes a tool to get people to come to a store to look at the goods and to talk to the salesman rather than makes the sale complete. I'd like to salvage something from my analogy with the courtroom. Is it strictly true that in the marketplace there is no competition such as exists in the courtroom? That is, you have countless advertisers. They're proceeding us to buy this toothpaste, that toothpaste, somebody else's toothpaste. There is competition, but it happens that the competition is not the sort that allows the consumer to make up his mind. And furthermore, as I've tried to point, it's competition among monsters. It is not competition among all people who can make a product. He who has the largest advertising budget is the man who wins. Well, of course, I disagree violently with Mr. Wallen. Our company was built on the foundation of advertising, and we lean over backwards to be ultra-conservative in the statements we make. By the way, is advertising on trial here today? Is that what we're talking about, or are we... We're asking, does advertising provide a better way of life? And I think we're largely agreed, if I may, if I sense correctly the feeling around the table, that it does, in terms of providing greater prosperity. I do think Wallen wants to enter certain demurs here. That is, he suggests that in certain areas that the advertisers haven't been quite as responsible as they ought to be, and that's the question that we're pursuing. Now, there's a related question that I'd like to ask you, Mr. Burton. Does it make any difference to you what people buy as long as they buy? Well, as long as they buy our product. I don't know just what you mean. Now, this is exactly the kind of attitude, McBurney, that I think activates every manufacturer, and I think that probably Berg would not object to a manufacturer saying that. But suppose that you have a product which actually is harmful or injurious to people, and there are many instances of exactly that kind. They take the same attitude that Berg does, saying it doesn't make any difference what they buy as long as they buy our product. What do you mean by harmful, Mr. Wallen? What product? There are several kinds of damage that can accrue from using certain types of products. One of them is that it keeps the individual from getting the proper type of treatment that he needs, particularly in the case of certain kinds of patent medicine. I knew you were... Another example, however, is that in which there is actually a toxic content to the compound which is taken in the body. I just knew Mr. Wallen was going to bring up this patent medicine, and of course you understand, Mr. Wallen, that there are many publishing houses who will not accept patent medicine advertising. They don't believe in it. You can't judge all good advertising, 98% of it, by the 2% bad advertising that we've been talking about around here for the last 10 minutes. It may be 2%, but one president of one firm has made $5 million on a product which contains only a modicum of vitamins and 15% alcohol. Well, I think I know just the product you're referring to. That doesn't mean the product doesn't do some people some good. And that doesn't mean that the product's going to be around very long. I think we can prove to the contrary that the ingestion of any such small amounts of favorable medications contained in that particular product would not do anybody any good. What about the psychological benefit? Then in that particular case, then I think that you are really guilty of something that's wrong. If you're selling distilled water and it makes people feel better and you're charging them a dollar a bottle for it, then I think there is an ethical issue involved. Well, a lot of people do buy distilled water. I mean, under the assumption that it's something that will do you some good. I'm not talking about labeled distilled water. Well, it will do you good. Now, Wallen's case here begins to take shape. Let me ask specifically, what are some of the checks imposed on advertising? Do you think most people are capable, Maddox, of evaluating advertisements? How gullible are people anyway? I think they're a great deal less gullible than Mr. Wallen indicates. You have heard many people, at least I have, pick up an ad and say baloney where the claims are exaggerated. Even small children can get that out. Now, you see, Mr. Maddox is reversing his field. A little earlier, advertising was the thing that was going to save the national economy. Now he's saying it's not very effective and people don't believe it. Well, I want to know where you stand, Mr. Maddox. I say there are certain instances which you have pointed out where advertising overreaches itself but they represent a minority of advertising. The great bulk of advertising is factual and informative and does bolster the economy. That's correct. Now, Berg, you see, has made the point, Wallen, that many sellers are interested in preserving the integrity of their products and preserving their name. That's been your point, hasn't it? Oh, definitely so. The more advertising we do, the more business we do, the more business we do, the more funds we have for research and for field service and for the stability of the company behind the product and all those things. Well, then can we say this sort of thing? Mr. Berg represents the best point of view in advertising, that is, in an effort to be honest and informative. Can we say, then, at least this, that some advertising contributes to a better way of life but certainly we can't say that all does? Well, I think you ought to know that there is a very vigorous activity in the advertising business which seek self-regulation. There are committees in the American Association of Advertising Agencies which have no other purpose but to police the industry. Well, I would like to say this, that unless we continue to advertise, and aggressively, the businessmen of America, the wheels of industry will slow down, unemployment will increase, and we will not have the conditions such as we have today. I would like to have Mr. Maddox tell us what it was in the advertising industry that brought about this great desire for self-regulation. What was happening? I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Does Advertising Provide a Better Way of Life? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were John S. Maddox, Cy Berg, and Richard Wallen. The reviewing stand wishes to take this opportunity to express its appreciation to the management and staff of radio station WHK in Cleveland and the Cleveland Advertising Club for their cooperation in making this broadcast possible. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss the question Can We Prevent Alcoholism? Our guests will be Anton J. Carlson, Elvin M. Jelinek, Jeffrey Mapes, and Dr. Julius Masserman. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of the question Can We Prevent Alcoholism? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer is Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.ists PD of Farahtime isения and gluck to go through the мощ inter