The first emblem of the United States government, which was drawn up by Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson, contained... A picture which showed the Jews crossing the Red Sea. Right. And the U.S. plan for international control of atomic weapons was formulated by... Bernard Baruch. Right. And the young American composer of a symphony entitled Jeremiah is... Leonard Bernstein. Right. Right. These and 97 other questions appeared on the examination paper of the 5th Annual Citywide Contest in Hebrew Culture and its Contribution to American Life, conducted among students in New York City's high schools and junior high schools. More than 1,500 boys and girls from 120 schools participated. This afternoon, in the large hall of the Board of Education at 110 Livingston Street, Brooklyn, the final scene of that contest is about to take place. Dr. William Jansen, Superintendent of Schools, and the Honorable Maximilian Moss, President of the Board of Education, are here to act as hosts to the prize winners, their parents and friends. Your city station, WNYC, will bring you a part of this program, including messages from Dr. Jansen, Mr. Moss, and Mr. Judah Lapson, Director of the Hebrew Culture Council, which co-sponsored the contest, and a brief symposium by the prize winners. And now we present Superintendent of Schools, William Jansen. Dr. Jansen. Members of the Hebrew Culture Council, fortunate prize winners, and your happy parents. It always gives me pleasure to be present at the awarding of prizes under the sponsorship of the Hebrew Culture Council. These prizes take on special worth when it is realized that competition for them is open to all our students, and not only those of the Jewish faith. In this connection, I want to stress the word culture in the name of the sponsoring group. World culture is a composite of all that has been done through the ages by the greatest minds and spirits of all nations and of all races. The Hebrew contribution, extending as it does over thousands of years, has been particularly significant. Not only does it form part of our sacred writings, but it constitutes an important aspect of world progress and achievement in other respects. Of course, it is known to many of you that the best-selling book of all time is the Bible. Through the Bible, many readers have formed their first concepts of the Jewish contribution, not only in religion, but in ethical training as a way of life. Students trained by the diction of the Bible, which parallels in English the dignity of the Old Hebrew, have learned to write with clarity, with force, and with directness. Appropriate phrases from the Bible are quoted more frequently than those from any other source with the plays of Shakespeare, A Distant Second. The test in which the young prize winners have excelled consists of short-answer questions in various aspects of Hebrew culture and its contribution to the American way of life. These touch on art, music, literature, geography, history, ancient and modern, as well as customs in biblical lands and in present-day Israel. Since this cultural information may be obtained by wide reading, knowledge of Hebrew as a language is not a prerequisite qualification for those who compete. In the movement for a better understanding among all people, toward which we are striving in our schools, it is important that we learn a good deal about one another. While I know that knowledge in itself without a kindly spirit behind it is not sufficient, it stands to reason that many of the falsehoods which are circulated about those whom we do not know well find belief among the uninformed and create an atmosphere of suspicion and ill will. I am certain that among the prize winners here today, if they are Jewish, there exists, because of the knowledge they have acquired, a greater respect for the Hebrew contribution to civilization. And if they are not Jewish, for the same reason, a higher regard for what Jews have done to make our contemporary world a better place in which to live. In conclusion, I wish to point out that modern Hebrew in the rebirth of Israel has taken on meaning as broad and as various as the complexities of modern life itself. I look for greater and nobler achievement as the years go by in Hebrew literature, in music, in art, in government, in science, and in medicine. To that end, I hope there will be a long period of peace during which creative expression and research will be encouraged. To the Hebrew Culture Council, I extend my thanks for launching this interesting project. And to the boys and the girls who have won prizes, my congratulations on their knowledge of Hebrew culture. May your success be only a portent of greater achievements to come. Thank you. At this time, I should like to introduce our next speaker, the Honorable Maximilian Moss, President of the Board of Education. Mr. Moss has long been identified with work related to the work of the Hebrew Culture Council. He is known throughout the city for his interest in welfare and civic work, in addition to his membership on the Board of Education. I know you're all most happy to hear from Mr. Moss. Mr. Moss. Thank you, Dr. Jansen. The end of the academic year is always a happy season in the educational system. It is a season of prizes and praises when pupils, teachers, supervisors, and superintendents reap, to some extent, the reward of the year's labor. I have no statistics about the number of medals, special prizes, and honorable mentions handed out each year in the public schools of New York City. But I do know that those who receive such prizes are well worthy of them, and I want to congratulate all of them. Special words of praise are due to today's winners of the contest in Hebrew culture and its contribution to American life. Their awards are not received entirely in line with regular school work. Their participation in this contest is above and beyond the call of their duty. The knowledge they have displayed is not something directly gained in the formal classroom study, but was acquired through an inner urge for learning. The fact that so many pupils, more than 1,500 of them, were able to take part in this contest, the fact that so many prizes were won, and that the general average of correct answers to a really difficult quiz was so high are, to my mind, a real tribute to our public schools. I firmly believe that good teaching in our schools has been the stimulant to these children to go out and study on their own. And though only 78 have won prizes, in a real sense, everyone who has participated in this contest is a winner, for they are all endowed with a greater awareness of their place in our society and of the contributions of a great people toward the development of our country. Their knowledge has become a creative force which will lead to greater harmony and to a deeper and friendlier understanding between the various elements of our citizenry. I sincerely regret that due to his professional engagements today, it was impossible for Mayor O'Dwyer to be with us in person. But I should like to transmit to you now a message from the Mayor as follows. Please convey my congratulations and best wishes to the students who participated in the fifth annual contest in Hebrew culture and its contribution to American life, held recently under the joint sponsorship of the senior and junior high school divisions of the Board of Education in cooperation with the Hebrew Culture Council of the Jewish Education Committee of New York. This contest has always impressed me with the loftiness of its purpose, and it is a source of satisfaction to me to know that students in the schools of this city are enriching their cultural lives while preparing for this event. The City of New York is certainly proud that more than 5,000 students are currently studying modern Hebrew in its secondary schools and more than 1,200 in the four municipal colleges. These studies amount to a substantial cultural achievement. The entire American community is the beneficiary. Year by year, additional city schools introduce the study of Hebrew as part of their curriculum. This constitutes a steady development in a forward-looking direction. Credit for program in this area rightly belongs to our superintendent of schools, Dr. William Jansen, to his able associates, Drs. Frederick Ernst and Elias Lieberman, and to the parent groups, enthusiastically led by the Hebrew Culture Foundation, signed William O'Dwyer. The mayor, as you probably know, has always been keenly interested in the progress of the teaching of Hebrew and Hebrew culture within our school system. His leadership in this direction has been a steady source of inspiration to all of us. I know that I can express his sentiments as well as my own conviction when I say that we look forward to the expansion of the study of Hebrew in the city schools in the years to come. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Moss, for both your own message to these happy boys and girls and also for the message from Mayor O'Dwyer. Now next, instead of hearing an address, you're going to have a little novelty in the way of a symposium. Mr. Judah Lapson, who is the chairman of the contest committee and director of the Hebrew Culture Council, will lead some of the prize winners in a little symposium. Mr. Lapson. Thank you. Thank you, Dr. Jansen. May I take this opportunity to express my personal thanks to you, to President Moss, to Dr. Ernst and Dr. Lieberman, and your other associates in the Board of Education for the splendid manner in which you have helped this contest. I was really thrilled to observe the earnestness and enthusiasm with which many high schools and junior high schools in all boroughs have received and fostered this project and even more the enthusiasm with which the boys and girls themselves participated. There are a great many nice things I can say about the participants, but I think that the most important impression that I have carried away in the is that the contest was not an assembly of quiz kids giving brilliant answers to obscure questions. Here were earnest students who knew what they knew because they put in time and effort into learning. I wish I could reenact for you even a part of the contest, but instead I shall utilize the few moments at our disposal to give you and those assembled here and the radio audience some idea of the way these boys and girls think. What they think is important. A few years from now they will have a voice in the shaping of their own and our destinies. They are the America of the future. As a part of this contest we had asked each participant to write a brief essay on one of several topics. The most popular topic proved to be the world I want to live in. Standing before this microphone are ten of the prize winners. All of them have written extremely interesting essays on that theme. Within the next few minutes we shall have the privilege of hearing some of their ideas. I should like to hear first from Hugh Schwartz. Hugh is a student of Bayside High School in Queens. Hugh. There is a community where the populace is the grandest and most cheerful in creation. The atmosphere is literally alive with an air of prosperity, harmony, happiness, and hope. Through the years the inhabitants emphasized individual freedom as their standard rather than the forced harmony, strict controls, and false security common to the collectivisms. True liberalism took root. People lent an ear to the left and to the right and set out along a course of moderation steering clear from the evils of either extreme. Happiness was found not only through work but in work. Beauty and quality replaced gaudiness and quantity. A slower, surer society worked at a more relaxing tempo which eliminated nervous tension. Determination and confidence grew. A positive faith supplanted the attitude of fatalism. Eventually, there came into being a state of social equality which led to equal opportunity for all. where is this utopian place you may ask? Why, it's just ahead in the future. It's the world I want to live in. Youth always looks ahead. A better world is always just coming because no matter how well we are doing at present is the fact that we can look ahead to a still better world in the future that keeps us going. Now let us hear from Bennett Simon of Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn. Bennett. I believe that men are inherently good and therefore I earnestly hope for a finer, a nobler, a more peaceful earth. I sincerely believe that it is within the realm of human capability. I visualize an ideal world free from the curse of war and under the wings of peace making tremendous advances in science, medicine, and social relationships. Richard Winograd of DeWitt Clinton High School. I am sure that we all agree with what Bennett said and I would like to hear just what you, Richard, think about all this. Richard. The world I should like to be a part of would be run by a simple formula. Peace plus equality plus work for all equals a life of happiness. The most essential part of this formula is peace. Equality is another important ingredient. In the world I want to live in, people would not merely be tolerated but live as equals by common right. The aim must be work for all. When people do not have any work, they are restless. People who live in poverty are easy prey for dictators who lead them into war. And now, Paul Kushner of Winthrop Junior High School, Brooklyn. Since I've read all your essays, I'm really not surprised that you think as you do. Paul, for example, I know will agree with all those who have spoken before, won't you, Paul? Yes. The world I should like to live in is indeed a simple world. It is a world of brotherhood and shalom, peace, a world without hatred. Shalom means more than just the absence of violence. Shalom means brotherhood among men and among nations. Shalom means a day when all men will cooperate, when a person will not be denied a position because of his religion or the color of his skin and the word restricted will become a singular past when all men will live together in peace. Now, Paul was using the Hebrew word shalom for peace. Alexander Arkin of William Howard Taft High School, Bronx has some personal memories and is interested in making sure that certain events which have taken place recently will not happen again. Let us hear from you, Alexander. I want to hear, I want to live in a world without war and hate. I am perhaps a little more sensitive to hate in the future of the world because I am a Jew. We all saw what happened during the last war when six million of my people were killed because of German barbarism. To prevent another such slaughter, I should like to see a strong UN with an armed force capable of enforcing its decisions. I should like to see the UN able to punish a nation if it tried to do what the Germans did. If this happens, we would be able to keep the world at peace. Now, I should like to hear from the bell of this party, Gloria Traurig, a petite blonde from New Utrecht High School in Brooklyn. What would you like to say, Gloria? Our world needs peace, both on a worldwide and on a personal level. War, in these days of scientific advancement, very possibly could destroy our civilization. Even the threat of war is responsible today for the stifling of freedoms and the channeling of our creative efforts toward destructive ends. By personal peace, I mean friendly relations among all the groups and individuals I shall come in contact with. I should like to live in a society where true equality is practiced, where men are judged and respected for their own personalities, abilities, and contributions. In the world I would like to live in, everyone who is willing to work should be assured of earning inadequate living. There will be more conveniences and comforts because of scientific and technological progress, but idleness and wealth are not part of my ideal life. Today, man's goal seems to be a quest for power. I should like to substitute for this a quest for knowledge and for justice. Now, I should like to call on Salvatore Cantolino of David A. Booty Junior High School, Brooklyn. Salvatore. One of the most serious threats to world security is the ever-present practice of racial and religious discrimination. This creates among men a state of uneasiness and a lack of cooperation due to the absence of mutual understanding. The result is war, embodying strife, horror, and death. Until recently, I knew very little about the faith and background of the many Jewish people I come in contact with every day. In learning something of Jewish culture, I find I am in a better position to understand the Jewish people, their ideals, their accomplishments, and their problems. I'm a Catholic and proud of my religion, and someday soon, I hope that Jew and Christians, along with other faiths, will be better able to understand one another in the world I want to live in. Thank you. Now, Warren Goodman of Abraham Lincoln High School, Brooklyn. Warren, let us hear your opinion. What is your opinion in this matter? Ezekiel, the prophet of the Babylonian exile, once described the man who would be a model inhabitant of the world I want to live in. He that hath not given forth upon usury, neither hath taken any increase, that hath withdrawn his hand from iniquity, hath executed true judgment between man and man. Little has changed since the days of Ezekiel. We, too, live in an uncertain world. The prospects of living in the universally desired utopia in the near future are very dim. However, it is for us, the younger generation, to strive for justice, for fairness to all, and to end fear and want. And now let us hear from David Halperin of Stuyvesant High School, Manhattan. The world in which I want to live is not a gadgeteous paradise. Progress is not measured in more or better gimmicks, but more human dignity, and freedom. My conception of a better world is one in which all people everywhere have the right to live as men, a world in which no religious group is segregated into occupational or educational ghettos. It is not a place where colleges have quotas or one in which a race or caste is ordained to be hewers of wood and drawers of water. last but not least, let us hear what Martin Price has to say on this subject. Price is a student of the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan. Martin, please. Sometimes I think that our world still suffers from infant mentality. When we were children, we fought black wars. As we grew into adulthood, we graduated from black wars to world wars. Whereas our black wars won nothing and lost little, our mass scale wars bring nothing and lose a great deal. I don't want to go through what preceding generations have gone through. I, as well as every other normal person, want to be secure as an adult in a free and thriving world. world. We must try to secure the honest cooperation among the various nations and strengthen understanding among people, mainly through intensive intercultural activities, to wipe out chauvinism and aggressive nationalism. I believe that the welfare of all nations, even those whose interests conflict, would best be served by a world government whose relationship with the different nations might parallel that of our federal government's relationship with the individual states. such a government might more easily have one interest, that of the people. Thank you, Martin Price. I think that you and your colleagues this afternoon have made this very clear, that the world in which you want to live would be a world of peace, not only among nations, but also among individuals. That it would be a world in which the human being can live, and a secure and dignified life. Well, I know of no one who would disagree with that. We of the older generation have worked toward that goal, and if we have not always been successful, it does not mean that you of the younger generation are to be discouraged. Peace must still be the goal. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Lapson, and thank you for letting us hear from ten of your prize winners. Thank you. Thank you. for
