Start recording. Is he ready down there? Is he ready? He's ready. Don't be careful, but he doesn't need to be able to drive. He's ready. He's ready. He's ready. He's ready. He's ready. He's ready. He's ready. This is Matt, I'm kind of a small amount of attention. No, no. You're right. close it early Do you want me to kick down all that long How was bad? That 돼? All right, alright. All right,什麼? All right. All right. All right. The ceremony tonight is for Solomon. How do you do, ladies and gentlemen? We're talking to you from Gracie Mansion, the traditional home of the mayors of the city of New York. Here now is the voice of Francis Cardinal Spann. In this critical hour, made solemn by duties, made sacred by trusts, sanctified by prayerful hopes, we call upon thee to bless our city of New York. We ask thy blessing upon our mayor, upon our civic leaders, and upon all the people of this community. We pray thee to bless them by guarding them, by guiding them, and directing them in the ways of thy will, unto proper purpose and peace. God, Father of this city, bless and prosper it for the welfare of all. Thou didst build it in power to be a giant city, teeming with sons and daughters. Thou didst adorn it in beauty to be a queen city, glowing with wealth and with wisdom. Thou didst set it down by the side of the sea, at the crossroads of the world, to beacon light to nations, to pattern liberty and life to peoples, to be a Samaritan to mankind. O Father of this city, be Father to its peoples, to thy sons and daughters, that they may know thy will, and do thy will. Thou hast placed thy light, the torch of liberty, off the headlands, down the bay, for a sign to all peoples, and a pledge to all races, that this city shall endure as long as freedom endures, the freedom to live by thy will, the freedom to labor by thy will, the freedom to love in accord with thy command, to love thee and all thy sons as our brothers. O God of glory, for the sake of thy glory, give guidance to the mayor, thy instrument in this city, that the light of thy mind, may be light to his mind, that the love of thy heart, may be love to his heart. Give him courage to dare, give him strength to do, that this city may be to the world, a haven to the homeless and friendless, a comforter to the helpless and hopeless. Bless this city, O God, and bless our mayor, that his administration, that his administration may be eminently useful to all the people whom he has been elected to serve. Bless all of us in this sorely stricken world. Cause misunderstandings to lessen, and hatreds to cease. And hatreds to cease. Make truth, justice and charity prevail, that under thy guiding spirit, our city, our country, and the United Nations, all nations, may enjoy the blessings of a lasting peace. Here now is the Honorable Albert Conway, Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals. Mr. Mayor, I shall now administer the oath. Do you, William O'Dwyer, solemnly swear, that you will support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of New York, and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of mayor of the city of New York to the best of your ability? So help me God. So help me God. Congratulations. The Honorable William O'Dwyer has just been sworn in to a second term as the mayor of the city of New York in the presence of a distinguished gathering here in Gracie Mansion, the traditional home of the mayors of the city of New York. The oath was administered by the Honorable Albert Conway, Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals. We return you now to our studios.