Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, are our schools adequately housed? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will consider the adequacy of our school plant and present an evaluation of ways and means of improving educational facilities. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Richard M. Bennett, member of the architectural firm Lobel, Schlossman & Bennett, and formerly chairman of the Department of Architecture at Yale University. Thomas J. Higgins, director of the building surveys for the Chicago Board of Education. And Professor William C. Revis, professor emeritus of education and director of school surveys at the University of Chicago, and lecturer in education at Northwestern University. A federal survey finds, gentlemen, that some six million school children now are attending classes in rickety, inadequate buildings. Another one million are going only part-time because of classroom crowding. The school population, moreover, will increase by one million a year in the next three years because of the high birth rate in the forties. All of this means that cities and states either must undertake a vast school expansion program or cut down educational standards. Now I quote this from the United States News and World Report of February 6th. Revis, do you think this is a fair statement of our school housing needs? McBurney, I think it is a fair statement insofar as the number of children in the country who are housed in depreciated buildings is concerned, and insofar as the number who are attending school only part-time. What are the facts on this problem? Well, it really is an understatement insofar as the expansion of the plant is concerned because we have more than three years to take care of. We have an accumulation of need, which is the result of inadequate building during a period of high increase in enrollment. I think that the dramatic illustration why this is true is the fact that in the State of the Union message of President Eisenhower, this is one of the points he brought out, that it was an emergency and a study must be made of the total problem and that the last work of the last Congress should be continued. I think that you had something else that you were talking about, too, on that survey. Well, the high point in enrollment was reached in the year 1933-34. Since that time to the present, the increase has been approximately 7.25 million children. Now, during this same period, building of schools has been at a low point. We have not been building schools as rapidly as they should have been built. A total of 242,000 classrooms should have been built during this period. That's an average of 10,500 classrooms a year for a 20-year period. The fact is that we have built probably a third of this number. And as a result, we have an accumulation of need in classrooms to house this increased population, which we've been speaking about. Now, is this problem, Higgins, primarily one of the metropolitan centers, I wonder? I think perhaps the metropolitan areas are suffering along with other communities in this problem. Most communities have been conducting long-range surveys as to their ultimate needs. We in Chicago can definitely project our needs for the next five-year period based on the past five-year birth rate. Our predictions have been within one-half of one percent of accuracy. We will grow at the rate of 10,000 pupils per year for the next five-year period, and beyond that, we hesitate to hazard a guess. Well, now, why do we face this kind of a problem, Revis? I have the impression from what you gentlemen are saying here that we face something of a crisis in school buildings and school plant. What's the explanation of it? We've been around here for a good many years. Why has this thing caught up with us? We had a very rapid increase in birth rate following World War I and also a rapid period of building for a rapid rate of building for that period. Then the Depression came on, and building dropped to a trickle during that period. Following the Depression, we entered World War I, and there were restrictions on building materials during that period. The result is... You mean World War II, don't you? World War II. Yes. The result is that when our enrollment was increasing most rapidly in the 40s, we had done no building in preparation for that, and we also were unable to do any building to meet our needs during that decade. The total result is that we find ourselves now very short in classroom facilities. Well, isn't it true, too, that all of the predictions that the people used to make about our birth rate are a little bit off, perhaps? That aren't we having more children now than we are supposed to statistically, and that perhaps there's a different attitude towards children in this country? I believe that's right, Mr. Bennett. Our birth rate in Chicago very closely parallels the national birth rate for the last 15 years, when the birth rate has been raised from 15 per thousand population to 25. That is much greater in some areas of the country and some slightly less. But universally, the 25 birth rate for a thousand population is a pretty good standard. Now, is this problem we're discussing, Higgins, primarily in the elementary schools? Yes. We've had very little growth in any high schools except from where new communities are being developed, and their children of high school age moving into a new community. For instance, in the Chicago schools, 15 years ago, we had nearly 50,000 more pupils in high school than we have today. Our high school load will not be effective in Chicago until 58 or 60. Is that the point you were going to make? Yes. In other words, there's a bulge, or has been a bulge, and the question is, should we continue to think of it as a bulge that goes along, or might not this be a higher plateau? That's just something else to keep in mind. These figures for the nation might help to clarify this problem. In 1940, we had 2,360,000 children born. In 1947, the peak year for the country, we had 3,700,000 born. That's 50%, 55% gain over 1940. In 1948, there was a slight drop. Still, we had 49% more children born than were born in 1940. And the figures for 49, 50, 51, and 52 are approximately the same, except that in 52, the birth rate exceeded that of 1947. So we had the highest birth rate during the past year. One other point I'd like to make is that these children enter school, either in the kindergarten, five years after they're born, or in the first grade, six years after they're born. And they enter the high school, usually, at the age of 14 or 15, so that the bulge that you were speaking about for the elementary school now would strike the high school in 58, 59, and 60. Revis, do you think this is a temporary problem growing out of the increased birth rate during and after World War II? Is this thing likely to taper off? It might taper off, Bennett, but it won't affect the building problem that we are faced with now. Our problem now is so critical because of the neglect to build schools during this period of the early 30s up to the present time. Higgins? There's been a little drop-off in the marriage rate during the last year. Whether that will be enough to affect the birth rate is hard to guess. Well, now, these claims of an inadequate school plant, it seems to me, necessarily involve us in certain assumptions as to what are acceptable standards of adequacy in school buildings. What criteria do you apply in assessing adequacy? You say there's so many inadequate schools. On what basis are they inadequate? We think that our schools today ought not have an enrollment per teacher as high as it formerly was. In the old rural school, we had 50 or 60 pupils, oftentimes per grade. Education, of course, was poor in those schools. Today, we think that the average should not exceed 30. Now, this necessitates more use. Furthermore, we feel that children today ought not to be sent to school in substandard classrooms, such as basement rooms and these rented properties, like church properties, church Sunday schools, and commercial properties in many of the cities, which are rented to relieve the overcrowding in the schools. Now, I'll concede that sort of thing. I think most people would. But is there any reason why a building can't be used effectively as a school building, merely because it's 50 years old or even 100 years old, as I take it some of our school buildings are, Higgins? Well, the first consideration, of course, would be the health and the safety of the children. Many of the old schools, 50 years old, can be made safe and helpful and are being made safe and helpful. However, there's many of those old school buildings with high basements or semi-basements and three high stories piled on top where all the toilet facilities and the wash facilities are located in the basement, requiring the children to travel four stories up and down to use those facilities. That isn't the most serious thing, but those old school buildings lack so many teaching facilities that are considered essential today, essential for physical education, gymnasiums, auditoriums, libraries, home mechanic shops, all of the subjects that are being included in a modern elementary curriculum. Dennis? Well, I just can't help but put in here this fact. How many big industrial plants are using buildings that are 100 years old or 90 years old if they can possibly get rid of them? It seems to me that they know that they do a better job in a new building, and it's true of any kind of a process, and the process of learning, it seems to me, demands an enlightened attitude as an industrial man. Of course, a lot of universities, Bennett, are using some pretty old buildings. I can think of one or two with a lot of ivy hanging all over them. Sometimes we seem to think the older they are, the better we like them. Well, that's true, because you can do English and certain talking type of classes in those buildings, but at the same time, you'll find new gymnasia and new science buildings, and in other words, you have a big plant there with parts of it adapted to certain things. This isn't true in elementary school or a high school. I observed, too, McBernie, that there are very few people, especially adults, who are driving 1920, 1910 automobiles, or even 1920 automobiles. They demand a car that has the improvements that modern times have been able to build into automobiles. Now, the 81st Congress authorized a survey of plants through the Office of Education, and that survey has been made, and it has been made for 25 geographical areas of the United States, including approximately 45% of the population, so we can draw a general conclusion from a sampling of areas that large. Now, this survey points out that 40% of all the buildings, all the buildings used for public school purposes are unsatisfactory. Only 22.6% of all the buildings are satisfactory. 37.4% of the buildings used for schools were considered fair. That is the status of our plants. Now, it's the point you were making a moment ago, Higgins. These buildings are lacking in these modern facilities, such as auditoriums, gymnasiums, libraries, cafeterias, medical suites for the care of the children, music rooms, art rooms, science rooms, the like. The unsatisfactory buildings also have facilities that we can scarcely approve, such as only cold water in the building. No sewage disposal. 25% of the total number of buildings used for school purposes lack sewage disposal. Of course, you would say that many of these are rural schools. 24% still use the old-fashioned outdoor privy, and there are no fixed washing facilities in at least 22%. These figures indicate that we have an enormous problem of modernizing our plant in addition to extending the facilities to meet the large increase in pupil enrollment. It seems to me that even if the community in which these schools are situated have similar facilities, nevertheless, when a school changes, and you get a good new school in what we might call a less privileged area, suddenly that whole area picks up. And I believe that we should make the point here that a school is the heart of a community. It gives leadership, and it makes people proud, brings them together, and it sets higher standards for everyone. Certainly a school that is the center of a community should have some place where the community can meet, too, such as a small auditorium. I believe it called that, don't you, in elementary schools. Multi-purpose room. That's right. It has many, many uses, and not the least one is the business of getting the people involved in the education of their children so they understand, and so we don't have a misconception of what this is progressive, they don't teach the way we talk. How do they teach it? People should know. The use of schools for community activities has been, well, the school has been the center of the community and many rural communities for many, many years. However, the use of the school for community activities and planning school buildings for cooperative use with other agencies is now being seriously considered and accomplished in many of our metropolitan areas. In many communities, park districts and school boards have collaborated in the planning of the schools and the purchase of school sites, which provides added educational and recreational facilities for a community without adding to the total tax load. In most of our states, the number of school buildings has been decreased during recent years due to consolidation, which is an effort to improve school facilities. In our own state, Illinois, we have changed from something like 11,000 districts 10 years ago to about 4,500 today. Now, that means we have discarded a lot of classrooms where school was held. We haven't done what we ought to have done in order to increase the facilities to meet the modern standards, which you were discussing, and to provide sufficient number of classrooms to take care of the load. Well, now, Revis, you were citing a national survey to the effect that 40% of our school plant is unsatisfactory, and you spelled out some unsatisfactory conditions, inadequate plumbing or no plumbing at all, and other specifications. But when you say 40% of our school plant is inadequate, would you say, to pursue a question I put a while ago, that an old building built 50 years ago that has plumbing in the basement that's three stories high is necessarily inadequate? It's likely to be inadequate insofar as providing satisfactory facilities are concerned. These basement rooms ought not to be used for classroom purposes, and many of them are being used, for housing pibbles. Are these old buildings safe, Higgins? They can be made safe in many instances, that is, by fireproofing corridors, replacing wooden stairs with steel or concrete stairs, fireproofing the joists, and most of them are wood construction. We are keenly interested in preserving our economy and using those old buildings wherever it's possible to use them. That is, we have discovered that by an expenditure of perhaps 40% of the replacement value of that school, that we could make an adequate school building out of a building, let's say, that's 50 years old. We'd put in new lighting, we'd put in perhaps new window openings, fenestration. We might lower the ceilings, we'd put acoustical tile on the ceilings, we'd resurface the floor, we'd put in new toilets, we'd put in new seats and new blackboards and new cartboards, and we'd make it, for all practical purposes, in appearance, approximately what a new school building would provide. I would approve the use of buildings which are merely old. provided that we do what Higgins has just said, that we modernize them to the extent possible. Now that may be costly, but nevertheless, it is justified if you house children in schools during six hours of the school day. There's another point, too, we keep talking about just the building, but there's also the grounds. In many cases, practices of a few years ago, you didn't have enough land around the school, and the outdoor play space, that sometimes is very difficult to add to an existing plant because of neighboring buildings. And I found that situation, Bennett, just as critical in small communities as it is in urban centers. There are more small towns with inadequate playgrounds, and there are schools in Chicago with inadequate playgrounds. I'm sure that's true. Higgins, we ought to include as a part of the school the equipment that is used in this school. I have seen some of these extremely modern schools equipped with old desks and chairs and the like. Now, usually, the equipment suffers when a school building is constructed because they'll use up all the money for a building and then use the old facilities in the modern building. that doesn't seem to me to be right because the equipment is a part of the functional use of the school building. Therefore, the teacher and the pupils are fully as much interested in the modern character of the equipment as they are in the modern building and the adequate school site. Now, we've got two architects here with us today. We've talked about these modern school buildings. How does a modern school building differ from some of these old buildings that we've been describing, Bennett? Well, I think that in the elementary school you find probably the greatest apparent change in many communities. They're building them only one story high. The lighting is tremendously improved. They have sometimes windows on both sides of the room, bilateral lighting. They have planned storage space for all the things that they use. They have preparation made for audiovisual teaching, movies, song movies. And they have playgrounds on my space right outside for outdoor teaching. But I think the biggest change besides details like this is the basic philosophy of the building which is to make the school be built around the student rather than make the building stand for a symbol of the society that built it. In other words, we're getting rid of the stone columns out front. We're making the room smaller, child size, and trying to make this the child's own world. To what extent are we, Bennett, are we being driven to this program of school construction under the impact of newer ideas about education, newer philosophies of education, newer methods of education? Well, I think that... Is that the reason this problem exists? I think that the idea today is instead of the teacher facing the students, the students also face each other. One of the big problems of our life is working together. Instead of lining our people like soldiers and drilling them, the idea is to make a space in which the students can participate in their own education. Now, it seems to me this is the essence of democracy and it takes a little bit more space to do it that way. We are treating children for a life in a democratic social order in these schools. therefore, we must have facilities in these schools which enable the children to participate more in the activities that go on in the classroom. Not just studying a book in a fixed seat but participating in activities like student councils, the use of the library, and so on. When a person talks about school buildings, they always want to come back to this one about Mark Hopkins on the log. Well, the thing that we all forget is that Mark Hopkins was only teaching one student on that log and he wasn't teaching a science course. And he wasn't living in an age where you have to have demonstrations and really see this complicated world that we're living in. McBurney, today one teacher will teach 30 or more. Many of the classes run up into the 40s and I have visited schools within very recent months which had enrollments approximately 50. Now, none of us condone that fact that classrooms should accommodate so many pupils. We do realize that teachers must teach groups. in these schools and therefore the facilities must be conducive to group teaching. We must have more floor area per pupil. In the old school the standard was 15 square feet of floor area per pupil. Today it's 30. That enables the children to have a more flexible program to participate in classroom activities easier and with greater greater facility. Why haven't we made more progress in meeting this problem, Wilkins? Primarily due to lack of funds and I think that probably is a universal statement. Are you saying that we don't have enough money to support good schools that we can't afford them? We have not been able to vote enough money. I think we have enough money to support good schools, the schools that we should have. However, in most instances school building construction is based upon the bonding power of the community. In Illinois, that's 5% of the assessed valuation. In Indiana, it's only 2%. I believe that we have to look for equal opportunities for all of our children. We have to provide all of our children with adequate school facilities. I believe, personally, that a country that has provided federal aid to peoples all over the world certainly can provide adequate schools for our own children. But isn't this a problem which is almost too great for many of the communities at the present time? Shouldn't the state and the federal government also share in providing adequate housing for the children? They will have to, Revis. There isn't bonding power in many, many communities throughout the state where the local community can provide vote bonds and pay bonds to erect even inadequate schools. We must have aid, either state aid or federal aid, to provide equal opportunities for all our children. Do you encounter in your work in these areas much opposition to adequate school construction? During the past five years, I know of no bond issue that has failed when it's been adequately presented and honestly presented to the people of the community. They've been universal in their acceptance of their school obligations and have been willing to vote taxes to pay for adequate schools. How do teachers react to these old buildings we've been discussing, Revis? Some of them like them if the buildings are kept up to date. But buildings must be properly decorated to be attractive. The floors must be cleaned. The furniture can be modern. The blackboards can be changed from the old type board that reflected light to the more modern type of board which is green or yellow. Tackboards are put up in the schools. Room is provided for nooks to place tables for library purposes and the like. If an old classroom can be made to have all these functional requirements teachers may like them. I'd like to suggest the possibility that schools that persist in these antiquated buildings are likely to find themselves behind the eight ball when it comes to hiring really competent teachers. They're likely to find it difficult also to maintain property values in their community. That's very true McBurney. The teacher today can make a choice. I'm very, very sorry gentlemen but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion. Are our schools adequately housed? We want to thank our guests for today. Richard M. Bennett member of Lobel, Schlossman & Bennett and former chairman of the Department of Architecture at Yale University. Thomas J. Higgins Director of Building Surveys Chicago Board of Education and William Claude Revis Professor Emeritus of Education at the University of Chicago and lecturer at Northwestern University. Now our moderator James H. McBurney returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week the reviewing stand will ask can small business survive? Our guests will be Ewing T. Bowles President of the Investment Bankers Association of America. Peter Bukowski President of the Cosmopolitan Bank in Chicago and former manager of the Chicago Loan Agency of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. Harry Guthman Professor of Finance at Northwestern University and Fred A. Verkus Chairman of the Conference of American Small Business Organizations. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion Can Small Business Survive? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. isurry of the жить