For some highlights and sidelights on the various exhibits here at the Golden Anniversary Exposition, we have with us now Mr. Thomas J. Patterson, Director of the Budget of New York City. Mr. Patterson will discuss the background of the Budget Department, and will also tell us a little of the Department's exhibit here at Grand Central Palace. Mr. Patterson, just what are the functions of the Bureau of the Budget? Well, you know the principal function of the Bureau of the Budget is to prepare the executive budget for his Honour of the Mayor for a presentation to the Board of Estimates. Now this budget sets up all the various allowances for the operation of the different departments of the city. This, of course, is not the only job that is entrusted to the Director of the Budget. In addition, there is referred to the Director of the Budget all the requests from departments for capital outlay expenditures. That is for those permanent improvements such as the construction of schools, hospitals, parks, piers, incinerators, incinerators, and all other public buildings. During the course of the year, there is also referred to the Director all requests for the filling of positions. The Director of the Budget must issue a certificate setting forth the necessity of the filling of this position before the controller will pay the salary of the particular position. This is all covered by restrictions and part of the setup made in connection with the expense budget. Recently, we had occasion to go to the Court of Appeals to get the power to modify schedules which provide for adjustments of salaries, that is, increasing one line, decreasing another. These have to be reported upon by the Director of the Budget and have to be approved by the Board of Estimates before they have any power or effect. All contracts and specifications for all public improvements are referred to the Director of the Budget. There is also the work during the course of the year of the examiners of this Bureau in keeping in close touch with the various departments, making examinations and studies of the functions of each department with the thought in mind what economies can be made and how expenditures can be curtailed. As a little sidelight on this, Mayor Dwyer, for the first time, created in the Bureau of the Budget a Bureau of, or a Division of Analysis, which is directly under the Assistant Director of the Budget, in order that special administrative studies may be made from time to time, and reports made to his Executive Committee on Administration, who in turn take up these matters with the Mayor. Well, where does the City get the money required to perform so many services to the public? Well, the principal source of revenue in connection with the expense budget, of course, is the tax on real estate. This tax is limited to 2% of the assessed valuation, exclusive of interest and amortization, on long-term debt. But, of course, this tax is not near enough to meet the expenses of running a government of this kind. In addition, we have all kinds of revenues such as the sales tax, claimants on license fees, water charges, franchises, and various miscellaneous revenues, which for the current fiscal year, approximate about $400 million. This added to the real estate tax of $500 million, practically makes up the total receipts required to finance the City budget of over $1 billion. Mr. Patterson, what is the procedure in making up the expense budget of the City of New York? Well, we have forms that are prepared in the Office of the Bureau of the Budget. They're transmitted to the various departments with instructions telling them how to make up their estimates. On these forms, we show what is the existing budget allowance, how it varies from the budget as adopted by the Board of Estimates, whether there have been any increases or decreases, and then there are special columns for them to show the request for the next fiscal year with itemization of increases or decreases line by line or account by account, so that the necessary information for the public is readily shown. These requests are carefully analyzed, and the examiners are submitted to cross-examination by the Director of the Budget, who in turn goes over the matters with the Mayor of the City of New York before the Executive Budget is presented to the Board of Estimates. How does the Director of the Budget cooperate with the Office of the Comptroller in the preparation of the budget? Well, it is a very important matter for the Director of the Budget to keep in close touch with the Comptroller of the City of New York. As I stated before, one of the main items or sources of revenue is the general fund. The Director of the Budget must obtain from the Comptroller what is the estimated figure for the general fund, so that he can base his setup and know whether he is living within the estimated revenues when he makes recommendations to the Mayor, so that we will not go in the red. Is the City's expense budget or its preparation so complicated that the average person can't readily understand it? Well, in our opinion, we say definitely no. We feel that the detail that we set up this budget and the preparation that we give to it to present a complete picture to the public, showing just where all the money comes from and just for what purpose we intend to use that is very clear and distinct. We also believe, from the standpoint of budget making, that the City of New York does not have to take its hat off to any other municipality or state or government in giving to the public the complete picture which the Administration feels the public is entitled to. How about the ordinary person? Can the ordinary person participate in the preparation of the expense budget? Well, the Director of the Budget grants hearings to each department to explain in public, to whatever extent they may deem necessary, the items contained in their request. Questions and answers are generally indulged in at these hearings. The public may attend these hearings. The public cannot be, participate in the discussions, but if there is any particular item that the public really is interested in, the Director of the Budget is only too anxious to explain it. Now when it comes to the hearings before the Board of Estimate on the Executive Budget, the Board fixes dates for public hearings, at which time the privilege is extended to any person or organization for an expression of their views on any item contained in the Budget. This not only applies to the expense budget, but it also applies to the capital outlay budget. What's the size of the City's expense budget for the fiscal year 1948-1949? This budget amounts to approximately $1,150,000,000. And what's the size of the capital outlay budget? And the capital outlay budget amounts to approximately $250,000,000. How about the mandatory powers of some of the courts and other agencies in the City? Well, there's been considerable discussion, and we have gone to Albany, I say we, I mean the authorities of the City of New York, trying to get Satan legislation amended or changed, so that the power of fixation of salaries would be entirely with the Board of Estimate. The Board of Estimate is really the Board of Directors of the City of New York. And I am of the opinion that the Board of Estimate should have this power of fixation, and their hands should not be tied in any way. Of course, in many instances, it's just possible that mandatory powers would give some individual the power of fixation that the Board would not be in accord with. Thank you very much, Mr. Patterson. We've just heard Mr. Thomas J. Patterson, Director of the Budget of New York City, in a discussion of the functions of the Bureau of the Budget. Every weekday, Monday through Saturday, WNYC will bring you interviews with various City Department exhibitors at the Golden Anniversary Exposition in Grand Central Palace. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.