Ladies and gentlemen, we now have the great privilege of introducing Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt. You may find it difficult to believe, but the beloved former First Lady of the Land is with us today in the role of a disc jockey for the March of Dimes. Now, Mrs. Roosevelt, we know you're a lady of many talents, but won't you tell us why you have agreed to embark on this astonishing new career, even if only temporarily? Certainly. Being a disc jockey is a little unusual for me, and perhaps I'm beyond my depth. But I'm here today on behalf of the March of Dimes, and there's nothing unusual about my deep interest down the years in the inspiring work of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. Yes, we know, of course, that President Roosevelt founded the National Foundation 19 years ago, but won't you explain further how this portrayal of a disc jockey helps the March of Dimes? I'd be glad to. You see, all over the country this month, people are displaying their hidden talents to raise money to fight polio. Many people have secret gifts, unexpected skills, and it's these skills and amateur talents that I want to applaud, because they are being used in such a humanitarian way. Many prominent men and women, mayors, college presidents, businessmen, have enjoyed their unusual roles, playing guitars or doing interpretations of Casey at the Bat. Why, in Washington not so long ago, a very dignified senator led a barbershop quartet. People enjoy hearing amateurs, too, which is why talent shows are fun as well as productive. Well, Mrs. Roosevelt, we wanted to be sure that you're appearing today as a professional disc jockey with all his responsibilities. So, you're going to receive requests to play favorite records by the studio audience with a contribution to the March of Dimes for each request. But we've assembled a very special audience for you. It consists of five teenage youngsters, I shouldn't say teenage youngsters, because one of them is not teenaged, who were stricken by polio not so long ago, and they have a very real interest in helping the March of Dimes, which has helped them. They're greatly honored, I'm sure, to be with you today, and to be in the enviable position of asking you to play the music they like most. I'd like to introduce them to you as each makes a request. Now, first, this is Joyce Alexander, and she's from the Bronx. Hello, Joyce. Hello. I'd like to ask you just where you go to school in New York. P.S. 90 in the Bronx. And when were you taken with polio? Two years ago. Two years ago. And have you had good care since? Yes. And are you getting better? Yes. That's fine. Well, now, Joyce, what would you like me to play at your request? Would you please play Love Me? And who do you want to have sing it? Elvis Presley. All right. Treat me like a fool Treat me mean and cruel But love me Bring my faithful heart Tear it all apart But love me Won't you love me? Believe her, whoever go Darling, I'm the old So lonely I'll be sad and blue Crying over you Dear me I would beg and steal Beg and steal Just to feel Just to feel Just to feel Your heart I want your heart Feeding close to mine So close to mine Wherever you ever go Darling, I'll be old Darling, I'll be old So lonely Darling, I'll be old So lonely I'll be sad and blue Crying over you Digging on me I would beg and steal Beard and steal Beal and steal Oh, so lonely Begging on my knees All I ask is please, please love me Oh, yeah I think I'm beginning to get the feeling of my new career. Good. Just sitting down, saying nothing, and spinning records is extremely peaceful for a change. Is this all I have to do? Well, perhaps not quite. Later on, Mrs. Roosevelt, like any good disc jockey, you'll be asked to make a pitch, or a commercial as we say in the game. But right now, let me introduce you to George Redmond of Manhattan. Hello, George. Hello. I'm very glad to have you here at my first performance as a disc jockey. Now, tell me a little about yourself. How long ago did you get polio? Well, I got it when I was two and a half. Two and a half. And were you a poster boy by any chance? Yes, I was. You were. Well, are you feeling better now? Yes. Are you getting so you can do more? Yes. Oh, well, now that's very nice. But it takes a long time, doesn't it, George? Yes, it does. Well, now what do you want to be played for you? Oh, Reddy Teddy. Oh, and who do you want to have sing it? Well, I would like Elvis Presley to sing it. Oh, you all like the same person, don't you? All right, well, we'll ask put that on to be played. Ready, set, go, man, go. I got a girl that I love so I'm ready. Ready, ready, ready, ready, I'm ready. Ready, ready, ready, ready, I'm ready. Ready, ready, ready, ready, ready to rock and roll. Going down to the corner, pick up my sweetie pie. She's my rock and roll, baby, she's half a love of my heart. Ready, ready, ready, I'm ready. Ready, ready, ready, ready, I'm ready. Ready, ready, ready, ready, ready to rock and roll. Got a flat-top cats and a dungary dogs. I headed for the gym to the soft hog ball. The joints really jumpin', the cats are goin' wide. I'm usually in this to my days, a crazy style. Ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, I'm ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, ready to rock and roll. The flat-top cats and a dungary dogs. Heady for the gym to the soft hog ball. The joints really jumpin', the cats are goin' wide. And a little less of my days, a crazy guy. Ready, ready, ready, ready, I'm ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, ready, I'm ready, ready, ready, ready, ready to rock and roll. Gonna kick on my shoes, roll up my faded jeans. Grab a rock and roll, baby, pour on the steam. A shovel to the left, a shovel to the right, gonna rock and roll. Yes, this is radio station WNYC at 830 kilocycles or 93.9 megacycles on FM, believe it or not. And it's Elvis Presley on WNYC. And as well as Elvis Presley, a very special personality, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt is acting as disc jockey. Mrs. Roosevelt? Yes, I'm doing something unusual just as WNYC is doing something unusual. A little while back, I paid tribute to those who have already participated in talent shows or will later this month in their home communities. I would also like to encourage more people to participate and even to organize more local talent shows for the benefit of the March of Dimes. I'm sure there are hundreds of people like myself who would get up in public and show hidden talents far more entertaining than anything I can do for such an inspiring cause. Well, I doubt that very much. Here now with us, Mrs. Roosevelt, is Florence Krieger. Florence, will you tell our celebrated disc jockey what record you would like her to play, although I'm sure Mrs. Roosevelt has a few questions for you before we do that. I would like to have Harry Balafonte's Clipso records, especially Man Smart. All right, I'm sure they'll play it in just a minute. I wanted to ask you, how long have you been ill, my dear? Three years. Three years. And are you getting along and improving? Yes, ma'am. Are you able to go to school? Yes. And I see you can get around in a wheelchair, but are they beginning to teach you to walk at all? Yes, ma'am, I walk. They are. Oh, that's good. I'm glad of that. Well, now we'll have your record. I say let us put man and a woman together to find out which one is smarter. Some say men, but I say no. The women, but the men, they should know. Not me. For people, they say that the men are leading the women astray. But I say that the women of today are smarter than the men in every way. That's right, the women is smarter. That's right. The women is smarter. That's right. The women is smarter. That's right. That's right. Ever since the world began, woman was always teaching man. You listen to my bit attentively. I'm going to tell you how she's smarter than me and not me. But the people, they say that the men are leading the women astray. But I say that the women of today are smarter than the men in every way. Samson was the strongest man long ago. No one could have beat him, as we all know, until he clashed with Delilah on top of the bed. She told him all the strength was in the hair of his head and at me. But the people, they say that the men are leading the women astray. But I say that the women of today are smarter than the men in every way. That's right, the women is smarter. That's right, the women is smarter. That's right, the women is smarter. That's right. That's right. Hey, you meet a girl at a pretty dance. Thinking that you would stand a chance. Take a home thinking she's alone. Open the door. You find a husband home, not me. But the people, they say that the men are leading the women astray. But I say that the women of today are smarter than the men in every way. That's right. The women is smarter. That's right, the human is smarter. That's right. The women is smarter. That's right. That's right. I was treating a girl independently She was making baby for me When the baby born and I went to see Eyes was blue It was not by me, not me But the people they say That the men are leading the women astray But I say that the women of today Smarter than the man in every way Oh yes, smarter Thank you, Florence. I enjoyed that too. And you'll enjoy the knowledge that your contribution from your allowance will help other children in the same circumstances as yourself. Now, since I am impersonating a disc jockey, in all fairness, I should say something about my competitors. All across the country this month, many disc jockeys have been playing request numbers when their little listeners send along a contribution to the March of Dimes. And that sounds like a very good idea. Now, our next guest is Alan Fox, and he's from the Bronx. Mrs. Roosevelt, Mr. Fox. I'm very glad to see you, Alan. Where do you go to school? P.S. 85 in the Bronx. And are you getting better too? Yes. How long is it since you've been ill? Twelve years. Well, you've had a long time, haven't you? Yes. Well, I'm glad to see that you can get about all right, can't you? Yes. Oh, that's fine. Well, now, you're going to ask also for something to be played, aren't you? Yes. What is your choice? I Can't Give You Anything But Love, Baby by Eddie Fisher. Love, love, love, nothing but my love, love, love, nothing but my love, baby. I can't give you anything but love, baby. That's the only thing I've plenty of, baby. Dream a while, scheme a while, you're sure to find happiness. And I guess all those things you've always pined for. Gee, I'd like to see you looking swell, baby. Diamond bracelets full worth dozen sell, baby. Till that lucky day you know darn well, baby. I can't give you anything but love, love, love, nothing but my love, love, love, nothing but my love, baby. Joolipy bop, bop. Baby. Baby. Baby. Baby. Baby. Baby. Baby. Baby. Prおわげん挤 left forの Dream a while, scheme a while, We're sure to find Happyness, and I guess All those things you always pine for. Gee, I'd like to see you looking swell, baby. Diamond bracelets full worth dozen sell, baby. Till that lucky day you know darn well, Baby, I can't give you anything but love Love, love, love, love, love, love, love, baby I think we've heard all the men sing. I wonder if we could ask Florence to ask for one number where a girl sang. Yes, I would like to hear Dinah Shore sing St. Louis Blues. I've got the blues The sad and melancholy blues I hate to see that even sun go down And I hate to see that even sun go down Cause my baby, he done left this town If I'm feeling tomorrow just like I feel today If I'm feeling tomorrow just like I feel today I'll pack my trunk and make my getaway St. Louis woman with your diamond ring That's no doubt, woman You drag that man around by your apron string That's no doubt, woman If it weren't for powder and for your store-bought hair That, no doubt, woman That man I love would not have gone nowhere Nowhere I've got the St. Louis Blues as blue as I can be Got the blues I've got the St. Louis Blues as blue as I can be Got the blues That man's got a heart like a rock cast in the sea Got the blues I love that man like a schoolboy loves his pie Got the blues Lord, I'll love my baby till the day I die I've got the blues I've got the blues I've got the St. Louis Blues I've got the blues I've got the St. Louis Blues I've got the blues I got the blues, I got the St. Louis blues. I got the blues, just as blue as I can be, got the St. Louis blues. Mrs. Roosevelt, you might be interested in knowing that two of our recording stars today, Eddie Fisher and Elvis Presley, have had a great deal to do with the March of Dimes and its efforts to stamp out polio. Eddie Fisher, for example, is the national co-chairman of the Teens Against Polio. He's done a great deal of work in that field. That is TAPS, T-A-P-S. And Elvis Presley, this past fall, took the first of the Salk Polio shots to encourage teenagers to do the same. Well, I think that's perfectly splendid. Have we got time for one more? Would you please play I've Got the World on a String by Perry Como? All right, Joyce, I'm sure we will. I got the world on a string, sitting on a rainbow. Got a string around my finger. What a world, what a life. What a life, I'm in love. I got a song that I sing. I can make the rain go anytime I move my finger. Lucky me, can't you see I'm in love? Life is a beautiful thing. As long as I hold a string. I'd be a silly so-and-so if I should ever let you go. I've got the world on a string, sitting on a rainbow. Got a string around my finger. What a life, what a world. I'm in love. What a world, what a life. I'm in love. Lucky me, can't you see that I'm in love? Life is a beautiful thing. Life is a beautiful thing. As long as I hold a string. I'd be a silly so-and-so if I should ever let you go. Oh, I've got the world on a string, sitting on a rainbow. Got a string around my finger. What a world, what a life. I'm really in love. And now, Mrs. Roosevelt, there's just enough time for your pitch, your commercial. This is the easiest part of the program for me. For my sponsor is the warm-hearted American public, which down the years has faithfully and generously supported the long battle to wipe out polio. The March of Dimes theme this January is, Let's Finish the Job. Despite the salt vaccine, it is still far from finished. Not enough people, as yet, have had their complete series of three shots. Truly, finishing the job means vaccination for everybody under 40 and reducing the number of new polio cases to a minimum, returning tens of thousands of children, like our young friends here today and grown-ups as well, to useful, worthwhile lives. These are the people, young and old, for whom the salt vaccine came too late. For them, survival is not enough if it means imprisonment in iron lungs or immobility in beds and in wheelchairs. A very large number of them can be returned to normal existence, to happiness with their loved ones. If the March of Dimes has the funds to pay for the work of salvation and for continued research to improve their treatment and the protection of healthy children and adults everywhere. Being a disc jockey has been fun. I just hope that it will inspire everyone who has been listening to give, and give generously to the 1957 March of Dimes. Send your contributions to the Greater New York March of Dimes, 2 Park Avenue, New York City. Thank you very much, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt, and thank you for acting as a disc jockey on behalf of the March of Dimes. We at WNYC consider ourselves privileged to have had you at your premier performance. We'd like to thank also Joyce Alexander, George Redmond, Florence Krieger, Alan Fox for their requests. This program has been brought to you transcribed by your city station in cooperation with the March of Dimes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.