Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, I wish to welcome you to the opening meeting of the second semester forum series. May I remind you that these programs are run by the Division of Social Philosophy of the Cooper Union and that your chairman has both the honor and the responsibility of being head of this division. I would also like to say that we have very few rules in the Cooper Union, Cooper Union Forum, but I hope very much that you will cooperate by observing these. One, no smoking in the Great Hall. Now, that's for obvious reasons. Two, no seat saving. We've had sometimes a little trouble and difficulty, mostly misunderstanding over that particular problem. And three, we expect, as I think everybody else in the world does, that people will conduct themselves with ordinary and common courtesy. Those are the only rules that we do have, ladies and gentlemen. Now, in making up the program, I have attempted to bring to you, on the Sunday series, 12 important topics of 1950, and I have invited 11 outstanding men to come and speak on those topics. About the 12th one, nobody of much importance, it's your chairman. We'll have a... Thank you. And, as far as tonight's program is concerned, I would like to say in opening that, a little while ago, the Macmillan and Company had the good judgment to publish a book entitled The 20th Century, and that book was written by Dr. Hans Kohn. I cannot think of any man better qualified to open this series than Dr. Kohn. He is a distinguished historian, an educator. He himself was born and educated in Prague, and he spent most of the World War I years in Siberia and Turkestan, the hard way, that is, in prison camps, observing the great revolution in Russia. And after that, he traveled around the world and eventually ended up studying and writing and settling down as his home in Jerusalem. From Jerusalem, he was brought over to this country, invited to come, and since then, he has been teaching in such excellent American institutions as Harvard, Yale, Smith, Mount Holyoke, the New School, and he even has been down at Cooper Union on numerous occasions. It is a great pleasure to me to present Dr. Hans Kohn speaking on the 20th century. Dr. Kohn. It is certainly a pleasure to come again to Cooper Union, and amongst the changes here, characteristic for the progress of the 20th century. I find wonderful carpets, which were not here when I was here the last time, lovely coloring throughout, and a new and younger chairman, the best proof that the 20th century has still some strength for rejuvenation left. And what I shall discuss today is, on the one hand, speaking as a historian about the 50 years back of us. And that's a task which is, to a certain extent, simple. not because everybody is agreed upon the evaluation of the facts of the past, but at least most of us are agreed about the main facts of what has happened. And some of you, those of my age or older, even witnessed personally most of these facts. But I wish not only to do that, the task of a historian, and therefore a legitimate task, but standing midway in the 20th century, I wish to do something which might seem less legitimate. I wish to look forward to the coming 50 years. And though, as you can easily guess, I shall not be here anymore in the year 2000 to look back with a Cooper Union audience, and I'm certain that Cooper Union will go on in 2000, though I'm afraid with an other and younger chairman than that of today. Nevertheless, see, though I shall not be here then, there are some in the audience who may be here then, may be lecturing then, and looking back themselves on the last 50 years, or sitting here as venerable old ladies or gentlemen, finding out whether what Mr. Cohen said in 1950 has been verified by the events up to 2000. I agree it's an illegitimate business for historians to look forward. Nevertheless, I shall try to do it today. First, let's look backward. And that's infinitely simpler. And there we can make one statement that about 1900, and at the time some of us still at least dimly remember, 1900, on the whole, the world was full of optimism. You may say that in 1900, people everywhere, in Europe and in America, and even in Asia, I shall speak about that too, look forward to a new brilliant age of peace, progress, and civilization. Peoples were agreed in 1900 that barbarism is something fast dying out in the deepest recesses of Africa or Asia, but certainly nowhere to occur in Europe or in America. And people very agreed that great wars, and great wars are always something barbaric, that great wars belong to the past too, that mankind goes forward to a bright future, and truly, during the 19th century, mankind has made greater progress than any other century in history. I am myself a child of the 19th century. I was born in that century, and I can say, not because I was born then, but as a historian, there has not been a happier century for mankind, but the 19th century. And not because there were new machines invented, machines may facilitate life, but machines may complicate life too. Not because there were new technological inventions, inventions, but for two more important reasons. During the 19th century, human relations became more humanized than in any preceding century. Relations between individuals, relations between the individual and the community, and relations between the various communities became more and more civilized, refined, humanized. That means the element of brute force, though never disappearing, receded more and more into the background. One, it was a humanization of human relations, which went far and extended to all kinds of people. Think of the treatment of criminals before the beginning of the 19th century, and think of the immense improvement, though still very much is to be done, which was achieved in the 19th century, in the treatment of insane, in the treatment of animals, in the treatment of all kinds everywhere. A new feeling of social responsibility spread in the 19th century. And the second, why the 19th century is, in my opinion, the most blessed century history is known, is because in the 19th century, mankind became more and more an open society, a society with free intercourse, where the most distant lands, until then secluded, like China or Japan or the African jungles, were drawn into the unity of contact and exchange, where people could travel freely, the only century in history, when people could travel without passports, in most countries of the earth, without money regulations, buy a ticket somewhere, buy a ticket in New York, and go without caring for a passport to London and Paris and Rome and Berlin and Vienna and Madrid and Lisbon, or wherever you wish to go, where the world, where you could come to the United States, and some of you might have come to the United States, before 1914 and 19th century, without much questions, the world was open, for the first time in history, and now the people in 1900 looked forward at the progress in humanization and openness of the world, of society. You may still remember, and I wish to quote only two events, which the older among us may still remember her dimly of. One was the famous jubilee of Queen Victoria in 1897, the 60th anniversary of her ascended throne, of her reign, which found Britain and the world prosperous, solid, quiet, as it had not been at any time before, and in 1900, there was a World Fair held in Paris, again a World Fair dedicated to the progress of mankind to the unlimited heights. of peace and civilization. And now you know very well that this optimism of 1900 was not borne out by the events which came. You know very well and that you all remember that in the last 35 years we went through two major wars, major, than any wars before fought in history, and that you witnessed barbarisms in Europe proper, which nobody would have thought possible in the year 1900. And when we are now up in 1950, and look back, we might say that our illusions, our hopes, our expectations, by our I mean those of the people of 1900 or 1910, were not fulfilled. And now let me ask ourselves, why were they not fulfilled? that? How did it come about, what I would call the re-barbarization of the world? How could that happen? I shall give you an example to make you understand what I mean by re-barbarization. Before we were in the present stage, if there was an injustice done to somebody somewhere, civilized mankind revolted. Mind, there have always been injustices. And there will always be injustice on this earth until the coming of the kingdom. Always there will be. But the question is not whether there are or there are not. The question is whether they are resented. Whether there's a revolt against them. I shall give you a very few examples which happened in my lifetime, like some of you, beginning of the 20th century. Take the famous three-fuss affair in France. An injustice done to one single man. what an uproar among French intellectuals. What a civil war in France on account of one name. Take another case in Spain. And you may say France was a liberal republic through Spain. I hope I don't offend any Spaniard here who was in Spain. It was a somewhat backward monarchy at that time. One anarchist, Ferrer, was executed. what a wave of protest in Spain. And the cabin of Mora fell on account of the execution of one anarchist in a backward kingdom in Spain. In our days, much later, thousands of people were executed sent to devil's islands, concentration camps, northern Siberia, and so on, without anybody being moved by. We take horrors for granted today, which 40 years ago would have been sufficient to cause a revolution everywhere. and we have become so obtuse that we accept them. As a matter of fact, the cause of history, the dreadnought of history, demanding its sacrifices. And so even some refined men who excused it by saying that you cannot make an omelette without breaking eggs. That may be true or not. I don't know. I'm not an expert in omelettes. But the eggs broken are in this case human beings. Something which seemed to us in 1900, sacrosanct. going on with and doing a rifle for that granular and days and into a woman and eat go пок Sportbike Lydas, Duchess, Wozja, or some other men, I think it would be very superficial to blame them alone and primarily for this re-barbarization of mankind. I think that the root of the re-barbarization is to be found not in them, but in us. Because what we witnessed in the 20th century was what I might call, and I have to be brief, the spiritual decline of the Western world. Hand in hand with immense material progress, with new machines every year, went a spiritual decline or a spiritual lassitude, a moral fatigue in the Western world. And this and this alone, this breakdown of the mainspring of our civilizations, made the re-barbarization possible and acceptable to many minds within Western civilization. Again, I wish to recall only a very few facts to you. You may remember World War I and the effects of World War I on the Western world. What were the effects of World War I on the Western world? And by the Western world, I do not mean Russia, and I do not mean Germany. I mean France, Britain, the United States. What were the effects there? World War I should have been a warning, a warning that something is foul in Western civilization. That was a significance. And Western's version refused to recognize it. You may remember in 1900, 18, 1920, what the people in Great Britain, what the people in the United States wished, not the governments, but the people. And I wish to drive home one truth which has come to me again and again in history, that not the governments are responsible, at least not in Western democracy. I don't speak about Asia, Africa, but the people, what the people wished in Britain and here was to overhear the warning, not to listen to it, and to return to what they called life as usual, business as usual, or the famous word normalcy. Normalcy means nothing else but to declare there was no warning and no need for a warning. There was at that time a French poet and French thinker, a man about the greater of whose poetry there can be dispute about the clarity of whose mathematical thinking there can be none. The man was Paul Valery who died about three years ago at the age of 71 or 72. And Paul Valery wrote in 1919 an article and made a speech in 1922 in Zurich and in this ugly speech he declared that the world was in chaos, that everything was uncertain, that people, all people were afraid, dreaded, they dreaded something and did not know what. And he said, looking at this world after the war, the first war, not only the economic life has been shattered, not only the political order has been destroyed, but the mind has been wounded. And I hear, he said, the mind wailing. The mind was wounded. The mind doubts itself. Western civilization had not recognized then, 1920, that it was vulnerable like any other civilization. It had forgotten that civilizations grow and may die. And Western civilization thought itself immensely strong and beyond any danger. And now you may remember still the 1920s in the United States and not only in the United States. This famous age of whiskey and high living and low thinking, I would call it. an age without any moral backbone whatsoever. An age when men refused to think and left in easy self-indulging. Self-indulging above all in dreams about the future. you may recall that at that time every women's club in the United States and every church society in the United States when they came together voted unanimously that there will be no more war went home and were satisfied. by wishful thinking they believed to be able at no cost whatsoever except taking an easy vote when everybody agreed to exercise H.O. Davis. that was not only here this illusion swept everywhere and you have only to read a novel like that by Aldous Huxley point counter point maybe the most characteristic certainly best novel of the 20th not written in America but in London in England to see how the spirit of easy nihilism of easy because there's a nihilism for which you pay with your life I mean your spiritual life the Russians knew something about that Nietzsche knew but it was not that nihilism that was easy nihilism of talking about nihilism and drinking gin you may remember this time you may remember 1928 when people congratulated themselves because upon the suggestion of two statesmen an American Secretary of State and a French Foreign Minister 50 nations put down the signature to outlaw war forever 1928 and you may remember that in 1935 this country was convinced which is always the nicest thing to do that they had no responsibility in world affairs but that some devils had done the evil in 1935 the devils were two one was British imperialism and British propaganda the second devil was Wall Street and you may remember both very popular devils in America on account of our history because you see the Midwest always didn't like New York always disliked New York and New York meant Wall Street and immigrants and all kinds of strange devils riding around Cooper Union to the Midwest sure a nation of the Midwest it was Wall Street New York they're downtown in this rather fantastic canyons which really look fantastic you see where all these dollars of the world are assembled that wonderful and the second of course because American history is sometimes taught especially 18th century American history in a rather strange way in American schools the second devil again traditionally of course was British imperial and British propaganda and so by 1935 the American people 90% not again one man or the other never look for one responsibility it's always great large groups of people and not foreigners but we ourselves believed in myth about war myth and when war came they were unable to deal with it because they dealt with myth with devils and not with historical forces don't forget the year 1935 life and then I already was here for several years the year when America indulged in a neutrality legislation in an irresponsibility and the young people in our colleges and some who were then in the colleges when I taught in the 30s will bear me out would answer to the question of democracy what is democracy is there any efficiency in democracy is democracy modern enough for the 20th century it's advanced enough a complete disbelief in our own values by our I mean the world of western civilization and on the other hand a mythology about war and so we faced the immense seriousness when strange theories maintained that democracy really was incapable of dealing in the 20th century with its problems and the democrats faced it saying yes maybe and we faced then as you may remember Japan in Manchuria Italy on the way into Ethiopia Hitler in power in Germany and we talked about Wall Street and you know what then came then came the second world war which was only made possible with my deep conviction by the irresponsibility of the American and British peoples not that they made the war not that they started it but they made it possible I would say the new legislation was a green light for would-be aggressors anywhere you know you know that you are made men in this world you don't put up green lights for their driving motor cars unbelievable speed and now we have gone through world war two and we are in the year 1950 what is the situation and now you see you will find me now in a certain way paradoxical because at present I am cautiously optimistic at a time when everybody else is pessimistic mind in 1930 everybody was optimistic and I was deeply pessimistic today I am quite optimistic never deeply optimistic men can't be deeply optimistic that's always wrong because then he does not take the necessary precautions which are demanded but I am cautiously optimistic when all my fellow sitting or most of them are deeply pessimistic why because they look back and I try to see what is developing today and I must say that what we see around us in the mid 20th century is the most encouraging spectacle that we have witnessed in the whole 20th century year or to say differently there was no year in the 49 years so far as promising as the year 1949 has been and there is very good prospect so I cannot prove that only the speaker in the year 2000 can I shan't be here I warned you about that but there is very good prospect that while the year 1900 witnessed a continuous and progressive decline the year 1950 may witness a continuous progressive ascent mind a deep climb is always easier than ascent you don't need for that purpose to be old and fat as I am myself to know that it's much easier to go down than to climb up and we have to climb a very steep hill to get there where we were in 1900 it will not be easy but the signs are there that we are getting slowly to mount and now let me share with you two aspects of my confidence one is the new reinvigoration or what I would call one accepted term democracy you don't find today anymore that easy cynicism which was so characterized in 1930s whenever you mentioned the word liberty or democracy today it's entirely fresh today we know that without liberty or democracy we cannot breathe liberty may be something like air if it's around one who notices air it's very cheap air if it's here the moment air is withdrawn you know that it's more precious than all the gold you can get you can live without gold you can't live without air and what we learned out of experience is the fundamentally important of what we call liberty it's nature if you feel that you have enough air who will buy air we had to go through the experience of the last 10 years to know what liberty needs and in every respect everywhere not only the United States but everywhere in the western world there's been tremendous progress in both the reinvigoration of liberty and the broadening of liberty I shall give you only one example during this war the war of 1941 there was an immense fear not unjustified historically that at the end of the war there might be a great racial tension in the United States during the war you heard very much of the future in the south when the GIs of negro descent will come back to the south what dire future might there be some of you may remember world war one when our relationship to minorities were probably uglier than in any period of history you may remember in world war one how our German fellow citizens were treated you may remember this humoristic or tragic fact that Wagner's operas could not be played during world war one you may remember that at the end of world war one you had not only Ku Klux Klan rising up to immense height you had immense race riots throughout the north Chicago Detroit St. Louis and so on after world war two nothing of that kind happened the Ku Klux Klan compared with what it was in the 20s is entirely insignificant there have been no major race riots and except in one case a deeply regrettable case for which we are all deeply ashamed the treatment of our fellow Japanese citizens except for this one unheard of blame and blemish on our shield as the race relations after world war two cannot be compared at all with what was after world war one why maybe maybe there I guess and everybody can guess as he likes for the very reason that our enemy made the race issue a fundamental issue in world war two not in world war one but everywhere you have this broadening of democracy take Britain in Britain we have for the first time a labor government in full power they are twice already in power but not in full power in minority power in full power as you know the socialization of Britain has gone to astonishing length which makes some people in America doubtful about the wisdom of Britain but it's not only Britain look at Norway elections in October the labor party was returned with a large outright majority 85 among one affected no labor government of that kind existed before there's another astonishing aspect which you did not notice so much in all Protestant countries I mean free countries naturally labor governments are in power in all Catholic countries Catholic party governments but this Catholic government whether in France or in Italy or in Belgium are new Catholic parties social mass parties of an entirely new character that's an immense change you may say everywhere in Europe in France and Italy in Britain and in Norway the masses are in control the masses within Protestant countries are freedom in labor and in Catholic countries freedom in the Catholic that's an entirely new new place that was one thing the reinvigoration of democracy in the western world second and more important the realization in the western world of the nature of war and of the need for action against war or let's say differently the program of Woodrow Wilson which he hoped to realize after World War I is being realized after World War II Woodrow Wilson wished to make the world safe for democracy what did he mean by that he did not mean to make the whole world democratic that would be a preposterous demand preposterous demand that the Arabs of Saudi Arabia or maybe the Chinese I can't speak for them should accept western democracy western democracy is a very good thing for the peoples of western civilization whether it's a good thing and can grow among other peoples I cannot decide let them decide I cannot impose western civilization on other peoples what he meant is to make a world in which democracy would be safe and would not be forced to fight every 25 years for it exists a world safe for the kingdom of democracy and he told us how that could be done that could be done by collective security if any would be aggressor would find a preponderant force from the beginning right against him then there would be no aggression let me give you an example from very recent history signor Mussolini made it clear to everybody including myself in the early spring of 1935 that he signor Mussolini intends to invade Ethiopia I spoke to him with some friends of some influence in the United States and told them the only thing now to do is to make a treat with Ethiopia and promise Ethiopia our helping case of aggression my friend said nonsense Mussolini will not invade Ethiopia Mussolini only speaks said for domestic consumption he only just makes his grandiloquen speeches he will not march in if he marches in the League of Nations will deal with it the League of Nations not we the League of Nations will deal with it and we cannot make a treaty with Ethiopia if we had made a treaty of Ethiopia if we had sent to Ethiopia in the spring of 1935 10 million dollars nothing 10 million dollars and 500 instructors singapore Mussolini would still be happy sitting with signorina Petracci somewhere in Rome and making laughter he would be satisfied I hope she would be satisfied I would certainly be satisfied because the death of Mussolini was not worth the immense Holocaust of World War II not to me he would have not gone into Ethiopia then Hitler would not have gone into the Rhineland Franco would have not risen in Spain all that in 1935 we had done what in 1947 we did for Greece without asking Ethiopia as a democracy sure Ethiopia was not a democracy not a liberal what was Ethiopia what is Ethiopia today a backward African Negro empire with slavery then in 1935 still existing there with subject races an autocracy autocracy and I was for helping that autocracy against Italian aggression and we had helped this Ethiopian Negro autocracy we we were asking to become democratic whatever world war two it's not a question whom we help whether we like the people I have no liking for the Ethiopian in fact I've never seen an Ethiopian I have not consciously at least I have no liking for them I have no disliking for them either the moment to endanger aggression I was for helping them and not for helping them after attack but making clear beforehand that I shall help them should they be attacked and so to make sure that they are not attacked and that I have not helped them that the world was avert in 1935 I couldn't get anybody in the United except a few cranky college professors to listen to such a suggestion the idea where is Ethiopia somewhere in black Africa which is true today it's entirely different no people in the world in history as far as I know has learned as fast and as well as the American people has learned these last two or three years I must say you see I'm a new immigrant I came here in 1931 and I came here of my own choice nobody drove me out anywhere I came here out of my choice as so many people before come because I asked myself rationally historically which people which country promises the greatest future to reasonable liberty and my honor was the United States and so I came here and being a recent immigrant and having therefore much more perspective I was always much prouder of America than the old Americans are with no perspective I have never been as proud as in these last two or three years because it has never happened in history as far as I know that the people have learned so fast and so well the lesson of history as we did I am so optimistic today cautiously optimistic yeah sure because there are always unpredictable factors in history unpredictable in the human mind particularly only to God not the human mind cautiously optimistic because I am convinced that we are doing today what Britain and we could have done in 1910 or in 1930 to avert the next great war we and Britain could have averted world war one no doubt with me we and Britain could have averted world war two there is not the slightest doubt with me we are averting world war three at present three years ago I was entirely convinced that there will be war today I am as much convinced there is not the slightest probability I don't say possibility everything is possible but the slightest probability of war in any possible future maybe up to the year 2000 and that is due entirely to the awakening of the American people not only of the American people but primarily of the American people and I would say one word more and I don't wish to be misunderstood because I don't make any propaganda for any election to come I would say that I'm happy that the man who had the immense courage to announce first this new spirit of America and in March 1947 he demanded courage today everybody says it then he demands courage he's not a great man but a small man as we are Mr. Truman and that he's a small man is a very good thing I think democracies must learn how to live without great men Soviet Russia or Nazi Germany need fundamentally great men they can't live without them it's the essence of democracy to be a nation of small men and that one of the small American average men and not a super man not a leader not a messiah not a world savior but somebody like you and me has a first encourage to lead the new policy is an immense testimony the fundamental soundness of the average American man but not only the Americans and we should not be of the opinion that everything good in this world is only done in America some good is being done here there is no doubt but not everything I shall give you another people a deeply democratic people which has gone the same way as we from isolationism to this fundamental cooperation of democratic peoples and the people as democratic as we some people may say more certainly nobody would say less and much more isolationist than we much more neutral and much more pacifist than the Norwegians you may remember when the Atlantic treaty was discussed the foreign minister of Norway came over to Washington in a certain way to look us over he was a member of the Norwegian Labour Party and the Norwegian Labour Party is a party a little bit to the left of the British Labour Party he came out of this country and for them it was a momentous decision should they join the Atlantic Pact or not because they were told by very many communists in Norway that the Atlantic Pact is a pact for war and if they join what will happen there will be cannon fodder for American Wall Street in the war against Russia and nature the Norwegians don't like to be cannon fodder for Wall Street or for anybody else and second should there be a war between America that means between the Western world and Russia it will take a long time for Stalin to come to Cooper Union but he would be tomorrow in Norway tomorrow there's nothing to stop him there the Norwegians had to think hard should they try like in 1940 to stay out or should they join an Atlantic Pact would it increase a danger of war or decrease and now the Norwegian foreign minister came over to Washington and after seeing our congress he went back to Norway and I was never as proud as then when this Norwegian trade union leader and Norwegians are not like maybe Sicilians or rapturous people who are ill excited Norwegian are stolid a little bit like fish fishy stolid quiet people and Norwegian trade union leader are even more stolid than the average Norwegian is not Greenwich village imagination with them this man came back and told the Norwegians we can trust the United States we have never received a better testimony in recent times than this and you know that the Norwegian parliament joined the Atlantic pact with all votes against the 11 communist votes and you know a second fact that six months later in October three months ago elections were held in Norway and in these elections the communists were wiped out in Norway and Norway is the only free country in Europe in which there is not one communist in the parliament and where the Norwegian Labour Party received an increase representation 85 of 150 as a result of the curator stand for the Atlantic Treaty no small men Truman was a Norwegian minister very small men Democrats democracy we take initiative if we had done that in 1930 or 1936 we are no longer disunited but we are united a united democratic world and now what I would like to predict is that if you remain spiritually strong mind I underline the word spiritually strong united by united I don't mean too much united I'm against too much united because I'm against anything which is an imposed unification you see we are even in America not too much united we have our quarrels army and the navy you remember I have in the navy we have some quarrels republicans and democrats not too much united but fairly united democratically united which is always only fairly united knowing that there will be always many conflicts tensions and so on if you remain united strong vigilant I'm entirely certain that the year 2000 will see a peaceful world safe for democracy by which I do not mean that all people will be democratic in our sense maybe far from that that cannot be our purpose but it will be a world in which we and the people who follow on the whole the same way of life as we do can live peacefully without being in danger every 25 years to fight for our existence and our way of life and if we achieve that then we can look forward to the democracy which is something which can never be completely achieved but which always needs vigilance for steady improvement will go on self improving step by step hard step by hard step work by work not to an ideal future which doesn't exist for human beings on earth but to something which on a broader level may again resemble but this time on a secure because more conscious foundation the hope full time of 1900 a new open world and a growing humanization of human relations and a spectrum and a young a a se to the age and a can live demand How many arrows do I take at it? In the open voice from Take on<|de|> Thank you very much, Dr. Cohn, for that very fine and very optimistic talk. It's been a long time since I have heard such a nice and encouraging sort of talk down here. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Greece and the Bible, and to be conscious of this tradition, of its character and of its obligation. And I think our schools, if I may be allowed to express a criticism of the schools, do not always do enough in that respect. And that made possible the generation of the 1920s or 30s, who had what I call no more fluffy at all, but a certain complete disregard for the moral values of our tradition. Thank you, Dr. Cohn. And here's a gentleman. Your name, sir? Robert Meisel. All right, speak right up now, Mr. Meisel. Sir, my question is really in two parts, but I'll ask the first part first, so that you can answer it one at a time. It amounts to a reconciliation to one latter part of your speech with the typical relationship of the post-war condition in this country relating to race riots. I wish you would reconcile or refute or have you the following. I think there's some factual information in the upstairs library to even back me on this. For one thing, in the state of Tennessee, there was one of the worst Negro riots there in probably 75 years. In the last two years, the United States has experienced some of the worst Negro race riots in the big cities of ours, namely Chicago and Detroit. Now, sir, I'd like to mention further this, that I recently came from the state of Ohio. The Ku Klux Klan has operated very actively, till this day, as far north as Dayton and Columbus, which is almost as far as Lake Erie. Excuse me now, Mr. Meisel. Would you like to comment on that, Dr. Cohn? That Mr. Meisel should just only compare the Ku Klux Klan today with the Ku Klux Klan of the 20s, or compare the race riots today with those in 1919. He can do it in any library he likes. Very simple. All right. Thank you, Dr. Cohn. Here's another question. Are we adverting a third world war by our present policy in China, a policy permitting Russia to take over China? That is, one, do you think they are, and two, would that be helping avert world war, too? Whether Russia is taking over China, I don't know very well. I don't think anybody really knows. I would say it's probable. It's very probable that Russia is taking over China, as she took over Poland. It might take a longer time, but it's probable, I would say, that they do. That in itself doesn't cause World War III. That does not cause World War III. I regret very much that we lost the war in the Far East. We went to the war in the Far East because we did not wish to allow Japan to control Manchuria and China. Don't forget, Japan did not wish to annex China or Manchuria. But Japan wished to do what Russia is doing today, namely creating governments following the general line and advice of Japan. The very same thing Russia is doing today. We went to war in the Far East to make it impossible for Japan to control China and Manchuria. And as a result of circumstances, maybe of mistakes we made, and who does not make mistakes? Today, China is in danger of being controlled by Russia, which to us is at least as harmful or unpleasant as it would be controlled by Japan. But I don't think that in itself makes the world war III. Thank you, Dr. Cohn. Good evening. And your name? Mr. Robert Grove. My question is, Professor Cohn, how do you think the study of psychology and psychiatry can aid in obtaining peace among individuals and among nations by the year 2000? Yeah, there I don't know, really. See, I would say it can aid if it helps people in a certain way to get a clearer picture of their own minds. I think that's a purpose of psychoanalysis, isn't it? To get a clearer picture of what is going on in yourself. And in that sense, certainly psychology might help in a certain way to make us more conscious of what is in our own mind. And the more we are clarified about ourselves, the better for everything. There's no doubt. Clarity about oneself is very good. Whether it will help with peace on war, I don't know. But it will help in general. And it's good, too. Thank you, Dr. Cohn. Isn't your optimism shaken when monies of democracies are given to keep reactionary governments in power? Example, China, Greece is mentioned here. Now, in no way, you see, I mean, I wouldn't be even so terribly upset if a government which is much worse than the Greek government, namely the Yugoslav government, get some money from us. Now, I consider Tito as an arch-communist. Not a reactionary, because a reactionary can be a quite civilized being who holds only different opinions from mine. See? But he's a communist. And yet I would not object that he gets loans from us if that will avert aggression. I was for helping Ethiopia. I go a step further. When Italy attacked Greece, some of you may still remember that on October 28, 1940, when the Italian army of Muslims invaded Greece, not very gloriously true, but invaded Greece, what kind of government did Greece then? Greece then had the fascist government of General Metaxas. The present government of Greece might be a reactionary, whatever that means. It's not a fascist government. It is not a communist government. And any government that is not a fascist government, not a communist government, is a government which we can negotiate. And yet, and yet, there are only two governments which are mortal enemies of democracy. That's communist and fascist government. The Greek government present is neither. The Greek government of 1940 was a fascist government of General John Metaxas, the third Greece, as it was called. And I was for helping Greece with every means possible. Because it was important then to stop it then expanding. Second, when Hitler attacked Poland, and that moment Poland was not a fascist government, that's true, but a semi-fascist government of Colonel Decker. I was for every help to Poland against German aggression. Irrespective of what government there is in Poland. And I asked my American philosophy in 1939 to declare that we shall go to war, if it were marching into semi-fascist point of Colonel John Decker. And I said that. I said that. So don't come to me, saying that I should not support the Greek government. I shall support any government in danger of aggression. So that was. Any government. And I shall not demand from any people to put in a government which I like. I don't demand it even of Russia. The Russians should have in Mr. Sun if they like. I don't like him, but that's their business. And I don't tell the Greeks whom they have to put in. Nor the Chinese. I told you I regret that China is under Russian control. I don't think that leads to World War III. I told you just a few minutes ago. So if the Russians really prefer Mr. Mao, that's their affairs. If Mr. Mao will be in danger of being attacked by somebody else, I might be very much for support of Mr. Mao. Which does not mean that I like Mr. Mao. I like him as little as Mr. Marshall Tito. Because Marshall Tito is as bloody a communist as Mr. Marshall Stalinist. And yet I am for all support of Marshall Tito to prevent Russian aggression against Marshall Tito. All right, sir. Thank you, doctor. Good evening. Your name? My name is Mr. Bernstein. Professor Cohn. I would like to ask you, do you think we could prevent a Third World War with Russia? Yes. That's what I believe. I am entirely certain of it. That's why a human being can be certain of anything that there will be no war with Russia. All right. Thank you. That's very encouraging. And your name, sir? Mr. Lobel. My question is, how can you say the Atlantic Pact is for peace when it was opposed by the Methodist National Council, the Federal Churches of Christ, and many other church and civic-minded groups? And Henry Wallace opposed it. I believe also the majority of the American people, if they had known all the implications of it, they too would oppose it. There are two questions involved. There are two questions involved. One, how I can support the Atlantic Pact when the Methodist Council of Churches opposes it. I was for a declaration of the United States, against Hitler, in 1930, let's say, or against Mussolini. Though the church pacifists oppose me. I think that the churches are mistaken. I can't help it. Even I don't say religion is mistaken. I don't say Catholic or Methodist church are wrong. But the ministers may be mistaken. And I'm very sorry that even some Methodist ministers or ministers of the Federal Council of Churches can be mistaken about politics. Yes, I may be mistaken about religion. What I wish is they shouldn't discuss history. I should not discuss religion. One. Second, however, about the American people and the Atlantic Pact, they disagree with the gentleman entirely. The American people have quite clearly told them what the Atlantic Pact is. Quite clearly told them by Mr. Henry A. Wallace. And by a number of newspapers following Mr. Henry A. Wallace. They told the American people quite clearly Mr. Henry A. Wallace traveled through the whole country. Over the broadcast. Don't know over this station, but about many stations. He spoke week by week. There might be some Americans who closed their ears. I don't know. But everybody could hear that the Atlantic Pact made a war. Then came the elections. And the American people in overwhelming majority. Rejected Mr. Henry A. Wallace. Now, the American people, the American people may have been wrong. But I don't know. But nobody will tell me the American people that will know what they were doing. The American people may act unwisely. Even the American people may do it. Even the American people. But they knew what they were doing. They listened to Mr. Henry A. Wallace on the radio. And the newspapers. And they listened to Mr. Truman. And they liked Mr. Truman. Maybe they were wrong. I don't say. But they knew what they were doing. And they have since again and again confirmed the very same judgment that they had. I must say, if I may, I said. That there was no election in American history. Which so clearly shouted. The American people understood foreign policy at the election of November 1948. Because in this election, not only Mr. Truman was re-elected. To surprise of many people. And there are many people who told the American people not to elect Mr. Truman. The American people knew exactly what he was doing. Because many people told them not to elect Mr. Truman. Not only Mr. Truman was re-elected. But two forces were decisively defeated. One was the anti-British policy of Colonel Robert McCormick. Of the Chicago Tribune. A newspaper in Chicago, Illinois. Which some of you may know. Because it calls itself the world's greatest newspaper. Verbative. It calls itself like that. Who's completely a fear. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to tell you something. I know some New Yorkers. Who sometimes look down on the Middle West. I have lived and traveled widely in the Middle West. And I can tell you the Middle West is as good American as New Yorkers. Proof? In Illinois. In Colonel McCormick's own... How do you wish to call it? Yeah. His own city. State. His men were completely rejected. And Senator Brooks and Governor Green were not returned. And for men who were returned... As for the Senator Paul Douglas of the North Chicago... ...was one of the staunchest interventionists... ...the very violent opponents of Colonel McCormick. Chicago is very sound at heart. Whatever the people of New York make it. America is one. Second, however. A second in Iraq. I'm glad to hear Chicago's in such a good way, sir. We too in New York. That's the last. Yes. We too in New York are in a very good way. Because I, when I come to New York, to the Midwest, I always hear... New York, that's not America. New York, that's a kind of foreign endeavor. That's not America. We at the same time let's be here. And New York turned down Mr. Henry A. Wallace. Like the whole of America. We in New York are as good Americans as people in America are. And the people in Chicago are as good Americans. It was an astonishing, overwhelming vote... ...of the American people everywhere. Against Colonel McCormick and against Mr. Henry A. Wallace. Maybe a wrong vote. But a vote given in full knowledge. Though some Methodist ministers may disagree, I'm sorry about that. I can't... Sir, here's one more question over here, Dr. Cohen. Your name is... But I'm not against Methodism. My poor Methodism is against some Methodist ministers. Excuse me, Dr. Cohen. Here's the gentleman. I'm Kempton Smith. This is a question. Throughout your lecture, you referred to the spiritual rebirth required of Western civilization. A common thing in this country and many others of our so-called spiritual leaders, they may be in error, but they're never in doubt. If they weren't spiritual, the Nazis, the Communists, and the Spanish fascists were at least spirited. Isn't it possible that in a democracy such as ours, instead of a transient spiritual rebirth, which lends itself rather easily to any movement or any leader on a white horse, what we need is a rebirth of respect for the traditions of French skepticism and criticism based on an empiric approach in which this country was founded philosophically? Thank you. I entirely agree. This is a very important question, and I am very glad that this came as the last question, but it's a question of principle. I entirely agree. What we need is a rebirth of the foundation of our civilization, of our civilization which includes, naturally, as one of its brightest periods, the 18th century. I would say our American tourism based on two great streams. One was England of the 17th century culminating in luck, and the second was the French Enlightenment of the 18th century. They believe that we have the right to doubt every proposal, that we have the duty to think for ourselves, cogito ergo sum. I think, therefore I am. These are the foundations of our civilization. I entirely agree with the gentleman. And we need a rebirth in the responsibility of the individual as a thinking, self-determining, deciding human being. Thank you very much, Dr. Cohn. You have very nice talk. ...and over represented 37% of the total workforce, but were 43% of those registered. As unemployment increases, employer specifications with respect to age are tightened, and the percent of older workers among the jobless increases. In both tight and loose labor markets, older workers once separated from the job take longer to find employment. If not reemployed at their regular work, they are usually downgraded in skill and pay. In all six areas studied, they were originally downgraded in to 56% less than one job. But as a result... don't forget to... the founder of the organization. There is tragedy of the ownerbtor to learn to understand the manner, the founder of the mentor staff requires 14% lowercase. In all six areas you didn't want to do this one job. The reason period is this reason that was difficult for you to do this one job is to do this job. I will always welcome you all at the job. I do not know any time for you. Even in getting later ح realizar. In the way that momento is to think when a prospective investor says the name of the tax river is to do this money. SomeSI have economically and what it does not reflect. How much do you grow in? Combest dollar makan, number of countless works and other people say public health programs, accident prevention, adult education and training, job clinics for older workers, and so on. We do not propose to attempt to legislate older workers in the job. It may, however, be advisable to remove those legislative barriers which may be important. Today, it is a common place in our hospitals to operate on patients over 80 and operate on them successfully. And the two... ...side what a man's functional capacity really is. Because, as this committee has so wisely publicized, birthdays really don't count. It's what a man can do that counts. And we speak of that as his functional capacity. And... This is the NBC Theater. From the NBC Theater in Hollywood, another in the series which holds the Peabody Award for radio drama. Today, an hour-long drama based on Thornton Wilder's stimulating and most unusual novel of the last days of Caesar, The Ides of March. The adaptation for radio is by Brainerd Duffield and Emerson Crocker. At intermission, a recorded commentary on the writings of Thornton Wilder, but thick monthly. Here, then, the Upwilder. We are fortunate in having with us today as guest lecturer, Professor Willard, who has come down from state to... ...aspect to be... Thank you. Thank you. By telling you that I have to give the correspondence and memory... So you can imagine, and I may say unique, the island of Capri. To Caesar, to his pretty sea, and indeed... Picture the splashing fountains... ...some fifty... It's fidelity and the Haynes the