Last week on this program, Governor Dewey told us in the strongest possible terms that civil defense is the number one responsibility of every man, woman, and child in this state. What are you doing about it? What is your plan for survival? This is the 23rd in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, transcribed for the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Now, here's Bill Leonard. This week, our topic is warden service. First, our guest will be Mrs. Adelaide Healy, special assistant to the director and chief of warden service of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. And then local stations will have the opportunity to discuss the subject in terms of their individual communities. Mrs. Healy, the warden service is probably the best known of all the civil defense agencies since so many people worked as air raid wardens during the last war. Has the warden service changed much since World War II? With the debut of atomic weapons, the warden's role has been greatly expanded. He or she has a responsibility of the utmost gravity. For the very foundation of civil defense is the warden service. Of the 400,000 wardens in the target areas of this state, more than half will be women. Well, just what's this overall mission? What's the goal of the warden service? The warden service sells survival. It does this through various means, such as teaching self-protection in the event of atomic attack. By organizing groups of neighbors to work together, the warden service makes a neighborhood self-sufficient. It teaches a neighborhood to take care of its own small fires and to care for its own casualties. It teaches a neighborhood or a home or a building, the foundations of community and national life, to care for itself. Mrs. Healy, you mentioned that more than half of the wardens will be women. Why is that? The reason, Mr. Leonard, explains why the warden service is referred to as the grassroots of civil defense. It begins and operates directly from the home. Since men are usually away from their home during weekday daylight hours, adequate coverage of the warden's responsibilities must rest with the women of every community. At least half the warden service, at all levels, therefore, will be composed of women. Mrs. Healy, I believe you said that a minimum of 400,000 wardens will be needed. How many have you recruited so far? As of this month, approximately 55,000 wardens have been recruited and are engaged in various stages of training and operations. We are not satisfied with recruiting progress to date by any means. Unwillingness of the public to devote time and effort to civil defense preparations is an obstacle we are constantly striving to eliminate. Well, maybe it would help, Mrs. Healy, if you told us something of the warden's civil defense role today. A lot of our listeners actually just don't know what functions they'd have to perform as wardens. Primarily, it is the warden's duty to teach people how to survive atomic bombing and to assist people with the other civil defense agencies in doing just that. This service is the chief connecting link between the whole civil defense structure and the individual citizen, the person for whose welfare civil defense is created. Through the warden's service, the individual is personally informed well in advance as to the measures to be taken in order to live through atomic bombing. After the attack, the warden summons assistance and helps those who need it to do the best they can for themselves. Well, then, much of the warden's job actually takes place before any attack. That's right, Mr. Leonard. In a large measure, the success of the warden in fulfilling his one purpose, the minimizing of casualties, will depend upon how good a job he or she does in advance of enemy action. Well, now, are there any special requirements for these wardens? There are no technical or highly skilled requirements. The most necessary personal trait of the warden is practical common sense coupled with the respect of his neighbors. The warden should be the person on the block whose opinion is listened to and respected, who has the reputation of keeping his head when confronted with the unexpected. He or she must be dependable. This is a neighborhood public relations job, a matter of personal and collective assistance. There is no place for petty politics, or personal bickering in a situation where lives are at stake. Before a person is accepted as a warden for permanent appointment, a 12-hour basic training course must be completed successfully and a test passed with a minimum grade of 70%. The warden must meet loyalty requirements established by the State Civil Defense Commission. You mentioned the basic training course. Is this the only training the warden receives? No. In addition to the basic training course, there will be on-the-job training and practical exercises administered by supervisors. Following this, there will be first aid training and some simple basic rescue training. Do wardens participate in the atomic bomb exercises that are being held in various cities throughout the state of New York? Most certainly. During the recent Operation Utica and Operation Niagara exercises, hundreds of wardens participated and gained valuable experience. We have a special problem with the warden service in that it is one of the civil defense agencies for which no counterpart exists in peacetime life. The warden service had neither an organization nor an experienced nucleus of trained people. We have no backlog of experience, as in Britain, to support us. We have had to build from the ground up. We cannot afford to fail in this task for our very lives and national existence are at stake. We need more people. We need more training. We have a big job to do and we need the public's help. We must convince the public that by volunteering for the warden service or for any other civil defense service, they are protecting their own lives and the lives of their families. Thank you, Mrs. Adelaide Healy, special assistant to the director and chief of the warden service of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. Now, we'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. You know, someone said that if you really want to get a job done, ask a busy man to do it. Dr. Morris H. Seamus is a busy man. He's a member of the physics department at New York University, but he's found the time to become citywide director of information and training for the air warden service. Dr. Seamus, do you agree with Mrs. Healy that half our wardens should be women? Indeed I do, Mr. Leonard. We'd like to have approximately equal numbers of men and women for the air warden service here in New York City. Women are particularly essential because many of them are available during the day and are adept at helping children the sick and the aged. Well, in a large city like this one, the city of New York, how do you decide how many wardens you need? Will there be a certain number each block or will the number be fixed on the basis of the population or what? For New York City, we require a minimum of about 240,000 wardens. This means at least 12 men and women for each of the 20,000 posts throughout the city. The number is determined on the basis of population since a post is established for every 500 persons. This number does not include the emergency taxi corps, certain building defense units, and the auxiliary police. Well, Dr. Seamus, would you review something about the training of an air warden in New York City? Surely. Each warden must complete a qualifying course of instruction which includes 10 hours of Red Cross training and 12 hours of basic training in such subjects as atomic information, panic control, firefighting, warden duties, and others. Many wardens have already completed this training and are now qualified members of the warden service. I think it's time for some questions from our listeners, Dr. Seamus. Here's a lady who writes, I was an air raid warden in the last war. Now, she says, do I have to start all over again to be trained for this emergency? Experience as a warden during the last war would be very valuable in the present emergency. However, because of the nude weapons and techniques which have been developed, the training must be repeated. If a person holds a current Red Cross qualifying certificate, he doesn't have to repeat the first aid course. Well, this fellow has a problem that worries many of our listeners. He says, my 70-year-old mother who is bedridden lives with us and the air raid warden at our post made a note of this fact, but what is he going to be able to do to help her? Will he be trained in first aid, for instance? All wardens are trained in first aid, as we've pointed out. The post warden will do everything possible to see to the safety of the aged and the infirm. However, many demands will be placed upon his services during an alert so that a good measure of self-help will be required of the general public. Another question. Mrs. H.B., she lives in Brooklyn and she asks, suppose the telephone lines are destroyed, how do the air wardens expect to report fires or even call for medical assistance? We have several emergency methods of maintaining communications. Every radio car in the police department has a two-way radio. Walkie-talkies and self-powered field telephones would be used. And finally, the messenger service can be called upon to relay messages via the emergency taxi corps, motorcycles, bicycles, and even roller skates. Well, from the Bronx comes this one, Dr. Seamus, I'd like to be an air warden, but I have to take care of my home and my family. Do air wardens have to stay in sector headquarters or patrol their areas regularly? Wherever possible, a warden is assigned to the post nearest his home. All active duty takes place on this post, and when the program gets into full swing, several hours of such duty will be required each week. Now, here's a listener who writes, in the last war we only had to worry about ordinary bombs. This time, how much will air wardens know about radiation? Will they know when to tell people that they can leave their shelter and when to tell them to stay indoors? In the course of his training, the warden is indoctrinated in all phases of modern warfare. While we know that the nuclear radiation is usually the least serious of the hazards of an atom bombing, it's important that the public be thoroughly informed about the steps that should be taken at the time of an attack. The wardens will be notified if an area is contaminated and will keep the people inside the shelters. Remember that all the police radio cars carry monitoring equipment for rapid detection of radioactive areas. Dr. Seamus, here's a young lady I think probably has got the right idea. She says, I'm an 18-year-old girl and can I be an air warden? If so, what qualifications do I need and what would I do besides guide people to shelter? Young persons are urged to become air wardens. They have initiative, composure, and endurance in times of stress. This young lady would be very useful in a report center or in applying first aid and dispelling panic in a shelter. Well, finally, Dr. Seamus, here's a question of my own. Now, as I understand it, if a sufficient number of people fail to volunteer for the air warden service, they can actually be drafted. Now, is there any chance that that's going to happen in the city of New York? Well, the state civil defense law does provide for the draft of personnel if voluntary recruitment fails to supply a certain fraction of those required in a given locality. However, Commissioner Wallander has stated quite definitely that he would not request such action for New Yorkers in the foreseeable future. Thank you for being with us, Dr. Morris H. Seamus, citywide director of information and training for the air warden service. Next week, our topic is first aid. Our guests will be Dr. Hollis Ingraham, first deputy commissioner of the New York State Department of Health, and Dr. Theodore Rosenthal, deputy commissioner of health for the city of New York. Try to be with us, won't you? This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. You have been listening to the 23rd in a series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we'll answer some questions you listeners have sent us about first aid. Send us your questions and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at this same time next week. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Thank you.