This morning our guest on Around New York is Dr. A. Herbert Fetter of the Brooklyn Jewish Community Council, who's going to talk to us about Jewish Book Month, which I understand is already in progress. Dr. Fetter, just what is Jewish Book Month? Jewish Book Month is a holiday of books organized by the National Jewish Welfare Board in order to bring over the reading of Jewish books on all levels throughout the country. Well now, how is this marked in New York City? New York City has a council known as the Metropolitan Jewish Book Council, which is composed of some 80 organizations. Some of these represent national organizations like Hadassah, American Jewish Congress, and others. And others are local synagogues, religious organizations, civic groups, and other cultural organizations which hope to bring over the idea of Jewish books to the public. Now, how does the public take part in a thing like this? Are they invited to see the exhibits and so on? There are various types of programs offered. In some instances we have authors who have written books on Jewish themes speak to the groups. In other instances we have Jewish book exhibits which are placed in public places like public libraries and Jewish libraries. And recently in Brooklyn we have had the privilege of setting up exhibits in some of the high schools, such as the Jefferson High School in East New York. You are working in Brooklyn in connection with this, I understand, and there is an exhibit, isn't there, in the Grand Army Plaza of the Brooklyn Public Library? The Brooklyn Jewish Community Council is broken up into several local councils. It also has a youth council affiliated with it. The young people have organized a beautiful exhibit which can be seen each day at the Grand Army Plaza branch of the Brooklyn Public Library. We noticed recently that hundreds of young men and women have come to view this exhibit and have enjoyed it a great deal. Well, now there's this brochure that your organization sends out listing all the exhibits. How can that be obtained by our listeners? There is a brochure put out by the Metropolitan Jewish Book Council which indicates all the exhibits which are held at the major public libraries, both Jewish and non-Jewish. This can be obtained by writing to Rabbi Philip Goodman at the National Jewish Welfare Board, 145 East 32nd Street. You may easily obtain this by calling Lexington 2-4949. Well, I think we ought to mention that number just once again, Lexington 2-4949 for the brochure listing all of the exhibits, and also the colored posters, the book lists, the program aids, and any of the other things that the Jewish Book Council of America has prepared. Now, I think another word or two about the Book Council itself would be very interesting. Dr. Fetter, just who belongs to the Jewish Book Council? The Jewish Book Council is made up of executives of Jewish organizations which do not only a work for the Jewish books, but which try to bring over the idea of religion or recreational work or anything which can be of uplift to the Jewish people in the various religious and cultural organizations of the city. So that we find on this Metropolitan Council rabbis, executives, teachers, recreational workers, and other people of that type who might be interested in spreading the idea of the Jewish Book. Well, I think we get a good idea of that. All right. Let's mention that phone number once again for more information. Obtained from Rabbi Goodman, and the telephone number is Lexington 2-4949. We've been talking with Dr. A. Herbert Fetter of the Brooklyn Jewish Community Council about Jewish Book Month, and we'd like to thank you for coming down this morning to Around New York. Dr. Fetter.
