Hello, recording room. Hello, recording room. Hello, recording room. Please stand by to record a feed from United Nations coming up approximately 50 seconds from now. Content, a short statement by Earl Alexander. Length, two minutes. I will give you a 15-second cue. Hello, recording room. Please stand by to record a feed from United Nations. Content, a short statement by Earl Alexander. Length, two minutes. I will give you a 15-second cue. Please stand by to record exactly 15 seconds from now. Thank you. Mr. Acting Secretary General, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you, sir, to begin with, for the very kind welcome you have given my party and myself on this, our first visit to the United Nations headquarters. I am very glad to have this opportunity to visit this magnificent building for the first time and to have the pleasure of meeting the United Nations officials and the representatives of those United Nations countries who have shown in active form that resistance to the United Nations countries who have shown in active form that resistance to aggression in Korea is a collective rather than an individual effort. Now, I have just returned from Korea and our visit to the battlefront. I am very impressed with what I have seen. I think that the Americans are running a very fine show there. And one of the things which impressed me most was the sense that was given one of a happy and united family. A United Nations family all doing a good job of work and all for one purpose. If we can carry on in this way united, I think that there's a great chance for peace in the world and for the future of mankind. You gentlemen who work here in the heart of America are doing a fine job. I congratulate you and wish you the very best of luck. United Nations Radio signing off. United Nations Radio or something else. Because now that I think that I do not appreciate you taking a gig for閃28. Are you imprec aching, really spending a感謝 my attention above you at the heart of usually at the heart of trugging? I really love how valuable you are asking me to Immerong Valley. Yeah. Seems really great. All pianos on Defence Dialog. I am so passionate about celebrating a wonderful else earlier with so much all this wire tools. I really wanted to be a hobby and my friends are coming off for once. I am bên dunno. Honestly, I have a group I passionate about this. I even announced Приветikel fans on donate,路 fans on empowering yourself. I'm so excited for thisivat Many people to keep trying to talk. on monarchWAY for that I haven't got a lot of people Zipl places. Directors for open up, to the access clean jobs.