With the singing of at Barn Erfurt in Bethlehem, A Child is Born in Bethlehem, a Danish Christmas Carol recorded by Axel Schertz, we come to a greeting from the Danish Consul General Sigurd Christensen. It is a great pleasure to me that I have been invited to be present at this Christmas program, which centers around one of the best-known fairy tales of my great compatriot Hans Christian Andersen. I have thoroughly enjoyed listening to the dramatization of the Snow Queen, but I feel it is very hard to compete with Hans Christian Andersen when it comes to bringing a message to the schoolchildren of New York. Still, as the official representative of Denmark in New York, I can assure you that it causes all Danes immense pleasure to know how much you appreciate this great writer, and to realize that his works form part of the education of all American children, as it does of all children in Denmark. We love him for his great heart, his innate wisdom, and for his humor and amiable irony. Wisdom and irony are so very much present in the Snow Queen. One cannot help loving a writer who can sum up essentials as when he says about, the boy was terrified, he tried to say his prayers, but could remember nothing but the multiplication table. Or, there's a princess who is most terribly clever, and no wonder, for she has read all the newspapers in the world, and then forgotten them again, which shows you how clever she is. I hope that one day when you are grown up, you will go to Denmark and see for yourselves what kind of a country it is that could produce a man like Hans Christian Andersen. Of course, time has worked changes in Denmark, but fundamentally we are the same as when Andersen lived among us. I know that if Danish schoolchildren were aware that I am speaking to you today, they would join me in wishing you a very happy New Year. Thank you, Castle General Christensen. Boys and girls, you've been listening to a special Christmas program arranged for you by the Board of Education and the Teacher Education Division of the Public Colleges of the City of New York. In the course of our broadcast, you heard from Baroness Alma Dalrup, founder and past president of the Danish American Women's Association, and Mr. Sigurd Christensen, Danish Consul General in New York City, and Dr. Jacob Greenberg, associate superintendent of schools of the Board of Education. You also heard a radio adaptation of The Snow Queen, written especially for this broadcast. To further the warm friendship between the children of our own country and those of Denmark, the Board of Education and the Division of Teacher Education of the Public Colleges of the City of New York bring you a special program, Christmas in Denmark. Our program will feature talks on Danish Yuletide customs and a radio drama based on Hans Christian Andersen's The Snow Queen, which was written especially for this broadcast. Here to introduce our program is Dr. Jacob Greenberg, associate superintendent of schools of the Board of Education. Dr. Greenberg. A few days after the winter solstice, more than half the nations on the earth's surface celebrate Christmas. It is not only a day of deep religious significance, it is also a day of feasting and rejoicing with its message of glory to God in the highest and on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. It is also a period of rejoicing at the prospect of the birth of the vernal season, for at this time the sun begins its measured advance towards spring. Each nation has customs and traditions peculiar to itself for the celebration of the Nativity. In this brief sketch we shall confine ourselves to Christmas in Denmark with customs in common to all Scandinavian countries. The day, Yule Dog, opens with church services followed by an exchange of visits among friends and neighbors. Hospitality reigns in every household, from Little Christmas beginning December 23rd until the 12th night which is January 6th. Christmas Eve is the greatest day of the Yuletide Festival. After a short church service on the evening of December 24th, the family returns to the traditional feast. Roast goose stuffed with prunes and apples, red cabbage, donuts, and rice pudding. In this rice pudding, with a huge butter eye in the middle, an almond is concealed. The finder of the almond is rewarded with a gift and will enjoy good luck in the coming year. No living creature is overlooked on Christmas Eve. A sheaf of unthreshed grain is hung outside or placed on the windowsills for the birds. Extra food and care are taken so that the horses and cattle might be well taken care of. For according to an old belief, the animals stand in their stalls at midnight in honor of the nativity. The Yulinissa, the tiny gnome who lives in the attic over the barn, is also remembered by setting aside a generous portion of rice pudding for him with an extra lump of butter. The Yulinissa leaves behind him gifts for the little children. As a climax of the evening festival, the Christmas tree is lighted, gifts are distributed to all members of the household. Then parents and children dance in a ring around the tree to the accompaniment of carols. Peace and goodwill mark the season. Courts are closed, old quarrels are adjusted. The pretty symbol of placing the shoes of the household in a row typifies that during the year the family will live together in peace and harmony. A light is left burning in the window all Christmas night as a sign to any traveler that he is welcome for food and shelter. The table is set during the two weeks of the Christmas festivities so that visitors and the members of the family may help themselves at all times to food and drink. All classes mingle in the merrymaking. Let us now express the hope that the next year will bring happiness to Denmark and let there be peace on earth and let all nations bear goodwill toward one another. May I then, in the name of the students attending our schools and colleges and in behalf of Dr. Jansen, our superintendent of schools and the board of education and the board of higher education and in the name also of Dean Anderson, dean of teachers education division of the board of higher education, wish our good friends in Denmark and our good friends here a very merry Christmas and a happy new year. Our next feature is a radio adaptation of the Hans Christian Anderson story, The Snow Queen, written especially for this broadcast. We present The Snow Queen. You have just heard a radio adaptation of The Snow Queen. We will hear at this time a description of other Danish Christmas customs from Baroness Alma Dallarup, founder and past president of the Danish American Women's Association. Baroness Dallarup's message will be read by her daughter, Baroness Ida Groh Dallarup. Thank you, Baroness Dallarup. I know our listeners will want to hear one of those Danish carols you described so charmingly. So we'll introduce them, we'll introduce to them at Barne Erfert in Bethlehem. A Child is Born in Bethlehem by Axel Schertz. It's found the truth in Bethlehem! of the game, the world was altered by Amen the Lord. It's a happy Lets be known by the aunt of Bethlehem! of the world of Bethlehem! everyone! The only 협astre in Bethlehem! of the Mother, the mother of the És… a loving choice and all three hit the Him, that w the local Heart, the open heart, of the 500 performers Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! And now that he is with the woe, with the woe, whose anger cometh with their heart, Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Alleluia! Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Thank you.