Competent administration of a Department of Markets implies more than mere routine inspection and investigation, and more than the mere supervision of existing facilities. It requires a continual alertness for possible improvements in our distribution systems and in our terminals. We intend to go on with this type of program to the end that our city shall always be a leader in the utilization of modern marketing methods. In the tradition of ceremonies of this type, I'd like to note that in this box for the cornerstone, we will have some material which may interest those of future generations. For instance, a rag copy of today's New York Times, a copy of the specifications for this job, press release and program, Department of Markets, old and new material, a piece of wood from a boring, and I'd like to read the inscription thereon. Specimen of timber recovered in boring operation on March 19, 1949, from Boring G2, at site of Gansworth Meat Center at a depth of 12 feet. This timber is part of the mat installed to support the foundation of Fort Gansworth, which was built about 1812. Timber is well preserved. May I present to you the Honorable Hugo E. Rogers, Borough President of Manhattan. Mr. Commissioner, Mr. Mayor, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, we met here today to lay the cornerstone of another project that was planned and executed during the present administration. These things taken separately may not have as great a significance as when you review the program of operations during the last three and a half years and add up the tangible evidence of planning, of hard work, of difficult allocation of funds, so that every need and every service of the city could be brought up to what would be some semblance of a normal condition after a four and a half year lapse brought on by virtue of the war. I don't think any administration that ever held public office in the city of New York faced the problems that the current administration had to face when it came into office on January 1st, 1946. We had a lot of fancy plans. We had a lot of statements. We were told that there was about eight or ten million dollars to the good with which to start. And when we made a careful check, we were scratching our heads to find that eight or ten million dollars that we were supposed to have to operate with before we got down to real fiscal troubles. Needless to say, we never found them. You've seen for the first time in some 12 or 15 years the actual completion of the West Side Highway. You've seen various street widenings. You've seen sewer programs brought up to date. In some instances, some of the things that nobody dared to touch for 30 some odd years. You've seen 50 schools rise above the ground. You've seen public officials actually take hold of a hospital program about which there was much criticism and nothing done. You can talk about a lot of things. You can indulge in personalities. You can take a crack out of any human being for some of the normal mistakes that people make. I defy anybody to produce a single person in public office or private life who has such a record that no mistakes appear therein, whether of the heart or mind or any other phase of human reaction. When construction was started on this building in November 1948, we expected that we would be close to completion at this time. A very novel reason accounted for the delay which has taken place. The excavators whose job it was to provide space for the building's foundation came across some heavy wooden logs. Later we learned that they were the remnants of old Fort Gansport, which protected the approaches to Manhattan Island from the West for about 45 years in the first half of the 19th century. The headache caused by the delay fell to the man who has borne so many others in similar circumstances. It is his department that supervises and directs the numerous aspects of construction. It is in his capable hands that all city officials place their plans and problems relating to public buildings. I am speaking, of course, of our New York City Commissioner of Public Works, the Honorable Frederick H. Zemehler. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Borough President, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly happy to be a part of this ceremony today because I am an engineer. I think this problem, this program that we have in this area is a challenge to an engineer. Remember that we must construct a market. We must move the people who operate in the old market into the new market. We must destroy or demolish the old market and then upon that site build an incinerator. Now, it's not many years ago. I'm sure all of you will agree that when one would talk of an incinerator alongside of a market that most people would shrink with horror and would not, would raise themselves up in rebellion and object strenuously to it. But I am proud that the profession of engineering has solved many of those problems. And I can assure you that when this entire project, which includes your market, the incinerator, the dumping board, and all, there will be no interference nor will there be any rebellion as to the interference of one project with another. For a second reason, I am proud to be here today and particularly interested in this project. It is not generally known that I come from the borough least known in New York, that of Richmond, where most of our garbage is now being dumped. And my people want this incinerator done as quickly as it is possible to do it. And I want to say to you that since I have taken office, which is relatively a short time, the coordinating, the cooperation of the members of the Board of Estimates headed by our Mayor, William O'Dwyer, has been most inspiring to an outsider, as it were, a man in private practice who came into city service under a rather quick and hurried command of their Mayor. That inspiration has inspired my department to produce almost the impossible. And I can assure you that this market will be completed in the early part of the coming year. We have already led a contract for the dumping board, as we call it, for the incinerator. As you know, you see the contractor working. We will be ready to demolish after we have moved you into the new market. We will be ready to demolish the old buildings. And we will have our contracts ready for the erection of the incinerator. Now, that isn't my work alone. I need and must have the inspiration, as I call it, the encouragement of the Board of Estimates. No commissioner in the city departments can do a thing. If he doesn't, if he isn't able to get from the Board and its Mayor, particularly its Mayor, that cooperation, that understanding of the work that is involved in coordinating these several projects, I am proud to be a part of this ceremony, and I thank you. Commissioners of Maryland and the other public officials who are here this afternoon are keenly aware of the importance of having behind them in such matters as planning and construction someone whose vision is broad and clear, whose outlook is unlimited, and whose personal progressiveness and integrity are unquestioned. We are fortunate to work under a man who has those characteristics and to whom we are able to turn for the guidance which every administrator of a city department at one time or another requires. I know that many members of the trade appreciate all that he has done to replace an antiquated marketing facility with this new modern meat center. I am very proud to present to you the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Gliar. Commissioner Maciarelli, Mr. Adams, Mr. Peterson, distinguished guests, for President Rogers. Ladies and gentlemen, this afternoon we're going to put a box. I just heard about it. We're going to have a box, a metal container with a lot of ancient history in it, and a few items about what's going on here today. Now, this afternoon, we're doing a whole lot more than just setting the stage for a new meat market. You, ladies and gentlemen, and the market generally, just as soon as you get rid of your sales and your commodities are delivered to the homes, that's the only headache you've got. But as soon as the garbage pails become full, that's the headache we've got. Now, for 12 years or more, they're still doing it. We've been burying that live garbage. And that burial of garbage within our city limits is not good for the health of the people, no matter what you say. It invites rodents. I hate to mention the name of some of them or the length of their tails. But they come in there. Gases come up out of the ground. The wind blows towards the homes. The children get sick. Everyone else gets sick. One of the filthiest ways of disposing of garbage is to bury it within the city limits anywhere. We haven't enough room anymore for that. So the answer is, if we're going to consider the health of the people, and you and the market business are as interested in the health of the business of the people as anyone else, they're not healthy, they won't eat. You've got to have them healthy. For a lot of reasons. Humane and business. We've got to have incinerators. Now we can't take Little Staten Island and forever use that as a dumping ground for the garbage of the rest of the city. It's not fair. Just because they're little, small in population, just because they didn't come up with a million and a half, two million votes, that's no reason why they should be subjected to this disgusting practice of burying raw garbage. How do you get out of that? Well, you do it by building and incinerating and burning the garbage. Then find a place for the residue, which will not attract rodents, will not smell, will not foul up their homes, will not interfere with their health. So the time came when we, to meet that need, had to devise, find a site that would be convenient for a destructive plant and this neighborhood was chosen. Now the next thing was to consider the industry. And in considering the industry, there was just one thing to do. And that is precisely what we're going to do today. that is get the kind of a building properly done, geared to the future needs of the city. This is what we decided on as being in your best interest and in the best interest of the city as a whole. I'm very happy to be here. The fact is that in a troublesome situation, this is the best answer we could come up with. And if it serves the purposes as we believe it will, everyone in the whole city is going to be happy. The best of luck to you. Goodbye. Thank you.