We have seen the Iron Curtain pull down in various countries of Europe. That's not the first time it's happened. Every time the despots come to control a nation, the Iron Curtain has been drawn down in the past. So that what we are witnessing today is merely a repetition of what has happened before. Every time a despot has come to power, he has sought to destroy people of a nation because of their religious belief. Again, history is repeating itself. We know that during the war, the despot Hitler destroyed or was the cause of destroying six million Jews. We in America deplored it. We in America of all faiths prayed for those Jews who were being destroyed by a despot merely because of their race and their religion. We here in America deplored what was happening to the great Archbishop Stepanak. Not only did Catholics deplore it, not only did Catholics pray for that great patriot, but Jews and Protestants too. And Jews and Catholics are praying today for the Protestants in Bulgaria and for Bishop Ordaz, the Protestant Bishop of Hungary. No, we come to this meeting not with the idea of praying for anyone merely because he happens to be of our faith. We're praying for all people who need prayer, all people who are being oppressed because of their race or their creed. And thank God, if I know America, Americans always will pray for the oppressed, regardless of race, creed, or color. Thank you. In other lands, people who are protesting as we are here this afternoon would be calling for war. It's particularly fitting, therefore, that this meeting should be a meeting of veterans, the men and the women who know war. And I can speak for them having been in two wars. The man or the woman who served in war never wants to see another one. No, we don't want any war about this business. We came to pray, to ask Almighty God to intervene in this business. To ask him to bring decency and justice into the hearts of the despots who are oppressing peoples of many lands. We're praying to God to bring peace, peace to all lands, a universal and a lasting peace. We're using the power of prayer and the power of petition, the God-like way of appealing to our supreme being to help all men and women of the world to become really brothers. That's what we're here for today. It's a peaceful meeting. We come with no clenched fists. We come with no muskets or swords. We come merely to add our word, our prayer, to the millions of prayers that are going up to the throne of the Almighty, asking him to bring peace, to bring freedom, to bring democracy to all peoples of the earth. And may our prayer be answered soon. Today I have a very, very distinct pleasure in presenting a Brooklyn congressman. My old friend, Congressman John J. Rooney. Let me say that the impact of Yugoslavian cruelties against Archbishop Stepanak and the dastardly trial, conviction and sentence of Cardinal Monsensky by the Hungarian authorities has been felt throughout our country and the entire world. We cannot take these blows passively, nor can there be any appeasement. Our government must... Our government must not only protest, but must induce the United States, the United Nations... But must induce the United Nations to invoke sanctions against these communist governments. It's my great pleasure to introduce to you or to present to you, because I know many of you know him, Rabbi Joshua Goldberg. Thirteen Coast Guardsmen were blown into pieces in the channel. They could not separate the bodies, so they decided to bury them in a fraternal grave. And over it they put a cross, and on the vertical slab of the cross they wrote the thirteen names. But one of them was a Jewish lad from St. Paul, Minnesota. And according to the tradition of our armed forces, each one is to be buried in accordance with this particular religious tradition. Where there is love, where there is understanding, where there is a common enemy which we understand consciously, there is no problem. Orders came, and right on top of that cross, they placed a Star of David. A unique marker. The Star of David and the cross, organically woven into a single symbol, representing something which is mighty precious. Jew, Catholic, and Protestant, buried beneath, together, united in death, the cause of the freedom for which they fought. I tried to drink in this picture. I looked around me, I saw Father Bosworth, I looked at Chaplain Workman, and I said to myself, don't we the three, represent that unity in life as those thirteen represented below in death. And we understood the lesson that ours is a unity without uniformity. The problem with the world today is that materialistic philosophies seek uniformity, not unity. Ours is a unity with the differences accepted. And in this business, therefore, wherever and whenever, one who represents a uniqueness of expression, a different approach to the mountain of God, in this business, we are all involved. Either we hang together in this affair, or we hang separately. That is clear. Thank you. Thank you.