How much? 20 seconds. I'll talk to you later. The camera will start moving around here. These mics will be... Everybody talk. A general. What? This camera starts moving in. Yeah. I talk to it. Stop talking. That's right. I talk to it. You take it. And all of you stop. Okay. See you later. Talk at live. All the time at live. Before the evening. So we're about to... Went skats with a bolt in his navel, if you haven't heard of it. Well, I won't get that one. Really about as good as a short horn. Stand by. Different categories. Now there's a lot. It's supposed to talk, and everybody's just silent in the grave. Yeah. Don't silence, boys. We've got to keep the conversation going. It's all right. Until they... Yes, indeed. You don't stop for a moment on it. Good evening, neighbors. This is the fourth of a series of these television broadcasts from City Hall. If you remember, two weeks ago tonight, we talked to you about hospitals. Remember that when we had the Commissioner of Hospitals, Dr. Kogel, here? Dr. Kogel is here tonight, too. I'll introduce him to you later. We had Dr. Elaine Raleigh in charge of the outpatient care. And we had Mr. Zemulian, the Commissioner of Public Works, to tell you about the program for the reconstruction of new hospitals and rehabilitation of ones that need help. That $150 million program that we talked to you about so much in the past few months. Now, of course, we couldn't hope to tell you all about our public hospitals in one telecast, nor do we hope to tell it to you all tonight. We'll have another one two weeks from tonight. But if you recall, what we were talking to you about at the end of the first telecast was reconstruction, overcrowding, rehabilitation, nurses, new nurses, what we were doing for them, because nursing is of such importance to a well-run hospital. And you also remember that we talked about the overcrowding of our hospitals and what we were doing about it. Now, tonight, we're still going to talk about overcrowding. I'm going to ask Dr. Kogel to tell you, first of all, about the overcrowding again. Or rather, perhaps I'd better tell it to you. When we took over in 1946, we had less than 17,000 patients in our hospitals, that is, in our municipal hospitals. Today, we have more than 21,500, and of course, that does create a crowding condition. You'll understand how that is. Now, the problem that we have while we're waiting for the new construction, new buildings, is to work on that overcrowding so that we can give the people the best possible medical service, and at the same time, not to have overcrowding. Now, the general field has to be attacked along certain lines. You have, for instance, the outpatient department that Dr. Elaine Raleigh told you about two weeks ago, tonight. You also have a home care program. That is, giving the service to the people at home when you can. You also have the question of bottlenecks that has to do with technical work that Dr. Kogel will tell you about in the hospitals. That's three. Now you have two more that you'll hear about also tonight. You'll hear the third one. You'll hear about research from Dr. Rivers, and you'll hear about rehabilitation from Dr. Howard Rusk. I suppose I introduce the gentlemen to you that are here tonight. And incidentally, it's a hot night. I'm very grateful to you for remaining at home and listening in. First, let me introduce to you the commissioner of hospitals whom you've met before. that's Dr. Marcus Kogel. It's over here on my right. Also from the Rockefeller Institute and a member of the Board of Health of the City of New York with a long, long experience in this kind of research work, Dr. Tom Rivers. And over here on my left is Dr. Howard Rusk who has developed the rehabilitation program not only in our city hospitals but first in the air corps during the last war and then was kind enough for we were lucky enough to get him to come in here from St. Louis and show us how to do the job in Bellevue Hospital and the other hospitals here in the city. Dr. Rusk has done such a beautiful job that I will not take up the time to tell it to you. I promise you that no matter what he does he can't possibly tell you the full story tonight but we could give you perhaps a clear indication of what his work consists of. All of these things ladies and gentlemen are directed to show you what we're doing to relieve the overcrowding in our hospitals and at the same time give the people full service. That's very important. Now Dr. Kogel would you tell the neighbors out here that what you are doing in the two fields of home care and breaking up the bottlenecks that are making it troublesome to administer the institutions. General, home care is probably one of the most exciting techniques that has been developed to take care of patients give them the same sort of care that a hospital would give right in the home. It's practically breaking down the walls of the hospital and getting all of the services of the hospital to flow into the home. It's something that you have made it possible for us to pioneer in the department by getting the funds for it and the entire country is watching this experiment. Now if I remember Dr. Kogel we began this back around 1948. December 1948. Now how many cases did we have that year? Well December 48 we didn't take care of more than about 50 or 60 cases that first month. How many cases tonight are you actually taking care of in home care? Well we have tonight almost 1,450 adults on home care that's 1,450 and over 30 children on home care. In other words in their homes they're being cared for where they're in the bosom of the family and their loved ones exactly in the same way as they would have been in the hospital. That is correct. we take care of surgical cases fracture cases heart disease every type of condition. After the patient is thoroughly worked up in the hospital and a blueprint is made as to the future care the treatment is continued in the home the doctor who took care of the patient in the hospital goes to the home visiting nurses visit the patient social workers get in there physiotherapists and occupational therapists technicians all of the services of the hospital go right into the home. And those are all needy sick aren't they? Those are all needy sick they're all indigent doctor it might be well to tell the people again what the budget was back in 1946 I'll remind you of it because I made it up it was around 37 million dollars. That's right it was a little over 36 it was only 37 million dollars that's right that's right now now it's near to 81 million dollars 81 million and this service that you're talking about is included in that increased budget for the department of hospitals you gave us an initial appropriation of a million and a half dollars a few years ago to make it possible to start this home care program as one of the new approaches to this overcrowded condition in our hospitals now that means that the people are getting the full care that they would get in the hospital in their own homes and they're not occupying the beds that are needed for acute medical cases that is correct when their treatment is concluded they're discharged from their home the home is considered as if it were another ward of the hospital and their case is closed their record is not closed until they're actually discharged from home then they continue treatment perhaps in the outpatient department what do you do in the case of a woman who has children she's got to be treated at home but she can't take care of her housework we send housekeepers into the home where do you get them well usually we get them from among members of the same family we pay them on an hourly basis relatives friends people living in the same house it's very difficult to get others but we do provide housekeeping service well that our doctors and our nurses know that they are well taken care of in the home that's right and we pay for that extra service that is right we put hospital beds into the home we put hospital equipment into the home we find that it pays it pays in health it pays in everything it pays in comfort that's right and unquestionably the patient gets along better at home than they would in the atmosphere of the hospital there's one type of patient that's where the family and the patient are particularly they're so happy that this home care can be extended to them the terminal cancer patients yeah the idea of being able to spend the last days in the bosom of the family means so much to them my oh my and they know that they'll be taken care of until the very end instead of being pushed over in a corner to die they allowed the last few minutes they have to live with their family that's right well that's tell us about the bottlenecks well general the bottlenecks patients very often stay longer in the hospital or their treatment is extended in the outpatient department because they can't get to the x-ray department let's say they may need an x-ray of the gastrointestinal tract and the x-ray department are so terribly clogged up with cases that they can't get to it for three weeks sometimes over two weeks now we found that if we can you mean they're lying in a bed there waiting for the information that's right patients lying in a bed and patients waiting in the outpatient department what are you doing about it well we've gotten additional funds to buy new equipment so that we have modern equipment we've gotten funds to mechanize a lot of the things that have been done by hand in those places to get additional technicians to expand the areas where expanded areas are necessary to put on an additional shift and by tackling it along these various fronts we're actually breaking that bottleneck and that will save us hundreds of beds now these two things are geared to relieve the pressure on the hospital beds that's all that is right now we come to the third one which is research Dr. Rivers no one in the whole world knows more about research than you do sir and I know that the people out front who are listening in will be very grateful to you not only for coming here tonight and telling them about it for the contribution to the happiness of the world that you have made over your lifetime and we're grateful to you for coming here could you tell us Dr. Rivers how far research can be used to help in relieving overcrowding general building of larger and better hospitals and things of that kind will not solve the problem entirely there are other things what you mean is that if you build all the hospitals in the world you still wouldn't have room enough for the sick correct you have to find some other way besides building new hospitals to meet the needs of the massive public correct you've got to stop people from being sick and when they get sick you've got to get them out of the hospital in a hurry and research is the way to do that it's one of the ways to do it at least it's a big way to do it we haven't been doing all the work in the world on our municipal plant have we Dr. Rivers in research not all of it no sir well have we contributed to any great extent certainly you have sir our municipal plant your municipal plants have done an excellent job would you mind telling the folks what our municipal plant has done what our city hospital has actually accomplished in the field of research I'd like to tell you some of the things that they have done and I'd also like to tell you some of the things that they are now doing for a long time infectious diseases were the diseases of most importance because it took off people in young life in the last 50 years most of the infectious diseases have been either made less dangerous or have actually been conquered could you name one of them diphtheria oh yes that's that throat problem work so many children die yes sir you don't hear that anymore at all very little now has that been accomplished the elimination of it as far as it has been eliminated by research yes sir where was that done of course the original discovery of the cleved lephal bacillus and the toxin were made in europe but the application of those discoveries were largely made in this country is that the one they did back around the 90s they started back in the 90s in the early part of this century and about how many over what period of years did they have to work on that oh 25 or 30 years was there any particular doctor that had charged that oh yes it's a household name dr william h park oh oh dr park yeah and he worked on this yes sir to a point that within 25 years he had practically eliminated diphtheria in the whole world he contributed largely to this the bureau of laboratories the city of new york and the willet parker hospital yeah well that's something to be proud of isn't it dr cove certainly is by the way how long are you with the department of hospitals well i've been 23 years and 23 about the time that you came in the department of hospitals first was when they had gotten underway on this wasn't it that is right general that's hard dr rust that is really a great achievement isn't it certainly has saved us a lot of problems because a lot of them had paralysis after that theory you know we'd have gotten them as patients in those days we don't get them anymore i see and they're not occupying hospital beds now because they're healthy out on the street playing is that right what else do they do research doctor in our city hospitals well in the infectious disease line more recently the harlem hospital the doctors at the harlem hospital brought to the patients there the privilege of receiving that drug first human beings had to get it and the people at the harlem hospital our city hospital had the privilege of receiving that drug first. Now, what did that actually do? Well, it tells the world how to use the drug and what proper dosages to do. Yeah, well, what does the use of the drug particularly do? Oh, a number of highly infectious diseases, pneumonia. Almost all of these things have bothered the medical professionals of the world. Now it seems simple. Correct. Dr. Louis Wright did that in Harlem Hospital. Yes, sir. And tell us, Dr. Cogel, of the 21,500 people that we have in our hospitals, how many of them are in there because of diseases that are old age complaints? Well, chronic diseases. Chronic diseases. Yes, chronic diseases. I'd say that more than half of our patients have some form of long-term illness, some chronic disease, some degenerative disease. You mean to say that we have almost 11,000 people in our hospitals? Are they really chronic disease people? That's right, General. When you consider that one quarter of our population in the hospitals, I mean in our hospitals, our TB patients, one of the important chronic diseases. Well, my heavens, doctor, we're just finishing the Burdus Kola up on the island there, 2,000 beds, aren't we? That's right, and we certainly need it. And that won't come anywhere near meeting the needs, will it? No, it will not. What has research done for that, Dr. Rivers? In your city hospitals, in the Goldwater Memorial Hospital over on Welfare Island, for the last 14 years, they have been investigating several of the worst of the chronic diseases. One of them is the disease of the blood vessels, usually known to the public as hardening of the blood vessels. Of the arteries. Is that what they call it? The arteries, they call it the arteriosclerosis. They call it the hardening of the arteries. That's right, the hardening of the arteries. Now, that is one of the most important of the diseases of old age. Yes. And up until about 10 or 15 years ago, the medical profession was right up against a brick wall. They couldn't make any progress at all. Yeah. Now, since then, Dr. Siegel and Dr. Gutman and their associates in the Goldwater Memorial Laboratories have devised a way of producing the disease in animals. Yeah. And it is exactly like the disease in human beings. Yeah. They have not only been able to produce the disease in animals, but they have been able to get a regression of the disease or to cure it in the animals. You have to cure it. Yes. Or to prevent it. Yes, sir. You mean that we have, we're almost on the doorstep of that discovery? Yes, sir, we are. And that is a contribution by Goldwater Memorial? Yes, sir. And those doctors? Yes, sir. Dr. Siegel and Dr. Gutman? Correct. You mean to say that we can look forward in the near future to where you can, you can either prevent or, or, well, that you won't have any trouble in curing hardening of the otter? I think that we can truthfully say now that we can expect within a reasonable time an alleviation for this disease, either prevention or cure. You mean to say that we can look forward to certain things that we've been drawn, that we've been accustomed to, expecting with old age that we can hold ourselves in readiness for a fuller life? We can put it off suddenly. You can? We can put it off suddenly. That would mean what? You mean heart trouble? Yes, sir. That? Senility? Yes, sir. Arthritis? Well, arthritis doesn't come in this group, but we are working on that over at the Goldwater too. Well, in other words, any of those diseases that are old age and been afflicted with, we have a hope from research to meet. Oh, yes. To meet the challenges. Yes, they're working over there on chronic arthritis. They're working on high blood pressure. We speak of it as hypertensive disorders, but the late people call it high blood pressure. The mares of the world will be very glad if you get some kind of a cure for that one. And we're even working on gout over there. Yeah. Well, now, in addition to those that are in the hospital, a discovery of this kind would mean that throughout the whole world, everyone could take advantage of these discoveries. I sure can. And our municipal hospital set up can at least take pride in the leading position that they've taken in there. They certainly should. And if this thing was worked out very well, the day would come when we wouldn't need to have 11,000 of these people in our, these chronic disease patients in our hospital. That's the, that's the, that's the, that's what the research will do for you. So that's your argument that research is another very important way of preventing over-cladure in hospital. It is one of the important ways, sir. Your curious table. Well, as you know, in your room, let's take a peek out from the導 students because some of us is going to help open up our clinics They had broken backs or had lost their arms and legs, or for one reason or another, they were there in bed, helpless and hopeless. That is entirely correct. And nothing could be done for them. That's right. And then God sent us Dr. Howard Rusk. That is right. And he went to work on that type of patient. Dr. Rusk, from the Air Corps, where you had the experiences with paraplegics, and you found that it was possible to make people who were completely without hope, because of injuries they had received, it was possible to give them hope and make them useful to themselves and to the community. Isn't that simple? That's right. Then when you were invited to come here, you were kind enough to come, and you've gone to work in Bellevue and expanded to the other hospitals, some of them. And I'm sure that the people would be very anxious to have you tell them about the work that you've done. Well, it's really been a great privilege to work here. My first experience was in the Air Force, working with primarily with combat casualties that had come back either physically or emotionally, shot to pieces. The paraplegic, the individual with his spinal cord cut, has been always a very difficult problem. We had 400 in the First World War, and there's only one alive today. But this time we had 2,500, and 80% due to training and new techniques and the fact that because of Dr. Rivers' research we could control kidney infection, are up walking on braces and crutches and leading a reasonably normal life. At least not completely helpless. That's right. Well, 80% are either in school or in jobs, and that's far from helpless. You mean to say in schools or in jobs? That's right. Well, how do they get around? They can walk with proper training. Well, how did you get them to walk? Put them in proper braces and gave them the proper training. So long... And you train them to walk all over again? That's right. In the hospital? That's right. And then one day you have them out in the public, just taking their places in New York? Lots of them were at work right here in New York. I think Bellevue was the first hospital, civilian hospital in the whole country that had a program for the civilian paraplegic. Because... You remember telling me that after you got through with the Air Force on this work, that you found out that there were more civilians in this category than there were veterans? Ten times more. Ten times. That's what attracted you to the work? That's right. Ten times. When we had 2,500 as a result of combat, we had 15,000 in civilian life. Well, in the short time that we've got, Dr. Russ, could you tell the people generally the outline of the major categories that you had to deal with here in New York? Well, this rehabilitation is a $64 word. You've been talking about rehabilitation of buildings, and they talk about rehabilitation of war-torn countries. What I'm talking about is rehabilitation of disabled people, and they're all types. They're individuals with arms or legs off, with broken backs, who've had... You mean the arms and legs off? Yes, sir. You couldn't do anything with them. Yes. What did you do with them? Well, we... The day before yesterday, we had the first anniversary of the Goldwater program. It's only been in effect a year. That's right. And the man over there is ready to go out next week for a job, and he only has two fingers on one hand and one finger on the other, and both legs off below the knee, and he's ready to go to work. He's the most skilled man with this one great big finger that I ever saw. What did you do, develop it? He had developed it, and then we taught him to walk and how to use it, and he's ready to go now. But we have lots of old people. At Bellevue, in the last four years since we've started, we've had more than 300 patients with strokes of apoplexia, and their average age has been 63. Well, did you tell me that there's some girl that was completely hopeless in the hospital for years when you came there, and now she's... Well, our secretary over there, she had polio when she was two years old, and she was paralyzed in both her arms and her legs, partially in her arms, and she'd had 26 assorted surgical procedures. And she was paralyzed because she couldn't get up an eight-inch curb. And if you can't get up an eight-inch curb in New York, you can't get across the street, so you're homebound. And she'd been to school, and she learned to type... She doesn't have to lay up over that height. That's right. Yeah. And she was an expert typist, but she couldn't get back and forth to work. It took 11 weeks to teach her the technique, and two years ago, she took a job at Bellevue. She's worked for the whole two years, and she's never missed a day nor been late in the morning. But she waited 30 years because of an eight-inch curb. And now she's here? She's at work, two years at work. Did you have any of them down here tonight to... I brought two down who can really tell the whole story. Suppose you bring them in, but you won't have much time. They were in Goldwater Hospital, and maybe if I open the door and bring them in, I'll come back and tell the story very quickly. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. Rusk is going to bring in two of his patients that he's had quite a great deal of success with. And I know that when he tells the story that there are hundreds of people listening into this program and others who will hear about it that will have hope and that will know that it is not an impossibility for them to live normal, healthy lives. Mr. Mayor, this is Mrs. Everett Gray and Everett Gray. Mr. Gray, I'm very happy to welcome you. Everett, I'm very happy to welcome you. Thanks for coming. It was lovely of you to be here. Everett was seven years in Goldwater, and he had a very severe arthritis of the spine and his legs, and they're perfectly fixed. Take a few steps, Everett, so we can see. And Mrs. Gray had a spinal cord injury, and she'd been in Goldwater for six years. So the two of them had been there 13 years. And Everett was one of our early patients at Bellevue, and he learned to walk beautifully, as you see him, on his legs, although they were fixed. And in six weeks, Everett went out and took a job, and he's an expert camera repairman. How long was he in the hospital? He was, how long, Everett? Seven years. Seven years, just there, and couldn't do anything. Then Dr. Russ came along, and in six weeks, you were able to get around. And then he came back, and he said he had a sweetheart in Goldwater. And she'd been there six years, and he thought if she had some training, she could get out. So she came over, and it took a little longer, about two and a half or three months to train Mrs. Gray to walk, because her spinal cord was severed. And then they were married, and they live up in Harlem, and Everett has a splendid job as a camera repairman. And in fact, the first of August, she's going on a new and better job. And Ms. Gray runs the house with her wheelchair and on her crutches, and they're happy, productive people. Now, let me translate it in just a second into dollars. Yeah, let's get it down to that. In the 13 years they were in Goldwater, they cost the taxpayer $50,000. It cost $3,000 to train them. If they'd stayed in Goldwater the rest of their lives, because you can see they're good, healthy people. That is right. According to the most conservative estimate, they would have cost the taxpayer more than $100,000 more. So here with a $3,000 investment, we've saved the taxpayer $100,000, and we've got happy people. Well, not only that, that's the big thing. You've got happy people. You've got people with hope. Both of you, Mr. and Mrs. Gray, God bless you both. Thanks for coming here tonight. I know that everyone who looks at you and sees the courage that you've had and sees the happiness written in your faces will feel that much better. Now I think our time is getting very close, and ladies and gentlemen, another half hour has gone by. I'm grateful to you for listening in. You neighbors in the hospitals that received the 15 television sets from the television industry last week, I hope you're enjoying them. Now I know that one television set in a hospital is not enough. And if you're crowded, or if you find it difficult to take advantage of the television programs, write to me. I won't promise you anything, but I shall try to see that you get enough sets to at least help you to be informed of what's going on, be entertained, and try to relieve the pain and suffering of your hospital stay. Ladies and gentlemen, good night. God bless you, everyone.