In the early morning programs of your city station, Chief Loftus and other members of the fire department staff have warned you about, well, we must use the word your carelessness in the matter resulting in fires. Now, particularly as the winter season is approaching, you'll be using space heaters, gas heaters, oil, electric, and so forth. Be sure that all apparatus of every kind is in good condition. And above all, where there's young children, don't go out for an extended length of time and leave these youngsters alone with any of these various apparatuses. Because they really don't know, they don't think, they're very young, and if you make the proper preparations for their safeguarding, why you will not have the usual accident and sometimes tragedy that results not intentionally, but again, as Chief Loftus said, carelessness that we're not aware of until something happens to remind us of the fact. So fire prevention is very important in this great and wonder city. And in the course of the broadcast here at City Hall today, you'll be given a list of at least some idea of the casualties that result not only to your own fire department, which is, after all, made up of the beloved members of your own family, your brothers, husbands, fathers, and so forth. And we appreciate their wonderful work, and we want to make it possible for them to be relieved of the element of fatality in the matter of handling fires in this great city. A city that sees every technique in the world of any kind demonstrated behind these rather quiet facades that give no indication of what is taking place behind them. Every sort of chemical, mechanical, and other type of apparatus is in full operation here in this city. Of course, the fire department in their districts are aware of what is in that district, and for that reason, they know how to handle the situation. But we can help. And now, Commissioner Grumet. I pledge allegiance, for the school children to repeat, I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the country for which it stands. One nation indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. May I lower your hands. The national anthem. The national anthem. The祭ię authenticate, but. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. The national anthem. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Acting Mayor Sharkey, distinguished guests, teachers from our public and parochial schools, parents and guardians, and children, in congratulating you boys and girls for your excellent essays on fire prevention. Let me observe that the members of the fire department, who were charged with selecting you prize winners, faced a most difficult task. For more than 5,000 of the essays were of such unusual merit that they were submitted as possible prize winners. And as most of you no doubt know, there were tens of thousands of school children who wrote essays on the subject of the fire-safe home, which was this year's subject on fire prevention. And I would be remiss if I did not note that your teachers had a tremendous task in winnowing out these 5,000 and odd essays from the many thousands of meritorious compositions written by you and your classmates. But there were only 335 medals to go around, and so you realize the difficulty that beset our firemen in choosing the winners. All the children from our magnificent public and parochial schools who wrote essays, both you prize winners and those who are not numbered among the fortunate 335, performed a signal service to your families, your teachers, and yourselves, as well as to all the people of the city of New York in writing these fire prevention essays. Every one of the 5,000 and odd essays showed how ably you had been instructed by your teachers of the dangers of fire, not only to yourselves and your neighbors, but to the entire community. What you learned in these fire prevention instructions will stand you in good stead throughout your lives, and that knowledge may be the means of saving of lives and property, nor will the things you learn be yours alone. For you will pass on to others the fire prevention instructions you learned and know so well. Now let me thank you, your teachers and your parents and guardians, who have labored untiringly with you to make you prize winners. And now it is my privilege to present our good friend, and a good friend of all good citizens, his honor, Joseph T. Sharkey, acting mayor of the city of New York. Commissioner Grimett, Chief Loftus, distinguished guests, teachers of our public and parochial schools, parents and guardians of these happy children before us. And last but not least, you youthful prize-winning essayists. This is indeed a pleasure for me to preside and be the acting mayor on this occasion, because this is something rather close to me. I was a member of the Bureau of Fire Prevention and the Fire Department for ten years myself, as a civil service employee, and often took part in these celebrations as one of you. So it's indeed a pleasure to be on this side of the microphone today, and be taking part with you in this joyful celebration. You children are here today at this historic City Hall, because you labored long and diligently over your essays on fire prevention. You 335 children have been chosen from more than 5,000 of your companions in our city's splendid public and parochial schools, whose essays were outstanding. And you were selected as prize winners out of all of these thousands, because your essays were the best. You are indeed to be congratulated on writing such exceptionally well-thought-out essays. What you have written richly reflects the knowledge you obtained on fire prevention in your classrooms. And so at the outset, on behalf of the people of the City of New York, I thank these self-sacrificing teachers of our public and parochial schools, and the parents and guardians of all of our school children, who wrote those fire prevention essays. You children, including the tens of thousands of your classmates who are not here, who also wrote fire department stories, made a most worthy contribution to the fire department's efforts to cut down the number of unnecessary fires which destroy lives and property in this city daily. You know that a lighted cigarette carelessly dropped, or a lighted match tossed to one side, can bring tragedy and suffering to many families. And in these critical times, when our nation is menaced by the Reds, the destruction of lives and property is a blow at our national defense. And in these critical times, we must all observe the simple rules of fire prevention every day of the year, and thereby aid our brave soldiers and sailors and marines who are fighting in Korea to protect our democratic institutions and everything else that constitute our American way of life. Our fire department, the ablest and finest in the world, is on the job day and night to protect all of us. But if the fire department had the cooperation of all of us, as it should have, our fires would dwindle immeasurably. Scores of men, women, and children would be saved from death, hundreds from injury, and thousands would not be made homeless by the destructive flames. And the families of all of you, and others with whom you come in contact, will never be responsible for any unnecessary fires. Nor will any of you ever be guilty of turning in a false alarm, of which we had 10,457 last year. Firemen and civilians have been killed and injured in responding to these false alarms. The reason I am sure of these things is because you prize winners and the thousands of your classmates who did not win prizes all displayed a splendid civic-mindedness in your essays. And let me close by repeating my thanks to you children of our city's excellent public and parochial schools, your self-sacrificing teachers, your fond parents and guardians, your really worthwhile contribution to make this the greatest city in the world, a safer city for all of us. God bless you. Thank you, Mr. Acting Mayor. And now we will have a selection by the Glee Club, Song America. My country, dear, of thee, Sweet land of liberty, Of thee I sing. Land of liberty, Land of liberty, From every pounded side, Let free our ring. Now the acting mayor will present the medals to the school children. All right. The Honorable Joseph P. Sharkey, acting mayor of the city of New York on this beautiful October day, is descending the platform now here in front of City Hall, to be closer to the youngsters, to which he will award the 335 medals, that have in no way indicated the tremendous output of the youngsters in our schools, and their interest in fire prevention, and the essays which they have turned in, which cause the awards in this prize-winning contest here in front of City Hall. It's very important that our youngsters be made aware of their responsibility in the matter of fire hazard, and in a city like New York, fireproof to a great extent as it really is, and the things we move into buildings and the things we surround ourselves with are inflammable, as we know. And it is for that reason that no amount of building regulation or housing regulation or so forth, can entirely eliminate the hazard of fire if we ourselves will not be careful, not only in the organization of our homes and environment, but in watching over the welfare of the youngsters who are not yet as familiar as they might be with the hazard of fire, in their carefree manner of relaxing, and in their recreational periods. Again, we say, if you're using space heaters particularly in your home, now that the winter season is approaching, be sure they're in perfect working order. Be sure that electric heater doesn't have a frayed wire, whereby the youngster may trip over it, cause a short circuit, cause a fire in your home, or at least badly burn the child with an electrical burn, which is really one of the most painful. The same goes for gas and other forms of heating. Now, the gas is a very hazardous form of heating if it isn't constantly supervised. We've reminded you in many, many, many reminders over your city station of the necessity for being constantly aware of the lethal quality of gas if we do not maintain the efficiency of the apparatus, which is using gas as its medium of service. Now, this is very important. The oil heater is also still very extant in our great city, and it's important that oil heaters be in perfect order, and that they must be watched all the time they are in operation. It is not safe to go out and leave the youngsters in a home, and that dreadful thing of going to such an extended leave as the movies, or something like that, with an oil heater burning. That is a hazard that none of us can feel safe in taking. The heater itself is all right if it's kept in good condition, and if we do not relax into the usual carefree, lackadaisical manner, which most of us do, in the using of apparatus around the home. We have to watch these things. It's very important. Chief Loftus and other ranking members of your fire department will keep you reminded all week in the spot announcements between programs of your part in the fire prevention program. And that's important, too. The mayor is very happy down there with those youngsters. It would be nice if we could get a microphone down there closer to them, and the youngsters themselves are quite pleased in getting their first little touch of civics here in front of City Hall. I wonder how many of them looked down at the bronze plate in the pavement of City Hall here, when Mayor Van Wyke broke ground for the first subway. The first subway that ran up 4th Avenue, up Lexington Avenue, made a swing from Grand Central over to Broadway, and then up Broadway as we follow the old 7th Avenue IRT line now. One of the results of that, of course, was that insurmountable technical obstacle, the shuttle, when the Lexington Avenue subway was finally constructed. In the beginning, it was thought that Lexington Avenue was too narrow for a subway at that time, and as engineering techniques developed, it became possible to make the Lexington Avenue subway a complete line serving the east side, and it was then, of course, that the subways themselves went off in their different directions, leaving the shuttle as one of the phenomenons of New York City, and not one of the most praiseworthy results of an advance one way and a backward step in another. The junction here is quite hard to form because of the tremendous amount of traffic in that district. And yet, from the standpoint of safety and the tremendous number of passengers that the Board of Transportation carries, and their protection in the matter of insulation to prevent fire hazards, it's a remarkable achievement in itself. And the cooperation of our citizens is indicated by the fact that they realize that this is a great railroad system that is constantly taking into consideration, by its preventive and upkeep methods, the hazard of fire. Most of the history of New York City begins right from this little spot here, City Hall Park, and this beautiful building that is known as City Hall, and one of the gems of architecture of its kind anywhere in the world. Very few people realize there are over $2 million worth of paintings in this building, and the interior of it is finished in the most exquisite colonial manner, and carried out with a dignity that lends itself when visitors come here to our city, and realize that we have this beautiful building as the focal point of our civic government. The mayor is having a great time there with the cameramen. These youngsters are enjoying every minute of it as they're being handed these 335 medals. I don't think we'll wait for the entire ceremony. We're just waiting to see if the mayor does wish to come back to the platform and make a final remark before he... This sunshiny day has lent itself very beautifully to this ceremony of the youngsters here today. And, uh, Fire Prevention Week is getting off to a fine start. We've had clear weather and perfect, uh, time to assemble these forces to impress on all the importance of fire prevention. It's a lamentable fact, however, that a great wonder city like New York is held back in its, uh, high ratio of, uh, intelligent, uh, development, because no city that still has the hazard of over 10,000 false alarms can boast of a very greatly developed intelligence up to that point, even though we know that within its gates is, uh, the greatest demonstration of intelligence in every form. And yet, because of an 8 million, uh, population, why, uh, there are still people who think it's funny to take a chance and think it's a lark to utilize a protective method to, uh, create a laugh. Well, that isn't so. And as the mayor pointed out to you, and the fire commissioner, the Honorable Jacob Grumet, many men have lost their lives and been cruelly injured answering these false alarms, because when an alarm comes in, there is no discretion as to what type of fire it's going to be, or they don't hold any meetings or sessions as to what to do. They're trained to respond to the emergency, and then they go out into the swirling traffic of this, uh, city, compelledly so, because it's a great industrial and commercial center. And, uh, through all this traffic, the fire apparatus has to rush, and that is what brings about the hazard, only to get to the point from which the alarm originated to realize some utterly stupid person that thought it was funny to send in an alarm. He wanted to see the engines roll or something like that. Let's hope that we see this terrific hazard eliminated from the civic scene, and education in the schools is certainly one magnificent approach to this subject. The deputy mayor has just asked for Miss Mullane. The cameramen are taking very interesting pictures of the mayor with these youngsters, and that's quite an inspiration in their lives to find themselves so close to city government and their important relation to it. I'm not sure whether we should discontinue this program or not and return to the studios because there may be a final word from the rostron. The fire department band and the fire department glee club furnished the musical setting for this program here today, and the youngsters formed on center street and then marched into city hall plaza, led by the fire department band, and they formed here in the front of the dais here in front of city hall, each school child carrying a small american flag, and it created a very beautiful burst of color as they swung from historic park row into city hall plaza from the east side of city hall to take their place in front of the rostrum here in city hall. The fire department band is the musical organization you're hearing at this time. Well, I guess that's about all now. It looks as though there's a few formal handshakes and good wishes by Mayor Sharkey and Fire Commissioner Grumet to the youngsters and the splendid intelligence they've shown in turning out these essays on fire prevention. Now the next thing for us all to do is to remember that Fire Prevention Week is a very important thing. It's a great hazard in a city like New York that has to carry on so much that is unique in the way of technical and commercial and industrial techniques. And while the business organizations do everything possible to organize to reduce the to a minimum the hazard of any of these techniques from the standpoint of fire, let the home become just as efficient because the loved ones are there in the home, the kiddies, dad and mother and all the others. Let's be careful and let's prove we're good citizens by understanding all the ramifications and the hazards of fire and that we're going to do everything to and on our part to cooperate fully with fire prevention. Not only one week, but every week, every day, every hour, every moment in the year. Fire prevention, make it your slogan, talk to the youngsters, make them aware of danger without frightening them in any way. Just make them realize intelligently what danger is and then we'll see that great advance in fire protection that the Honorable Jacob Grumet, Fire Commissioner of the City of New York, pleaded for when he made his address here this morning. I guess that's about all from City Hall Plaza. We now return to the studios and join the program now in progress.