Greater's microphones are now possibly in one of the most picturesque spots in Greater New York. We're over on Brooklyn Heights with a magnificent view of New York Harbor, one of the greatest views in the world. And the occasion is the opening of two playgrounds, number four and five, and the rest of the promenade here on Brooklyn Heights, under which that marvelous connecting link operating on two shelves will connect right through this part of Brooklyn, completely bypassing the borough and along Furman Street, hitched onto the cliff itself that forms Brooklyn Heights, and completely out of sight with no noise of traffic or anything else but the beautiful promenade above it all, with possibly one of the most magnificent views of New York Harbor to be had anywhere. This program is augmented today by the magnificent spring weather which we're enjoying, and Commissioner Moses, Borough President Cashmore, the clergy and distinguished guests have just arrived, and we're now about to start the regular order of ceremony. And here is the chairman who will introduce Mr. Moses. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We will open the ceremonies by the police band playing our national anthem accompanied by the police glee club. Oh, may can you see by the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Oh, broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous night All the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming And the loudest red glare The bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there All the shadows that stopped hanged And the stars hanged And the stars hanged And the stars hanged O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave And the home of the brave It is an honor and a privilege to introduce the honorable Robert Moses, Commissioner of Parks. Mr. Moses. The invocation will be pronounced by Dr. Fifield. Almighty God, We thank thee that it is our privilege to live in a nation where playgrounds are available for boys and girls, and where the free spirit of play is still one of the gifts to our people. Grant, we pray, O God, that these material grounds to be dedicated today may be but a symbol of that spirit, the spirit of freedom which we share. And we pray that for the sake of the boys and girls and men and women of this land, we may be spared and blessed in the maintenance of that freedom. Grant, we pray, thy blessing upon these projects, upon this community, and upon us all, for we ask it in his name. Amen. I think it's unnecessary for me to dwell on the difficulties which were encountered here in building this improvement. As you undoubtedly all know, it had its origin in an effort to avoid tearing a path through the heights, taking down established, venerated churches, other landmarks, valuable buildings, and we hit upon this device of building a multi-story, three-story structure over Furman Street, taking out some of the gardens, the old houses at the top, providing two lanes, or rather two levels of travel in each direction, above Furman Street, leaving Furman Street to serve the docks, and with an esplanade on the top for people to sit and walk and observe the harbor and the Statue of Liberty in lower Manhattan. And in that process, we, of course, didn't neglect recreation. Where you sit today, you find a shelf that we were able to put in to accommodate mothers and children, find another playground a little higher up. I think you will agree that Borough President Cashmore and his engineers and consultants have taken advantage of every possible method of providing play and recreation park space on the heights. These things are not done overnight. They're not done without effort. They're not done without discommoding and inconveniencing people, no matter how careful you are. the Borough President can tell you better than I can what some of our problems have been. On the face of it, we have here roadways which have been unusable because the approaches on both sides have been missing. Why have they been missing? Not on account of any neglect, not on account of any indifference, not because there wasn't every possible ingenuity exercise, but just because we had to move a lot of people or a lot of obstructions. It takes time to do those things. They're being done. We'd like to do them faster. We're doing them as fast as we can. Before introducing the, presenting the Borough President, I want to say this. this section of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway represents something in the nature of independent city initiative. This is part of a federal and state program. Federal and state governments were supposed to pay for this, accepting part of the cost of land. But there wasn't enough federal money and there wasn't enough state money and there were too many delays. So the Borough President decided to take it on. And that's why this section has been built as a straight 100% city contribution. I'm not going to take any more time to tell you what our headaches and troubles have been. I take great pleasure at this time in introducing a man who's responsible for this improvement and has had to take most of the headaches, Borough President Cashmore. Thank you, Commissioner Moses. Reverend clergy and neighbors and friends, we coined an expression about 10 years ago in which we said Brooklyn was the greatest city's greatest borough. And that's why today we're here to keep up the reputation of our borough. Commissioner Moses has been very modest as far as he goes. A number of centuries ago we had a great man. He painted the Mona Lisa. He painted the Lord's Supper. He invented the wheelbarrow. He was the first dissector of a human body. He was the first man that ever designed an airplane. His name was Leonardo da Vinci. Today we have another Leonardo da Vinci in the name of Robert Moses. Sitting here today it's very easy for me to stand up here and say that with the opening of these two new playgrounds Brooklyn will have 166. That's besides our parks and our recreational facilities. There's no community in the United States that can boast of that record. But you don't get these things free. They do cost money. But in an indirect way we get back the cost of these improvements. Most of you who are residents of this area know that just a few years ago it was slipping. Today you can see apartment houses going up which increases our tax rolls which also brings more money back into the city treasury so that we may do these things. And at the same time these things encourage private owners to build these apartments. apartments. It's just but a few days ago that we opened up here the Great Brooklyn War Memorial which is another contribution to this area. Now these two parks are playgrounds rather and your esplanade just for the improvements cost $656,000. It's a lot of money if you say it slowly but it's money well invested and it's well spent. When we finish and complete this Brooklyn Queen connecting highway we will have added 21 more parks and playgrounds to it. Then I believe no one could ever catch us. Now the importance of a playground such as this is not just to look at it's a place where children the future of America may play in safety and their mothers and fathers will know where they are and it will keep them out of the hands of the law. So I say to you Bob you've done a great job and if Manhattan doesn't like you Brooklyn will love you. Now over here on my left or your right there's a band. They have to get away because they're due uptown New York by five o'clock. But it's one of the greatest bands in the entire state and certainly the greatest in the city of New York. And they've come here today and volunteered their services to make this a success. So they're going to leave in a few minutes but then we're going to have remain with us for the rest of the celebration a glee club takes second place to none, the New York City Police Glee Club. So on behalf of the people out here, members of the Police Department band, we certainly appreciate you being here and Captain, thank you very much. In closing, may I say this, this is your money, every dollar of it, treat it as it's your private property. It couldn't have been accomplished unless I had the full cooperation of a man who's so bothered that he won't sit up here. There's the engineer sitting down there, W.L. Andrews, the man responsible for all this engineering work. I'll stand up and let these people take a look at you. And then there are eight men that run this city. There's the mayor, the controller, the president of the city council, and the five borough presidents. These appropriations all have to go through the entire board of estimate. The mayor may not be here today, but I do want to say without his full support, Brooklyn couldn't be as great as it is. Thank you very much. Thank you. I now present the reverend Theodore J. McLaughlin, pastor of the church of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Almighty God, we humbly beseech thee to protect and safeguard this project so essentially necessary today in every community. thou hast said, suffer little children to come unto me, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Under divine guidance, we fervently pray that this endeavor will prove physically, spiritually, and morally beneficial. we ask our heavenly father to direct the youth who will enjoy these outdoor facilities, safeguarded from the hazards and dangers of traffic in our city streets. May the good lord give them the grace to advance and age wisdom before god and man. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. If you will remain standing, the benediction will be pronounced by Rabbi Isidore Aaron of the congregation of Mount Sinai. Almighty God and Father, may the remembrance of these pleasant moments always be for us an incentive and an inspiration to continue to continue to continue this worthwhile work on behalf of our young children and young people. We pray the O God bless this country especially on this day which marks such an unhappy anniversary. Bless us with the strength and with the courage to continue our efforts on behalf of peace so that in the not too distant future we may all live as brothers and as children of the one God. Amen. The ceremonies will conclude with an inspection of the two playgrounds. Let them have one number please first and a sergeant wants to give us one. Oh, the borough president tells me that the sergeant is ready to with one number from the glee club. Thank you. Thank you. The heads are up and the chests are out the arms are swingin' and cadence count sound off one, two sound off three, four cadence count one, two three, four one, two three, four I had a good home when I left you're right you had a good home when you left you're right Jody was there when you left you're right Jody was there when you left you're right sound off one, two sound off three, four cadence count one, two three, four one, two three, four lift my gal away I thought that army life was best. Now she's someone else's wife, and I'll be marching the rest of my life. Sound off. One, two. Sound off. Three, four. Cadence count. One, two, three, four. Eeny, meeny, miny, moe. Let's go back and count some more. Sound off. One, two. Sound off. Three, four. Cadence count. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. If I get smacked in the combat zone, give me a whack to take me home. The captain rides in a jeep. The sergeant rides in a trout. The general rides in a limousine, but we're just out of love. Sound off. One, two. Sound off. Three, four. Cadence count. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. Sound off. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. One, two, three, four. It's a lovely day. It's a lovely day. It's a lovely day. It's a lovely day today. And whatever you've got to do, you've got a lovely day to do it in that screw. And I hope whatever you've got to do is something that can be done by two. I really like to say. It's a lovely day. It's a lovely day today. It's a lovely day today. It's a lovely day today. And whatever you've got to do. And be so happy to be doing it with you. But if you've got something that must be done, and it can only be done by one. There is nothing more to say. There is nothing more to say. Except it's a lovely day for saying ah. It's a lovely, lovely, lovely, lovely day. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought you the dedication ceremonies of the playgrounds number four and five here on Brooklyn Heights at the end of Middaw Street between Brooklyn Heights and Furman Street. This is a rather peculiar description, isn't it? As you know, Furman Street is a way down at the foot of the cliff here at sea level. And then Brooklyn Heights rises for a possible 75 or 100 feet above the sea level here. And in a nook right under the cliff here and midway between Furman Street and Brooklyn Heights, these beautiful playgrounds are put into service here today. Ramps lead down from Columbia Heights and Middaw Street in order that baby carriage, bicycles, and other appurtenances of youngsters having a good time on the way to a playground may have the facility for operation. The wall that builds up and shores up Brooklyn Heights is a very fine piece of stone masonry. And all in all, it's a most picturesque spot indeed with the great buildings, the commerce and industry of the city represented by one of the busiest shipping bulkhead lines anywhere in the world with its basins and piers along the Brooklyn waterfront, the Brooklyn Bridge and all the panorama of New York Bay. And this also completes the promenade right to Middaw Street now, which up to now has been more or less in a state of finishing touches for some time since the early part of the promenade was opened last year. This promenade itself is above the shelves which will carry the Belt Parkway around Brooklyn. On the shelves are attached to the heights, to the cliff of Brooklyn Heights, a piece of engineering that is quite remarkable. And they'll be under this promenade without any idea that thousands of cars are passing both ways day and night without any noise or any obstruction to this part of Brooklyn. All in all, this promenade and the adjunct playgrounds here at the Middaw Street end is one of the most famous promenades now extant anywhere in the world with a view of New York Bay that is unsurpassable. And it extends from Middaw Street to Juraliman and is a favorite promenade for Brooklynites in the early evenings and certainly on a spring day like today on the rather equivocal December 7th, why it has been well-peopled all afternoon with people enjoying the sunshine and fresh air and the incomparable view of New York Harbor. Well, that's all we can bring you now from Middaw Street and Columbia Heights and Furman Street where playgrounds four and five, anadject to the promenade are now set in motion to build and develop the youngsters of Brooklyn Heights in this section of Brooklyn, New York's youngsters who are New York's citizens of the future. Thank you from Brooklyn Heights. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
