From Dykeman and Academy Streets on Upper Broadway in Manhattan, your city station brings you transcribed dedication ceremonies of the Inwood branch of the New York Public Library. This is the first completely new library building in 14 years and represents a long-sought goal, happily realized through the cooperative work and interest of the Inwood community and the library. Here now is our chairman, Ralph A. Beals, director of the New York Public Library, who will introduce our distinguished speakers, Mr. Beals. It is my pleasant duty, on behalf of his honor, the mayor, the honorable president of the borough of Manhattan, and the trustees of the New York Public Library, to welcome you citizens of the Inwood and friends of the Inwood neighborhood to the dedication of this building, which we have all looked forward to with such eager anticipation. From Dykeman and Academy Streets on Upper Broadway in Manhattan, your city station brings you transcribed dedication ceremonies of the Inwood branch of the New York Public Library. This is the first completely new library building in 14 years and represents a long-sought goal, happily realized through the cooperative work and interest of the Inwood community and the library. Here now is our chairman, Ralph A. Beals, director of the New York Public Library, who will introduce our distinguished speakers, Mr. Beals. It is my pleasant duty, on behalf of his honor, the mayor, the honorable president of the borough of Manhattan, and the trustees of the New York Public Library, to welcome you citizens of the Inwood and friends of the Inwood neighborhood, to the dedication of this building, which we have all looked forward to with such eager anticipation. As is likely to be the case, as a year's work gets underway, we have had certain disappointments from our busy officials who had expected and hoped to take part in our program, the first being the president of the borough of Manhattan, whom I am particularly sorry not to be able to introduce. Some years ago, the late Dr. John Finley, then editor of the New York Times, had been scheduled to introduce the mayor of the city of New York, and all through the program, Dr. Finley sat nervously watching the back of the room, hoping that his honor the mayor would appear. He did not. At the conclusion of the ceremonies, Dr. Finley could stand it no longer. He said, I am so pleased by the introduction of the mayor that I have written, I am going to read you the introduction, even though the mayor isn't here. I am somewhat tempted to follow his example in respect to what I had hoped to say to the president of the borough of Manhattan, but since my powers of rhetoric are not quite up to those of Dr. Finley, I will forego that pleasure. We are very glad to have in his place, however, the Manhattan Commissioner of Borough Works, Mr. Warren Moskow, known to many of you as author of this very interesting book called Politics in the Empire State, and to even more, I suspect, as one of the most notable political correspondents of the generation to which we belong. I am very glad, indeed, to introduce to this audience, which must be among his early public appearances in his new post, the new Manhattan Commissioner of Borough Works, Mr. Warren Moskow, who appears on behalf of Borough President Wagner. I want to first express the regrets of Borough President Wagner that he was unable to be here today. He's out of town. I'm sure that if Bob had realized this was my first speech as a public official, he'd have hastened back. However, be that as it may, I hope Mr. Beals has a copy of that book on the shelves anyhow. Now, I've been into public office much too short a time to be able to take any share of the credit for this very lovely building. There are others who deserve the credit, and I'm sure they will get it. Because of that, I'd rather talk about libraries, libraries themselves, for just a moment. They are among my earliest recollections. I was going back almost 40 years when I started trudging off to the library nine blocks away down in South Brooklyn. And it was a weekly rite, a ritual. And I always went into a library building with a mixed feeling of trepidation and veneration. Trepidation was lest I make too much noise, lest I tear a book, lest I bring a book back late. Veneration that I sort of inherited from my parents who got their whole education from the libraries in New York when they came over as immigrant children. And I certainly know of no supplement to an education given in the public school systems here that compares with the library system. But as you all know, as the staff knows, as the people in the neighborhood know, a library is more than a building. This is a lovely building. It will be a fine library because of the people who live in this neighborhood and their children who will help make it so, who will use it intelligently. And because I know the staff, as in the staff of almost every library in New York, will give it that dignity and that soul and that kindliness and the courtesy and the order that a building of this kind deserves. Thank you. The New York Public Library is one institution with two principal arms. One is the Great Reference Library down at 42nd Street and 5th Avenue. The other is the equally great but very different Circulation Department, comprising the branches in Staten Island, Manhattan, and the Bronx. It is a man-sized job, and we have an able and vigorous young man to perform it. It gives me pleasure to introduce to you at this time the Chief of the Circulation Department, Mr. John McKenzie Corey. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. It is indeed a satisfaction to be here on behalf of the New York Public Library at this dedication to reap the fruits of the harvest, which has been growing for so long in this neighborhood, in this community. Thank you. Those who have been introduced have played a major part in it. Some of the officials on the platform have played a major part in the bringing to pass of this library. But I think that the matter that impresses me the most is that those of you in the audience are really, in the ultimate, the ones responsible for the existence of this wonderful branch library. It is very impressive to see the New York Public Library system and to realize that most of its branches represent library facilities in communities quite individual in nature and in size corresponding to some of the better known cities throughout the state. For instance, the Inwood branch of the New York Public Library serves a community approximately the size of the city of Troy, New York, and larger than the city of New Rochelle. Now, it might be of some interest to briefly compare the facilities which you as residents of Inwood have as a unit of the New York Public Library to the independent public library in a community of similar size. First and foremost, it is certainly evident that this is a genuine community, identifiable as such. This building is one of many cultural and distinctive features of the community itself with its wonderful parks, the museum, the schools in this area. With its own very extensive shopping district doing $52 million of retail sales annually in this one area, certainly a city of no mean proportions in itself. You now have a branch building that could certainly compare with any city of corresponding size independently situated. There are a number of distinctive features, most of them very definitely to your advantage, however, that distinguish this library from the library of an independent community. Mr. Beals has mentioned that the library opens with 18,000 books, almost all new on its shelves, in capacity for 50,000 volumes. You might note with surprise that the city of Troy would have 90,000 volumes, and you might say that that was to your disadvantage. And I should like to call to your attention two facts. There are 2 million circulating books in the New York Public Library, each of which is available to the residents of this community. The collection locally housed in this branch can always be geared to the interests of the community, and supplementary materials can always be obtained by Rapid Interbranch Loan Service from the other resources of the circulation department housing 2 million books, so that actually you have far more titles to draw upon than any independent community would ever do. Secondly, the population in Inwood is much more compressed than it would be in a normal city of this size. Both Troy and New Rochelle have about 10 square miles of area in the city. The Inwood community is about 2 square miles. This means that the services of the Inwood branch can be concentrated in one fine building, instead of having to be spread rather thinly through a larger area. Both Troy and New Rochelle each have 2 branches within the city. There is no need for the Inwood community to have branches of this branch, because I have rarely seen a branch library as strategically located in the heart of a community as this building is in the community of Inwood. And finally, and most important, it seems to me as a feature of the united nature of the branches in the New York Public Library, are the great central resources of personnel and advice that the staff and the community can draw upon here in Inwood. Many of the routine processes, many of the technical details of preparation of the books, the registration of borrowers, are done by central staffs, skilled in these tasks and relieving the local staff of many responsibilities in this connection. The book ordering, the cataloging, the binding and processing of the books, the registering of borrowers, and the handling of the interbranch loans are all taken care of by capable centralized staff. I think, finally, that we should recognize that the opening of this new building, wonderful as it is and long waited for by all of you, is only a step toward further improvements in library service. We hope, before many years, to fill the branch with its capacity nearly three times the size of the books presently assigned to the branch. We hope to expand the staff and, with that, the services and the schedule of the branch. We hope to grow with the community, and we have seen ample evidence of the public spirit of this community in bringing this building to fruition. We look forward to working with you in the future, and we ask you to let us know how we can be of help to you. Thank you. Thank you. Appearing today on his own right, and also as the representative of his Honour of the Mayor, is the Commissioner of Public Works, the Honourable Frederick H. Zermelon. In the brief time that he has been Commissioner of Public Works, we have completely rehabilitated and extended the St. George branch on Mr. Zermelon's native Staten Island. We've completed this one. We have two others nearing completion. We have made plans for 11 additional buildings. We have rehabilitated eight of the old Carnegie buildings, and plans are far advanced for the rehabilitation of an even larger number. Not since Andrew Carnegie started the branch library system going in 1902 has the library had so active and forward-moving a program of its physical resources. The Commissioner has taken a personal and direct hand in all of these things, and when one considers, the libraries are a negligible fraction of the total responsibility of his work. Since he designs, constructs, and operates bridges over all navigable streams, sewage disposal plants, all public buildings, and many other features of New York's civic life, one wonders how he accomplishes as much as he does. It is but appropriate that in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the engineering profession, he was recently awarded by Manhattan College the degree of Doctor of Engineering. I am very happy to present to you, Commissioner Zermalem, Commissioner of Public Works of the City of New York. Mr. Peels, Reverend Fergie, Commissioner of Moscow, our distinguished guests, both on the rostrum and in the, shall I say, file-offs, ladies and gentlemen, and children, as Mr. Peels said, I am here in a dual capacity today, both representing Mayor and Pelletieri and the Department of Public Works. The Department, as Mr. Peels tells you, is being responsible for the design and the construction of this magnificent building. So I suppose I have a double dispensation to talk loud and long, even though the signs in the library usually say, quiet, please. Mayor and Pelletieri has asked me to convey to you his sincere regrets that he could not be with you today due to pressure of his duties at City Hall. He sends his congratulations to the people of Inwood on this happy occasion and expresses the hope that this new library will be a source of inspiration, understanding, and enjoyment to the residents of this area. I know I speak for him when I say that he does not regard libraries as a luxury, but more as an essential service to the welfare and the well-being of the peoples of our city. There are some people, even today, who do regard libraries as luxuries, something that we could do without in this period of city financial difficulties. They point to the need for additional schools, hospitals, health centers, incinerators, pollution plants, pollution control plants, improve transit, and declare that maybe libraries could wait. I'm happy to say that both the previous administration and this administration have not followed that advice. the city has recognized the provision for adequate, accessible library facilities, and that provision has become an essential municipal responsibility. The expenditure of public funds for the construction and maintenance of libraries can easily be justified on the basis of the healthy influence it exerts by voucher of their role as vehicles for the traditional American concept of equal opportunity. Education, the opportunity for education, is a basic ingredient of the principle of equal opportunity. There was a time when education was thought of as ending in the elementary school, high school, or college. Education was thought of as something that began when the youngster shyly had entered a school of the school of the school of grammar school for the first time and it ended when he got his diploma on graduation. education. I'm the father of a large family and I keep pointing out to my boys and my girls the need for their completion of their education. I draw the example that in my community, in my beloved Staten Island, Mr. Beals, as you put it, I was one of 30 children in a grammar school graduating class that completed his college course. seven out of 30 went to high school. Six took commercial courses. I went on to college for which I am indebted to the almighty and to my parents. I point out to my children that today competition is much keener than it was when I graduated from college college. And the need for that education is self-evident in the fact that every child receives now a high school education if he has the aptitude for it and also can receive a college education and a majority do. Today, we think of education as a process that continues through our entire lives, not only after getting out of college, but through our entire lives. It is because of this new attitude that libraries have become more important than ever to the welfare of any community that they serve. Through the community library, we have access to the knowledge and wisdom of the ages. We have the means of familiarizing ourselves with the complex problem of our own age. We have the means of learning new skills, meeting new points of view, gaining understanding and enriching our and our neighbors' lives. Through the library, these children, all children, are helped to develop responsible citizenship. The community with a public library is a better place in which to live. our library, which we dedicate today, will render to the people of Inwood, I am sure, all the services and benefits which I have described. The building is modern, designed for convenience. Mr. Beals, Reverend Fergie, Commissioner of Moscow, our distinguished guests, both on the rostrum and in the, shall I say, file office, ladies and gentlemen, and children. As Mr. Beals said, I am here in a dual capacity today, both representing Mayor and Pelletary and the Department of Public Works. The Department, as Mr. Beals tells you, being responsible for the design and the construction of this magnificent building. So I suppose I have a double dispensation to talk loud and long, even though the signs in the library usually say, quiet, please. Mayor and Pelletary has asked me to convey to you his sincere regrets that he could not be with you today due to pressure of his duties at City Hall. He sends his congratulations to the people of Inwood on this happy occasion and expresses the hope that this new library will be a source of inspiration, understanding, and enjoyment to the residents of this area. I know I speak for him when I say that he does not regard libraries as a luxury, but more as an essential service to the welfare and the well-being of the peoples of our city. There are some people, even today, who do regard libraries as luxuries, something that we could do without in this period of city financial difficulties. They point to the need for additional schools, hospitals, health centers, incinerators, pollution plants, pollution control plants, improved transit, and declare that maybe libraries could wait. I'm happy to say that both the previous administration and this administration has not followed that advice. The city has recognized the provision for adequate, accessible library facilities, and that provision has become an essential municipal responsibility. The expenditure of public funds for the construction and maintenance of libraries can easily be justified on the basis of the healthy influence it exerts by vulture of their role as vehicles for the traditional American concept of equal opportunity. Education, the opportunity for education, is a basic ingredient of the principle of equal opportunity. There was a time when education was thought of as ending in the elementary school, high school, or college. Education was thought of as something that began when the youngster shyly had entered grammar school for the first time, and it ended when he got his diploma on graduation. I'm the father of a large family, and I keep pointing out to my boys and my girl, the need for their completion of their education. I draw the example that in my community, in my beloved Staten Island, Mr. Beals, as you put it, I was one of 30 children in a grammar school graduating class that completed his college course. seven out of 30 went to high school. Six took commercial courses. I went on to college, for which I am indebted to the almighty and to my parents. college. I point out to my children that today, competition is much keener than it was when I graduated from college, and the need for that education is self-evident in the fact that every child receives now a high school education, if he has the aptitude for it, and also can receive a college education, and a majority do. Today, we think of education as a process that continues through our entire lives, not only after getting out of college, but through our entire lives. It is because of this new attitude that libraries have become more important than ever to the welfare of any community that they serve. Through the community library, we have access to the knowledge and wisdom of the ages. we have the means of familiarizing ourselves with the complex problem of our own age. We have the means of learning new skills, meeting new points of view, gaining understanding, and enriching our and our neighbors' lives. Through the library, these children, all children, are helped to develop responsible citizenship. community with a public library is a better place in which to live. Our library, which we dedicate today, will render to the people of Inwood, I am sure, all the services and benefits which I have described. The building is modern, designed for convenience, and ease in accommodating not only the books, but the people who will come here. In collaboration with the New York Public Library, we have tried to make this building a pleasant place to come to. As you know, there are separate departments in the building for adults and for children. There is a story hour room which I assure many of you children will enjoy immensely. And for the adults, there is provided on the basement level an auditorium for community meetings. So in every sense of the word, the Inwood Branch Library can be a center for the cultural and civic life of this community. I have no doubt that you good people of Inwood will make the best of this great opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been listening to the dedication ceremonies for the new Inwood Branch of the Public Library, brought to you by your city station from Dykeman and Academy Streets on Upper Broadway in Manhattan. The speakers this afternoon were Warren Moskall, Manhattan Commissioner of Borough Works, representing the Honorable Robert F. Wagner, Jr., Borough President of Manhattan, John M. Corey, Chief of the Circulation Department of the New York Public Library, and the Honorable Frederick H. Zermulan, Commissioner of Public Works, representing Mayor Impelitere. Presiding was Ralph A. Beals, Director of the New York Public Library. This has been a transcribed public service feature of your city station. This is the municipal broadcasting system.