For cross and country, we associate ourselves together. These words, the first lines of the preamble to the Constitution of the American Legion, most appropriately serve to open this program, presented under the auspices of the American Legion and dedicated to the furtherance of its nationwide Back to God program, which calls for a spiritual reawakening in our time. The voices you hear are those of the West Point Military Chapel Choir. Presiding in these special services here in New York's Center Theater today is American Legion National Chaplain, Johnny Duffy. May our hearts be united in the singing of our national anthem. Oh, say can you see By the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare The bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there O'er the ramparts we watched O'er the ramparts we watched Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the ramparts we watched O'er the ramparts we watched of the free and the home of the brave. And now may I ask American Legion past national chaplain Rabbi David Leftowicz Junior of Louisiana to deliver the invocation. Today as we recall the sinking of the troop ship Dorchester let us commemorate the courage of the four chaplains. John P. Washington a Roman Catholic priest. Alexander D. Good a rabbi. George L. Fox and Clark B. Poling Protestant ministers who united in prayer gave their life belts and their lives on that day ten years ago in order that others might live. Let us O God inspired by the memory of their faith and sacrifice discover the true meaning of a return to religious belief and practice. May our program back to God offered in a spirit of reverence be blessed with holy strength and purpose and promote a spiritual reawakening in the hearts of our people serving to symbolize for all nations and creeds the individual responsibility of free men one to the other in God. Amen. At the opening of our program you heard the West Point Choir singing the opening phrases of the American Legion preamble. We are pleased to present this stirring composition in its entirety. It will be sung by Morton Downey. For God and country we associate ourselves together for the following purposes to uphold and defend the Constitution of the United States of America to maintain law and order to foster and perpetuate a 100% Americanism to preserve the memories and incidents of our associations in the great wars to inculcate a sense of individual obligation to the community state and nation to combat the autocracy of both the classes and the masses to make light the master of light to promote peace and goodwill on earth to safeguard and transmit to posterity the principles of justice freedom and democracy to consecrate and sanctify our comradeship by our devotion to mutual helpfulness It is my sincere pleasure to present to you Richard M. Nixon the Vice President of these United States I know of no organization that could more appropriately sponsor this Back to God program than the American Legion I suppose that some of you wonder why I would make such a statement I make it because the American Legion was founded by men whose major interest was their country the defense of their country the survival of their country and naturally we are concerned today about enemies from without and the American Legion's program of strong national defense is therefore understandable in the light of the objectives for which it was formed but if we study history we will find that more great civilizations more great nations have been destroyed because of moral decay from within than have been destroyed because of armed attack from without and that's why it is essential in these days of conflict that if America America is to survive that America's spiritual strength must be constantly recreated in the minds and hearts of the American people I wonder if all of us realize what a great privilege it is to live in America to have the freedoms that we enjoy here the privilege that it was on the inauguration of the President of the United States to listen to him open his inaugural address with prayer that couldn't happen in half the world today did you ever stop to think what a great privilege it was for millions of Americans today to go to the church of their choice you say why that's a privilege we have in this country under the Constitution but you couldn't do that in half the world today and that's why it is necessary for us to recognize that in this nation of ours the spiritual privileges that we have the right to worship our maker our God in our own way is one that we must defend we must not only defend it from enemies from without but we must also remember that a privilege if it is to be ours if we are to retain it must be used and that's why this program this program which is dedicated to getting Americans to realize what a privilege they have to worship in their own way is so important and why it is such a privilege for me and others on it to appear on this occasion and so let us remember this let us remember that in this great conflict in which we are engaged throughout the world today that military strength is important the American Legion realizes that and the American people know it our economic strength is important but above all the greatest advantage we have over the slave world is the spiritual strength which should be ours and which I am sure will be ours and is ours under our leadership and all of us have a part to play in creating and developing that spiritual strength because America's spiritual strength is the sum total of the spiritual dedication of each American citizen and so I say today let us join with the American Legion in making America a great moral and spiritual force for good in the world in which we live the Reverend Dr. Norman Vincent Peale American Legion past chaplain Kings County New York The Building of the Ship by Henry Wadsworth Longfellow Thou too sail on O ship of state Sail on O union strong and great Humanity with all its fears with all the hopes of future years is hanging breathless on thy fate Sail on nor fear to breast the sea Our hearts our hopes are all with thee Our hearts our hopes our prayers our tears our faith triumphant or our fears are all with thee are all with thee the core the core the core the core the core The Corps! The Corps, bareheaded, saluted With eyes up, thanking our God That we of the Corps are treading Where they of the Corps have gone They are here in mostly assembly The Corps of the Corps of the Corps of the Corps And the hearts are standing a dead child While we wait for their passing tread We sons of today, we salute you Sons of the Merriam day We follow those order behind you Where you have pointed the way Salute a long way by the ice-trap shed Through the years of a century told And the last man feels to his marrow The grip of your far off home Rip hands with us now Though we see not Rip hands with us, strengthen our hearts As the long line stiffens and straightens With the thrill that your presence imparts Repent away from the shadow And we say, we love your heart For living, for dying, to honor The force The force And the force And the force And the force And the force Now we hear from our American Legion National Commander Louis K. Goff of California To some in this audience It may seem strange That the American Legion An organization born of armed force Should concern itself so directly With spiritual force And yet nothing could be more natural For those of you who are also veterans Know full well that experience with the one Gives us a deeper appreciation of the other For 175 years Americans have labored to make of this land The citadel of peace and liberty Which its founders conceived it to be We in our time and others before us Have sacrificed much in that quest Until it would appear that by now The prize had been fairly won You and I know better The severest challenge is now upon us And the issue is not merely Whether the republic shall become more Or less perfect But whether the republic shall survive Almighty God has blessed America With riches which we can scarcely measure And others cannot even imagine We are engaged now In a costly burdensome effort To convert our material resources Into what we hope Will be a dam against disaster But is that enough? Is that all we need to do? Is the answer we crave to be found In iron and steel In planes and tanks In factories and formulas I suggest to you There is another source of power More difficult than the atom for many to find But definitely more potent than the atom in use It is the power of divine guidance A power that no man can give And no man can take away For it comes from the Father of us all In our bid for strength As individuals and as a nation Let us go first To the author of strength Let us declare our spiritual dependence As the men who established this government Declared theirs Let us ask not alone for protection But for the vision and fortitude To protect ourselves Not alone for peace But for the goodness and grace To make us worthy of peace Not alone for peace But for the goodness and grace To make us worthy of peace Because we feel so strongly Because we feel so strongly The present need For building America's spiritual resources We of the American region Your neighbors and friends Are suggesting three simple points of emphasis We ask that you join us In encouraging in every way possible First, regular church and synagogue attendance Second, daily family prayer And third, the religious training of children Of children Of each of us Every American will only do this much We shall have laid a foundation of national strength For which those who challenge us have no answer At this time I should like to request That our national chaplain Reverend John E. Duffy Offer a prayer In behalf not only of the millions of legionnaires But of all Americans A prayer for the divine guidance Of our legionnaire president Dwight D. Eisenhower Our legionnaire vice president Richard M. Nixon The new cabinet and the administration O almighty and eternal God Who has revealed thy glory to all nations Be with us and lead our president May we unite in silent prayer Asking that you assist him And his administration With your spirit of counsel and fortitude That he may be eminently useful to his people And to mankind Perpetuating the blessings of equal liberty And now recorded at the White House In Washington D. C. Ladies and gentlemen The president of the United States My grateful thanks go out to each of you For your prayers Because your prayers for divine guidance on my behalf Are the greatest gifts you could possibly bring to me As your prayers came from your hearts So there comes from mine A very earnest one That all of us By our combined dedication And devotion May merit the great blessings That the almighty has brought To this land of ours We think often of these blessings In terms of material values Our broad acres Our great factors All of those things Which make our life A more convenient And finer thing In the material sense But when we Think about the matter very deeply We know that the blessings That we are really thankful for Are the different types They are what our forefathers called us Our rights Our human rights The right to worship As we please To speak And to think And to earn And to say Those are the rights That we must strive So mightily To merit One reason That we carry These rights So sincerely Is because they are God-given They belong to people Who have been created In His image Now this means As a very special And second reason For cherishing these rights That they belong To the lowliest among us As well as to the mightiest And the highest That is the genius Of our democracy It is the very basis Of the cause For which so many Of our fellow citizens Have died Today We are specially inspired In our resolution To defend those rights By the memory Of four chaplains Who met death Bravely Quietly Even tranquilly In the thinking Of the darkness Of the darkness They gave their lives Without complaints So that their fellow citizens Could live As we think of their sacrifice And that of our heroic Fellow citizens Serving in Korea We are inspired to take up our own burdens More cheerfully We are moved to show by greater courage By patience And mutual understanding By better citizenship That we are worthy Members of this great American family Of free God With the mercy Of God To be happy Of the need Of thedrowned We are a worthy Of the peace Of the peace And in the midst Of the peace Of the death Of the czynna And in the midst Of the peace Of the peace Of the peace Of the peace Of the peace Of the peace Of the peace God-fearing people. Thomas E. Paradine, chairman of the American Legion National Security Commission. Mr. Paradine. We know through one of the oldest of history books, the Bible, that there is a very real and quite understandable creator. And yet in a recent poll, it was revealed that about 750,000 Americans doubt the existence of God. More popular than that is the passive attitude of other millions of Americans who acknowledge God's existence, but whose spiritual awareness has become dulled with apathy. It is the growth of such materialistic concept that the American Legion deplores. And in order to help arrest this drift away from God, the American Legion has inaugurated a program that offends no faith, but benefits all, called the Back to God Movement. This program urges regular public worship, daily family prayer, and religious instruction of youth. The American Legion invites you to join with us in this crusade. And now from the Center Theater here in New York, may I ask Chaplain John B. Williams of Pennsylvania to pronounce the benediction. May God our Father grant his blessings upon our President and his administration, leading our people to an enlightened peace and to increase creative productivity, help us today as we commemorate the unforgettable sacrifice of these four chaplains who gave their lives in the sinking of the troop ship Dorchester, captured an essence of faith, tolerance, and goodwill toward our fellow man. And as our spiritual strength is renewed this day, may we go forth to accomplish the will of our God and Creator. We know, dear God, that through the islands of history, people in many times and many places have faced problems which seemed insurmountable, and as they have been troubled and confused, they have turned to thee for comfort and for guidance. Man in this 20th century inherits a fabulous civilization. And even now from day to day, we are amazed at the incredible advances of human knowledge and by the products of human invention. And as we realize the power of our own minds and are reminded anew of our need for thy surveillance, we do call upon thee. O God, our hope in ages past, let thy people be not fearful, as we reaffirm our faith in thee, renewed our spirit, that we may look to the problems of our one day with confidence and with courage, born of thy divine will and enlightenment. We are thy people in the work of thy creation. Be with us in our way as we follow our duties and ourselves and our fellows and to our Heavenly Father. Help us as we make these decisions and perform these acts, which even now are forming the new pages of man's history upon the earth. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. alltså. Oh, beautiful, for spacious skies, for amber waves of grain, for purple mountains' majesties above the brooded plain. America, America, God shed his grace on thee, and crown thy good with brotherhood from sea to shining sea. The special religious program which has presented the President of the United States, Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Vice President Richard M. Nixon, has been brought to you by the American Legion and signifies the Legion's continuation of its Back to God crusade. American Legion National Commander Louis K. Guff of California has spoken to you, National Security Chairman Thomas Paradin, and National Chaplain Johnny Duffy of Ohio presided, introducing past National Chaplain Rabbi David Lefkowitz, Jr., Reverend Dr. Norman Vincent Peale, and the Reverend John B. Williams. Musical selections heard in this program were by Morton Downey and by the Chapel Choir from the United States Military Academy at West Point under the direction of Frederick C. Meyer. This program was produced by Doris Ann, directed by Martin Hode, the technical director, Eugene Lynch. This is Ben Grauer speaking. This is NBC, the national... This is NBC, the national...