Today the Salvation Army commemorates its 31st annual Prison Sunday. In 1,200 penal institutions throughout the United States, the Army of Peace, with its brilliant flags, its uniforms, and its sounding brasses, has brought its message of friendship and goodwill to thousands of men and women, many of whom have half forgotten, if they ever knew, the meaning of goodwill and friendship. Tonight, Station WNYC brings you the Salvation Army's Brooklyn Citadel Band and male chorus in a program of Salvation Army music, under the direction of Captain Edward Lowcock. They will start their broadcast with a Salvation Army march, victors acclaimed by Lieutenant Colonel Bramwell Coles. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ You just heard the Brooklyn Citadel Band of the Salvation Army playing the march victors acclaimed. As its next number, the band will play a meditation based on two hymn tunes. Oh, love that will not let me go, and Master, let me walk with thee. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ Leads against the foe Forward into battle Singeth Banners' song Onward, Christian soldiers Marching as to war Looking unto Jesus Who is gone before At the name of Jesus Satan holds the flea Onward, Christian soldiers Until victory Tell foundations quiver At the shouts of praise Come, lift your voices Love your anthem, praise Onward, Christian soldiers Marching as to war Looking unto Jesus So is gone before Like a mighty army Through the church of God Somers we are treading Where the saints have gone We are not divided No one body We've won in hope and doctrine One in charity One in charity One in charity One in charity Looking unto Jesus Looking unto Jesus Looking unto Jesus Who is gone before Here in the studio this evening Is the head of the Salvation Army Women's Prison Bureau Major Dorothy Berry Who will tell you something about her work Major Berry Thank you, Mr. Child Nearly 60 years ago William Booth, our founder Said in writing of the Salvation Army's work Among convicted persons Our people, thank God Have never learned to regard a prisoner As a mere convict With a number instead of a name To us he is a human being To be cared for and looked after As a mother looks after her ailing child I suppose that was a rather appalling statement Back in the 19th century When a prison sentence was pretty generally regarded As society's quite justifiable vengeance On those who had broken its laws However, things have changed since then And are still changing Each year we recognize more clearly That the purpose of our institutions Is not to get even with those Who have broken our laws Or to frighten them into obedience Rather, we must help them become useful Contented human beings And strangely enough As our psychologists And caseworkers And penologists Increase their understanding Of the terrible loneliness The sense of being cut off From all warm human ties Which causes the delinquent To turn against society They come steadily closer to agreeing With the ideas of William Booth They recognize the delinquent Needs to be recognized in an individual Who can be reached and helped By patient good sense and understanding In the eleven states of our eastern territory There are two hundred and twelve penal institutions Which our officers visit at least once a month Holding religious services And interviewing all those who want help and advice Often, too, we are called into court When a prisoner needs help Or is to be put in our care We also have in our charge Throughout the country Hundreds of paralys Whom we supervise And for whom we find work and lodgings We do all these things Knowing if they are to have any real and lasting value We must somehow win the trust and confidence Of these people In such a way That we can help them To a better relationship with their fellows And to the deeper religious understanding Which we believe must be the source Of spiritual regeneration and growth Thank you, Major Berry For what you've told us About this great work of the Salvation Army And now The Brooklyn Citadel Band Directed by Captain Edward Lowcock Will play The Star Lake March By Eric Ball The Star Lake March By Eric Ball The Star Lake March By Eric Ball tricks The starling The End The End The End The End This is the Salvation Army's Prison Sunday. I'm going to ask Major Berry once again to step to the microphone to tell us what this day means to her and her fellow officers and to the men and women in penal institutions throughout the nation, whom they have reached today. Major Berry. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End First of all, I think Prison Sunday brings proof to delinquents of all ages that they are remembered. For many of them, the closing of the prison doors means that the normal outside world grows misty and vanishes. I think it does them good to realize that in every major institution in the country, and in many smaller ones, our people come to them, not judging or condemning, not condescending, not even pitying, but with warm goodwill and friendship, and a very sincere wish to share the courage and hope that comes through religious experience. Some 200,000 men and women have had an opportunity to attend our services today, and perhaps half of them will actually be blessed by it. For some, it may be the renewal of earlier contacts. For others, their first meeting with our people. To our officers, Prison Sunday brings one of the greatest opportunities for service during the year. Though we cannot free the bodies of the men and women to whom we speak, we can, if they wish it, help free their minds. And thank you once again, Major Berry. And now the Brooklyn Citadel male chorus, directed by Mr. Walter Orr, will sing the much-loved hymn, Rock of Ages. Rock of Ages, fed for me, Let me hide myself in thee, Let the water and the blood From thy wounded side with blood Be of sin, be of sin, the cup of pure Save from wrath and make me pure While I draw this bleeding breath When my eyes shall close in death When I rise to worlds unknown When I rise to worlds unknown See thee on Thy judgment throne Rock of Ages, cleft for me I will hide myself in thee I will hide myself in thee That, of course, was the beautiful Rock of Ages, sung by the Brooklyn Citadel male chorus, directed by Mr. Walter Orr. Now the Brooklyn Citadel band of the Salvation Army will play the Crusaders hymn, Beautiful Savior. Shhhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. Shhh. THE END THE END THE END The End And now we're going to hear more of the Salvation Army stirring battle music, the Staple Hill March, written by Captain Hector Main. The Staple Hill March, written by Captain Hector Main. The Staple Hill March, written by Captain Hector Main. The Staple Hill March, written by Captain Hector Main. The Staple Hill March, written by Captain Hector Main. The Staple Hill March, written by Captain Hector Main. In closing, the Brooklyn Citadel Band of the Salvation Army will play the hymn, Take Time to be Holy. You have been listening to the Brooklyn Citadel Band and male chorus, in a program dedicated to the Salvation Army as Prison Sunday. The band was led by Captain Edward Locock, and the director of the chorus was Mr. Walter Orr, both members of the Salvation Army. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Communist Un observed pretty much more. The 11th of the Batmissionsは the first poem произошel. He said, The $60,000 machining crew got a full-friendly shoot with his model, but Jesus is not yet to be involved in the original. The Staple Hill Mo erst Streamed by the group of the adventures of Swatch Conference. The Flight Association has the first poem bandaении and job câmeraisión.