Good afternoon. From luncheon being given at the Georgian room of the Hotel Statler in downtown New York, your city station, WNYC, presents a talk by Dr. Lillian M. Gilbert, research in the home. Sigma Delta Excellen, graduate women's scientific research fraternity, sponsoring this talk was organized at Cornell in 1921 to further interest in science among women, gain recognition for women scientists, and promote friendship among them. And now we introduce Dr. Pearl C. Whitehead, Department of Zoology at the University of Wisconsin and National President of the Sigma Delta Excellen fraternity. Since it was Pai Chapter who nominated Dr. Lillian Gilbert for honorary membership, I asked their president, Dr. Elizabeth McKay, to introduce her. But Dr. McKay could not be here this year, for which she is very sorry. And she suggested that after all, it was really Dr. Welch who said that Dr. Gilbert should be a national honoree member at the time of the installation of the chapter early this year. So that she would like to have Dr. Winona Welch, who was our national president in 1948, be her proxy and introduce Dr. Gilbert, Dr. Welch. Madam President, Dr. Gilbert, Dr. Gilbert, members of Sigma Delta Epsilon, and all graduate women in science, it is a very great honor today for us to meet America's most widely known and most outstanding woman engineer. Dr. Gilbert is an international authority on the detailed study of motion. Dr. Gilbert, as a consulting engineer, she has developed more efficient methods for accomplishing more work with less effort and less fatigue in both industrial and household management. The list of her degrees, both honorary and earned, of honors and scientific awards, of membership in scientific societies, both in Europe and America, and lists of publications, including several books, is far too long for reading here today. In 1942, Scripps College elected her the Woman of the Year. In addition to all of these scientific accomplishments, she is the mother of six sons and six daughters. I am sure that we have all thoroughly enjoyed reading that delightful story of this distinguished mother in Cheaper by the Dozen, written by two of her children. She tells me that one or two more books are soon to come from the press. It is a genuine pleasure to present to you Dr. Lillian M. Gilbreth, honorary member of Sigma Delta Epsilon, who will talk to us regarding research in the home. Dr. Gilbreth. Thank you, Dr. Lillian M. Gilbreth. Thank you, Dr. Lillian M. Madam President, Dr. Lillian M. Welch, fellow members of Sigma Delta Epsilon, I say with great pride, fellow members. I am so glad to be with you today and so happy to talk to you, a group of research women, on this special subject of research in the home. I want to tell you just why. This is really a plea for cooperation where much cooperation is needed. In 1924, from all over the world, management people gathered in Prague at the invitation of the Czechs to set up our first congress in the field of scientific management. There were sections on production and education and distribution and administration. And we were very pleased to have some of the groups from Czechoslovakia and about suggest that we also have a section on agriculture and a section on the home. Because we felt that the problems as they ramified into these two areas were extremely important. In all the congresses since and up to the war, we had them almost every, about intervals of two years. Then we had to stop, of course, for the war. We started them up again. In all of these congresses, we have had sessions in all these fields, including agriculture and including the home. But this country really has never contributed as freely and as fully in those sections as they had in the others. And we are extremely anxious at this next congress, which is to be in July, the first two weeks of July in 1951, that we shall contribute, especially in this area of the home, much significant material. And that cannot possibly be the case unless every one of you, representing your own job, your own field, all the resources which are at your disposal, become a part of this picture. Now we have in this country our own National Management Council, which is a part of this international group. And we're just about getting underway in getting ready for the program. And I am so hoping that along with case material, which is accumulating, and a certain amount of technical material on the various applications of techniques in this field, by engineers and by home economists, that we may have real research projects completed, under way or just being thought through. Because it seems to me that in that field, after all, will the great contributions lie. Well, how about it? Is it really a subject which is a part of every one of your thinking and of your field? That's what I hope to convince you of today. Because unless I do, my opportunity, which I have looked forward to so much, and which I am so eager to utilize, has really not been utilized properly. The only way I can make this clear, I think, is by saying that the subject really is as wide as any subject possibly could be. Because of the importance of the home field itself, and the effect that the home as an institution has on all other institutions. For many years, business and industry, where engineers do a large part of their work, felt that the home was really very little of their concern. Either in the housekeeping end, or in the home and family relations end. We found out, especially during the war period, how wrong we had been. Because after all, every one of us, man, woman, and child, comes from a home. Goes to a home. And our whole lives, during the work period, so called, of the day, our whole lives are so deeply affected by what happens in that home field. We found when it came to food habits. We found when it came to ideas along safety lines, and clothing, and the relationship of clothing to safety and to adequacy at work. That home habits, and that what happened in the home, and the kind of person sent out from the home, into the job, were of such tremendous importance. In a little Navy factory, or factory working for the Navy, where I worked most of the war, at least part of the time each day. We had a great deal of difficulty in the feeding area, before we realized that home habits, and what happened in the home, was such an important part of the situation. There were a good many people involved in a program like that. You had the people who bought the supplies, and you had the people who prepared the food, and you have the visiting consulting dietician. And you had the doctor's ideas, or what people on those jobs should have for food. And you had, in our special situation, a very fine physical education person, with a biomechanics background, who had a tie-in on what food had to do with the whole situation. But until we actually talked with the women themselves, and found out their likes and dislikes, and what they had to face for food problems in the homes, we really couldn't work the thing through. And we found, increasingly, that as we did talk with these people, as we did get the personal habits, and the home habits, that we were able to work out the rest of the problem as it stretched through the 24-hour day, the seven-day week, and so forth and so on, that we could get along, and get along more smoothly. In the whole field of safety, the same sort of thing has been true. We started in by talking about safety in the factory, and on the workplace, and in the office. And then we decided we must supplement by safety, getting to and from your home to your job. And all this matter of safety when you were driving, and safety when you were a pedestrian, and I've always been interested to see how your viewpoints shift, if you happen to be the driver or the pedestrian. Or if you're in a situation such as you are here in New York, where sometimes the pedestrians pay attention to the traffic lights, and less often the people who are driving pay attention, and where the policemen never pay any attention to the traffic lights at all, but direct through as they think best. So that a person like myself, who is a commuter at best, and a traveler at worst, finds every time she comes to New York, she has to adjust herself to watching traffic directors, and not watching lights or anything else. But we found that it wasn't enough to study safety on the job, and it wasn't enough to study safety on the highway. But we had to go back really to safety in the home, and to the realization that if you could get right safety habits into the minds and hearts of every man, woman, and child in the home project, so that they would carry through all sorts of situations, that you really got somewhere, otherwise you were only working piecemeal. So that, you see, there is almost no phase of any kind of investigation, which is going on in industry, in business, or in other institutions, which is not tied up with the home field. And that is one reason why I'm making a plea to you for thinking of research as it ramifies into that field. Now we need, in this whole home situation, a knowledge of the past, a knowledge of the present, and if possible, the best sort of directive as to how we're going to meet the problems of the future. It is a very great interest to all of us that what is being done and thought and said by the anthropologists is getting such a new popular hearing. I meet every once in a while people in other disciplines of science where there's a sort of an overlapping of some of the material which the anthropologists are accumulating, who are a bit resentful of all the sudden acclaim and attentive listening which is going to this anthropological group. Of course, any of you who have listened to any of these anthropologists speak know perfectly well why that is the case, because they not only have background and disciplines and material, but Margaret Mead and many another are really such fascinating speakers for people of both sexes and all ages that they would get a hearing no matter what they talked upon. I was also very much interested last year when we had a series of seminars on fatigue to find what a wonderful contribution was made by the people who were in the field of anthropometric measurement. Now, the young man who spoke to us was from the Navy and many of us did not know a great deal about the special field where he worked. But it was extremely interesting, and I hope I quote him accurately, to find that we had utilized in the design of some of our naval equipment the anthropometric figures of Britain, because ours were not as up to date and complete, only to find when the things were built that our men were heavier and really couldn't get in and out comfortably. And that is certainly a stimulus for any of you who are working in this field to be ahead of any other country so that your material is used. Having struggled for years and years to get equipment in the home, adjustable, and so that a woman of any height, breadth, and whatnot, could move around comfortably, I am wondering if I have made my appeal to the wrong group, and if perhaps I should have gone in the beginning to specialists in the field of anthropometric measurement to get material which I might try to use with manufacturers. Before I get through, you will feel that some sort of pressure group, our makers of equipment and other things, is one of our great needs, and hoping I may get from you some volunteers to go along with us there. Well, it isn't only the past which we need to know in this field, and we do need to know that, but we need to know much more about conditions in the present, and why other changes have been from the past, and why the changes have been. My husband used to talk about inventing downward, when he felt that sometimes inventions weren't as good as the thing they replaced. And I wonder every once in a while if there isn't something to that thought, as it is applied to some of the outward invisible problems as we see them in the whole home field. And I think there is another subject for research, really to check through, not nostalgically or sentimentally, on what happened in the home of the past. Maybe you are doing that sort of thing at your campus. Maybe you are going across all these boundary lines, and instead of continuous meeting with your own department, and then going to national and regional meetings in your own field. Going into other groups, and being a part of this cross-fertilization. And we made a very valiant effort at my college at the time to do that sort of thing. We set up a seminar, and each time somebody from a different field was to bring new material to the group. But what happened was, that if anybody from psychology spoke, the entire department turned out in loyalty, or I don't know just what, well we'll say loyalty. And the other people all felt, oh well, it's not my department. And they stayed home until the next time, and then if the speaker came from their department, well they all went. And of course we were practically down to just another departmental meeting, which wasn't the idea at all. But I still believe that properly sponsored, and properly looked out for, that can happen. And of course this organization is just that kind of a place, isn't it? Because right in your own group you could set up at any time a meeting of that sort, and make it work. And it does work. I want to tell you about a very small project, because it didn't start out to be a research, and yet I think in a way it is tied in. About a year ago in the fall, the New York Heart Association decided to set up a kitchen, a model kitchen so-called, for a woman with a heart condition. And so we found a good kitchen expert, who could come and set up the kitchen. And she could study what the doctor said these women could or could not do, and set it up. And then we decided that that was really, more or less, might turn out to be a stereotype performance. And we tried to practice what we had preached. And so we set up an advisory committee. And we just put on that committee a representative of every field of thinking we could think of. Of course we had doctors, and we had people who are especially experts in heart. And we had an architect, and we had an engineer, and somebody from work syndication. And we had a psychologist, and a psychiatrist, and a sociologist. And we had family relations, and everything you could think of, where there might be a word of experience or resource come from the field. And at the last moment I insisted we put someone on from the field of psychosomatic medicine. And they said, why? And I said, because it's young. Because the young people in it have had to fight their way. And they are very brave and courageous, and in some cases quite ruthless. And that's exactly what we need. And so we invited one. And when he came in, I knew he was just the right person, because he had his chin out. And he knew what he was in for. And I hoped I knew what we were in for. And the plans were bought, and we all went over them, and everybody made suggestions for changes and adaptations and additions. And we got all through the psychosomatic representative that said nothing. And finally I said, especially in Egypt, no. And he said, do you really mean it? And then I knew what we were in for, because when anybody says, do you really mean it? You know they're going to say, well, I don't like your hat, or whatever it is, and I don't like it at all. But we really meant it. And he said, well, you can't call it a heart kitchen. Because if this woman begins to worry about her heart, it's probably going to be worse for her than if she did everything under the shining sun, which might strain the heart. So with a little casuistry, we called the kitchen the heart of the home, which we thought dodged the issue and at the same time said about what we meant. Well, we had quite a bit of difficulty getting the fundamental data we needed. If a man has a heart condition, he wants to go back to industry, the doctor will give him a form which will say just what he may not do. And the personnel man will read that and he will say, well, this is a job where you won't have to do that. And they'll give him a medical checkup once in a while and there you are. But if a homemaker has a heart condition, the doctor will say, don't do any more than you have to. Rest as much as you can. Only come downstairs once a day. Let other people do the heavy work. Make the children cooperate. Have your husband do this. And a lot of other things which are much easier said than done. So that we are trying gradually to get a form which anybody who can diagnose such a condition will fill out where he very definitely says what may not be done. At the present time, we know that bending over and stretching up is out and most of the other things, if done without pressure, may be done. But just as little drawing on reserve time and energy is a good thing. Well, now our kitchen was a display kitchen. So we have no plans that anybody can take home. We have a wide aisle running through for the public to go through and so forth and so on. But we did try to visualize everything we could. If the woman wasn't to stretch and she wasn't to bend, then we painted all the high things and all the low things red. So that would be a danger signal and she wouldn't do those. And then we painted everything in between green so she'd have more or less the green light. And we grouped all the service units according to the principles of work simplification. A terrible time because only one stove in the whole country had a high oven. We finally got that and now we got another stove with a high oven and we hope we made a little progress. I'm still screaming for adjustable sinks and stoves and everything else so that we can adjust them not only to the woman who has the place, but to all this migratory group that we're talking about. Oh, and I forgot to say one of the most important people on our committee came from the field of physical education and biomechanics, who said if the woman has to push up all the list or whatnot, we can show her how to do it in the best fashion. And they made a real contribution. And I forgot to say also that the family relations woman had a fine idea. You put a rocking chair in, then the woman can rock forward and pick up the baby or the calling one or whatnot, and rock him and slide him down again. And gadgets were really the order of the day. Well, the kitchen went to Teachers College for a year of checking. We put a brined woman in there. We found not only what, of course, you'd expect, she had to have Braille on all of her things so that she could read them, but we found she didn't like to work on our very nice energy-saving kitchen cabinet with a flower and everything came down by chutes and where a little magnet on the side. If you released a knife, I don't know why you would release one, but if you did, it wouldn't fall. It would go up to the magnet and so forth and so on and lazy Susans and whatnot. She liked to work on the sink because then when she cleaned up, she'd know she had the kitchen cleaning. And if she worked other places, she wouldn't quite know perhaps where all the things were. And now it's down in Dr. Rusk's project at Bellevue and we're going on testing and there you are. The women who came to see it, any number of them from a whole week at the National History Museum, came in and looked at it. Most of them had nothing the matter with them and said to their husbands, do I have to have a heart condition to have a decent kitchen? And the answer to that was no. You probably have to have a cooperative family. You probably have to have a lot of pressure put on manufacturers who still make things out of heavy stuff that ought to be made out of light, who still don't seem to be able to get together to find out adjustability and all those things. And you have to have an interested cooperative group of homemakers. But above all, you have to have my reason for telling you this at all. The cooperation of every group who might have something to say and something to give in this situation. Now I wish it were my pleasure and privilege to talk with each one of you, to visit you where you are, and to try with your help to put my finger on exactly things which you could do, which would meet our whole need in this home and family relations problem. I wish it for my sake, not for yours, because I feel very sure that that is something you can easily do for yourself. There's just one other thing I wanted to say, and that is do try to use and to enlist cooperation of all the women who might cooperate in the project you might be thinking of. Because I think we sometimes forget that research may be done by anyone who is willing to observe closely and capable of observing closely and recording carefully. I often wonder when I see these young college-trained mothers who really feel that there's nothing stimulating a part of their experience. If you and I couldn't in some way gear them in to research projects where we needed careful, simple records taken as to what was happening. Anybody can cooperate who has some capacity and wise direction. You well know research can be anywhere, it can be done at any time, it can be done by a great diversity of methods, if only the method is checked and is adequate to its needs. I do feel if those of us who are interested in this field, and I hope we may all be, will start this sort of research. Perhaps nothing new, perhaps simply picking up or pointing out, already there exists in my field this, that or the other, which could be serviceable. Or I could develop a bit this way, or I could include some more people, or I could extend a bit and put it in. That we shall have something which will be of great interest and stimulus. And I can assure you, I know it will be of value. Because through our setup now, we are able not only to service our own country, but the countries of the world. And we are geared not only to give, and it's our responsibility to give, but also to get. To get not only finished results, but to get cooperation on our projects. And if you will become interested in this field, I feel sure that we shall have something of which not only you and I and all of us will be proud, but something which will be stimulating, interesting, and worthwhile. And if it is all these, after all, what more can we ask? Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Gilbert. I am sure that we're all inspired to check over our field of interest and see if there isn't somewhere that we can apply our research more to the home. I will dismiss you now, and if there's any other questions you want to ask, I think that you may come up here and speak to Dr. Gilbert afterwards. Thank you. Thank you so much. Love you. You have just heard an address by Dr. Lillian M. Gilbreth on Research in the Home, brought to you by New York City Sound Station, WNYC.