I'm very happy to greet you this evening. It's the first time that I found out that the mayor of Newark could sing. He and I have been together on various projects, such as greeting Sal Magley and other stupendous projects, but to find out that he could sing was really something to have come to this dinner for. I like that story Harry told about the California air. That should be worth a big boost from the California State Chamber of Commerce, Harry. But ladies and gentlemen, I'm delighted indeed to address you tonight as a representative of Mayor Impoletari and as your acting mayor. It is an extra pleasure to be given the honor to participate in this great dinner. In celebrating the 459th anniversary of the discovery of America for Christopher Columbus, we, who are charged with the responsibility of administering the affairs of our city, join in a tribute to the sons and daughters of Italy. They have made tremendous contributions to the growth and development of this country since the day 459 years ago when Columbus first set foot on our shores. America owes a great deal to the men and women who emigrated here during the past century. They have contributed greatly to the development of our great nation, and we are proud of them. The Italian people have formed the backbone of this nation in peace and in war. During the last war, hundreds of thousands of our fighting men, whose parents or grandparents once emigrated here from Italy, went overseas to fight against the homeland of their ancestors because they were true Americans who would not flinch in the face of duty, however grim that duty might be. We are thankful to God that this war ended successfully for the peace-loving nations of the world and inspired Italy to undertake a struggle for its liberty. Today, Italy has regained its rightful place in the world as a great, freedom-loving nation. Last week, I had the honor to discuss with my dear friend, Congressman Emanuel Seller, proposed legislation which would increase Italy's immigration quota. Congressman Seller has introduced a bill in the House of Representatives calling for affirmative action on this measure, and I have assured him that as acting mayor, I will support it wholeheartedly. Passage of this bill is highly important to those of us who are concerned about the future development of our own nation. We will welcome the contribution which we will gain by the admission of additional immigrants to our country. At this moment, Mayor Impeleteri is touring Italy as a goodwill ambassador and ten days ago visited the birthplace of Columbus in Genoa. I am Satan that his visit to Italy will bring about a better understanding between our two countries. Last year, hundreds of thousands of Americans of all races and creeds made a pilgrimage to the eternal city of Rome during the Holy Year. A few days ago, I was privileged to extend an official welcome to a distinguished son of Italy, Prime Minister De Gasperi. He is the symbol of a true democracy which triumphed over the red menace of communism. On his visit here, he won the respect and admiration of all the people of this city. We were extremely pleased to greet him. Not even the great discoverer of our land ever visualized that the day would come when such a great international friendship would exist. Like Columbus, the Italian people who came here as immigrants planted a flag on American soil. The flag that stands for proud freedom and great achievements. Thank you. It is a great honor to introduce the official representative of the government of Italy, the Italian ambassador to the United States, His Excellency Alberto Tarcchiani. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I wish, first of all, to thank the Committee for Columbus celebrations and generoso Pope's family in the name of the Italian government for this new and very successful manifestation, faithfully continuing a noble tradition. A few days ago, I was here at this same table exalting the reason for and the great benefits of the Italian American cooperation and friendship. My Prime Minister, De Gasperi, was realizing and acknowledging in those recent days the solidarity and the extension of that friendship based on important common interests but also and above all on common moral principle for the orientation of our individual conscience and of the destiny of the world. In his speeches in Rome, De Gasperi had thoroughly reaffirmed his conviction and highly proclaimed that he would defend Italo-American friendship at any cost and against any attempt. Tonight, I am here and I want to say almost for the same purpose that by remembering and exalting Columbus his Italian courage and virtues, we are raising another altar to the reason for intimate, confident, and efficient understanding between America and Italy. The great discoverer of Italian blood opened the way to the establishment of this formidable nation to which so many Italians have contributed all along with their work, with their capability, with their loyalty, with the sacrifices of their life. I send a reverent thought to all those of Italian and non-Italian descent who, in Korea or in previous war, died for the cause of liberty and justice in the name of the United States or of Italy. Columbus is the first and most important link between our two peoples. To commemorate him in his greatness means to reaffirm the nobility of the close collaboration between Italy and the United States. and the United States. This collaboration is now expanding in every direction, giving important results, aiming at defending the basis of our civilization and at assuring a life of dignity and self-satisfaction to men of goodwill of every nation in a better world. Thank you. our final speaker tonight has come from Washington to be with us on this great occasion. May we have your attention, please? Though he won his wide national fame as the mayor of Toledo, Ohio, we are proud to recall that it is our fair city that was his birthplace. Undoubtedly, he is one of the hardest working officials in the nation and is doing a magnificent job in a very tough and patriotic assignment. It is a distinct honor and privilege to introduce the Director of Price Stabilization of the United States, the Honorable Michael V. DeSalle. Mr. Toastmaster, Right Reverend and Reverend Fathers, His Excellency the Ambassador, Mayor Villani, Acting Mayor Sharkey, Senator Green, and members of Congress, distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen. I had to pay special attention to the members of the Senate that are here and to the members of Congress because I do most of my business with them. I have the privilege tonight of bringing you the greetings of the President of the United States. This I am very happy to do because I am convinced that he has never performed an unkindly act towards any American of Italian descent with one exception and that exception being when he appointed me Director of Price Stabilization last December. I was quite interested being a former mayor and finding a mayor who could sing. But Mayor Villani, I've heard a lot of mayors that have talked broken English, but you're the first mayor that I ever met that talked broken Italian. I was wishing that instead of this being Columbus Day that it would be Benjamin Franklin's birthday because I know something about Benjamin Franklin. I have a very good thumbnail biography of Franklin and it goes something like this. Benjamin Franklin went to Philadelphia, he bought a loaf of bread, he met a woman, he married her, and discovered electricity. But, of course, I've been attending Columbus Day Affairs ever since I was old enough to walk. And I remember not so many years ago when in a... when in attending a Columbus Day Affair, the chairman of the committee was a very fervent advocate of Columbus who hadn't been in this country too long. And so he opened up the meeting by saying that this is a darn fine party. He said that Columbus was a darn smart band and he discovered a damn fine country for us to live in. and that was the end of his speech. It wasn't the most eloquent speech that I ever heard but it certainly was the most descriptive and most to the point of any that I'd ever come in contact with. I do think that Columbus Day is a fine occasion to rededicate ourselves to the service of the country that Columbus discovered. It gives us an opportunity once again to kind of appraise what the country has meant to us and what the accomplishments have been over the 455 year span of its history. I don't approach this from the standpoint that the country owes us anything. for in this country we have been able to find the privileges of opportunity. We have found freedom. We have found liberty. And certainly no effort on our part would be too great to repay the country that has made it possible for us to gain these privileges. As Fortune told you in his introduction I was born in New York City. I was born on Sullivan Street on the fourth floor of a walk-up tenement. My father had come to this country when he was 14 years of age. My mother had come when she was 18. They met in this great city and married here. And then it was that after my father had been here just a short time seven years he moved to the city of Toledo when I was about three years old. And in that city he was able to educate his seven children of which I was the oldest. I had the experience of going to a city where there weren't a great number of Italian Americans. I was something new and I was something different. At the age of five when I went to the first grade of school I couldn't speak a word of English in a town that knew nothing else but English. And there I had to make my way. We were pushed here and we were pushed there. But the community took us to its heart and we were able to grow up. My father was able to educate his family. And finally after some years I was elected mayor of the community the highest honor that that community could give. And so I find that there's nothing too much that I can give. There's nothing too much that my family can give. There's nothing too much that citizens of Italian American ancestry can give to a country that offers the opportunities that we find here. Certainly I've had a great privilege in being permitted to serve. A good many times when I'm called to the White House to attend meetings with the legislative leaders of the country with high government officials. I can't help but marvel as I look around the room that I who was born of such humble ancestry and who had overcome so many difficulties with privilege to sit in and to help solve the problems that face the nation today. And yet as I look around the room there's nothing to marvel about because all the men who were collected there are pretty much of the same beginning. And it's a great demonstration of democracy in action. How the people of the United States furnish the leadership from amongst their numbers year after year and regardless of what administration happens to be holding office century after century we were able to furnish the thing that the country needed most at the time that it was needed. And so today we find in Columbus Day the opportunity not to say that the country owes us anything but again the opportunity to rededicate ourselves to say once again that day after day at a time when the country is facing the most serious crisis in its history that we are privileged to be able to work to be able to serve to preserve the blessings of democracy and to guarantee to future generations the same opportunities for freedom and liberty that we have been able to find in this country that Columbus found for us.
