Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 19th year in the air. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the uses and limitations of the miracle drugs. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the modern drugs to fight infections. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. I'm happy to present our speakers today, Dr. Robert D. Coghill, Director of Research, and member of the Board of Directors of the Abbott Laboratories. Dr. Paul S. Rhodes, Professor of Medicine in the Medical School at Northwestern University, and Chairman of the Department of Medicine in the Wesley Memorial Hospital. And Dr. Guy P. Eumans, Chairman of the Department of Bacteriology in the Medical School at Northwestern University. Now as our announcer has just said, gentlemen, we're discussing the miracle drugs. This term miracle drugs or wonder drugs seems to have considerable currency in popular usage, Dr. Rhodes. What does this term mean? What are your reactions to it? Personally, I think the term miracle drugs is a very unfortunate one. I suppose from the time the use of drugs began, and one drug after another was found to be effective against a given condition, was hailed with great enthusiasm, and people called it a miracle drug, just as they talk of the drugs we have now. But these drugs come into being as a result of hard, laborious procedures in the laboratory, in the medical school, at the bedside. And I'm sure that the people who have worked out their uses and made them so extremely useful at the present time would object to that term, such as my colleague, Dr. Coghill, who is in charge of production of these things at Abbott's, and Dr. Eumans, who has done fundamental work on these drugs, particularly streptomycin in the laboratory. I'm sure they'd have something to say about this. Do you think they're a miracle, Dr. Coghill? No, sir. Of course, might they not be a miracle in terms of the results they achieve? Maybe that's the sense of this. That's all. But those of us who develop and produce them realize that they're the results of careful planning and an awful lot of hard work. Every large pharmaceutical house has spent millions of dollars on antibiotic research, and when we get out a good one we don't like it called a miracle. We realize it's a scientific achievement. Now, what kind of modern drugs for medical purposes are we talking about? What's generally comprehended by these miracle drugs? Oh, there are a wide variety of drugs, of course, used for medical work. However, usually the antibiotics and other chemotherapeutic agents are called the miracle drugs. However, there's nothing more miraculous about their action than there is about the action of such drugs as cortisone, insulin, and so forth. However, in view of the fact that usually we think of miracle drugs as antibiotics, perhaps we should talk about those today. What do you mean by antibiotics, Dr. Rhodes? What are they? Antibiotics are antibacterial substances that are made through the mediation of living microorganisms, usually vegetable in origin. They grow in culture media and are prepared in different ways before they're used in the body. Then when they're injected into the body or taken by mouth, they have an effect which inhibits the growth of bacteria in the body. They make it harder for the bacteria to grow in a given spot in the body. But of course, the eventual finishing off of these bacteria is done by the body's defense forces like increase in leukocytes, and leukocytes, that's white blood corpuscles, and the white blood corpuscles gobbling up the bacteria and so forth. We have not supplanted the body's ordinary defense forces. We've merely strengthened it by these antibiotics, which in turn are made by living microorganisms. Let's get some of these so-called antibiotics identified. I take it penicillin is the principal one, isn't it? Yes, penicillin was the first one, in fact. At least the first one that could be used practically. At the present time, we have many others. There's streptomycin, there's oreomycin, teramycin, chloromycin, and there are also a variety of others that are used for special purposes. Do you include the sulfa drugs in this? Well, the sulfa drugs are what we call chemotherapeutic agents, and so are the antibiotics. But we differentiate between the antibiotics and the sulfa drugs because the antibiotics are produced by microorganisms, whereas we produce the sulfa drugs in the laboratory synthetically. The chemist prepares them. How about cortisone and ACTH? Where do they fit into this picture? Well, cortisone and ACTH are not chemotherapeutic agents because their action is not on the bacteria. Their action is on the host, that is the patient itself. These are hormonal preparations, one might say, which produce a physiological effect on the human being, whereas the antibiotics and other chemotherapeutic agents produce their effect on the invading microorganism which is producing the disease. By and large, we feel that it's unsafe to use the newer hormone preparations in acute infections sometimes. Why would that be, doctor? Well, ACTH and cortisone, for instance, give the patient a false sense of well-being. They often bring the temperature down promptly and take away the aches and pains, and the patient feels fine, and the infection marches merrily on unless it's covered by quite large doses of antibiotics or sulfonamides, one of the others. And as soon as we drop the hormone, that is the cortisone or ACTH, the old symptoms reappear, and we find that the infection has not disappeared, although the patient has felt so much better. In fact, there's even some evidence to indicate that substances such as cortisone may make some infections worse. That's particularly true of hemolytic streptococcus infections and tuberculosis. Now, we're talking about these miracle drugs, and I grant your exception to the term. I take it we're dealing primarily here today with these antibiotics, and you've given us a bit of the story of those drugs. How are they produced, Dr. Coghill? How do you bring these antibiotics to the market? Well, we're first to have to discover the antibiotic, and the source is generally in the soil. We get soils from all over the world. We can grow the molds that are contained in the soils in such a way that they grow out in discrete colonies. And then we can so conduct our experiment that we can, from these molds, pick out the ones that are active against tuberculosis, or against ungulin fever, or against streptococci, or any other organisms in which we may be currently interested. Contrary to what most people think, new antibiotics are relatively easy to discover. In fact, we discover dozens of them a year. The trouble is that a new antibiotic is not a new drug. Certainly less than 1% of the new antibiotics that we discover have any usefulness at all. Once we get them out, we have to get large enough quantities that we can evaluate them. First, we have to find out what they're good for and how to use them. And we have to find out whether they're safe. That's our greatest responsibility, is to be sure that we are not using as a drug a material which will have deleterious side effects. So we have to test them in animals, and that animal testing is a tremendous job. For instance, we have just one department that does that, and there are over 30 people in it. We work continuously the year-round evaluating our new drugs. A quarter of that work possibly being on new antibiotics. During the course of that time, we use, in a year, over 40,000 mice. We use over 15,000 rats, thousands of guinea pigs and rabbits, and lesser numbers of dogs, cats, chicks, pigeons, and other animals. You conduct any clinical trials? No. Our first responsibility is to determine the safety of the drug. Say we have to test it for what we call its acute toxicity. That is to say, what will it do immediately to a patient when you inject it? Then we have to find the chronic toxicity. What will happen if you give it to the patient every day for six months? Sometimes we run those tests for as long as a year and a half. We have to determine what dosage to recommend. We have to find out what, how much gets in the blood, and how long it stays there. How is it excreted? What side effects does it produce? And when we've done enough of this work to assure ourselves that the drug is probably valuable in the treatment of some disease, and that it is relatively safe for the doctor to use, then we turn it over to some responsible physician or research institution for some preliminary clinical trials. You can be sure that when these new antibiotics are offered to us as clinicians, they're received with greatest enthusiasm, but of course we have to proceed with a great deal of caution. First we go over all the materials submitted to us by the drug house in question, and see whether it sounds reasonable. It usually does. Often we retest the antibacterial potency in the test tube ourselves, and sometimes in laboratory animals, and then proceed very cautiously with trials in human beings. Personally, I always get assurance from the drug house in question that the drug has been used at least on a few human beings before we give it to the first person. We do careful bacteriology on these people before treatment and after treatment, evaluate the clinical results, then prepare protocols of these trials, which we in turn return to the drug house, and which they must submit to the Pure Food and Drug Bureau of the U.S. Public Health Service before they can get permission to put these things on the market for doctors generally. Usually, these clinical trials are made in medical centers throughout the country, in different parts of the country, separated widely geographically, and by men with little different ideas perhaps in evaluation, so that there's a good cross-section of opinion about them, and then the Pure Food and Drug people act on that material. Well, I take it that these antibiotics are designed primarily to fight infections. That was brought out a little earlier. How do they do that job, Dr. Heumanns? Well, I think Dr. Rhodes has already pointed out that these agents have the unique property of inhibiting the multiplication of these microorganisms that produce disease. In other words, these bacteria, when they get into the body and produce disease, multiply and increase in number, and during the course of that multiplication, they produce substances which are injurious to the body, and that is what gives us the symptoms of disease. The antibiotics, I said, had the unique property of inhibiting the multiplication of these bacteria. Actually, the uniqueness of their action is not so much in inhibiting multiplication of these bacteria, as it is in the fact that they will inhibit the multiplication of bacteria in the body. We have known for many years that many substances would prevent the multiplication of bacteria in the test tube, or kill them in the test tube, but substances which will do this within the body are rather rare. Do they work like iodine, for example? No, iodine itself actually kills the bacteria when it comes in contact with them. These just combine with the bacterium, and in some manner, which is at present unknown, they prevent them from multiplying. Of course, the other thing is that these chemicals, such as iodine that you're talking about, are often too toxic for the body. They do things to the tissues that are worse than what the bacteria do. Well, that is what I meant when I stated that it was a very unique thing for an agent to prevent multiplication within the body. Most agents are entirely too toxic to be used as chemotherapeutic agents. But it is most important to remember that in the final analysis, it is the body of the human being infected, which eventually disposes of the bacteria. How specific are these different kinds of antibiotics in dealing with infections, Dr. Rhodes? That is, do you have to have a separate antibiotic for each infection, or...? Well, in general, that's true. Not for every infection, but Dr. Eumanns, as a bacteriologist, probably could say this better, but in general, bacteria are divided into two broad groups, depending on how they take a stain containing iodine, a stain that was invented by Dr. Graham, G-R-A-M, years ago. Those that take this stain and become quite well stained with it are called Graham-positive, and those who don't take the stain so well are called Graham-negative organisms. In general, penicillin is more effective against Graham-positive organisms, although it isn't effective against all of them, and in general, streptomycin, for instance, is more effective against the Graham-negative group. Then there are the broad-spectrum, so-called broad-spectrum antibiotics, and in that group are included oriomycin, teramycin, and chloromycetin, and this group has the property of being effective against both kinds, but again, not against all of them. Only long clinical trials have led us to know what can be expected of any given antibiotic. Do you ever use two or three of these in combination? Well, often we do. We've found, for instance, in tuberculosis that of all the things now available to us, streptomycin is the most effective, but resistant forms do appear of tubercle bacilli, and these often can be disposed of by para-aminosalicylic acid, or one of the new isonicotinic acid derivatives. So we usually use combination therapy there. In mixed infections of the respiratory tract, where we have, say, pneumococci and influenza bacilli, and a variety of organisms growing all at once, we're often not sure which one is responsible for a given infection, and so we use one of the broad-spectrum antibiotics, such as oriomycin or teramycin, which is effective against both types. And, uh, undulant fever is another disease in which a combination of streptomycin and oriomycin or streptomycin and one of the sulfa drugs seems to be effective in streptomycin alone. We have numerous instances of that type of combination therapy throughout the whole field. You might add one of the big advantages of combination therapy is that it very greatly slows down the development of resistance strains. That's inherent in the mechanism which gives rise to these resistance strains in the first place. What do you mean by these resistance to these? Oh, you can take a bacteria, for instance, a tubercle bacillus that's sensitive to streptomycin at a certain concentration, and grow it in successive generations and increasing concentrations of antibiotic, and you can finally, with the tubercle bacillus and streptomycin, for instance, get strains which will resist thousands of times the concentration of streptomycin that would inhibit their growth in the first place. Well, now, does that support the general apprehension that, take penicillin, for example, after you've taken it two or three times, you develop, what shall I say, an immunity to it so that these bacteria no longer respond to it? The bacteria develop the immunity, the patient doesn't. That's a popular misconception that a person gets penicillin doesn't give any good effects. That's not so. It might be so in one given case of sickness. But in general, the antibiotics affect the bacteria. They don't affect the patient. And as you develop resistance against one strain, the antibiotic may appear to have lost its effect. But it's lost its effect on the bacteria, and the next time the patient's sick, that same antibiotic is apt to give just as good an effect as it did originally. What Dr. Coghiles just said points up the fact that antibiotics should never be used in a haphazard fashion. The doctor should know the microorganism which is causative for the condition which he's treating and select the antibiotic which should do the best job against that particular strain, and he should give it in good full doses so that one not only partially inhibits the microorganism, but he knocks the infection out. Because if he just partially inhibits the growth of the microorganism in question, it can gain resistance and thus become a so-called resistant strain. Are there any infections that do not respond to these antibiotics, Dr. Coghiles? Oh, yes. There are quite a number of the virus infections which we can't do much with. In general, it's the viruses of a very small size. Viruses like bacteria come in different sizes. The very large viruses, and what are known as Rickettsia, can be handled by some of the current antibiotics. But the small ones, such as the virus causing measles, polio, and so forth, we have nothing effective against those yet. You think you will have some time? I'm confident that we will. I hate to set a date for the achievement. Another type is the fungi. We're not doing well against fungus infections with antibiotics yet. What do you mean? What are fungus infections? Well, fungus infections. Athlete's foot? Ordinary athlete's foot is one kind. Then there are a number of different fungus diseases that affect the lungs, like echinomycosis, a good many others. Fungi infect the gastrointestinal tract, and often they grow almost unopposed when we sterilize a given part of the body with antibiotics and become a problem, whereas they wouldn't have become a problem had we not killed off the other bacteria. Are you saying then that when you kill certain bacteria through the use of these drugs, you may create a condition favorable to other bacteria that aren't too pleasant in their own right? That's right. By destroying competition, so to speak, among the bacteria, killing off one particular strain, and often bacteria which are not inhibited by a given antibiotic may find it a favorable medium for growth, and their growth may actually be promoted. That's particularly true of the yeast. The yeast belong in the general broad class that Dr. Rhodes has spoken of as fungi. But as soon as you kill off the bacteria, most of these antibiotics are not effective against yeast. As soon as you kill the bacteria, that leaves all the available food supply for the yeast, and they start growing very vigorously. In fact, I believe in one case there's one antibiotic which actually stimulates the growth of the yeast. It may not be generally realized that we normally in the body possess a lot of bacteria which are with us all the time, and most of these cause no harm. But when we, by the use of antibiotics, suppress the growth or destroy certain types of these microorganisms, while others that are there normally are able to grow. As Dr. Rhodes mentioned, competition between these organisms tends to keep them limited in number, and therefore we do not suffer usually from these infections. Well, this discussion leads me to inquire into the possible bad effects of these antibiotics. Do they have serious side effects, Dr. Rhodes? Well, this matter of dislocation of the normal bacterial flora of different parts of the body we've already gone into, that certainly is one of the possible bad side effects. But there's not a single antibiotic for which some unpleasant side effects are not present. I would say with penicillin that allergic reactions are by all odds the most common reactions we encounter. About 1% of people who have penicillin injected into them may develop hives or generalized itching, redness of their eyes, and so forth. After they've had one round of penicillin, they're much more apt to get such a reaction if they have a second round of penicillin. Oriomycin and teramycin, for instance, usually have not very serious side effects, but they may cause nausea and vomiting, which may cause the clinician to stop them, or they may initiate a protracted diarrhea. Chloromycetin, in a very few isolated instances, has been found to have a bad effect on the blood-forming organs of the body. Then there are others which are not in such common use. Examples would be neomycin and vacetracin, tyrothricin, which may have a very definite toxic effect on the kidneys. That is, they may cause albumin and red blood cells in the urine, and may cause even suppression of urine. And some of these drugs have had a bad effect on the central nervous system, making people very dizzy, and in isolated instances causing loss of hearing from the infection of the drug. Now, these side effects don't sound very pleasant. We've got everything here from allergies. I won't attempt to sum up. You've said it well. If you do get these side effects, what conclusion do you draw about the use of these antibiotics? Just the thing that we've said before, the doctor who uses the drugs must know about the possible effects. And they should never be used unless the good that can be expected will outweigh the possible bad effects. Fortunately, the bad effects don't occur very often. And do they, do different patients react in the same way to these, these drugs? Very definitely they do. Majority of people get along very well with them, but allergic individuals particularly are apt to have a bad time with some of them. I was going to ask too whether, whether the, the, the, the, I was pursuing this question of people responding differently to the, the, the antibiotics. Whether the, some of these side effects might be due, Dr. Coghill, to differences in the, in the drugs. How uniform are these batches of drugs as they come out? In the early days as they come out, there may be a certain amount of uniform, lack of uniformity. For instance, in the early days of penicillin, the penicillin that caused all those effects that got at the name of a miracle drug, was about 5% penicillin and 95% impurities. Today it's the reverse. It's 95% penicillin and the impurities are, are very minor. That applies also to other antibiotics. Practically all of them today are being sold as pure chemicals. I would agree with that. How many of these antibiotics do you manufacture in America in a year, Dr. Coghill? Quite a lot. I think we haven't mentioned yet how they're produced. They're produced by growing the microorganism, a bacteria or a mold or an intermediate organism known as an actinomycete, in large tanks around anywhere from 5 to 30,000 gallons. And when you end up after the growth, you have a solution that may have anywhere from one part in 1,000 to one part in 10,000 of antibiotic. As a result, it's a very costly method of production. This year, it appears that we will produce in the United States about 225,000 tons of penicillin, about 240 tons of streptomycin and about 300 tons of the so-called broad spectrum. What's the total tonnage there? The total runs between 750 and 800 tons this year. As chemicals... How much do you usually give to a patient, Dr. Rhodes? Oh, anywhere from a... Something less than a ton, I take it. Something less than a ton, from a tenth of a gram to a gram, and that's a very, very small part of a pound, I assure you. You'd be interested in what's happened with the price. And for penicillin in 1943, a small dose of 100,000 units sold for $20. That was at the price of $150,000 a pound. Today, you can buy that $20 worth of penicillin for 10 cents. Even then, it's an expensive chemical, runs over $700 a pound then. And the broad spectrum antibiotics are a little more expensive. And what have these antibiotics done for humanity, Dr. Humans? They have changed the whole era of therapy in medicine, that is, of the infectious diseases. They have resulted in the, not the control, but in the successful treatment of the vast majority of the bacterial diseases. And, uh, such a... Attaining such a goal is one that has been the dream of medicine for many years, and now we have at last realized it, at least in part. The next big steps we must take are to remove the toxicity of, uh, the antibiotics... I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, the uses and limitations of the miracle drugs. We want to thank our guests for today, Robert D. Coghill, Director of Research and member of the Board of Directors at Abbott Laboratories, Dr. Paulus Rhodes, Professor of Medicine at the Medical School, Northwestern University, and Chairman of the Department of Medicine at Wesley Memorial Hospital in Chicago, and Dr. Guy P. Humans, Chairman of the Department of Bacteriology and the Medical School at Northwestern University. We invite you to send for printed copies of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. And now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss diseases of stress, in which I might add we shall be concerned with the hormones rather than the antibiotics. Our guests will be Dr. Harley E. Cluxton, Jr., Director in Charge of Clinics in the Medical School at Northwestern University, Dr. Emory G. Grimm, Associate in the Department of Endocrinology in the Medical School of Northwestern University, and Dr. Hans Selye, Director of the Institute of Experimental Medicine and Surgery at the University of Montreal. We hope you will join us next week for our discussion of the diseases of stress. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer is Jack Fuller. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Here are some dates with Marcusan-Fundled Dr. his bailiffs about the applause at Texas Ceshan Radio. This is the most scenes and second venue of Dr. Abbassio. Thank you, guys. We have a new name for the answer to our guest. Thank you. That's great. Thank you. Let's talk about this event. Thanks Matthew David. Thank you. How do you叫 us? Thank you to our fi-múng cond nào. Alicia Pris-оньke part of the lip piece. You can see it.