As you members of the Uniformed Force and all other employees of the department know, I was sworn in today as Commissioner of the Fire Department of the City of New York by our friend and the friend and champion of all good citizens, His Honor, Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary. First, let me extend to you and your families the greetings of this sacred season when all men and women of peace and goodwill, regardless of faith, can meet on common ground, even in a time like this when atheistic communists are waging war against the freedom-loving nations of the world. I am indeed proud to be the administrative head of this most efficient department and its heroic firefighting force, admittedly the finest in the world. The highest theme in which you are held throughout the world is conclusively demonstrated by the fact that each year representatives of firefighting organizations from every civilized land come here to attend our training school and our fire college to learn the latest methods in fire extinguishment. The people of this metropolis are fully aware of your excellent record as firefighters. Likewise, they know that you do your daily work frequently at great personal risk and that the injuries and death toll of the uniformed force in fighting fires are heavy. You firefighters number more than 10,300 exceptionally well-trained men. And I think it is safe to say that no large body of men in the city's service enjoys a higher reputation for courage and devotion to duty than yourselves. You have built up this splendid reputation throughout the years. It is my intention to see that that reputation remains unsullied. I know that we can work together in harmony to protect the lives and property of the people of the city of New York, as well as to protect the good name of our splendid department. In closing, let me wish you and your families a very happy new year. As you members of the uniformed force and all other employees of the department know, I was sworn in today as commissioner of the fire department of the city of New York by our friend and the friend and champion of all good citizens, his honor, Mayor Vincent R. Impelletary. First, let me extend to you and your families the greetings of this sacred season when all men and women of peace and goodwill, regardless of faith, can meet on common ground even in a time like this when atheistic communists are waging war against the freedom-loving nations of the world. I am indeed proud to be the administrative head of this most efficient department and its heroic firefighting force, admittedly the finest in the world. The highest esteem in which you are held throughout the world is conclusively demonstrated by the fact that each year representatives of firefighting organizations from every civilized land come here to attend our training school and our fire college to learn the latest methods in fire extinguishment. The people of this metropolis are fully aware of your excellent record as firefighters. Likewise, they know that you do your daily work frequently at great personal risk and that the injuries and death toll of the uniformed force in fighting fires are heavy. You firefighters number more than 10,300 exceptionally well-trained men. And I think it is safe to say that no large body of men in the city's service enjoys a higher reputation for courage and devotion to duty than yourselves. You have built up this splendid reputation throughout the years. It is my intention to see that that reputation remains unsullied. I know that we can work together in harmony to protect the lives and property of the people of the city of New York as well as to protect the good name of our splendid department. In closing, let me wish you and your families a very happy new year. Let's watch this tour. Let's just go back. Let's go back. Let's go back. Let's go back. Let's go back here. Let's go on.