The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University, in cooperation with Mutual Broadcasting System, presents on transcription, the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today's Reviewing Stand is interested in the training of personnel for business and industry. The give-and-take unrehearsed discussion will ask guests from both business and education, how should we educate for business and industry? Participating in today's discussion will be Claire M. Rodewig, President of the Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad, Thomas A. Harwood, President of George Fry & Associates, Consulting Management Engineers of Chicago, William H. Conley, Chairman of the Department of Education and Dean of University College of Loyola University in Chicago, and Frank Endicott, Director of Placement at Northwestern University. Robert Buchanan, Director of the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand, will act as moderator. How should we educate for business and industry? Business and industry should understand better what our schools are doing, and our schools should learn more about the problems and needs in the business world. Basically, we should educate for business and industry by extending or universalizing post-high school general education. Business and industry should use the schools and universities more. The schools and universities should use business and industry more, and should place more emphasis upon the point of view of business and industry. There should be greater contact between those who are engaged in education and those who are in business and industry. Not too long ago, it seems to me that many businessmen were proud to proclaim that they were self-made men, and refused to hire young people who'd wasted their time getting a college degree. Today, that situation has changed so that a college degree is a requisite for many jobs. But is this education what it should be? What can schools do to train young people for business and industry? And how can the business world aid in such training? These are the questions we'll ask today's guests. William H. Conley, Chairman of the Department of Education and Dean of the University College of Loyola University in Chicago. Frank Endicott, Director of Placement and Professor of Education at Northwestern University. Thomas A. Harwood, President of George Fry and Associates, Consulting Management Engineers in Chicago. And Claire M. Rodewick, President of the Chicago and Eastern Illinois Railroad. Now, Mr. Conley, you speak of education possibilities for many people, an extension of our present system. How many students would that include? How many people are capable of gaining from college education? The report of the President's Commission on Higher Education pointed out that on the basis of the University of Washington, that on the basis of a study made in the Armed Forces, approximately 50% of the youth of that age range had the capacity to profit from at least two more years of education beyond high school, as that education is now offered by our colleges, universities and junior colleges. Mr. Endicott, you stress the cooperation between business and education. Now, if we follow Mr. Conley's suggestion and more people go to school, to school, we should have more men trained for the cooperation with business. But what specific cooperation can we expect? Well, there are a great many possibilities for increased cooperation between business and education. For example, we are beginning to develop a program of education which we call the cooperative program in which the student is in the school for part of the time and then out into industry and in business actually learning on the job. That's one kind of cooperation. Another one, for example, is the cooperative use of research facilities. Colleges and universities particularly have research laboratories in which many basic and fundamental principles are developed which business uses every day. And there are many opportunities it seems to me to cooperate in those two areas. The third one we might mention quickly is the fact that business and industry employees, the graduates of our schools and our colleges. And so we help them directly by supplying the manpower they actually utilize. I suppose then, Mr. Harwood, that such cooperation would fit with your views when you suggest more contact between business and educational leaders. Do you mean, however, when you suggest more contact that those people today are too far apart? Well, in the cooperative relationship that Mr. Endicott talked about just now, there is a relationship and contact between the educational leader and business and industry. But I am thinking about going much much farther than that. Every now and then we hear the phrase that someone on a college staff is living in an ivory tower or that someone on a college staff is not at all familiar with business relationships and how to handle sometimes his own personal budget. What I am thinking about is that relationships between people, as they get to know each other better, get to know about their respective activities, improve understanding and also develop a better program in the field of education. Well, from what you said, Mr. Radwig, I assume that you think that this extended education would not be of much value unless education learns the problems of management and stresses to its students the problems that management would face. Is that what you have in mind? Well, that together with, in a larger measure, what Mr. Endicott has said. In other words, I don't think that the education of future leaders in business and industry should stop when they get their first job. That is, that their university or college education shouldn't stop then. It should be a continuing process and something that should be worked out between business and industry and the university. Well, now we've talked about education for many aspects, both from the point of view of business and industry and from the point of view of education. But what are we talking about when we mean education? I notice you use the phrase post high school education, Mr. Conley. Can we divide up our educational functions into particular sections? I think we can to a certain extent, Mr. Buchanan. We ordinarily have been thinking that the ending of the educational program of most young people was at the end of the 12th year or the traditional four year high school. Now we're coming to think that there ought to be an extension of the general education development. That is the improvement in the ability to think. The development of the whole man and coupled with that certain other skills that they should have. The other the ability to think that they should have the ability to have the ability to express themselves, the ability to read and to understand, the ability to be better citizens, the ability to understand the culture of which we are a part so that they can enjoy that culture and live full and complete lives. I think, however, colleges and universities have additional responsibilities in the education for business and industry beyond that. That is to impart an understanding or knowledge of the structure and the principles underlying business to give some of the tools that are involved in business. That would involve, of course, Mr. Roderwick's statement. That's right. You mean the point of view of the businessman himself. That's right. And the understanding of how business operates, what it does and how it operates that way. The general understanding of the relationships is what you mean. And the principles underlying business, the historical development, the theory, if you will, underlying business, so that the facts of business will hang together and have meaning to the students. Well, doesn't that theory get back to the ivory tower possibilities that Mr. Harwood is afraid of? I remember a number of years ago, Benjamin M. Anderson, Jr., when he was economist for the Chase National Bank in New York, in addressing a group in the East, pointed out that the greatest contribution that the colleges and universities could make was to give that theoretical, historical background that would give meaning to facts. And he pointed out that business could probably better give the specific facts of industry as long as the student came to industry with the ability to understand, to grasp those facts, and to interrelate them to specific problems. This basic education we speak of, we've mentioned expressing oneself, getting along with people, gaining leadership qualities. Can a university really teach a student that sort of thing, Mr. Anticott? Well, it's a little difficult, I think, to say that we can actually teach these leadership qualities. What we can certainly do, though, is to give the student a great number of opportunities whereby he can develop those leadership qualities, which presumably he already has, at least to some extent. That, incidentally, seems to me, is one of the very important contributions that education makes to business by helping to develop the leadership qualities that are needed by management to carry on its managerial function. Would you say, Mr. Anticott, that the college or the university provides an atmosphere in which those talents can be developed and extended and enlarged and improved, if you please? I think it's a little more than just an atmosphere, Mr. Harwood. I think it includes a variety of opportunities for these young people to live together and work together and be together in both informal and in the more formal classroom relationships. It's a product of many types of experience, which are the outgrowth of, let's say, four years on a college campus. I quite agree with you, Mr. Anticott, that the atmosphere is only a part of it. We're talking about the total experience of the youngster in the university or the college. And that contributes to his development. Yes, but couldn't the same thing be true in business itself, Mr. Roderwig? Couldn't you learn to express yourself, to get along with people, to be a leader? Yes, you can, but business today is too complex to try to develop all the leadership that business needs in the business establishment itself. It becomes more complex as the years go by. And the difficulty in trying to develop leadership and build leaders in business and industry is that the modern business establishment is everyone in it gets into a specialized groove. And, uh, he may become proficient in one specialty, but unless there's an opportunity or a means through a broad field of specialized training in something besides the particular job that he's doing, uh, he may fall by the wayside. I think Mr. Roderwig has put his finger on a very important point. That's a recognition that business and industry today are complex situations. There was a time when a man with initiative, with good natural ability, with a willingness to work hard, could make his way in the business world and understand, come to learn these problems by apprenticeship. But with this complex business structure, the interrelationship of business and government, the relationship between business and society today, it seems to me that it's becoming increasingly important that we give, uh, time for all persons going into business to get an understanding of those problems and an understanding of those relationships. It seems to me, Mr. Connolly, that, uh, this very complexity that you speak of, uh, includes also many, uh, interpersonal contacts that an individual has in business. And therefore, uh, he constantly needs to draw upon his understanding of other people and his ability to work with them and for them. Definitely. I think I agree with you 100% on that, Mr. Endicott. Mr. Endicott and Mr. Connolly, I quite agree with what you've said, but I don't believe either one of you would shut out the possibility that a man might come to the top of his industry as a leader without going through a certain required amount of formal education. Mr. I agree, too, that it's possible for a man to come to the top without, uh, any formal education at all. But I think that the man that does come to the top without any formal education would have come to the top in a much bigger way or much quicker had he had the opportunity and benefits of education. Mr. I would agree fully with that. In fact, uh, many men have come to the top in business without benefit of, uh, formal, um, education. Mr. But it's also amazing to me how much education some of those men who come to the top have been able to acquire without going through a college or a university. They got the education informally. Mr. Well, that leads to a different type of education. We've been talking more or less about the man who goes to college full time. What about adult education, evening schools, studying at home, that sort of thing? Mr. Roderwig, do you have people in your organization who are doing that sort of study work? Mr. Yes, we do. We have a number of young men who this fall and winter we'll send to different schools where they can take advanced work in transportation. They're the young fellows that we are expecting to be leaders in the railroad in the years to come. And we haven't the time or do we have the teaching skill in our own organization to teach those men as do the schools have. Mr. And they can do it better. And it gives the young men when they're doing this, uh, work, they associate with other young men who have like ambitions and you get the benefits of group thinking that you can't get in, uh, any program that's just within one industry itself. Mr. Mr. Roderwig, would you say that there are several stages in this educational process, one being the liberal or cultural or general education, another being the specialized knowledge about business in general and the principles which Mr. Conley talked about, another going a step farther and supplying specific technical education, technical education, technical education, technical education, technical education, such as engineering or accounting, and then the further step of the education within the industry and within the particular company that takes on these, uh, college boys? I think that's right. Yes. Mr. What about the plans that we've suggested now? Two means of cooperation, which you seem to agree on. One is the matter of cooperative, uh, education that you bring up, Mr. Andecott. What does that consist of and how does industry go along with the university there? Mr. Well, the general plan is for the university or college or the high school for that matter, because it's being done at the high school level, to develop a program of training which includes actual work on the job. Mr. And the student can create an industrial system, and the student helps to form a program which keeps him in his bedroom for part of a day or maybe for a period of time, after which he goes on a job. Mr. Industry supplies the job, ults to sport, advise him, and then he comes back into the school, again, and his program is there coordonated, and it's called a cooperative program, program because both industry and the school actually provide the training. What does the industry think of such a proposition? Well, I would suggest that some of these men from industry answer the question. Our experience has been that industry likes it. In the first place, it gives them an opportunity to observe some young men and women actually at work in their organization and whom they might wish to hire later on. And then, of course, it's a very practical kind of education which industry is probably better able to give than the schools. Mr. Endicott, I concur in what you have said, and I should like to add that my general observation is that the cooperative relationships between educational institutions and business enterprises are working well and are increasing for several reasons. One is the, you mentioned, it gives the company an opportunity to try out, if you please, and to acquire desirable candidates for future employment in the business. Another aspect is that it gives the youngster an understanding of a business relationship which he couldn't get in any other way. One weakness which sometimes appears is that the youngster is put on such a routine job that he isn't getting any more experience than he would enjoy if he were on a summer vacation job. And that's not really the purpose of cooperative education. I'd like to ask Mr. Harwood this question. Do you think, Mr. Harwood, that in a period of declining business activity, or in a period of depression, if we want to call it that, that the cooperative programs will continue to succeed? I realize that during a period of great activity when there is labor shortage, that industry is quite interested in going ahead with these cooperative programs. But when they're up against the wall, so to speak, and are cutting costs, and are interested in maintaining productivity at the highest possible level, will the cooperative program continue to be a successful cooperative relationship between university and industry? Mr. Connolly, it's quite true that when the pinch is on expanse, that the captains of industry look at the out goal and say whether or not can I afford this. But generally speaking, business leaders are investing in young people today for future management. And in spite of a recession, the farsighted business leaders are going to be willing to continue to make that investment in cooperative education. I agree to some extent with what Mr. Harwood says, and that is that business more and more is budgeting, so to speak, to take care of an educational program that might be cooperative or otherwise. But nevertheless, what Dr. Connolly says is true, and that is that these cooperative ventures, there's a tendency for them to fall by the wayside when there isn't money in the business to carry them on. But nevertheless, that's no reason why they shouldn't, uh, they shouldn't be. There is a point that we have mentioned, uh, indirectly, but it seems to me that we perhaps can get some of the advantages of the cooperative program through another type of program, and that is through adult education. That is, if we take the boys and the girls that are going into industry and let them work during the day and continue their education in the evening, there is perhaps a possibility of developing a cooperative program in that way. It's almost the other side of the penny. One, you go from school to work, the other, you go from work to school. That's right. I think the latter is by far the more prevalent plan. We would all agree with that, I think. In fact, that program is actually developed in a great many larger centers where, uh, uh, business organizations send, uh, their own employees to schools and to colleges, and in many instances pay all a part of the tuition in order to, uh, uh, help them to better do their job or just to, uh, improve their general culture and their general background. That's true in our company. We pay the tuition. Encourage it. Well, I think that the rapid development of adult education, uh, both during and since the war is a very hopeful sign, uh, to indicate what business, what colleges and universities can do for business and industry. Not only in our great metropolitan centers like Chicago, but in the smaller communities throughout the nation. We find our local school systems and other educational agencies, private colleges and universities, earning their attention more and more, uh, to community problems and recognizing their responsibility to improve the community toward, uh, by giving those people in the community an opportunity to continue their education at any age level. Another thing that has come up in our discussion has been research. That, too, takes money and the cooperation of business and industry. Mr. Harwood, in your particular business of, uh, consulting engineer, I think we can call it in working with management, are there things that a university can do in research that you can take advantage of? Mr. Harwood, in your particular business of, uh, university, uh, university, uh, university, uh, there are many avenues and relationship between business and industry and colleges and universities where research can be carried on to advantage. One of the aspects is to develop an understanding between the particular business or group of businesses who are seeking to have a research project carried on and the university. Uh, sometimes a business enterprise will want a research surrounded with certain, a research project surrounded with certain conditions which require that the one who finances the project will receive the benefits, the commercial benefits. Uh, if a patent is developed, we'll be given the privilege of developing the patent commercially. Usually, and the trend is by far in this direction, the relationship in research projects between the universities and the business and industry are that the public interest governs. If it's to the public interest for there not to be any patent, then there shouldn't be any patent. Research projects are good for the university because they provide financial income and also because they provide the opportunity to educate young people in research projects and their relationships to the sciences and so forth in which they are engaged. Well, I think in addition to that, the research projects by universities, uh, afford an opportunity to, uh, businesses that are not sufficiently large to have their own research laboratory to get work done, or to have research work conducted in connection with their particular line of business. And it also affords means by which, uh, several groups of businesses in, can pool their interest in the development of, uh, certain things, uh, particular to their particular business. I think a good illustration of the importance of, uh, colleges and universities in research is, uh, illustrated by the development of atomic energy, which, uh, to a very large extent has been the result of men who came out of their laboratories and their classrooms and devoted their full time to this particular project. I think another example of what is being done is in case of the railroad where they have built a research building at one of the schools here in Chicago for, uh, carry on research work in the railroad field. Well, the other side of that particular question, Mr. Roderick, it seems to me, if industry is to support research, the university must then, as you suggest, uh, have some relation to industry. You suggest that they teach the side of management. Uh, tell us more about that. What do you mean in that regard? Well, my thought on that is this, that if we're going to continue to have management in this country, we've got to have, uh, some place where management's point of view receives some emphasis. Now, by that I don't mean to say that we shouldn't, that we should neglect the, uh, social aspects of our society and, and the arts and the science. Uh, uh, you've, uh, developed, uh, management leaders, you've got to have people who believe in management's point of view. And, uh, I think that... For a week, may I ask, what is that point of view? Well, that point of view is to furnish employment and to produce goods and merchandise and to, uh, contribute to the development of the country under the free enterprise systems we've seen. Well, do you think, uh, that colleges are or are not training people in that strain today? I should think that they are, but my point was that perhaps they could do more in stressing the management's point of view, particularly with respect to the young man who's going to enter the management field. Perhaps, Mr. Rodowick, the thing that we need is a further extension of the opportunities for college education. If the colleges are doing a reasonable job in that area at the present time, perhaps we should be concerned with providing further opportunities for young men and young women to get that point of view and to get the general development that we feel in the world of education is essential to every human being, regardless of the economic activity in which he engages. I think that's right. I think that, uh, every young man or woman who wants an opportunity to go to school should have the opportunity. And, uh, you mentioned a while ago about some study that showed that only 50%, I believe it was, of people beyond 12... Well, not 50% go on. 50% have the capacity to go on, and perhaps even more would have the capacity to go on if we developed programs at the college and university level adjusted to the needs of those people. Of course, nowhere near that many go on at the present time. The difficulty about, uh, saying who does or doesn't have the capacity to go on is who should be the judge of the capacity, and I expect that we might have some disagreement in that area. Mr. Rodowick, carrying on from there, carrying on from there, when you said that everyone who wanted to have a further education should have the opportunity, do you mean that on an unlimited basis? I'd say he should have the opportunity. Now, if he doesn't take care of the opportunity, then that's involved by the wayside. That's something else. I don't mean to say that we should force everybody to be educated. I mean, he should, uh, but he should have the chance, so it seems to me. Mr. Rodowick, would you require any examinations as to their ability to benefit from this educational process? Well, I'm not an educator. I wouldn't say that we shouldn't have examinations, but I should say that, uh, the average young man or woman should have an opportunity to enter college. Well, examinations, it seems we can never get away from anywhere, but it seems to me that you're suggesting, ultimately, that there be, uh, even more cooperations between schools and the business world. Uh, you suggest the broad and, uh, specialized educational background, tempered with actual experience, and believe that college and universities must learn what businessmen want, while business and industry might work toward greater understanding of educational problems. Thank you, gentlemen. Next week, the reviewing stand discusses one of the most important medical problems of our time. Three prominent medical men will talk about cancer and its effect on our nation. Cancer and your life. Our guest will be Dr. Dain Lee P. Slaughter, senior attending surgeon at St. Francis Hospital, Evanston, and assistant professor of surgery at the College of Medicine, University of Illinois. Dr. William B. Wartman, chairman of the Department of Pathology, and Dr. John A. Wolfer, director of the Patterson Tumor Clinic and professor emeritus of surgery, both of Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for Cancer and Your Life. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Today's program was transcribed. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Prize for the אם-maired 1972 degrees Schmidt四 to
