In these days of troubled food conditions in many parts of the world, what we do here in this city of eight million people with respect to foods has a great significance in the overall food picture. In the Department of Markets, supplies, prices and distribution of foods have always been our concern. And now, more than ever, special emphasis is attached to our work. I wish to point out some of the market trends that have taken place in this city. January 1st this year marked the start of the upward price trend of meat in the retail markets of the city. From then on, right through the summer months, we witnessed and reported, week after week, the steadily mounting costs of this important protein food. To aggravate this situation, the cost of eggs and butter started spiraling, after their period of heavy production was finished. Even chicken, the current production of which has been very heavy all year, supplemented by enormous storage stocks, began to reflect the general price trend. Taking cognizance of the condition and realizing the serious effect of runaway food prices on the health of the families of the countless homemakers of this century, operating under a moderate cost budget. Mayor O'Dwyer, as you no doubt are aware, inaugurated a campaign to abruptly check this skyrocketing. A major share of the execution of the mayor's program devolved upon the Department of Markets. So today, let us take inventory of the effects of the mayor's program since its inception a year ago. On September 18th of this year, the prevailing price for porterhouse steak was a dollar a pound, and for sirloin steak, 95 cents per pound. Today, it is 83 cents per pound for porterhouse, and 79 cents per pound for the sirloin, a drop of 17 and 16 cents per pound respectively. We won't bother going into the percentage decrease. The actual price decline is large enough and forcible enough to give the true picture. Last month at this date, loin chops and lamb were most generally priced at 97 cents per pound. Today, most retail shops are selling them at 79 cents per pound, a drop of 18 cents per pound. Mind you, this is one cent per pound lower than the last OPA ceiling price. But let us get on. Shoulder chops of lamb are now selling at 69 cents per pound, as against 79 cents per pound a month ago. And roast loin of pork is now generally selling at 69 cents per pound, compared to 75 cents per pound on this date in September. This is a definite evidence that the housewives resistance to high prices is a major factor in bringing about reductions at retail. So much for me. Now let us look at the poultry situation. As we said before, we are fortunate in having unusually heavy receipts, of all types of chickens. And our storage holdings are at a high record. Prices have declined in the last few weeks. And today, prices on broiling and frying chickens are actually below the last OPA ceiling. Now for butter. We have been constantly urging margarine as an excellent alternate spread. That the housewife has heeded our advice is evidenced by the drop in the retail cost of butter. This drop averages 10 cents per pound since last month. Furthermore, for the week ended October 11th, the amount of butter placed in storage exceeded the amount withdrawn by approximately 65,000 pounds. This is most unusual at this season of low butter production. And according to the trade, this is the first time in history that such a condition has existed during the month of October. Although egg prices are just about the same as a month ago, I feel that the picture is indeed more encouraging than the aforementioned foods. You see, this is the lowest point in the egg production season. And in normal time, prices usually show a steady advance. This year, however, the seasonal advance has not been so marked. In fact, as I said before, prices are the same as they were a month ago. And even though prices do rise from now on, the condition will not be for long, as the laying season starts in early December, at which time production is on the increase and prices should start declining. We have long been recommending the more liberal use of fresh fish as an economical food. We are placing even more emphasis on it in these days of food conservation. It is encouraging to know that present supplies are ample for the demand, and retail prices have remained moderate. The abrupt check to the aspiring food costs in this city is indeed a tribute to the alertness of metropolitan housewives in their response to the opportune suggestions of Mayor O'Dwyer. I urge you to continue to make it your business to plan your meals around low-priced alternates, when you cannot find the food you desire at a price level you can afford. Our low-to-moderate-cost menus are published daily in the press, and announced over many of the radio stations. As Mayor O'Dwyer's suggestion, these are offered for the guidance of our citizens, and we will continue this service as long as the need exists.
