Good evening. Next Thursday, you will be exercising one of the distinctive rights of a free citizen in a democracy. You will not only be choosing the individual which represents you in Parliament, but you will be deciding by what government and on what principles the affairs of our country should be conducted. During the time that remains, I know you will consider well what are the vital issues at stake. This is the last of the series of election broadcasts. All parties have had the opportunity of putting their views before you. You may be sure that every important point has been put to you. You may be equally sure that if from any quarter some new point is developed between now and the election, for genuinely, it will be a mere electoral stunt. I have just finished a tour of the country and have addressed many meetings. I have been struck by the thoughtful atmosphere everywhere. I am quite sure that most of you are carefully considering all the various points of view and are seeking conscientiousness to make up your mind what is best in the interests of our country and the world. It is, I think, my duty tonight to try to put before you as clearly as I can the facts of the situation, as I see them after having held the responsible position of Prime Minister for four and a half years. I should try to tell you what the Labour government has sought to accomplish, what has been done, and what, if we are successful at this election, we intend to do. I don't think that you will wish me to waste time in peasantries or in the ordinary interchange of party scores on little points, which inevitably arise in the course of the general election campaign. But I must deal with two points in Mr. Churchill's broadcast. I have been making a large number of public speeches setting out Labour's policy. Instead of dealing with these, Mr. Churchill, on the basis of a statement alleged to have been made by me to an American journalist, charges me with the intention of immediately setting up a monstrous state monopoly, owning everything and employing everybody. I gave a private interview to an American journalist. In breach of the high traditions of the profession, the journalist published a garbled account of what I said. I made no statement capable of the interpretation which Mr. Churchill has put upon it. Mr. Churchill knows quite well the policy which I advocate. However, the Times points out, this is not the role in which Mr. Ackley has appeared in the election or in office. I am sorry Mr. Churchill should fall so far below the standards which one would expect from a statesman of his distinction. The second point is this. Mr. Churchill has repeated his usual phrases about the government's waste, lavish expenditure and extravagance. He has never yet brought forward facts to support these sweeping charges. Yet government expenditure is under review in the House of Commons for 20 days every year. The leader of the opposition can choose any subject for discussion. Why hasn't Mr. Churchill attended the House of Commons and formulated detailed charges? He has never done so. There is no basis of fact behind these words of abuse. May I now begin by reminding you of some words which I used in my broadcast in 1945. I said then, we have seen European civilization almost destroyed, and an attempt made to set aside the moral principles on which it has been built. It is for us to help to re-knit the fabric of civilized life, woven through the centuries, and with the other nations to seek to create a world in which free people, living their own distinctive lives in a society of nations, cooperate together free from the fear of war. We have to plan the broad lines of our national life, so that all may have the duty and opportunity of rendering service to the nation, everyone in his or her sphere, and that all may help to create and share in an increasing material prosperity free from the fear of war. We have to preserve and enhance the beauty of our country, and make it a place where men and women may live finely and happily, free to worship God in their own way, free to speak their minds, free citizens of a great country. That was the aim I put before you in 1945. I think you will agree that it is no ignoble, eh? For four and a half years we've striven hard to accomplish it. I am far from claiming that we've achieved it yet. Four and a half years are a very short time in which to repair the ravages of war, and the evils which come from years of neglect in the past. Furthermore, every government has to act within the limitations imposed by the conditions of the time, and by the actions of other nations. But I do claim that great advances have been made. I ask for the opportunity to continue this advance. The success of the free democratic system which we all uphold depends on the active cooperation of peoples with governments. And I would like to say that the efforts made by the people of this country, by workers and management alike, by both men and women, have been magnificent. You have the right to be proud of what you have done. It has been described by a distinguished American in these words, a campaign for the economic recovery in Great Britain, constituted one of the greatest national efforts ever seen in peace. Another said, the extraordinary progress made has astonished the world. It is just not true to say that the people have been frustrated, and their energy is restricted by government. Great energy has been displayed, and has been wisely directed in accordance with a plan for national recovery. Nollis Admiral has been doing the work of women in the home. They have met the challenge of the difficulties which our war losses made inevitable with unfailing courage and resource. To disparage from their party purposes, the splendid work which they have done is honest and unfair. During the last ten days, my wife has driven me in her car nearly 1,300 miles through the country, and I have seen a great number of people. Mr. Churchill has described this country as a bureaucracy, bruising over a dispirited and broken people. This odd and fanciful picture of our people is a disgruntled politician. It's not the one seen by foreign observers. It was certainly not what I saw. I found farmers and farm workers active and busy in a countryside no longer depressed. They rejoice in a stability that their great industry has never known before in time of peace. I talk with crowds of enthusiastic workers, miners, engineers, and many others, conscious that they were doing a good job of work. I talk with numbers of housewives who realize what full employment and social security means to them. I saw lots of healthy, happy children and lovely babies. I saw new factories and new houses. I saw farms equipped with machinery they never had before. I saw energy and conscience everywhere. I don't share Mr. Churchill's gloomy vision of a depressed nation torn with class hatred. On the contrary, there come into my mind lines written by an even greater master of words, John Milton. I saw a noble and personate nation rousing herself from sleep and shaking her invincible locks. I saw her as an eagle, mewing her mighty youth and kindling her undazzled eyes at the full midday beam, purging and unscaling her long abused sight at the fountain itself of heavenly radiance. While the whole noise of timorous and flocking birds with those that love the twilight flutter about, amazed at what she means and in their envious gabble prognosticate a year of sex and schisms. I'm asking you tonight to consider what the government, with your support, has done. And to decide whether it has been on the right lines and, if you think so, to allow us to continue with the work. I have to cover a wide field. It may I think be convenient to deal with these things under three headings. First, there's our relationship with the Commonwealth and the common welcome with other nations. Secondly, there's the problem of economic recovery. And thirdly, there's what has been done and what still has to be done in the wide field of social improvement and reform. They are, of course, most intimately connected. For instance, Britain's economic recovery is a vital factor in sustaining the democratic way of life all the world over. Social security and a just social system are closely related to industrial recovery. I needn't deal at any length with our relations with other nations because Mr. Devin, who has finally sustained a heavier burden than any British foreign secretary has had to bear, told you of this on Wednesday. Under his guidance, Britain has, throughout these years, taken a leading part in the work of the United Nations and in other international organizations. With the United States and other democracies, we have been steadily strengthening the defences of freedom and peace. The European recovery program, the Western Union, the Atlantic pact, the Council of Europe are all great strides forward. Their purpose is to check the potential aggressor and, through promoting better economic conditions, to remove some of the causes from which wars arise. Mr. Devin has shown infinite patience in seeking to enlarge the scope of international cooperation, both on the political and economic sphere. Again and again we have sought to bring Russia more completely into partnership in the great adventure of civilization. The fault does not lie on this side of the Iron Curtain. We are ready at all times to cooperate with Russia on equal terms in the Committee of Nations. But it must be on equal terms. We cannot submit to domination. We will not change our way of life at the behest of others. The discovery of atomic energy loosed a new fear in the world. So impressed was I with its dread potentiality, that within a few weeks of taking office, I went to Washington, to discuss with President Truman and Mr. McKenzie King how we could harness this new power for the peaceful purposes of mankind, and prevent its misuse for destruction. Out of that meeting came the proposal for the international control of atomic energy. Had that been accepted, this cloud of fear would have been lifted from the peoples, that Russia would not accept. The hydrogen bomb has even more dreadful possibilities. The machinery of the United Nations is still there, ready to be used. We are prepared at any time to use it to the full. We are ready and eager to discuss with Russia, the United States, Canada, and all other nations, ways and means for dealing with this menace. The difficulty doesn't lie in method, nor in the choice of persons to discuss these high matters. All that is required is the will. We on this side of the Iron Curtain have the will to discuss and settle with the Russians, this with all other outstanding difficulties. Now may I speak to you for a moment of our relationship with the Commonwealth, that great organization of free peoples. I can assure you that never have the relations between the members of the Commonwealth been so intimate as in these recent years. Besides meeting of ministers, we have a constant interchange of information and views between us all. Through the High Commissioners, the closest touch is kept on all the concerns of our group of nations. The Commonwealth is not something static. It's a flexible and living organization, constantly adapting itself to the needs of the members. Nothing in these years has given me greater satisfaction and to welcome India, Pakistan, and Ceylon into the fellowship, and to preside at a conference of the whole Commonwealth, in which the Prime Ministers of these great Asiatic communities took part in the deliberations as free and equal partners. In the colonial empire too, we have made great political advances, and the standard of life of the peoples in these countries is rising. The resources of many of these territories are being developed, not as in the past in the interest of the exploiters, but in the interest of the peoples themselves, and indeed of the whole world. The world has need of these resources, and we ourselves, like others, will benefit from them. Now, domestic affairs. Let me recall to you what was the position of this country as we found it in 1945. Most of our overseas investments have been sold. We had incurred war debts of more than 3,000 million pounds. We had suffered physical damage through the blitz of another 1,500 million. Four millions of our houses have been damaged or destroyed. Our export trade was down to a third of pre-war. Our industries have been turned over to war purposes. Five millions of our workers were in the forces. The generous provision of lend-lease from America, which had done so much to enable us to continue the war, stopped abruptly. We were committed to helping other nations who had suffered. The outlook was pretty gloomy. What has been accomplished? Our total production and our output per worker have reached higher levels than before the war. Our exports are one and a half times as great as pre-war. Our agricultural industry is providing a far greater percentage of our food requirements. The countryside is prosperous. We have repaired millions of our homes and built more than a million new homes. Not enough, it is true. But we have to contend not only with a blitz of war, but a blight of past neglect. Practically everyone has had the opportunity to work, and most people have worked well. Not a bad record. And how has it been done? By you, the people. By workers and management. In nationalized and private industry. By farmers and farm workers. By the women in the home. But this work has been made effective by careful planning. First, to see that the right things were produced. And secondly, to see that the right people got them. At home, by the better distribution of purchasing power, So that effective demand matched supply. Overseas? To see if the goods went to the right countries. It is true, we have had generous help from the Commonwealth of the United States. But that doesn't detract from your peacetime effort. Any more than lend-lease the prize Britain of its credit for its share in winning the war. We have planned on the basis of fair shares. Mr. Churchill doesn't like the policy of fair shares. He calls it leveling down. Depends on the point of view. For the majority of the people, it means leveling up. You know, all sections of our people. Workers on the land. And in the mines. Did not get a fair deal before. Cheapness was bought at the expense of their standard of life. That was wrong. It was the result of lack of planning. And that was the result of the lack of planning. And that's the result of the lack of planning. The money was bought at the expense of their standard of life. That was wrong. It was the result of lack of planning. In this work, we have had splendid help from the trade unions. And from those managements, the vast majority, who have put the long-term interests of the nation before immediate private profit. One result has been... A time lost each year in industrial disputes. It's been a small fraction. Now that lost in the corresponding period after the First World War. We are not out of our economic difficulties. But we've made immense progress. And provided there is no slackening of effort, we can win through. We've put into effect a great scheme of social security, which is the admiration of the world. This is designed to lift from the ordinary citizen, as much as is possible, the burden of anxiety and fear, which the changes and chances of this mortal life bring to him. We've introduced a great national health service. I'm sorry there was opposition from sections of the medical profession. Largely due to the fact that a small-minded politician occupied a key position in their professional organization. Now I'm glad to say, the vast majority of doctors are working in the national service with that devotion that they always bring to the relief of suffering. We've been operating a great educational act, designed to secure that the ability of the nation is fully developed. The point to note in all these schemes is that they're designed to serve everyone, not just a class or a section. It is of course fair to say that these schemes were worked out to a large extent in the coalition government. And my Labour colleagues and I took our share in the work. But it was the Labour government that put them into effect. I must remind you that after the last war, reforms planned during the war, such as the Fisher Education Act, were abandoned by a predominantly Tory government. We have brought into public ownership some of the greatest of our basic industries, as we promised to do in 1945. The work of the reconstruction of industries such as coal, which has suffered from gross mismanagement, will take time to complete. Our opponents do not propose to undo what we've done, but it's clear they will endeavour where they think it possible, to hand back to private ownership the most profitable parts of these industries. I stated to you the board principles upon which we have acted. We shall continue to act on them. In our manifesto, let us win through together. We have set out our programme. You will not expect me to go through it in detail. But you know from experience that Labour does not promise what it cannot perform. It keeps its word. We will, if we gain your support, continue the work we have been doing. The first essential is to restore completely the economic position of Britain. For this we need increased production and increased exports. In this task, private and public enterprise must play their full parts. Full employment is essential. So that we don't waste the human resources of the nation. We must lower costs and reduce prices. Not by cutting down the standard of life of the workers. Not by cutting down the standard of life of the workers. But by good organisation. The full use of science. And the promotion of cooperation between managers and workers. We must lower the gap between what the producer gets and what the consumer pays. By the elimination of wasteful methods and unnecessary middlemen. This especially applies to agriculture and horticulture. We shall continue the development in the national interest of our great basic industries. And where it is desirable, we shall transform private monopoly into public service. The Conservatives and their satellites have no clear alternative policy. Realising how you appreciate what the Labour government has done, they tell you that they will maintain full employment and the social services. They will, they say, they will do all the things which they neglected to do when they had the power. They will do it too, although they'll abandon the controls essential for the maintenance of this policy. They will reduce taxation and make up for it by unspecified economies. While at the same time incurring more expenditure in the interest of particular sections. At every possible point in the economic machine, they will restore private profit and private interests. There is here no policy, but only vote catching. Mr. Churchill talks of providing a more efficient administration. But a Conservative government will, with a few additions, be composed of the same people whose incompetence in the handling of affairs was so unsparingly denounced by Mr. Churchill when he was excluded from the government. The choice before you is clear. During these difficult years, Britain, by its example, has done a great service to democracy and freedom. We have shown that orderly planning and freedom are not incompatible. We have confirmed faith in democracy by the example of a government that has carried out its promises. It is utterly untrue to say that our prestige has been diminished. On the contrary, it stands higher than ever. We have added to the triumphs of war, the victories of peace. In the fight for the free democratic way of life and the freedom of the human spirit, British social democracy stands out as the great champion against materialist totalitarianism. That is why the communist party attacks labor more bitterly than it does capitalism. It recognizes that the British socialist movement is the one great dynamic force which can successfully oppose it. In conclusion, let me say that I have tried to put the position fairly before you. I am not suggesting that the road for Britain is easy. I do not suggest that all our problems have been solved. But I do say that great progress has been made. That if we continue with the same steadiness, cheerfulness and hard work that have been displayed during these years, I am convinced that we can solve them. I am not going to make promises of quick solutions. I am not going to offer you any easement unless I am certain that can be done. During these years, we have extended the rights of the citizens. Rights bring with them duties. Among these duties, and I among them, is the duty to vote. I ask you all, whatever your political views, to go to the poll. Whatever the weather may be, whatever distractions you may have. Especially if you believe that the labor government has done a good job for the nation during these years. I ask you to vote and to see that others who think like you vote in order we may continue our work supported by a great majority. These next four days are vital to our nation. All you who work so valiantly for the labor cause of social equality, economic advance and fair shares must not slacken in your efforts now. I know you will not. To you all, whether you made up your minds which way to vote or not, I have tried to put the facts of our national situation. The maintenance and improvement of the standards of life of the people of this country depend on your efforts. But these efforts can only be made effective if there is sound leadership at the top in the interests of all. I ask you to go forward along the road with us. We shall not fail you. Let us win through together. Good night. Me. Me. Türkin Mr. Archer Social Science