I was at a dinner and had a conversation with the mayor. He said that he here had talked to me sometimes previously, and yes, he was called out of the city, his other members of the city administration. After that, he would have been here, but he's done us a very great favor, in my opinion, in asking the police commissioners of the city of New York to come here and represent him. And I want to assure you of the deep interest of the mayor in the work of the Florence Crippenden Leeds and the Ukrainian home that are doing so much for these young girls. It's my pleasure to present the Honorable Arthur W. Wallander, police commissioner of the city of New York. Judge Baze, friends, I'm delighted to come here. I hadn't expected to talk up to yesterday, but I did accept an invitation to be here. I know of your work, and I know how enterprising and how useful it is. In asking me to come here, the mayor told me to be sure and express his gratitude for the very fine work you're doing, and he was hopeful that it would be continued for many years to come. It is a plentiful service. Without doubt, he recognizes it, and so do we. He and I recognize it because we were both patrolmen together. I can remember reading in our manual procedure of the Florence Crippenden home ever since I was first appointed to the department, and that was back in 1914. And they then said that the Florence Crippenden League and home was the place for young and less heartened females. And it has lived through all these years, and that's a whole lot of years, and I certainly hope for every success. In New York City, naturally enough, we do have girls coming from all parts of the country. They come here looking for life, probably their hometown little drab, and New York City, as you know, offers about everything that would be alluring to anyone, even to us. It's quite a place. But, however, it's our job to see that those girls are cared for us. And as Lieutenant John Fowles told you to explain, if it weren't for a league like this, and for the House of Good Shepherd as well, I think we'd be at a loss as to what to do with some of the girls. And certainly we could take a very sympathetic attitude toward our young girls. We have a youth program on now through PAL, police athletically, and we recognize the need for caring for the girls as well as we do for the boys. And therefore, you could readily understand our very deep interest in a matter such as this. In the matter of the girls that are reclaimed and sent back to their homes, hundreds of letters come to our department assessing to the girl's condition when she came back home, that she was cared for in a kindly and charitable way, and I think that's about the best testimonial that we can get. ...from the authorities of those towns, of the home from which she, of the town from which she came. And that in itself, I think, testifies to the need for the continuance of an organization such as yours, and the whole part of support of every individual who knows of it and those who don't know of it. I think that it should be supported to the nth degree. I certainly do hope that you will have an immeasurable amount of success in your new home. I note that you're moving from 2-1 streets to 1-2 streets, so it won't be hard to remember. It's, uh, and, uh, speaking for the police department as police commissioner, I, I, uh, do wish you every success there. Please count on the department for full cooperation of respect. I want at this time to recognize Miss Addison. She, she and I worked together. As a matter of fact, I served under her, and I have a wholesome respect for her. I'm very glad to see her in this picture, and I hope she continues for a long time. She's a great person. And, uh, with all few remarks, folks, I wish you the best. Thank you. And, uh, bringing this one... ...and, uh, bringing this one... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... day. Someone asked me the other day if I believe in government control of business. That's a tricky question, but there's just one thing I do believe in. That is in using your government. Just now, I believe in asking your government to give you price control. The argument that's used against it is that it keeps down production. It's quite true that during the war it didn't keep down production, but then circumstances were perhaps a little different. I wonder if we can't expect the same amount of production in order that we may be back actually doing a good job to win the peace at home and abroad, even if we ask our government to give us price control. I'm a little weary of having so many people seem to believe that we are not patriotic enough to have production and price control. I think it can be done, and I think it should be done. When we have full production and the needs of the world are met, we will not need price control. we will not need price control. And now, I want to congratulate you for coming out this afternoon and wish you good luck in the results of today's meeting. Mrs. Roosevelt has just spoken. And now, once again, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Roosevelt. I would like to read just one of many telegrams that have come in to the mayor. At membership meeting May 7, 1946, the Washington Heights Chapter 32 of the Disabled American Veterans voted to send greetings to your meeting in support of your efforts to stop inflation and to stop OPA without crippling amendments. And now, after this, we wish your meeting every success and offer our cooperation in further action to continue price control. And now, after these inspiring speeches, I ask you to give this committee a job to do by passing a resolution which the committee would like to put before you now. We, the citizens of the city of New York, assembled in the Lewison Stadium in the city of New York on Sunday afternoon, May 12th, realizing the misery and the tragedy which confront us and the people everywhere in our country from the effects of the inflation which will engulf us if the OPA bill, if the OPA bill as passed by the House of Representatives is enacted, we hereby demand one, that price and rent control as authorized in the existing Price Control Act be continued for one year from June 30th without amendments. Point two, that Congress provide the OPA with sufficient funds to make possible more effective enforcement of price and rent control. And that Congress appropriate adequate funds to provide necessary subsidy payments in order that price ceilings may be maintained. I ask you to pass this resolution by a vote of applause. Are there any who say nay? The motion is carried unanimously. We have the opportunity. And so, ladies and gentlemen, we conclude this rally brought to you by the Mayor's Citizens Union Committee to Save OPA, which has featured the following speakers. Mr. Franklin Eleanor Roosevelt Jr., Mrs. Roosevelt, Mayor O'Dwyer, Russell Nixon of the CIO, Louis Hines of the AFL, and Mr. Chester Bowles, the director of the Stabilization Board, whose words were brought to you from Washington. The introductory remarks were made by the Mayor's Secretary, Paul M. Ross, and we also heard from Mr. Hugo Rogers, Borough President of Manhattan. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.