Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent, affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today is its special Christmas program. The Roundtable, by popular request, again presents The Christmas Carols Are True. And now, to open today's program, we present Mr. Bernard M. Loomer. Most of us throughout Christendom today are extending to each other the season's greetings and wishing each other a Merry Christmas. We join in this traditional greeting. But our concern at present is to inquire about the meaning of Christmas. Indeed, to put it somewhat bluntly, what's merry about Christmas? At Christmas, we celebrate the birth of a child. But what's merry about the birth of a child who was destined to end his life on a cross? We give and receive gifts in honor of him who has been called the Prince of Peace. But what's peaceful about a man who said that he came not to bring peace, but a sword? We say that Christmas is an occasion of glad tidings, of great joy, of good news. But what is there of good news and glad tidings about him who talked of our forgiving others seventy times seven? Jesus was not good news to his contemporaries. Why then should we, or can we, be merry at Christmas? In terms of the sentimental way most of us celebrate Christmas, and the meaning we derive from it, perhaps old Scrooge was right. What else can I be but cross, said Scrooge, when I live in such a world of fools as this? Merry Christmas. Out upon merry Christmas. What's merry Christmas to you but a time for paying bills without money? A time for finding yourself a year older and not an hour richer? A time for balancing your books and having every item in them through the year presented dead against you? If I could work my will, every idiot who goes about with merry Christmas on his lips should be boiled with his own pudding and buried with the stake of holly through his heart. He should. Merry Christmas. Bah humbug. Well, Robbins, do you think there is any truth to Scrooge's charge? Scrooge, would you be willing to defend Scrooge at all? Well, who would be willing to defend Scrooge on Christmas Day, miserable old sinner that he was? Yet, to give the old boy his due, I am forced to say that if Christmas is only sentimental and shallow in its observance, if there is only an exchange of presents without an exchange of goodwill, then Scrooge certainly has a point. For he seems to be saying that Christians pick out one day to be Christian and leave 364 days of the year to be as mean and hard as he is. Scrooge is not a hypocrite, at least. For he keeps all the days alike. He is not an admirable man, but at least he's an honest man. He's not wise, but I think he's consistent. Well, couldn't it also be said that Scrooge is significant because he is an extreme instance of what we ourselves really are underneath or inside ourselves? We may not like to admit this on a day such as Christmas. Well, I think we'd be very happy to admit it, Loomer, if you will look at Scrooge after he became a better man. I think we tend to identify ourselves not with the bad Scrooge, but with the good one, especially with that great transformation which takes place in Scrooge. We know that we are not the villains that we seem to be. We want to have that marvelous change that came upon him as a result of those ghosts and so on. This was a painful experience, but it was a good one for him. After all, at the end, you know, Dickens could report of Scrooge that it was said of him that if any man knew how to keep Christmas, he did. You should be noticed, though, Robbins, that Scrooge underwent this great change of art that you talk about on Christmas Eve after he had seen himself for the miserable sinner that he, in fact, was. That is, the hope at Christmas for a better world of better men rests upon a rather radical evaluation of ourselves, and this is part of the message of Scrooge. Well, this is rather difficult, isn't it? On Christmas Day, the light's burning on the tree, and you're suggesting that we should make a radical examination of ourselves. Well, it's difficult to search our souls on any day, Robbins, but after all, we are talking about the meaning of Christmas, and I'm suggesting that at least part of its meaning is this coming to know ourselves as we really are, for both the good and the bad that are within us. But people, I think, generally look upon Christmas as a day for the children. In fact, it's a day for everybody to be a little childish. It's the family at play. We exchange gifts, and it's a day to forget that there's a certain smell of commercialism that may be wrapped around those presents originally. Santa Claus, he has preempted the day, as it were. Santa Claus has made us remember only the good things that we've gotten that we don't deserve, and we don't want to examine ourselves too closely on Christmas Day. Well, I'm not trying to enter the picture on Christmas Day as a dark cloud, Robbins, but isn't this precisely one of the reasons why we do sentimentalize Christmas? Christmas heightens for us the need for this self-scrutiny, because only as we come to know ourselves can we undergo the change that you yourself have spoken about. And I'm suggesting that without this element of radical evaluation, I really don't think that we go much beyond at Christmas the old Scrooge. Well, if we're ever really to know ourselves, if we're ever to find any good in us to celebrate and be merry about on this day, then I suggest that we have to remember this, that Christmas is only the beginning. Well, you mean it's the beginning of the birth of the Christian era? No, not only that, Loomer. It's the beginning of the fullest significance of the Christian story. The great events, the teachings of Jesus, his life, even his death, all lie beyond this beginning. The full meaning of Christmas can be seen only in terms of this whole story, and it's only in terms of this full story that we can see what right we have to be merry at Christmastime. Well, I'm willing to go along with this point. In fact, I'm eager to do so, but I think we ought to realize that we are making it a little more difficult for ourselves to answer the question as to what right we do have to be merry at Christmas. After all, while Christmas does celebrate the birth of a Savior, at least for the Christians, we have to remember that he ended on a cross. Now, what's merry about that? And the Sermon on the Mount, to take another illustration, with its high demands, is not exactly good news either. Yes, I'm conscious of the implications of that. I notice that even the beginnings, the Christian birth story itself, is softened to make it more palatable. We like to think of the wise men, the animals, the shepherds, the star, the whole scene of the adoration, but we like to forget the slaughter of the innocents, the whole hatred of Herod against this child, the flight into Egypt. I think there must be some real significance in Herod's belief that the birth of this child, to us a glorious and happy event, was to him a threat. I think there is a real significance to it. This becomes even more explicit later on in the Gospels because we see that Jesus was an actual threat to many people, including the good people of his country, the scribes and Pharisees. He saw through them very clearly, and he saw them for what they in fact were. In other words, he was a judgment upon people. He was in fact a threat. So that Christmas, to be sure, is a time of celebrating the birth of a Savior, but it's also a time for celebrating the birth of a threat, if you will. Well, a threat in the sense that goodness and excellence is always a judgment, a threat. All right. But on all of us, we feel a judgment when we fail to come up to this standard of excellence and goodness. You know, even the plots of the Gospel, which we look upon as most precious in their promise of grace and forgiveness, also put demands upon us. Love your enemies. Be kind to those who despitefully use you. Walk the second mile. Be a good Samaritan. Well, may it not be that the situation is a little bit deeper than that, Robbins. Whatever else the Bible is, it appears to me that it is never sentimental. It's interesting to look, for example, at the character of the parables, which Jesus used from time to time to describe the kingdom of God. Whenever he uses a parable that begins by stressing the grace and mercy and forgiveness as the essence of the kingdom, he ends the parable always with the declaration of judgment or justice, sometimes even of wrath. I think, for example, of one of our most treasured parables, namely that of the prodigal son. You recall that the younger son, who had gone astray, is forgiven by his father. But nonetheless, the older son, who has been faithful to him for many years, keeps all the property. That is, the property is not subdivided between the two sons, because to do this would have been the essence of sentimentality. Well, if we're to go deeper into it, as you put it, we mustn't lose sight of the fact that while justice is given its full weight in all of these parables, mercy and forgiveness is equally real. And when combined with justice, it clears itself of the charge of sentimentality and becomes an unsentimental love. And this is good news for us all. I suggest that this is part of the reason why we have a right to be merry at Christmas and why we can celebrate the birth of the child. Well, I think the fact of forgiveness and mercy is good news, too. But I'm concerned, again, that we do not take this fact out of its context. Jesus is good news, but he's also bad news. And I'm suggesting that we cannot understand the good news unless we also understand the bad news. Jesus brought mercy, but he also brought judgment. He brought a threat. That is, the old Scrooge had to die in order that the new one could be born. Jesus was, after all, a threat to St. Paul. And Paul had to have his Damascus Road experience before the Apostle Paul could be born. Well, this is a fact, but it's a melancholy fact. I'm forced to accept it, of course, because it is the condition of spiritual growth. But I insist that there is a joyous fact, which I do not think we have yet fully admitted. It is this. However we may have fallen from the standards of excellence, however we may have missed our real destiny, we are still under the judgment of a merciful Father, who, in the birth of Jesus, symbolizes the way which we also may be reborn into the new year of grace. Well, I think that possibly at this point we have come closer to the dead rock of this full gospel that you have been talking about, although I'm not sure that we will have the time to develop this point adequately. The joy of Christmas, I agree, is more than a human story. Jesus is a threat not because of Jesus himself, but because of something more. The Christian story is good news if we see in Jesus the presence and power of a God who was more than the earthly Jesus. This God is referred to in the scriptures as the Holy Spirit. But the good news is not that God was present in a man only once upon a time. The glad tidings of Christmas is that this divine presence and power which was in Jesus is also present in us. So it is that the Christmas star painfully confronts our own darkness with light, yet it guides us gently into a new era of hope and faith. The spirit of Christmas never dies because it is both with God and with men. Christmas is a living holiday, not because of sentimental reverence to the Prince of Peace, not just because of a shallow piety toward ideals which we say have no relationship to actual life. It's a living holiday not because it offers temporary escape from harsh business realities. Christmas is a living holiday because it is the universal dream of a better world, a nobler race, a brotherhood of man which has found God adequate to the deepest needs of the human spirit. But the joy of this Christ, it seems to me, is not a simple thing, and his good news is not an easy obligation. The peace of Christmas can be had only by paying a price. This price is the refusal to cling to those passing values by which most of us live most of the time. It involves a willingness to devote ourselves to that higher power in our midst from whence come all our goods. The goodwill of Christmas is built on the story of the Good Samaritan, the parable of the prodigal son, the forgiving 70 times 7, the anguished cry of the publican who would not even look to heaven but searched his heart and asked for mercy because of his wrongdoing. This goodwill is grounded on a love that implements itself in terms of justice and equality, where all the barriers of race, color, creed, and class are torn down so that each may have his cup run over. This is the goodwill based upon our common need for forgiveness, for if we were to receive according to our own merits, we would be poor indeed. This is the deepest side of Christmas. Without it, the sacrifice of war becomes a mockery, a tragedy that knows no release, a victory that can lead only to defeat. And yet this idea of Christmas has been adorned by gathering up into itself the best hopes and rights of many peoples and many different cultures. It's a pleasure to present now Ernest Caldwell, President of the University of Chicago. Mr. Caldwell will talk on the theme of how the Christmas carols embody the fullness and realism of the Christian story. Mr. Caldwell. What we are talking about today is the meaning of Christmas. This meaning exists outside ourselves and can really be seen in the Christmas carols which we all sing. But some of us have used even the carols in debasing Christmas into a sentimental orgy. Actually, the Christmas carols celebrate not only the fact that Jesus was born, but also the meaning which Christians have found in Jesus. This Christian interpretation of Christmas is an interpretation of reality. Christmas is much more than tinsel and Santa Claus. It is not a dream projected upon a cloud by a magic lantern. It is not merely the pious expression of human desires. The Christmas carols for all their jubilance accept the hard and tragic aspects of human existence. There is an earthy smell about the carols. The Christmas carols were first sung by people who knew what a manger was used for. They worked in stables. They took care of cattle. An ox to them was more than a picture in a book or an ornament to a creche in a cathedral or in a department store window. The animals are real. The manger is real. The cold winter night is really cold. Therefore, it is not strange that the baby is real. There is a live baby in that manger. He gets cold, he gets hungry, and he cries. See the dear little Jesus. See the poor little stranger sadly crying. There he is lying naked in the manger. Why should a savior cry? Why should the son of God weep? Must he share the tragedy of human life? Is evil so real and so potent that when the prince of peace is crowned, it shall be with thorns? Part of the reality of Jesus springs from his involvement in human tragedy. Even in Christmas carols, evil is real and suffering is inescapable. The holly bears a berry as red as any blood, and Mary bore sweet Jesus Christ to do poor sinners good. The holly and the ivy, when they are both full grown, of all the trees that are in the wood, the holly bears the crown. The blood of this baby will be shed upon a cross, a cross which is still a stumbling block to philosophers and an offense to established religion. The Christmas carols proclaim a faith that the great can be known in the small, God in a child, the triumphant in the vanquished, and the mighty in the meek. The Jesus of these carols is born in an insignificant village. He is born in a stable and he sleeps in a manger. Shepherds are his courtiers. Not Christmas Eve pageant shepherds clothed in bright robes made up for the occasion by the ladies of the church, but shepherds who slept out all night and worked all day, a dull and dusty court indeed. And though Phillips Brooks in his carol changed Bethlehem from a village to a town, he made it the little town of Bethlehem whose quiet streets were a strange meeting place for the hopes and fears of all the years. A stranger place for the savior of men to be born could not be found. In that Roman world he surely deserved birth at the capital, at imperial Rome itself, on one of the hills of the eternal city. But if not at the capital of empire, then in some great city, Alexandria for example, or Antioch. If he must be born in Palestine, then surely in Jerusalem. But no, the carols sing when Christ our Lord was born in distant Bethlehem. If the savior of the world were to be born today, all of us would expect him to be born in our own country, in one of the great cities that adorn and dominate our culture. And we Americans would not expect him to be born in Bethlehem, Pennsylvania. Yet the carol singers believed that the one who was born to do poor sinners good was really born in obscurity and humility in ancient Bethlehem. The carolers could believe that if he came a second time, he might come to a Bethlehem crowded with steel workers. The Christmas carols are realistic and they are also tidings of comfort and joy. Good Christian men rejoice with heart and soul and voice. Give ye heed to what we say. News, news, Jesus Christ is born today. Happiness is their exuberant emphasis. Go tell it on the mountains, over the hills and everywhere. This happiness is produced by the devotion it expresses. A devotion which centers on Jesus as the revelation of God's love. The Christians sing at Christmas because they believe that this love is the best of all real things and therefore worthy of their deepest devotion. So it is not strange that they sing birthday songs to Jesus. These songs of rejoicing celebrate the meaning which Christians have found in devotion to Jesus and to God. This meaning is salvation. The true Christian is saved from aimlessness, from boredom, from the corrosive power of suspicion, fear, and hate. The Christian finds peace both within himself and with his fellows. This inner peace means a loss of wasting tensions. Long before psychiatry and far beyond Freud, Christians have known that salvation means health. The Christian finds fulfillment rather than frustration in the course of his life. His faith is a confident acceptance of a reality. It is a discriminating choice. He chooses certain values, real, enduring, transcending his achievement or those of the best of his own day and time. But he does not choose all values as equal. The world he accepts contains mountain peaks and valleys. In his world, the highest value is God. And it is through Jesus that he finds his way to this ultimate peak. Thus, the Christian is devoted to God and the devotion is focused in Jesus. A real person rather than a rational abstraction. A suggestion of God's meaning rather than an exhaustion of God's meaning. A leader and not a definition. A savior rather than a philosopher. Since this savior lives in the gospel stories, in peace and humility, the Christmas carols are songs of peace, songs of humility. The peace on earth and mercy mile does not stand alone in the carol. It rhymes with God and sinner reconciled. Jesus means peace because, the Christian believes, God was in him reconciling the world to himself. This, even God could not do without anguish and self-sacrifice. But the grace of God, the self-giving of God, God's love which outruns the prodigal hastening home and is there to meet him, this is good news. This is the gospel that Jesus proclaimed. Devotion to this God makes it possible to live peacefully in this world without repudiating moral values. Peaceful people are humble people. Jesus knew this and he never wearied of attacking pride. The gospels know this and they show us Jesus exemplifying a humility that made it possible for him to lose himself in his devotion to God. The Christmas carols know this and never weary of the theme away in a manger no crib for a bed the little Lord Jesus lay down his sweet head. Hate and pride are the Christian vices. Love and humility are the Christian virtues. Too often in this modern world people turn from the beauty which throughout the centuries has been one of the byproducts of a life of devotion. The creative power of religion shines in the blazing beauty of cathedral windows created in the so-called dark ages. It surges in the contagious rhythms of revival songs and it breathes through the delicious sorrow of such Negro spirituals as steal away to Jesus. It catches the glow of the carefree happiness of childhood's devotion in the Christmas carols. Bring a torch Jeanette Isabella. Some of these carols remind us of the strange beauty of holiness in such phrases as star of wonder star of light or lo how a rose air blooming from tender stem hath sprung. Although we have not seen Jesus as a child nor heard the challenging message as he proclaimed it on Galilee and hillsides even though we may not have found it possible by faith to achieve a personal devotion through him to God we know something of what devotion to good can create. We have found through our experience of the mutual devotion of husband and wife a sense of peace and a confident assurance that two can stand together even against the world. More rarely in friendship we have experienced the devotion expressed by David in his lament over Jonathan thy love to me was wonderful passing the love of women how are the mighty fallen and the weapons of war perished. In these limited devotions to wife and to friend we have found a measure of peace of humility of beauty and even of courage how much more shall we find them where the object of our devotion is an ultimate and inclusive good. Christians are devoted to a God who transcends the limitations of time and place and culture which distort their view but a God who is real dependable and available. The carols which express this devotion are sung in Polish in French in Chinese and in Russian by children and by men and women. The God whom Jesus revealed and the Christians adore has the quality of universality. To the Christians the Christmas carols mean humility beauty and joy based on a devotion that is at once religious and realistic. But above all in a dark day the Christmas carols mean courage. Christian faith will not escape suffering and all frustration but it will suffer with God and it will not despair. Nothing should dismay you if you have found the love of God in Jesus. Who can separate us from Christ's love? Can trouble or misfortune or persecution or hunger or destitution or danger or the sword? But in all these things we are more than victorious through him who loved us. for I am convinced that neither death nor life nor angels nor their hierarchies nor the present nor the future nor any supernatural forces either of height or depth nor anything else in creation will be able to separate us from the love God has shown in Jesus Christ our Lord. God rest you merry gentlemen let nothing you dismay. Remember Christ our Savior was born on Christmas day to save us all from Satan's power when we were gone astray O tidings of comfort and joy this is good news this is the Christian gospel and it is true. Thank you gentlemen taking part in today's University of Chicago round table program on The Christmas Carols Are True were Ernest Cadman Colwell President Bernard M. Loomer Dean of the Divinity School and Wallace W. Robbins Associate Dean of the Chapel all of the University of Chicago The printed pamphlet of today's round table transcribed program The Christmas Carols Are True contains the full text of the discussion and additional supplementary articles on the meaning of Christmas in our time. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago round table Chicago 37 Illinois to secure your copy of today's pamphlet single copies are 10 cents in coin. A full year subscription to the round table pamphlet costs only $3 enclose $3 with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address the University of Chicago round table Chicago 37 Illinois Next week the round table discusses Is There a Blackout of History? Be sure to hear next week's discussion. The round table is directed by Georgie Probst and is a public service presentation of NBC the National Broadcasting Company. thing is a public service inong a public service david the program아�ossibleedo healthy people usecrimebackı atertos widz ohoon that valueる there isГ to