This evening we will discuss another aspect of civil defense that not only will affect the entire population of the city of New York, but also may affect our neighbors in the adjourning counties of the metropolitan area. I am referring to the food supply for 8 to 12 million persons on a daily basis. To procure and distribute the vast tonnage required is a tremendous operation that employs an army of food handlers and needs a complex system of marketing and transportation facilities. The proper distribution of foods is a high on the civil defense agenda, and it has been stated that its continued operation in times of emergency will be as effective in maintaining order as a small army or police force. The city of New York is considered a primary target, and if one or two atomic bombs were dropped over what are considered vulnerable target areas, it would seriously disrupt our food distribution, cut down the incoming daily supplies, and damage thousands of tons of food stored in our local warehouses. Now, Commissioner Massarelli, tell us what has been done to meet such an emergency. Last June, when this problem was posed, a part of the hypothetical incident included a statement that a good part of our food distribution and storage facilities, located within the area of one and a half miles of ground zero, would be put out of operation for an indefinite period. At that time, I made a preliminary report that the Department of Markets would immediately call on the food industry for such cooperation in effecting emergency arrangements to operate their businesses, even though a part of the physical facilities had been destroyed, and if necessary, to use any alternate means at their command. I remember that preliminary report, Commissioner Massarelli, and you recommended reactivating the food committee, such as was an operation during the last war. Yes, Commissioner Wallander, that was the Metropolitan Defense Committee on Food Supply. And you know, when a major disaster occurs in a city, it is necessary for public officials to mobilize its resources, manpower, and equipment to meet the emergency. Preparedness in formulating plans is highly desirable, and an efficient, well-informed, and trained civilian organization can do much in minimizing the effects of such a disaster. It has been demonstrated in disasters in this country and abroad that food is important both from a physical and psychological standpoint. Upon receiving authorization from you, I immediately set up the Organization of the Food Industries to assist us in the emergency control of primary food distribution. I also remember, Commissioner, that you reported that the procurement, transportation, processing, and distribution of the huge food supply needed for the New York area was such a tremendous job that it was decided the best method would be to utilize the existing trade organizations and market facilities and have the food industries function through their operating committee. Commissioner Massarelli, perhaps for the benefit of those listening to our Civil Defense broadcast for the first time, it would be better if we went over some of the statistics of our food supply. Won't you tell us something about that? The metropolitan area, with its heavy concentration of population, consumes approximately 27,500 tons, or 55 million pounds, of all kinds of food daily. That is an enormous amount, Commissioner. Where does it all come from? From every state in the Union and many foreign countries. I understand that some foods arrive daily. Is that so? Yes, Commissioner. The perishable foods, such as fluid milk, butter, eggs, cheese, meats, poultry, fish, and fresh fruits and vegetables arrive daily. What are some of the other types of foods? The non-perishable foods, such as grain, flour, cereals, canned, dried, and frozen foods, sugar, coffee, tea, and miscellaneous products. Do we have considerable supplies of food in local warehouses? Yes, Commissioner, we do. Food in large amounts are stored in local warehouses, but not to the extent needed to meet daily consumption demands, and more particularly for perishable foods. We rely to a great extent on daily shipments from the sources of supply to our food terminals and depots in New York City. These foods are then distributed quickly to thousands of retail outlets located throughout the area. These figures certainly show the vastness of our food operations in New York, but tell us what has been done under our civil defense program to assure us of receiving these supplies if New York was bombed. I'm happy to report that all branches of the food industry have assured us of their wholehearted cooperation and have been so organized in 18 industry committees, each representing a major branch of the food industry or one of its auxiliary services, to meet any of the emergencies that might arise due to an atomic attack. The activities of these industry committees are coordinated by a central committee, which is the Metropolitan Defense Committee on Food Supply. How will these industry committees function, Commissioner? They have planned to utilize their existing trade organizations and market facilities so that they may continue their everyday operations in the distribution of foods at primary and wholesale levels, even though part of their facilities are destroyed. They also have developed procedures for each industry to use and have prepared planes to cope with emergencies caused by a limited or major disaster. Through their technical knowledge, they will aid and facilitate the movement of foods from the producing areas to the New York wholesale markets. Some of these plans include resumption of their business at alternate locations in the event their present location is destroyed. They plan to use alternate means of transportation, the pooling of their facilities, and they have a program of mutual aid. Each committee will establish their own headquarters as a clearing point for communications and requests for assistance. At these headquarters, they will have copies of their plans, records, and charts on the food supply and marketing facilities for the New York area. Well, doesn't that require considerable training, Commissioner Mastery? Yes, but we are depending upon the experience of each person in the food business to carry on his everyday duties under emergency conditions. Each committee will direct the activities of their own industry and handle problems as they occur. They will also instruct every person in the food industry of their operational plans, and these instructions will go to shippers, buyers, all employees, and others engaged in the food industry. Commissioner Mastery, you have stated that you have organized the industry operating committees and in general described some of their functions. Now, to be more specific, what will one of these committees do? Let us hear about the Milk Industry Committee. The Milk Industry Committee in New York has had considerable experience in effecting emergency arrangements among the companies pasteurizing and distributing milk to meet emergency conditions that have interfered with their normal operations. They have compiled the names and addresses of 40 pasteurizing plants in New York City listed by boroughs. These have been plotted on a master map at the Department of Markets headquarters and shows a definite pattern of dispersion. They know the capacity of each plant, its operational staff and equipment, and plan that if certain plants are rendered inoperative in any one area, or more than one area, the milk for these plants would be diverted to the other undamaged plants. Now, that sounds practical, but what alternate plans have they developed? They also plan to utilize the many pasteurizing and bottling plants of sizable capacity located in Westchester, Nassau and Suffolk counties, and in northern New Jersey. These operations may be extended if necessary to still other plants located in other areas. A survey made by the milk industry shows that these plants could process a large volume of milk beyond their normal output. Where does all the milk for New York City come from, Commissioner? From 428 country milk plants located throughout the states of New York, parts of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Vermont, Massachusetts, and Connecticut. How is this fluid milk shipped to New York City? Commissioner, 80% is transported from country plants to city pasteurizing plants by tank truck. The remainder is shipped by rail. What happens if railroad services disrupted? The hauling of milk by tank truck could be stepped up through the use of additional tank trucks. The dairy companies in the country operate a large number of these trucks to haul milk to manufacturing plants, and some of these trucks could be diverted to hauling fluid milk to New York City. What about the city delivery of milk to retail stores and consumers? Local delivery trucks are garaged in or near pasteurizing plants in the New York area, but these plants are widely scattered, and the milk industry is of the firm opinion that it would take a major catastrophe to seriously disrupt the distribution of milk. That sounds encouraging, Commissioner. Now, what basis does the Milk Industry Committee assure us of an adequate supply of milk? Of course, Commissioner Wallander, any estimate of the availability of supplies for New York City will have to take into consideration the degree and extent of damage by enemy attack. In a disaster predicated on one or two atomic bombs dropped in certain areas, the Milk Industry Committee feels sure that with the remaining facilities they have, they can keep on supplying the city of New York with a three and a half million quarts consumed daily. Well, Commissioner Massarelli, this is a very illuminating discussion, and we're certainly glad to have you here today. Certainly, the matter of food supply is one of great concern to all of us, and we're grateful that you give us such an illuminating discussion on this here important subject. Thank you very much. I'm at your service, Commissioner. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.