Good afternoon from the Mayor's reception room in City Hall. Within the beautiful colonial precincts of this building, a building that boasts of over two million dollars worth of exquisite paintings, taking us back through the history of early New York, an addition will be made to that collection of paintings here today when Commissioner Spleen at the Department of Public Works, resides over a ceremony which will mark the unveiling of a picture of Joseph T. Grace, the Mayor of the City of New York from 1981 and 1982 and again in 1985 and 1986. A very interesting background of service to the people of the City of New York will be rewarded today in the presentation of this portrait of the Mayor to the City of New York. And now we introduce as the Chairman, Commissioner Spleen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are gathered here and we thank you for coming to the President on an extraordinary occasion in the history of the City of New York. New York has a wealth of incidents and an exceedingly interesting history to anyone who, as I, can rejoice and haven't been born in this city. In the early lives of many of us who were born in New York, the name William R. Grace was a tradition. And we find that this name, who embodies the tradition, was a man who was elected Mayor of the City of New York in 1880, and served in the first term in 1881 and 1882. He surrendered the reins and two years later was asked by the populace to come back, giving life to the old story of Cincinnati's, asked to give up his plow and come back to the public service. There are many incidents in reference to the Mayor Grace that you'll enjoy in the recital given here to South Virginia this afternoon. But there's one thing in the way of local colour that's particularly appropriate. In the first instance, we are in the octave of the celebration of St. Patrick's Day. And you'll see, as this program develops briefly, the importance of William R. Grace to an Irish celebration. In 1880, I'm sorry I wasn't around at the time to give you first-hand information, from 1880 the City of New York was such that the old locution, no Irish need apply, maintained in this city. And at the same time, there was the unwarranted suspicion, which has many times and since been dissipated, that no Roman Catholic was ever permitted, or should be permitted, to have public office. Despite this, under the condition of the mind of the public of the City of New York in 1880, Mayor Grace was drafted, if you please, to perform a notable function. As Mayor of the City of New York, and performed that function so ably, that after a lapse of two years, he was invited back again. Elected in 1884, there was another element of significance. At that election, Grover Cleveland was elected to be President of the United States for the first time. Mayor Grace served in 1885 and 1886, and with distinction. I think it might be fair to say, that there is no better exemplar, of the opportunities present in the United States then and now, and in the life of Mayor Grace, who came, born in Clark Island, and in early years, age 14, came here, had some experience, went back, did a great deal of work in South America, established himself firmly in business, so firmly that his enterprises are now extant and important in the life of the City of New York and of the world. We have the very great good fortune then, ladies and gentlemen, in having present, for the purpose of unveiling and presenting the portrait of Mayor Grace, the man who made the painting, and the grandson of Mr. Grace, will make the presentation, and the acceptance will be made by the Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, and the former Attorney General of the State of New York, Colonel John J. Bennett. Colonel John J. Bennett, who will perform this Grace's function, in the unavoidable absence of Mayor O'Dwyer. Now, I know that you'll be interested in the function today. Its chief purpose is to let you see who Mayor Grace was. We have the representation of Mayor Grace here, ready for unveiling. Before we do that, however, I'm going to ask the artist who made the portrait, to rise and bow. The distinguished gentleman, a member of the National Academy, nevertheless decided that he is not going to make a speech. I do want you to see Mr. Raymond P. R. Nielsen, at the Portal Council. Thank you, Mr. Raymond P. R. Nielsen, at the Portal Council. Thank you, Mr. Raymond P. R. Nielsen. I now have the privilege of introducing, and I hope he'll enjoy it, and enjoy the full significance of this occasion, the grandson of William R. Grace, who will formally make the presentation, I'll give you something that remains within his family of the tradition that made William R. Grace possible. I present to you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Joseph P. Grace Union. Deputy Mayor Bennett, Deputy Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I'm in the unenviable position this morning of having to speak publicly of a member of my family, my grandfather, William R. Grace. He was mayor of this city during the years 1881 and 1882, and again during the years 1885 to 1886. I am fearful that my grandfather himself were not entirely approved, and his aversion to this practice was well known. In fact, it was his habit to liken people who spoke of their ancestors, the potato plant saying that the best part of them was under the ground. It is a particular pleasure for me to make this presentation, since the career of our present mayor, William O'Dwyer, has so many similar facets to that of my grandfather. Both set sail from their native island to the new world. Both turned to ships and the sea early in their career, and then both were honored by the citizens of the city of New York by being elected to our city's highest office. I ask your indulgence for the few remarks which I will make this morning, in view of the event which occasions them. The alien concept of government and of the social order, which in some parts of the world have been sapping the vigor and robustness of democratic life and institutions, would have found little sympathy for William R. Grace. The right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness were to him the realities essential to the existence of a free society. And to him also, man's place in that society was the place of an individual, endowed with rights and burdened with duties. Regimentation of thought, dependence in the guise of security, education as a political technique, and the preeminence of the state over the individual were notions foreign to his philosophy. He expressed his opinions on this subject in an address delivered at a dinner of the students of St. John's College, now Fordham University, in October 1882. He said, quote, I would arrange all questions of government somewhat after this fashion and in this order. First, self-government, then household or family government, then municipal, state, and finally national government. But greatest of all, because first of all, is self-government. Self-government and the sense of personal responsibility to his God, to his country, and to his fellow men flowing from it was, I think, the keystone in the arch of my granddad. It was this sense which impelled him to a lifetime of hard work, even though the ill health from which he suffered so long made such a cause doubly hard. It was this sense which impelled him to accept the nomination to the mayor of the mayor of the city, and to serve as his chief magistrate during two terms, and to support the mayor of the mayor of the mayor of the city. And to spend so much time and effort during the height of his mercantile career in the cause of honest government. His first campaign was the occasion of fierce attacks upon the ground of his Roman Catholic faith. The probity of his conduct in office was such that at his death, the New York Times stated that the elimination of the religious issues from municipal, politics was the finest achievement of his political career. It was this sense which led to his many charities, to those less fortunate than himself, including his great effort in behalf of the starving population of Ireland in 1879, and the founding of Grace Institute for the free education of young women in secretarial accounting and home-making courses. A foundation which even today is a potent force in the educational facilities of our city. Mr. Bennet, I have the honor to present to you the portraits by Raymond Neelton of my grandfather, William R. Grace, former mayor of the city of New York. I am sure that city, under the present administration, will achieve the hope which he expressed for it when he said that it should be well and honestly governed, is of infinitely more important than it should be, that it should excel in learning or in art, than that its magnificent harbor and its splendid streets should be busy with the commerce of the world. For these things cannot long be where government is inefficient or corrupt. Mr. Grace, on behalf of Mayor O'Dwyer and the city of New York, I take great pleasure in accepting this portrait of your grandfather, former mayor William R. Grace. First, let me tell you, Mayor O'Dwyer had looked forward with a great deal of pleasure to being here in attendance today. He has asked me to tell you how sorry he is that he was forced to go north to Saratoga on some business, and therefore was unable to be with you here this morning as he would have liked. I am not going to repeat to you what Mr. Grace and Commissioner Splane have said to you about the life of Mayor Grace. I want to say, however, that I think first of all he was a man of great courage. Anybody who reads his life would come to realize that he must have had great courage to overcome the obstacles which met him, and particularly a man who was not blessed with really rugged health. He was a man of great business capacity. He has witnessed the fact that the firm which he founded, William R. Grace and Company, is one of the greatest concerns of its kind here in New York. That concern, I am bold enough to say, has done a great deal to further good relations between ourselves and our neighbors and our neighbors in South America, and to bring closer the business ties of the two continents. And in addition to that, I am sure we can all say too, without any fear of contradiction, that he was an individual of great rugged honesty. When you read the history of his two terms as Mayor of the City of New York, I think you will realize that that was one outstanding characteristic of his two administrations. He believed in honesty in government, and he saw to it that honesty in government was practiced in the City of New York. So today, we join together here to witness this unveiling of this beautiful portrait. It is an auspicious day for the City of New York. We are unveiling the portrait of a man who must be, to all of us, a great inspiration. I am sure that to the thousands who have come here to City Hall to view his portrait, and particularly the young people of our community, he will continue to be a great inspiration to them. He is the kind of man of whom we, regardless of our religion, regardless of our race, are proud to point to as a great American citizen. And so may I say again to you, Mr. Grace, the City of New York and the Mayor are very happy that you have presented this portrait to hang in the halls of City Hall, to continue to be an example of another American Sega, and a continued inspiration to all those who come after. What an alien coming to this friendly shore of America, a man with courage, honesty, and ability, and achieve in a free America. Ladies and gentlemen, the main function of this occasion has been completed. There is little that need be added before we adjourn. I would note, however, that in the speech given by Mr. Grace, and supported by the statements made by Colonel Bennett, there is a clear indication that truth is ageless. Because that citation from the speech of Mr. Grace to the then St. John's College, which is now Fordham, might very well have been delivered today. The truth doesn't change. The needs of 1881, 2, and 5, and 6 are the same in essence, though perhaps not in degree, as those of today. I think you'll be aware also of the parallelism suggested by Mr. Grace, in that William R. Grace, an immigrant, Roman Catholic, Irish birth, became mayor of the city of New York, and did what historians agree upon as an excellent job. Today we have a mayor who also was born in Ireland, who is also Roman Catholic, who is called upon to do that which is greater in degree perhaps, but necessary in the same quality of job that was necessary to be done when Mayor Grace entered on the 1st of January, 1881. And I like to feel that out of this dignified and simple ceremony there has come the realization that New York is great. great in essence, great in opportunity, but great in complex problems. And that we need now, as we needed then, and that we may well need for the future, the same type of intellectual honesty, if you please, the same courage, the same degree of efficiency, and the same recognition that all power resides in the people. I do this to tie up these references here this morning, so that all may be aware that this occasion is regarded by us as of even greater significance than the presentation of a portrait, acceptable though it be. I hope you will all recall, not only the dignity of this occasion, but the seriousness. And the impact upon current thinking of the record of William R. Grace, the manner in which he achieved office, the manner in which he comport himself while in office, and to go to the credit. And I know you will permit me to say, as one whose blood is all Irish, whose faith is Roman Catholic, let me have the mild joy, if you please, of participating in this recognition of this fine person, who is great not alone because of his race and his religion, is great because he was an individual, and his individual reaction on the life of the city of New York, and the life of America, and the life of the Western world, indicates there is plenty of room in America for the highest levels of achievement. With that, ladies and gentlemen, we thank you all for being present, and we declare this occasion completed. Thank you. The city of New York has accepted from the direct descendant of William R. Grace, Joseph P. Grace, Jr., the excellent portrait by Raymond, by the Mayor Grace, by Raymond P. Nielsen, a member of the National Academy, of which he is recording secretary, a former member of the United States Navy, the class of 1905, who has painted many other fine portraits, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, Winston Churchill, and Mr. Johnston of the United States Chamber of Commerce, and whose portraits are also hung in Luxembourg and Paris. Commissioner Splain of the Department of Public Works acted as chairman in presenting the speakers and officiating as general chairman. The acceptance was made by Colonel John J. Bennett, Deputy Mayor of the City of New York, in the absence of William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. And while Councilman John J. Giovanni of Brooklyn, what were you going to say? We take leave of you now from the Mayor's reception room in the City Hall. Mr. Alexander Rourke was sitting right beside him and he told me that the history of the Grace family with the ancient land of Ireland is indeed a most unique one, hovering over a period of 500 years. And so we take leave of you from the Mayor's reception room and now return to our standard programs and to the Municipal Building. Thank you. Thank you.