Northwestern University, in cooperation with a mutual broadcasting system, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand asks, how does humor affect our lives? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around some of the funny and some of the serious aspects of humor. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Ed Savola, columnist on the Indianapolis Times and winner of the first Ernie Pyle Scholarship Award. Ed, I just finished reading your new book, Monday Follows Tuesday. What's the purpose of this book? What are you trying to get at? Well, the purpose, we had an idea, the publisher and I, of course I had the idea before he did. We thought we had a vehicle here of humor that might be distributed on a larger scale, and it was when I was working for the Times. Of course, I'm still working, but the purpose, to distribute this humor through the book form. And do most of the stories you tell in the book appear in the, have appeared in the Times, I take it? Yes, they have. They have been reworked and rehashed a little bit and improved, I hope. Where do you get that title, Monday Follows Tuesday? Well, my type of business, daily columns, why, when I'm through with Monday, I have to go on a Tuesday. And when I'm through with Tuesday, you see, there's Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and here comes Monday again. So actually, Tuesday does follow Monday in my type of work. Well, now, I trust this learning panel will accept that explanation. I might ask you, though, about the experiences in leaf counting, which you recount. I've heard a lot about leaf raking, but how about this business of leaf counting? Do you recommend this as an avocation? Oh, yes, certainly. When you're through counting the leaves on a tree, for example, you're the only man that knows how many leaves are on that tree, and I think it's quite a distinction. Of course, no one asked me when I was through in Indianapolis counting this Norway maple, but I went out and asked the man if he would like to know. You see, I was in possession of a vital fact, and, of course, he didn't want to know, but nevertheless, if he did, I would know. You know, I have a notion to ask you, here and now, how many leaves that maple had. Can you tell me? 354,643. That will be recorded for posterity. Now may I present Dr. Rudolph Dreikers, professor of psychiatry at the Chicago Medical School, and lecturer in education at Northwestern University. Doctor, why has the psychiatrist made the butt of so many stories and jokes? That is not so easy to say. There are a number of theories on that. By the way, does it bother you at all? No, I enjoy it. It's always good to be the center of attention, whether it's pleasant or not pleasant. The jokes are generally pleasant anyhow. Now, I see there is a Freudian theory that the unconscious comes through in your jokes, and one might expect, perhaps, that people either express their love for the psychiatrist, after all, psychiatrists should be the object of love, or of their hatred. And there might be some other explanations. I think people are, right now, very much concerned with psychiatry, because they wonder how much they themselves might, perhaps, need one. And I think there's a little joke, one of the oldest jokes on psychiatrists, which shows very well what you expect from a psychiatrist. It's the old joke, how do psychiatrists greet each other when they meet? One says to the other, you are fine, how am I? And it shows the distortion of the normal person's approach. Now, our third speaker is Dr. Walter Scott, professor of dramatic literature, a colleague of mine in the School of Speech at Northwestern University. Walter, do you find humor useful as a teacher? All too useful sometimes, Mac. A little humor in the classroom is a good thing now and then to relieve the tension, if there is any tension, or more likely to lessen the boredom. But a teacher has a kind of captive audience, which feels that it has a stake in laughing at his jokes, good or bad. And that can be a very bad thing for the teacher sometimes. Well, now, gentlemen, what is the effect of this humor? What does it do for the individual, Savola? How does it help us in our lives? That's what we're talking about today. Yes, well, in my experience, in some of these things that I have done, why, people laugh, they forget momentarily what their troubles are, they try to participate, they enter into the thing. And I'm sure that humor, whatever form it takes, except the vicious type, is a little relaxing, makes the person forget, and it helps him to do his work. He just releases his tensions and goes on. What kind of humor are you interested in, particularly? Well, I'm interested in the visual type of humor, and almost audience participation. For example, in this trash can episode that I had, trash can is a very familiar sight. And clean up, fix up, and paint up week is a very familiar sight. So, I took to see the worm's eye view of what goes into a trash can, I climbed in, and I watched the debris come in. Now, you see, and when an individual put something in, I would say thank you, completely surprising him. And then, of course, when he found out there was a man in there, why, he would laugh, and then we would chat, and it was just a little twist, a reverse on something that was quite familiar. And, uh, also when I, uh, sat as a dummy in the store window. People know dummies, for example, but for a human being to go into a window and pose as a dummy, there's no, uh, pretense on completely fooling an individual. But he imagines himself in this situation, he tries to, uh, uh, make me laugh, and he knows that he can, eventually. So, uh, that is a type of humor, almost vaudeville slapstick. Did anybody try to climb in the trash can with you, Ed? No, they didn't. There isn't too much room in the trash can. Are there, uh, has anyone ever tried to, to classify humor? Uh, Scott, are there different kinds of humor? Oh, yes, about 18 million people have written books on humor and comedy, and they all have their own little wrinkles and gimmicks and angles, and they try to break comedy or humor down into any number of categories, distinguishing humor from wit and various kinds of humor from various other kinds of humor, and so on down the line, so that if you run through the literature on the subject, you're going to be overwhelmed by this enormous humorless categorizing of humor. Well, now, uh, Cibola suggested rather seriously here that humor does relieve tension, worry, inhibitions, and the like. Uh, uh, as a psychiatrist, do you find that's true, doctor? There is no doubt about it, but I think that is only one aspect, and perhaps a more superficial aspect. I think there are more deeper dynamics involved, and we might well investigate a little bit here. I think Mr. Cibola pointed out one fact of humor. It integrates the group. It is contagious. When people can laugh together, they have a stronger feeling of cohesion, of belonging. And as even in individual relationships, if you can make somebody laugh, he's closer to you. He warms up to you. If, uh, for instance, if I give a talk to an audience and I can't make the people or the students laugh, then we have distance. But when they laugh, if I feel their response, they become a unit, and I be a part of it. So I think that laughter and humor has a purpose of an integration, an emotional integration with a group, as deep sorrow can have, but isn't more obvious and more, can easier register this integration. And then there is something more personal, perhaps. It seems to me that humor establishes a different relationship to certain objects with which we are concerned, and that is why humor is so important in our lives. Instead of being down, instead of letting something getting us down, we elevate ourselves above the situation. If something is fearful, frightening, embarrassing, if we are concerned with something and we can laugh about it, we free ourselves somewhat from the impression that it is dangerous, that we are, we bring ourselves from the inferior position to a superior, in regard to subjects, as well as in regard to people. Couldn't you say, Doctor, that humor has almost a kind of magic function in protecting us in this way against all the whammies and threats and dangers of life? I could expect the term magic if it implies something automatic, something without fully awareness, as a push button, so to say. You say the magic word. It means only you touch something which then has a far-reaching effect. And in this sense, I could accept the term magic. Of course, there is actually nothing magical about it if we understand what's going on in this moment. Well, now, I am interested in this. As a doctor, as a psychiatrist, do you think that humor has any therapeutic values, that it's good for a patient's health? Do you ever use it in therapy? Very much so, for a number of purposes. First, for the purpose of warming up. If a patient can't understand a point I have to make, I like very much to make a story or say something humorous so that he can see the situation. The humor gets the defenses off. One becomes free toward it. And in the same time, if the patient can learn to laugh or, let's say, see the humor of his problems, of his behavior, he is already above it. He can already reorient himself, take a different stance toward it. I have had a great many people tell me and come out and thank me in letters and personally that they appreciated some of these stunts that I've done. It is a little bit on the exhibitionist side, but they appreciate that sort of thing where they can laugh either by saying me or reading in the newspaper. And that's what we hope to do with a book. You see, we are trying to distribute this thing where they can appreciate little situations like that. They appreciate the thing. Do you think there's any difference between the kind of humor, Scott, that appeals to men and women? Well, there again to be a little bit pedantic about it since that's my role today. The literature is divided on the subject. women and men, probably, I would be asked to, see jokes differently. At least I know my wife, a very loyal person, ordinarily never laughs as heartily at some of my jokes as I do. That's the only experimenting I've done in this particular matter, and I had better not commit myself any further. What do you think about that, Doctor? I have no, I haven't given much thought to it. It seems obvious that wherever there are group characteristics, that the humor would be affected by it. I wonder how far, for instance, women really can enjoy jokes about women as much as men do. And I wonder the same opposite when jokes are made about the man's superiority, whether men really can enjoy it as fully as women, because there is a difference in their interest, how they look at life. Now, there are rather obvious differences, it seems to me at least, between the kind of humor that appeals to adolescents, let's say, and adults. Right. Wouldn't you agree with that? Yeah, that is a very interesting point because we witness to speak about something very seriously, which is perhaps really not humorous, this terrific cleavage between the adult society and the children's society. There's a war going on between the adults and children. Like the war between the sexes. The same, perhaps even more intense, because it's fought much more viciously even. And so we find amongst the youngsters, particularly the teenagers, the use of humor as a defense against adult society. You find the boys in this age, boisterous horseplay, with utter disregard of the norms of society, and you find amongst the girls this giggling, which makes them a group by itself, and establish themselves not only in a distance, but rather in a superior position where they are not submitting themselves to the demand of society around them. Whereas the adults tend to be a little bit more kindly and tolerant in their jokes about kids, would you say? In fact, possibly pushing that a bit too far in these days when being a youth or being a teenager has become about as much of a racket as anything else in our society. Yeah, and adults become more and more afraid of it, and so the jokes will perhaps not be so light and tolerant as we have seen in the past. Because we like to kid ourselves. Yeah. Now we're talking here about the effects of humor, Scott. Do you see any larger social values in a good sense of humor? Oh, yeah, of course, because humor is essentially a social thing. And the... But doesn't it have some anti-social effects at times? Indeed it does, though not from the point of view always of the person telling the joke or engaged in the humor. But we all are familiar with the lowest and crudest kind of laughter, for example, which is directed against anything that is different from us merely because it is different. A different accent, a different race, a profession that is regarded commonly as funny like psychiatry or teaching or whatever it may be. And that kind of humor, working on that level, is engaged a good deal of the time in a kind of stupid protection of some vested interest that the laughter takes to be as final and perfect and divinely ordained. I think that this distinction between social and anti-social humor goes through the literature. Thomas Hobbes already pointed out that laughter is often a ridicule at the expense of others. It is a sudden glory about the downfall of others or of one's own excellence. And Berkson pointed out that laughter might be a means of keeping a social discipline, of getting people in line out of their fear of ridicule. And we can distinguish here benevolent laughter, friendly laughter, which also might have the same result, but at the same time we find a very cold, a threshing form of humor which puts the other one down. And we can very well distinguish in the classroom situation, for instance, whether the teacher is able to create a humor which makes the people laugh miss each other or laugh against one. In any case, though, all humor probably involves some defense of some kind of order, either real or desired, on the part of the laugher. He's, by protecting his own notion of what is desired or right or normal order, he is also at the same time attacking or running down or triumphing over. what he takes to be an enemy of that kind of order. I want to point out that there is some evidence that the first laughter of man was supposed to be a victory cry, a triumph over a victim. And then it became a triumph in the duel of wits. And it is often a triumph in solving a problem, a riddle, a sense of superiority in a battle that is a very important element in this tendency to laugh. And it continues even in the most elaborate and sophisticated and highly civilized type of man. Now, Ed, when you stood on the main street down in Indianapolis and let somebody throw pies in your face, did you get any victory cries from your pie throwers? What did you get? Well, I got a lot of inhibitions thrown away there because people told me when they got through throwing this pie that it was something they wanted to do for a long, long time, you see, but I didn't even hear any victory cries from them. But I do know this, that there was no hesitancy of any kind for them to come up and grab this pie and throw it. It was offered to them. And when I, a charming young lady stepped up and threw this pie and I said, now may I... Did she hit you? Oh, yes. I said, now may I reciprocate? And she didn't want to do that. Of course, I don't know. She didn't even have a victory cry either, but... Do any of these, do any people resent these stunts of yours? No, I haven't had any resentment, no. They all seem to get a kick out of them. Yeah. No letters to the paper denouncing you? Well, no, I don't pick anything that would be harmful. It's always innocent sort of. Well, I mean, any solid citizens who think they're beneath the dignity of Indianapolis, for example? No, because I always make myself the butt of everything, you see. Well, now, frankly, I think I would enjoy throwing a pie in your face, Ed, but I can think of a lot of other people that I would prefer to hit in the face with a pie. Who forgot to bring the pies this morning? I would like to say something that has another interesting element, and again, has something to do with the organization of group feelings. In the humor, you get a whole group of people together, who together can dare to express or to do things which they individually can't dare to do. And there you have the basis for the jokes about Jews, Scotchmen, and so on. The whole group enjoys expressing its own attitude towards this group. It unites the people through the humor in a certain emotional stand towards this problem. Now, implicit in much of what you've been saying here, Dr. Drikers, is a theory of humor. Would you make that explicit? that I would almost only have to repeat what I said. It is an effort of people to deal with some problem which either embarrasses them where they are apprehensive or concerned about that, and get them out of the inferior position, in a superior position toward it. They can deal with it. When you look at the humor of the situation, you are no longer frightened. You can deal with it. You feel free of it. You free yourself from it. It is not only, as you said, Mr. Zavola, the freeing from the tension. It is freeing oneself from the tension about something that creates the tension. Well, conceived that way, I should think that humor might have enormous social significance. We're certainly living in a time when we're confronted with all sorts of fears and tensions of all kinds. You are very right, and that's probably the reason why we make such a point that people should have a sense of humor, that anybody who doesn't have a sense of humor is a socially inadequate or inferior person. And that is in line with our American tendency to put so much stock on the personality. One has to have a proper personality. One has to get along. And the sense of humor is one of the means of getting along, not to get down, not to remain somewhat poised in dealing with it. And therefore, people are supposed to have a sense of humor. It becomes a social obligation almost. Well, gentlemen, are we going to be concerned now on this humor growing to such an extent that we will all be laughing? and don't you suppose that that might create a little anti-social effect? No, we're all going to be so bitterly defending our senses of humor that we won't have it anymore. Why, it needs the humor about the humor. Why do people defend their sense of humor so earnestly, scott? Well, I haven't any slick scientific answers for it, Mac. It's just something I've observed and that you feel from reading the newspapers and listening to the radio and so on, that you can reflect on a man's character, insult his wife, sneer at his ancestors, disparage his kids, kick his dog, and he might turn a kindly charitable smile toward you. But if you accuse him of not having a sense of humor than the knife, the hatchet, the gun, or whatever. That's the verse, the country. He has no personality, no poise. He will go shoot himself with a knife. Yes, I imagine if, for example, we announced on this program as a flat statement that 90% of our listeners were moral hypocrites, we would get some very sharp retorts. But if we announced that 90% of our listeners, as representatives of the American public, had no sense of humor, this building would be swamped with indignant mail, and probably personal visits too with horsewhips and so on. I take it then you're not disposed to make such an announcement? Oh, if you make it worth my while. In your theory of humor, doctor, how do you account for the effect of the sudden or unexpected, quite apart from this matter of elevating oneself above an object or situation, don't you think people often laugh at the sudden or the unexpected? It has been pointed out in the literature repeatedly that the element of the suddenness is a very important part, the unexpected, and I think everybody who is a comedian or an entertainer instinctively knows that. He is constantly doing something what is unexpected and therefore gets the laughter. The sudden glory in that wonderful phrase of horror. I think the gag writers are probably people who always think about some formulation which is the most unexpected, an unexpected connection. Now, in this sense, I would say that the unexpected has two possibilities in response. It either embarrasses, one doesn't know what to do with it, or it gets immediately the laughter out as a form of dealing with it. Well, in cartoons, the unexpected is often capitalized upon, don't you say? For example, we're working a little bit on cartoons. We have a submarine with a snorkel and then right behind it is a television antenna. It's a matter of the sudden association. Yes. And Virgil Parch has that sudden approach. You look at the thing and then all of a sudden you see the humor in it, you know, like a helmet with a plumber's pipe on it. And he said, we don't use that sort of thing here in cleaning our clothes. May I make a very practical suggestions for our audience, how they can increase their humorous effectiveness if they stop when they want to say something and make it a point to say it in an unusual way, an unusual way which is the least expected. They get the best result. We as teachers probably at the start know that we can't present our material just as the student expected. They don't listen. But when you always present it slightly different than expected, you get the attention. You mean like these commercial ads, spell it backwards or something? Anything. I think what this is going to do to our audience, doctor, if they take you seriously. We're going to have a nation of neurotic angle hunters or gimmick hunters, aren't we? There's nothing neurotic about it. One can, we, everybody tries to perfect... You put it on a mass basis like this. We don't have time for that. Sure. Everybody tries to perfect these approaches and that I found is a very important approach in winning the attention and perhaps even the laughter by always trying to put everything a little bit in a different way than the other one would expect in dealing with children as the most important approach. Now, when you suggest as a theory of humor that it's a means of elevating oneself above an object or an individual, wouldn't that suggest that a lot of humor would have a pretty strong sadistic element in it that you're trying to elevate yourself above this person or this individual or that situation? It could well, but here is one safeguard. As long as we feel with the other one, as long as we are not hostile to him, then this elevation can be in a benign form that it doesn't do any harm. But when we at the same time are hostile, then our humor will be biting and often damaging and can even be sadistic. But you laugh at other people's misfortunes. Such a crude thing as slipping on a banana peeling and falling on your chin will bring a laugh. I'm very glad that you brought it up, Mr. McBernie, because I think that's a very important point which I would like to make. That is not an expression of hidden hostility or of meanness or sadism. It is merely the response to the unexpected. And I know many people feel very guilty when some accident happens and they laugh and feel how bad they are. They are not bad. They are only struck by the unexpected where they see the funny angle in it. It is not necessarily an expression of hostility. Well, Doctor, how would you explain this? I have done many stunts, but when I get suggestions from my readers to go over the Niagara Falls, for example, in an umbrella or similar stunts like that, you know, is that a sadistic approach? Do they want to get rid of me or do they actually believe that something? I don't know, but I wonder... Don't even think about it. I wonder, Mr. Swallow, whether they try to test you how far you can get in your desire to be unusual, how far you are willing to go. Well, I almost drowned testing a ballpoint pen and a lot of people got quite a kick out of that. All I'm wondering about, Mac, is how you slip on a banana field and fall on your chin. Well, I think that might be executed. That's the sudden approach now. Do you think that American humor has any special characteristics, Scott? Well, I suppose it must have. Again, there's a good deal of rather ponderous writing and speculating about the subject. What these characteristics are, I won't try to dish out at this particular moment. Dr. Dracos? I would like to say something because I had some experiences, you see, myself coming from Europe and having American friends and European friends, find often that some of the Europeans don't see anything funny in what Americans feel funny, it's funny, and vice versa. And I couldn't fully clarify that, but it seems to me that there is much more slapstick and horseplay here which Europeans don't find funny, and there is more perhaps brutality sometimes in European jokes which Americans don't find funny, and it seems to me that perhaps there is something in the cultural development. Mrs. Waller in a private conversation before pointed out, no pardon me, Dr. Scott pointed out to me that we have this slapstick in the European history in Till Eulenspiegel and at the time when life was perhaps a little bit more primitive and more happy-go-lucky and as times became so serious in Europe, this kind of humor disappeared. We might even wonder if in America people feel more the seriousness of life. This form of humor might also disappear as we see a certain reaction against this kind of slapstick humor. Well, remember also in a private conversation, doctor, when I said some of the slapstick humor didn't go over so well in Europe last summer. The slapstick that would go over with a bang in Indianapolis, it fell flat in London, for example. They didn't quite see that, but I think it is a matter of education. You see, we've been educated to the slapstick, Milton Burrow, Bob Hope, and all of that, and I don't think they have been educated in the In other words, the humor expresses a certain group thinking, group feeling, and as groups change, that kind of humor changes. You think American humor is becoming more sophisticated, Scott? Well, every now and then there seem to be signs that it is, but something happens, there's a relapse along the line somewhere. Like Monday follows Tuesday. Well, that's a good relapse. That's a kind of relapse. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, How Does Humor Affect Our Lives? We wish to thank our guests for today's program, Dr. Rudolf Drikers, Chicago psychiatrist, Walter B. Scott, Jr., professor of dramatic literature in the School of Speech at Northwestern University, and Ed Savola, columnist for the Indianapolis Times and author of the new book, Monday Follows Tuesday. We invite you to send for a copy of today's broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for ten cents in coin, or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. During recent weeks, you have been reading about the new tax bill which has been before our Congress. Doubtless a subject, not altogether humorous. You probably ask yourself, how high can taxes go? That is precisely the question we discuss next week. To discuss this important topic, we have invited John S. Mink, president of the Scott Radio Laboratories in Chicago, Kenyon Poole, professor of economics at Northwestern University, and Lewis Scheer, formerly with the tax division of the Department of Treasury, now professor of economics and director of tax research at the University of Indiana. We hope you will join us next week to find out how high can taxes go. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual broadcasting system.