I think we may appropriately begin the exercises of the evening by reading a telegram from a person who is not only our cherished friend, but the spokesman of our sister society. I shall have another telegram to read at a later hour, but I begin with this message, which I am sure will be appreciated. President of the Pilgrims of the United States, the Pilgrims of Great Britain greatly appreciate the courtesy you are extending to our Chairman by welcoming him in New York on Columbus Day. Sir Camill has been a member of our Executive Committee for 32 years and has devoted himself to the cause for which the Pilgrims stand, closer cooperation and understanding between our two people. We recognize by this dinner that you are appreciative of his services, and we thank you most sincerely. Halifax, President of the Pilgrims of Great Britain. Now, the first speaker, whom I will have the privilege of presenting to you, is doubly welcome. He is welcome not only because of his personal achievements and of his familiarity with this country. He is welcome also as the representative of a great and friendly neighbor. He has behind him a variegated and a brilliant life in the Canadian Army during World War I. He is welcome. He has not only taught history, but he has made it and has been the collaborator in a series of international conferences that I would tremble to enumerate. And everywhere, the service has been marked by the utmost brilliance, accompanied by the greatest sanity. He comes to us, our great neighbor in the North, who sits there in a vast domain from ocean to ocean, from the bay to the mythical boundary of 49 degrees, looks out across the Atlantic to the motherland, and then over a boundary which affords no obstacle to sight or to communication. She looks with us down over the reaches of the Mississippi to the Gulf and beyond. I'm not going to make a speech on the undefended boundary, Mr. Ambassador. It's a very fascinating theme. Here these two people should lead, comrades in peace and companions in war and companions in peace, divided only by a mythical line, stretching from the Pacific to the lakes and down the lakes to the St. Lawrence and down the St. Lawrence to the sea. Many heroics have been spoken about that unguarded boundary. It not only has great potency as a symbol and a lesson, but like most historic events, it even has its comic occurrences. Of those, the one which always seemed to me the most comical was the year in which the United States spent over a million dollars restoring the fortifications at Ross's Point. And then, after that expenditure, surveyors came along and informed us to the great reddening of our faces that we'd spent all that money on the Canadian side of the line. It was a very discouraging incident. So I present to you, gentlemen, a man distinguished for himself, sympathetic with American and American ideals, and a representative of our great neighbor to the North. I present to you His Excellency, Mr. Lester Bowles Pearson, officer of the Order of the British Empire, Privy Counselor, member of Parliament, and the Canadian Secretary of State for External Affairs. Thank you. I would like to thank you, sir, in the beginning for the kind and generous thing that you have said about myself, over generous, though they were, and to assure you that there is no person whose good opinion I value more than yours. I would like to reassure you also, Mr. Chairman, that I am going to heed your advice and not make a speech about the undefended boundary between Canada and the United States. One disadvantage of the fact, however, that it is unguarded and undefended is that so many Canadians are able to escape from Canada because of that fact. Most of them seem to escape to this country, but not all of them. So, one of our most distinguished escapees is the gentleman whom we delight to honour tonight, Sir Campbell Stewart. We boast, of course, about our Canadian exports of wheat and hockey players and things like that. But we shouldn't boast about our human exports. And we don't boast about that because we regret and at times almost we resent the fact that they leave us. I don't know why they do. I suppose I should, Mr. Chairman, because once upon a time I left myself for Chicago. However, I spent a year there and I came back to Canada. And that is no reflection on Chicago. Sir Campbell, however, did not come back to Canada, at least, to stay in Canada. And I often wonder why these Canadians leave Canada and refuse to come back and live in Canada. I suppose it is due, in a sense, to the fact the distant pastures seem greener. But I would remind those, including Sir Campbell, who leave Canada, that once they leave Canada, then the distant pastures are in Canada. And there is no country where the pastures are greener than in my own country. At the same time, I don't know of anyone who had a better title to be the Chairman of the Pilgrims in London than Sir Campbell himself. He was born in Canada, but of Irish extraction, with a Scotch name, and now domiciled in England and being honored in New York. That seems to me to qualify him for the position which he holds in this, and indeed in other societies devoted to the strengthening of the relations between the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada. I have a personal debt of gratitude to Sir Campbell because when I was a struggling civil servant stationed in London for a good many years, he was most kind and helpful to me. And he used to give me good advice in those days, which he said, if I would only follow, I'd get along in the world. I'm sorry, I didn't follow it. I went back to Canada and I became a politician. In my present capacity as Secretary of State for External Affairs, and as the Chairman of the Canadian Delegation to the present United Nations Assembly, I thought, Mr. Chairman, that I might say a few words tonight, and they will not be many, about the current international picture as I see it. During every great conflict, and certainly we are going through a period of great conflict now, the thoughts and hopes of men everywhere have turned toward peace. It is faith in the chance, the chance to build a peaceful world which helps us, which helps to sustain the human spirit during its hour of trial. And I suspect that we are going through that hour of trial now. And happily, however, as Arnold Toynbee, among others, had reminded us, the hardest time to build peace is in the period immediately following a great war. It is then that the foundations of peace are least secure, that relations between states are most sensitive and difficult, and that the temptation is greatest to those who consider that the shortest way to solve international problems is to use force. And so it is today. There are moments indeed when, perplexed and baffled in our search for security and peace, and a chance to lead a decent progressive life, we look about us almost in anguish for reassurance that our task is not hopeless. Well, fortunately, there are reassuring signs to be found if we have the patience and the insight to look for them. And one of the brightest of such signs, one which gives us the greatest hope, is the new and strong partnership which in our time has grown up between the United States, the United Kingdom, and Canada. There I am. This is, of course, an informal partnership, and that is according to our genius. In keeping with the nature of the democratic and indeed the pragmatic traditions of our three nations, it is complex, it is variable, and it is imprecise. It is easy to bend, but it's impossible to break. Each of us, moreover, and we should not forget this, enjoy the benefits of many other partnerships. The United States with the Organization of American States, the United States and the United Kingdom with the countries of Western Europe, Canada with France by recent of an ancient connection revived and confirmed on the battlefields of modern wars, the United Kingdom and Canada with the nations of our British Commonwealth, and we have no intention of losing that connection, and all of us with our partners in the North Atlantic community. And yet, though we have these special, these additional connections, there are particular opportunities and particular responsibilities which belong to our three nations because of geography and history, because... ... ...all of our common traditions and our devotion to certain basic concepts of life and liberty and the dignity of man. And I think that it is particularly important that at this time, at this very difficult time, we should examine our partnership as we face the realization that the security and the opportunity for progressive development, ...which we bought so dearly in the years between 1939 and 1945, is once again threatened by dark and evil forces of reaction. The structure of peace which we have been striving to build is being put to a stern test. So let us examine, re-examine our relationship to it. The urgent nature of our problem, and the measure of our danger, was of course brought out in sharp and clear relief, not long ago by the communist invasion of Korea. In a vague and general way, we who are particularly concerned with international affairs, had known that the group of international communists whom the Soviet Union had left in control in North Korea, ...were biding their time and preparing their forces for the day when they could grip and control the whole of that country. ...but we had not realized that they were prepared to attack so soon. And we did not foresee that this attack would be so direct and so brutal, and in such open and cynical defiance of the United Nations. When, therefore, it began, most of us, nearly all of us, were for the moment almost stunned. Any bewilderment, however, which the communists may have caused by their surprise was brief. And the reaction of the free world under the stirring and resourceful leadership of the United States was prompt and effective. By violent battle, the burden of which has been borne by the military forces of the United States, we don't forget that, ...the immediate threat has been met. But the general problem, however, remains, and the Korean War, the heavy red line which underlines it. How, on the one hand, are we to maintain the political and economic vitality which is the breath of life to the free world, ...and at the same time, guard ourselves against the determined efforts of the international communists, ...whose interest in this case, as in so many cases, coincides with the ancient objectives of Russian imperialism, ...from breaking in upon us, disrupting our way of life, and menacing our very existence. ...the response of the free world to these problems has recently been vigorous and effective. For our immediate security and for our common welfare, we have fashioned the North Atlantic Pact, ...and we are building the North Atlantic Community. There is still much to do in developing the defenses of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, ...but the course has now been marked, and the goals have been set. The last meeting of the North Atlantic Council, which took place here in New York just a few weeks ago, ...and which I attended, accomplished far more than any previous meeting. When the decisions which have been taken at that meeting have been put into effect, ...we shall have gone a long distance forward toward developing the North Atlantic Community into a far more effective security organization ... ...than anyone would have dared to hope for three years ago. But there is much that remains to be done. The foundation, for one thing, of the North Atlantic Community must be based on something more permanent ... ...than a military alliance in the face of a common danger. It must rest also on social and economic cooperation, ...on a growing feeling of solidarity and unity. We will not be successful as I see it. In achieving this result, if we cling to old concepts of national sovereignty, old fears, old prejudices, and ancient grievances. We in the North Atlantic world must strive to organize a new kind of collective life. One which, while preserving our separate values and maintaining our own domestic and national structures, ... ...will be based on the proposition that in defense, and in foreign policy at least, ... ...it is no longer safe to rely on competing units of free states in the face of the monolithic and centrally directed mass of communist imperialism which threatens us. We can move forward. We are moving forward to this objective in the North Atlantic Community, ... ...which we are building, I hope, into a cohesive and cooperating social, economic, and political force. Furthermore, under the shock of Korea, we have also at long last begun to use the international security machinery which we have available in the United Nations, ... ...and to strengthen that machinery against possible new emergencies. By an accidental circumstance of great importance, the Soviet delegates were absent from the Security Council when the Korean crisis broke in late June of this year. I don't suppose that, considered from the narrow point of view of the selfish objectives of the Soviet state, ... ...there has ever been an act in history so short-sighted as the Soviet decision to walk out of the meetings of the Security Council on the issue of Chinese representation. ...because this desertion gave the Security Council at least a brief period in which it was able to act in the Korean crisis with an effectiveness which would never have been possible if the Russians had been there. The men in the Kremlin who were responsible for the decision to take the Soviet representative out of the Security Council, ... ...and at the same time to launch a war in Korea, ... ...must certainly go down in the record of history as amongst the worst chess players of all time. ... ...and the Russians are supposed to be good chess players. We can't, however, always count upon such helpful mistakes. And with this in mind, that we are endeavouring at the present United Nations meeting to strengthen the General Assembly, ... ...which operates without the veto, ... ...and the second line in our collective security system upon which we may fall back if the Security Council is unable to accomplish the purposes for which it was primarily designed. And we are making progress to this end. Though after listening in the last two days to 29 speeches on the subject, ... ...I find the progress, Mr. Chairman, a little wearying and slow. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... human and material to strengthen the defense of this area. And we will also make an appropriate military contribution to the collective effort by which alone national defense can now be ensured and secured. For instance, we have recruited lately in Canada a special force of about 10,000 men, earmarked to carry out our United Nations and North Atlantic commitments and trained and equipped for that purpose. Those troops could indeed be sent to Europe as part of a North Atlantic force for the defense of freedom in peacetime, if that is where they could be most effectively used. The fact that a young... The fact that a young, an overseas country like mine, small in numbers, with such gigantic development problems facing it at home, is willing to contemplate such a role in Europe in peacetime, in the measure of the advance that the free world has made in recent years in its realization of the meaning of collective security, in its understanding of the fact that we can no longer defend ourselves merely on our own borders, or that we can wait until war begins before taking measures to meet the enemy's onslaught. In the North Atlantic Council and in the United Nations, we are learning, sometimes we're learning the hard way, that the organization and deployment of force now may make the use of force later unnecessary. Canada is not, of course, a great power. Our voice is not a dominant one. Our resources are not unlimited. And our influence doesn't follow the sun. We have so much to do at home to open up and develop a young country which has a future as bright as that of any in the world that we would pay almost any price to be allowed to devote our energies and our talents to that end. We are at the very beginning of our future. But we have chosen to ensure that future, even if it means postponing some of its more glowing promises for a few years, by participating with the United States and the United Kingdom in these great policies for the building of peace. We could take no other course. Our instincts and traditions would compel us to join in this effort, even if history and geography did not. I think our record during the past 25 years is a guarantee that we will play our part in the future. I admit, however, that one's breath is sometimes taken away by the responsibilities which seem to be ahead, by the heavy and sudden pressures of external forces, and sometimes indeed by the pace of one's own movements. Korea is a very good example of what I mean for a country like Canada. When the struggle began there, we in Canada were able to send some warships and some planes at once. But the raising of land forces by a country, a small country in terms of population, with a very small standing army, and which had not expected to use that small army in Korea, whose military planning and training had been for Arctic defense and for the traditional expeditionary contingents to Europe after war broke out, all that presented a very difficult problem to us, indeed a very special problem to us. We decided, though we were criticized by some of the less intelligent sections of the population in Canada, we decided to solve it by putting ourselves in readiness to make not only a contribution to Korea, but to meet other demands which might subsequently be made upon us because of our obligations under the United Nations Charter. Therefore, the Parliament of Canada, in a special session called for this purpose and for the other purpose of settling a railway strike, authorized the establishment of a special brigade, a special force, which was recruited in a very few days, and which had been made available to the United Nations for combat service to assist in making effective United Nations decisions in Korea or any place else. Now, if there is any virtue in shaping one's actions in an emergency in conformity with the demands of long-term policy, I think we may at least claim that virtue in regard to our action in Korea. I'm glad to see, out at Lake Success, that our decision to set up a special force of this kind, not merely for this emergency, has commended itself to other members of the United Nations, and that an important part of the resolution for strengthening the assembly, which is now before the assembly, is based upon the precedent which we have set. If we can pass, and more important, if we can implement this resolution, because sometimes it's easier out there to pass resolutions and make them effective, then next time, if unhappily there is a next time, we will all be in a better position to meet the initial onslaught of an aggressor, meet it at the beginning, and meet it collectively. Mr. Chairman, we'll have other faithful decisions to make in Canada in the days ahead. Decisions which I hope we will make in consultation with our partners with due regard to the collective interest, but which will be made freely and by us. Fortunately, we in Canada with a great neighbor across the border and a great mother country across the ocean are spared in a remarkable degree the pushing and squeezing to which smaller countries in less fortunate parts of the world are subjected these days by their powerful neighbors. We appreciate our good fortune, and we hope that in Washington they also appreciate their good fortune in having a neighboring government which is happy to tell them frankly and in the American idiom whenever they go off the rails in their international policies. In London, of course, they have long realized now how lucky they are to have a sister nation in the British Commonwealth which can give them authoritative advice based on experience about how to get along with the Americans. Our Canadian position, one of opportunity and responsibility in this North Atlantic triangle, is neatly symbolized by our currency which now moves freely and easily between the dollar and the pound but is certainly influenced by both. We know, of course, that our position, our resources, our interests, and our ideals are such that whatever the journey that lies ahead in world affairs may be, we must take it with you. We hope that you, and by you, on this occasion, I mean especially the United States, we hope that you will realize that it is occasionally difficult for us to keep up the pace which circumstances demand and which is more easily maintained by a great, long, striding power. There may even be occasional moments when the course may seem to us to be a trifle zigzag. But we know in Canada that the general direction is right and the goal is good. I wish I could define that goal in terms that would inspire us to achieve it. We need today that inspiration. We need a faith so rich and a courage so high that failure is made to seem unthinkable. I have not this gift of inspiration and so I will end by merely quoting some words which I read recently and which I think put clearly the task ahead and the objective to be achieved. And those words were the following. In order that the human race may survive on this planet it is necessary that there should be enough people in the world who do not have to fight each other who are not the kind of people who will fight each other and who are the kind of people who will take effective measures whenever it is necessary to prevent other people fighting. Well, Mr. Chairman, we in this great country in the United Kingdom and in Canada are that kind of people. May our partnership grow deeper and stronger. And in this great work may we find more men to help of the caliber and the devotion of the one whom we are honoring tonight. Thank you. I think, Mr. Secretary, you must have been conscious of the rapt attention with which this audience greeted what you had to say. It was to us much as if we had been reading as all of us have in the press from day to day the account of your struggle at Lake Success. It's as if we had been reading communiques, military communiques, which are in cold print not always the most exciting form of literature. And then a general fresh from the battlefield comes to talk to us. Mental attitudes immediately change. May we listen to you tonight as one of the leaders in the struggle that's going on to make the United Nations a fruitful force for civilization and of world peace. We honor you, we honor your colleagues, and we're grateful for the inspiration that you have given us. the next gentleman whom I shall have an honor to present has a career that in more than one respect parallels that of the Secretary. He too was born in Canada. He too served in the Canadian Army in World War I. He too has had a life since that time of constant contact with world affairs of large pith and moment. He too has participated in international conferences so multitudinous and so varied on behalf of Great Britain, of Canada, and of other nations that the catalog alone would take up more time than your chairman would have the right to expect. He too has been responsible for some of the press to which I alluded a moment ago. and for 31 years has been a director of the London Times. And I shall not pause to draw any invidious comparisons between that great journal and its namesake on this side of the water. Such comparisons might be treated as invidious. He has been a frequent visitor to these United States. and I measure my words when I say that he has a more intimate knowledge, as much intimate knowledge of America and Americans as any living Englishman. And the more frequently he comes, the more happily we welcome him. I pause to pay a random compliment to myself. For if I should fail to do it, nobody else, I'm sure, would do so. It's the old proverb, he that bloweth not his own horn, barely it shall not be blown upon. It was my happy opportunity during this summer to meet the pilgrims of Great Britain. and I voiced a complaint. It was one of those like the parable of the sowers. I thought my words might, as most words do, fall upon stony ground. Here and there one brings forth fruit. And I complained with as much bitterness as I dared exhibit that I thought we were not being adequately treated in the standpoint of English visitors. I am delighted to observe that perhaps that random comment produced some result for the British pilgrims immediately reached down to the top of the barrel and sent us the emissary who's here tonight. Well, I'm in a personal vein. I want to say something else. I take my Scottish history from Sir Walter Scott and Robert Louis Stevenson. And if I read them aright, I read that the clans of Camel and of Stuart were at their throats day by day, year by year, decade by decade. And I have some curiosity to know when the feudin' and the fightin' so far stopped that one man could bear both names. I don't put that question to demand an answer. I only put it to express my own curiosity and to arouse yours. Now I promised you another telegram. The old proverb that one is without honor in his own country, which was never more than half true, is effectively denied by the words I am about to read to you. No person, says this communicant, has done more for the pilgrims on this side of the water than your guest tonight. Sir Camel Stuart, no one has toiled more industriously to bring together the English-speaking world and to place Anglo-American relations on an enduring foundation than has he. I hope you will not think I am trespassing by sending this message to you as President of the Pilgrims of the United States on this occasion, on the occasion of the dinner which is appropriately being held in Sir Camel Stuart's honor. My best wishes to the pilgrims. Lewis W. Douglas. I present to you Sir Camel Stuart, Grand Cross of Michael and George, Knight of the British Empire, Doctor of Laws, and Chairman of the Executive Committee of our sister society, the Pilgrims of Great Britain. Sir Camel. Thank you. Mr. President, Mr. Chairman, Your Excellency, Mr. Minister, and fellow pilgrims. In standing up before this distinguished company after so fine a feast, I find myself in much sympathy with a lady who said when a husband's plane was overdue, if there's going to be a disaster, let's have dinner first. Well, we've had dinner and here am I. I am grateful to your president for all he has said about me tonight. Mr. Davis and his dear wife have been true friends to me through the long years and no welcome could mean more to me than a welcome delivered by him. praise from your ambassador is praise indeed. It is with a heavy heart that we say goodbye to him at our pilgrims' dinner in London on November the 6th. story of his London days when it comes to be written will be an epic story. There have been few American ambassadors in your history that have served you more faithfully and there have been few that we have loved so well. I am naturally grateful and here a little prejudiced to the minister of my native land what he said about me tonight and more particularly what he said about his country. Mr. Pearson represents Canadian public life at its best and I am proud to think that he should speak to you in New York as he has spoken tonight. I bring from your sister society across the sea our warm greetings and a reiteration of our belief in the common cause for which we stand and of our desire to discuss at these pilgrim meetings matters of common concern to our common advantage. Tonight in New York there are matters of very great common concern which are not entirely easy to talk about freely. and I assume that inviting me here you did not expect me merely to echo the words of Gladstone who proclaimed that the American Constitution is the most wonderful work ever struck off at one time by the brain and purpose of man and leave it at that. Perhaps it may be and I am not saying it isn't but I have a feeling that you did not ask me to come this long way merely to pay you compliments but rather to speak to you of the problems of the hour as I see them of the difficulties that may divide us and of the essentials that are requisite to a united course. I know that frankness in Anglo-American discussion can be and often is overdone and I am told it is sometimes better to wrap up what you have to say like the commentator who started off his remarks on certain recent happenings in the European home of that agreeable delicacy Paddy de Fargoire which was with us tonight with the phrase Strasbourg a city long since famous for its geese. That I am going to be frank with you however is for reasons which place me perhaps in a somewhat different position from many of the British pilgrims you have entertained here in the past. I am myself partly American. I descend in the direct mail line from a Pennsylvanian pioneer who left the north of Ireland in 1715. He was what was known as a covenanter and he felt the other covenanters in Ulster were too loose in their religious views for his liking so he came here to practice his religion in the way he desired and his one wish was never to see the old world again. His eldest son my great great grandfather born in Pennsylvania and educated of the college of Philadelphia liked the new world too but he did an unforgivable thing. He became a clergyman in what was then the Church of England and was dismissed the parental roof for his heretical outlook. In this province of New York before independence he preached the gospel to the Mohawk Indians on the Mohawk River. He translated the Bible into the Mohawk language and he left to his descendants an affection for this state which time and changing citizenship have never dimmed. another ancestor of mine in 1750 was governor of Virginia and played some part in the furtherance of your affairs by the appointment of an ambitious young colonist by name George Washington to an important military command against the French on the Ohio River. And here again in New York yet another ancestor a great great great grandfather was judge in your Supreme Court in 1763 and his son became Chief Justice of this province and wrote what I think is still the standard history of New York. I was born and brought up in Canada and would probably be there still had it not been for the First World War which took so many young Canadians overseas. I would ask you to forgive this family tree but I wanted to prove to you that I am speaking the truth when I say that I feel very much at home tonight and in no sense whatsoever as if I were in a foreign land. When Mr. Davis honored us with his presence in London this summer he spoke of the England he had known as ambassador some 30 years ago and with his unrivaled eloquence he compared those days and the present. May I be permitted tonight to speak for a moment of the America I knew some 30 years ago when I came to Washington as an embassy boy on the staff of Sir Cecil Springrice. Woodrow Wilson was at the White House Brian was Secretary of State Newton Baker was Secretary for War and in the so-called background which was really the foreground stood the romantic figure of Colonel House. You had just entered the war. Wilson had done his honest painful best to keep you out. Isolation isolationism was in the air as flying saucers are today. Atomic energy was still imprisoned in the earth like the genie in the bottle. Britannia ruled the waves and the ether looked largely after itself. The British empire was an empire in the sense it is not today. Socialism was just a theory which is certainly is not now. And thank God we heard little about communism. In those long years I felt depressed about our relations. Not so much whether we liked one another but of the lack of mutual understanding. The England of another day unlike Columbus whom we honor tonight did not seem to have discovered America. You may recall that Lord Chesterfield in the middle of the 18th century told his son a great many useful things about life. Above all to be a man of the world which is to appreciate the viewpoint of your neighbor without being yourself necessarily a superior person and to conduct your way of life as a gentleman in the best meaning of that much abused word. He told his son moreover the world to know in his day beyond England was Europe. The Europe of the grand tour, the lands of the classics, of good living, and of beautiful things. To him, those were great days to live in and talk of, but those days, my friends, are yesterdays, and the grand tour of this age is the United States of America. and we must approach it as in those other years we approached the plains of Lombardy and the hills of Athens. We must feel beforehand in this western land there is still much to see and much to learn, that New York can and does compare with London and with Paris, that the Century Club can rival to the fullest degree the Athenaeum Club, and that the manner of our approach is the test of our success. We are bound to have with us always some Englishmen who still believe they are living in the complacency of their Victorian past, satisfied that all Americans are dishonest, and that any attempt to wrest from them their commercial supremacy is a matter on which their government should take strong action. On your side, you have some who speak the same language, but that is for you to say. History repeats itself. In yourself, you still find old families with charm of manner who like the English best. In New England, some of your Yankees have not forgotten that Boston tea party, or if they have, some of their schools have not. And many in the Middle West, the land of the pioneer heritage, still feel a desire to be far from the England of Lord Chesterfield's day. Here in New York, I was driven by one of your valuable taxi drivers, who looked me up and down with an appraising eye, and then said calmly, you come from Europe, and added after a pause, an even briefer, an all-embracing statement, which I like to think was not meant personally, Europe stinks. I dine tonight in another America. You have become the greatest power on earth, and with power, you have embraced its attendant responsibilities. of your will to shoulder those responsibilities, you have given proof in two ways there are of the utmost encouragement to the free world. I refer first to your establishment of and effective maintenance of a bipartisan foreign policy, and second to the promptness with which you struck back at aggression in Korea. This time there were no Wilson notes, there was no message to Congress, there was no talk of every assistance short of war, but an equivocal reply to the aggressor by deeds not words, a reply which is one for you, the respect and admiration and gratitude of the whole civilized world. and now I would like to touch on some of the vast changes that have taken place in the wider arena of human affairs, changes in which America has played an even more significant part since those far-off seeming times of 30 years ago. It is only by such retrospect that one can occasionally glimpse the gradual inexorable processes of history which the hectic events of our daily lives must at length be reduced. In Asia, we are watching the slow unfolding of a process that is much more than just the infiltration of Western ideas and Western methods. It is a whole revaluation of society, of the relations between man and man, and while the Western world and the Russian world may compete for influence in this or that immediate phase, we should not forget that in the last resort, it is the Asiatic peoples themselves who will accomplish their own destinies. Who in 1912 could ever have foretold the course of the Chinese revolution during the 38 years that have followed? Who could have foretold its present trend even 10 years ago? I remember often hearing in this country the demand that Britain should vacate Hong Kong in favor of the stable regime of Chiang Kai-shek, but I imagine we are all agreed now that the time to vacate Hong Kong is not just yet. In India, long since restless under a form of government which her political leaders found alien to their growing self-awareness, we have witnessed the establishment of two separate states, sovereign and independent, yet still of their own volition within within the general framework of our commonwealth. Who would have imagined that development 20 or even 10 years ago? And who today would venture confidently to predict how things will develop there over the next 10 or 20 years? In England, we have learned to contemplate the loss of so-called empires with a measure of equanimity. We have, after all, lost quite a few of them in our time. But if we take such things calmly, it is not, let me assure you, from sluggishness of spirit. It is rather, I believe, the inward evidence of another and deeper lesson we have learned from history. I mean this, that nations, however rich, however ruthless, however powerful, cannot dictate the course of human destiny. history. They may guide events up to a point. They may cast the weight of their influence this way or that, but they cannot in the long run dictate the future. And this sobering limitation is something always to be born in mind. It is not so very many years ago that one of your great industrialists affirmed that history is bunk. You have made so much of it since then that I doubt if he would say the same thing today. When Mr. Davis spoke to us in London, he referred to the Russians always pursuing the same basic foreign policy, not as this, that, or the other thing, but simply as Russians. I think that is a very important point. I think it is very important to remember that for close on 300 years, Russia has been primarily occupied in the pursuit of power, and that communism is an instrument of that policy. Many simple and honest people in many lands have been deceived into thinking of communism as a new philosophy, a new faith, but in truth it has no such dignity. It is in so far as affects the world as its whole, primarily an instrument of Russian power politics. It may, for all we know, be deeply antipathetic to the great masses of the good-natured Russian peoples themselves, who had they but the choice, would no doubt be as content to live in peace with us as we with them. It is an axiom of history that war imposes unity on a disunited nation. In the old days, this used quite simply and cynically to be known as creating a foreign diversion. I hope our former allies are aware that any diversions they may create today are likely to turn out rather more than a diversion. I fancy they must be, for the Russian leaders undoubtedly study history even though they do not teach it. And they must know that if by constant goading they could lure us into clearing war on them, it would be the finest service we could render to the strengthening of their regime. The diplomacy has much changed since I was in the service over 30 years ago. It was not then the custom to speak as we speak today. And when I use those words as we speak today, I should particularly like to refer to the new diplomacy which has been taking place at Lake Success. I hope you will agree with me that Britain has never sent an abler envoy to take up the cudgels on her behalf, a task which he seems positively to enjoy, than our present representative who is with us tonight, Sir Gladwin Jebb. Those of us who are Gladwin's old friends, and I am happy to be one of them, are not surprised. But I do think he is doing a magnificent job, and I don't think it will be the last he does. Before I leave this absorbing, much too absorbing, subject of ourselves and Russia, I should like to refer you to Mr. Apley's broadcast speech on September the 2nd. Now I know Mr. Apley is not as popular in this country as Mr. Churchill, and there's nothing I can tell you about. And there is nothing I can tell you about Mr. Churchill which you do not know, but I may be able to tell you something about Mr. Apley. Here you have a man who is not a politician in the purely professional meaning of that word. He is a man with a conservative background, a product of an English public school, which you would call a private school, and the University of Oxford, soldier in the First World War, and a member of a family prominent in the affairs of the Church of England. These qualities would have made him an ideal candidate for a conservative constituency. But we have all been young, and one of the features of youth is idealism and a chafing against conventions. Mr. Apley became a Fabian socialist as a result of seeing for himself the circumstance of life in the East End of London, a quarter comparable to your old Lower East Side with his evil living conditions and lack of playgrounds for the children. That experience set his feet along a path from which he has never turned aside. I had much to do with him when he became chairman of the National Memorial to King George V. He was then the leader of the opposition. This memorial, through the provision of open spaces carefully laid out, has helped to ameliorate the conditions of life among the poor. It was naturally a memorial nearer to his heart. We raised 500,000 pounds, and I was invited to be its treasurer. For years we worked together in this labor of love, until the day came when he became Prime Minister and of necessity had to relinquish that chairmanship. It fell to my luck to succeed him, and strangely enough in my term of office, to finance those amenities which he had so much desired in the very place where he had first desired them. Mr. Attlee knows he is not the eloquence of Mr. Churchill, but for many years he has shown a remarkable aptitude for resolving the differences within his party. It is, let me say to you tonight, a strange commentary on life, that the man who seems ordinary to the ordinary man is more trusted than the man who sits in Olympian heights to which the ordinary man feels he can never attain. I do not wish this observation to be construed in any sense as a reflection on Mr. Churchill. His position in this world is unique, and Britain owes to him in her most testing hour a debt that none of us can ever adequately repay. Now here is a passage from Mr. Attlee's September broadcast, which coming as it does from the leader of the Socialist Party, I should like to quote you. We are united in a resolute resolve to do our utmost to prevent the calamity of another world war. The increase in our defenses is designed solely for the maintenance of peace. It is the direct result of the policy of the Soviet government. Everyone who understands anything about the British people knows that they have no aggressive intentions. But everyone also knows that they are firmly resolved to defend their own way of life. I hope that the rulers of the Kremlin understand both these facts. The Russian leaders talk a great deal about peace, but their actions cause worldwide anxiety. They could, if they would, lift the crowd of apprehension which hangs over all the peoples of the world, including their own. They could join with us and the other peoples of the world to use the resources which science has placed at disposal of mankind to raise the standard of life and promote the happiness of the common people instead of wasting them on armaments. So spoke the Prime Minister. As you know, the Conservative and Labour parties were pretty well equally divided in the last election. But I can assure you that this particular statement of the Prime Minister goes for all of us. I fancy it goes for you too. And I would set it against your President's recent statement on the question of Formosa. Our purpose is peace, not conquest. That too is something we can all believe. And now to turn to an entirely different subject. There is an awful lot of nonsense talked about capitalism and the oppressive attitude of the rich towards the poor. I have known in this land, in my day, many millionaires. And again and again, I have witnessed them giving large grants to universities, museums, libraries, hospitals, and endless philanthropic endowments. I wonder sometimes how this country could have prospered as it has done without some of those benefactions. And there is one in particular I should like to allude to tonight in New York. It has been my privilege through the long years to enjoy the friendship of Mr. John D. Rockefeller, Jr. We have had a tie in Williamsburg, that lovely Virginian town whose restoration is due to him. And we have had a closer link in a mutual friendship which touched and influenced both our lives very closely and who was referred to earlier this evening. That much-loved friend of both of us was the late Mr. McKenzie King, the Prime Minister of Canada. Nothing in this world's history can compare in real philanthropic achievement with the Rockefeller Foundation. Magnificently organized, interested in every corner of the globe, it is a tribute to mankind of which your country may be justly proud. And it is a product of your abused capitalism. It has had enrolled in its service a brilliant group of administrators. And if I may again be personal, it owes more than can ever repay to the long and faithful stewardship of its former president, my old and dear friend, Raymond Fosley. Quite frankly, I do not set much store by the day-to-day variation of feeling between England and America. No one who has been connected with newspapers will deny that public opinion is a force, a potent, and on occasions an unpredictable force. Generally speaking, it is not, however, the surface wind flecks now running this way, now that, which are important, but the deep currents. And these are given direction by what the various communities that make up a society regard as their own basic interests. Interests, that is, which are more or less constant over periods of time. Generalizations about the likes and dislikes of countries for one another are apt to be misleading. There are just true affinities and clashes of temperament between peoples, but they are only partly important. In the main, nations like individuals get on with whomsoever they believe it's their interest to get on with. I do not say this cynically, because I think it is essential that there should put clearer thinking about this whole question of Anglo-American relations, which is such immense importance for the future of the world. If we do not see it clearly, we shall pitch our expectations too high when things are going well, only to have them too much cast down when troubles and difficulties ensue. You must forgive me tonight for harping on the theme of history. History is something to which, as I grow older, I attach an even greater importance. History is the depth and breadth against which we must set current events if we are to see them in perspective. As one who has for many years been intimately connected with a great newspaper, I am particularly conscious of the responsibility that rests on the press in these critical times. Shallow judgments, shoddy commentary, dishonest reporting may help circulation, but they are crimes for all that. And I would plead here, as I and many of my colleagues strive in Britain, for unwavering adherence to the highest standard of integrity in journalism, and most particularly as regards the relations between our two countries. So much temporary harm can be done by ignorance, wantonness, or malice, and to so little purpose. And now for a last word on China. That troubled land is a problem to us all, and here our policy has not always been identical. You continue to recognize one government, while some of the Commonwealth and Britain have recognized the other. I personally have never admired the regime of Chiang Kai-shek. But I must admit, the response to our recognition by the other regime has certainly not been encouraging. Here again, I should like to quote Mr. Truman. When he said, We hope in particular that the people of China will not be disled or forced into fighting against the United Nations or against the American people, who will always be, and still are, their friends. These words are words that all can subscribe to. And no propaganda should be allowed to seek to divide us on an issue where there should be no disagreement. So let me tonight in New York conclude what I now have to say to you with these sentiments which I feel very strongly. We may at times disagree with you on the interpretation of events. We shall say so. We may disagree with you about methods. We shall say so. And our disagreements will make newspaper headlines, not all of them well-intentioned, throughout the world. But do not let yourselves ever be led to think that on whatever ultimate beachhead our future and the future of our children's children may have to be defended, You will look round and not find the British peoples at your side. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. I think you will agree with me that we owe debt to both of our speakers for their candor and their inspiring words. We owe debt to our brother pilgrims for the ambassador they've sent to us. And you will agree with me, I'm sure, that the American pilgrims have never spent a more delightful or inspiring evening than this. You are now adjourned. Good. Thank you. Thank you.