In the studio today we have Mrs. Frank R. Smith, Director of Community Service of Vince Junior College, and a member of the Board of Directors of the Children's Welfare Federation of New York City. This organization coordinates the efforts and aids, the activities of 200 agencies concerned with the health and welfare of children. Mrs. Smith is going to tell us something about the Federation's several branches of work, including a unique service for premature and very ill babies. Mrs. Smith. Thank you. I'm sure that many people in New York, especially those interested in boys and girls, have heard of the Children's Welfare Federation of New York City. If you are a teacher or a nurse who helped get children off to camp last summer, you must have been aware of the Federation's name and connection with camp applications. Perhaps you were a social worker or a business executive who needed a quick answer to some baffling question about child welfare. You probably wound up by calling the Federation's Information Bureau. Or possibly you were a doctor caring for a very ill baby who had to have mother's milk immediately to save its life. Then the Mother's Milk Bureau of the Federation came to your rescue. Exactly what does the Federation do? I believe it can best be compared to the operations tower in an airport, which doesn't actually do the flying, but distributes weather information and keeps everything going smoothly. In the same way we act as operations control for our various member agencies working with children. We keep them in contact with each other's work. We prevent duplication of their services and provide up to the minute information on their field of activities. For instance, camp applications were filed last summer for more than 23,000 boys and girls who longed for a few weeks away from the hot, crowded city streets. Every one of these applications went through our office. Each was carefully checked to make sure that no child would be signed up for two vacations, thus depriving some other child of a camp period. Last year our vacation clearance service discovered enough duplications to allow 500 more little New Yorkers to go to camp. Have you ever seen a group of languid, pale youngsters waiting for their camp train in the Grand Central? Have you seen these youngsters when they return? If so, you know what a stay in the country can mean to them. This last summer we gave camp scholarships to 220 needy boys and girls of all nationality and religious groups. And now that summer is over, our camping work still goes on. We will be busy all year inspecting camps and carrying on training courses for directors and counselors. And we'll work along with city, state and federal departments to assist camp agencies in the problems of transportation, food and unemployment caused by post-war conditions. When there is a trucking strike, when butter is scarce, when camp cooks are hard to find, all these are the concerns of the Federation. This year we will again collect more information on new camps, like the special ones for handicapped children, diabetic, epileptic, orthopedically handicapped and cardiac. And all this information will be published for the use of those who need it. Another service is our information bureau, which answers a remarkable variety of questions every day. Telephone calls and letters come from parents, industrial groups, teachers, hospitals, health and welfare organizations. They all want advice on some phase of child welfare. And what questions they ask. One father called up to find out where he could leave his weak old baby while the mother was ill. A social worker asked, where can we find an outdoor job for a deaf mute girl of 18? A poor, harassed mother wrote in to get help about her son who wouldn't obey her. A high school girl came in to inquire where she could take practical nurses training. Someone else wanted to know where she could find a nurse for an emergency weekend call. Our information service had a satisfactory answer for each inquiry. It directed the worried father, the social worker, the high school girl and the others to the resource which could best help them solve their individual problems. Last year we received more than 5,000 inquiries for information of one kind or another connected with child welfare. One question which often comes to us, and which is usually a matter of life and death when it does come, is this. Where can I get mother's milk immediately for a very sick baby? Fortunately, we can answer that too. For a very important service of the Federation's work is the Mother's Milk Bureau. This Bureau is the only source of mother's milk available to any premature or very ill baby in greater New York or nearby communities, regardless of the ability to pay. During its 25 years of existence, the Bureau has furnished mother's milk to 10,375 babies that we know of, besides uncounted numbers in hospitals. This precious commodity is furnished only on a doctor's orders, either to hospitals or private homes. It is only for emergency use of premature or critically ill babies, whose natural mothers are unable to supply them. Let's walk into the Bureau some afternoon. Over here by the service window stands a line of fathers or other relatives waiting to collect their babies' daily allotment. Through the window, the nurse in charge hands each one a covered tin pail. In this container of cracked ice has been packed a special, duro-glass bottle of pasteurized mother's milk. It holds the amount prescribed by the physician for this particular baby's 24-hour needs. The father or relative, or sometimes a messenger, will take this milk to the hospital where the premature or sick baby is being treated. The milk costs 35 cents an ounce for those who can pay. It is priced on a sliding scale for others. No needy baby is ever refused because its parents cannot pay. Mother's milk can be collected seven days a week. A 24-hour emergency service has been arranged in case of unexpected calls. If a request for mother's milk comes from a locality which has no facilities of its own, the Federation is glad to help out, for the purpose of our Mother's Milk Bureau is to save baby's life, and this it has done. Our records show that of the premature and critically ill babies fed this milk during the past 25 years, 86 to 89 percent were saved. Speaking of out-of-town customers, the Casper quadruplets of Passaic, New Jersey, started life on mother's milk furnished by our Bureau. It was ordered daily by the proud city council, who also footed the bill. The latest federal census revealed that 25 out of every thousand babies die during the first month of life. 40 out of every thousand died during the first year. These figures bring out strikingly that a baby's first month are the most critical. We begin to realize what it means to have mother's milk available for those who may die without it, when their natural mothers cannot supply them. This particular food is important to babies because it is easily digested. Many baby illnesses have to do with upset stomachs or intestinal troubles. Getting adjusted to difficult food is too much for a baby who is physically below normal. It has been found that mother's milk remains in a baby's stomach for only 20 minutes, in contrast with the two or three hours needed to digest cow's milk. So mother's milk is an absolute necessity and must be available for very sick and premature babies. The mother's milk bureau operates something like a blood bank. We recruit all possible donors. The milk collected is pooled and distributed where needed. Donors are nursing mothers who come to the Bureau each day. They are women recommended by doctors, nurses and friends. We are always glad to hear from any healthy nursing mother who is interested in becoming a donor. Every prospective donor is given a thorough health examination. This includes a chest x-ray and other tests for tuberculosis. The first dose is given to make sure that the mother is free from syphilis. If the mother passes these tests, we know that her milk will be safe for any child. Of course, no mother is permitted to supply the Bureau unless we are sure that her own baby will not suffer as a result. So we ask all donors to take their babies to a city health child health station once a month. Here the little ones are weighed and have their general progress checked. If a baby is losing weight or failing to thrive, the mother must stop her services for the Bureau. But it is usually the case that the health of both the mother and baby improve while the mother acts as a donor. The milk is collected under the most hygienic conditions. Each mother spends about 50 minutes a day in a spotless room of the Bureau. This time includes a long period of cleansing to make sure that no germs can possibly touch the milk. This service has its compensations. Mothers have the satisfaction of knowing they are helping to save lives. Besides this, they become earners, for they are paid at the rate of 15 cents an ounce. Our mother's average earnings are $20 to $25 a week. A recent record was made by a 39-year-old woman who earned $1,774 during the year. In that time, her own baby tripled his birth rate. During the 25 years since the Bureau has been in operation, we have had some 2,500 donors. The total output has been over 2 million ounces, or in larger measure, 72,800 quarts. The supply of mother's milk is pooled in a glass giant container and then pasteurized. It is divided into our own type of pint bottles, sealed with a cap that keeps it sterile, and packed in ice for distribution. A chemical analysis and bacterial count are done periodically. There is not always enough milk for the continuing demands on the Bureau, but when there is a surplus, it is quick frozen in pint bottles and kept until needed, for we never know when there may be an emergency call. Some time ago, a Long Island couple were visiting in New Mexico when their young baby became seriously ill. The doctor said that the baby must have mother's milk, but doctors and nurses could find no source of supply, not even as far east as Chicago. As a last straw they wired to the Children's Welfare Federation here in New York, asking help from our mother's milk bureau. We were only too glad to help, and in a matter of minutes, three quarts of frozen milk packed in dry ice were on their way to New Mexico by plane. I believe that every community in this country could use a supply bureau such as ours. But so far, there are mother's milk bureaus in only 18 cities in the United States, including New York, and two in Canada. They are operated, as ours is, on the rigid standards set by the American Academy of Pediatrics. More than once we have been consulted on how to get up such a bureau in some other part of the country. Mother's milk for desperately ill and premature babies is an essential commodity. Our bureau wants to continue its service to these babies who have had no other way of getting breast milk. I wish every healthy nursing mother would think this over. What it would mean if she could help save the life of some other mother's baby. A baby as precious as her own. And you who love children and care how they get along. Your support of the Children's Welfare Federation, our Camping Bureau, our Information Bureau, and our Mother's Milk Bureau, will mean that New York City's boys and girls will be healthier, happier, and better citizens. You have just heard another in the series of You and Your Health Talks, brought to you as a public service of your city station. This morning you heard Mrs. Frank R. Smith, a member of the Board of Directors of the Children's Welfare Federation of New York City. Mrs. Smith's talk centered on the unique service for premature and very ill babies. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.