Electrons, cosmic rays, atomic forces, nuclear physics, research, magic words. Words that open the door to great accomplishments and even greater possibilities and become a part of our amazing story. In the public interest, we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. Music How many ideas do you suppose have been abandoned because someone said, but men have tried that before and failed, it just can't be done. How many ideas never developed because of those words? And how many young men have replied, But I'm sure it'll work. All my experiments and sketches support my theory. I'm sorry. We appreciate the work you've done on your own time, but I'm afraid it won't work. As a matter of fact, I've sent your idea and your plans all the way up to our top men, and all of them say it can't be done. It can't be done. And so, a young man had to face failure for the time being, and leave the laboratories of a large electrical firm in the Midwest with his plans and his sketches. As has been the case so often, industry could not see the practical application of his revolutionary idea. Well then, who could? Where could he complete his work and put his development to the best use and service? A short time later, that same young man appeared in the office of the dean of the graduate school at the University of Illinois. Again, he brought his plans. Again, he explained his idea. He was asked to give the college some time for consideration and to return in a few days. And when he did, he found... You know, of course, the evidence from the attempts of others along these lines shows that this cannot be done. Yes, sir. I'm... I'm... I do know that. But I feel sure there's some basis, a good basis for my theories, and that the possibility... Yes, I'm sure you have a good deal of faith in your plans. And so do we. You do? Indeed. It's true that scientists everywhere have said this can't be done. But if it could, it would be a wonderful thing for science and humanity. You have some good ideas, Kirst. We'll give you a chance to try. We'll put you on the staff and give you $400 to use on your project. $400. A staff position and an opportunity to develop his plans. He set to work immediately, designing, calculating, considering every aspect of his idea. He had been only 27 years old when he'd first thought of it and worked it out. And few people had heard of Donald W. Kirst, an aspiring young scientist, or of his dream. But he kept on with his work for a whole year, and then another. And on July 15, 1940, about 3 o'clock in the afternoon, he completed his machine. Alone in his laboratory, with the last wire in place, he turned it on. There was no flashing of lights, no roar of machinery and power, no spectacular reaction. But the controls indicated that... It's working. It's really working. On his very first attempt, the machine had worked. Where others had failed, he had succeeded. And now that the machine had been proven, its performance was ready for inspection. Come into my laboratory. This is the instrument. That? That's it. Why, why, that's not as large as the average table radio. But it can produce X-rays of more than 2 million volts energy. Why, the normal 1 million volt X-ray machines were as big as a room. Does that little thing make 2 million volt X-rays? As a matter of fact, it's slightly more than that. It's amazing. What do you propose doing? Well, this is the first machine. It proves the idea practical. Now we need to build a larger instrument of this kind. What I want to do someday is build a machine like this that will produce energies of 300 million volts or more. The cosmic ray people say that with 300 million volts, we might be able to learn what holds the atomic nucleus together. You have quite an ambitious program. Of course, before such a big machine is attempted, we ought to build an intermediate science. About 10 times the energy of this first instrument. Something, say, about 20 million volts. Kirst, you've got the most energetic X-rays in the world here. What about using them for medicine or industry? Well, I've thought about that, too. A 20 or 30 million volt machine ought to be about the right size to make X-rays for medicine or industry. I think the electrons in this instrument, which are now used to create X-rays, might well be used for treatment of cancer. That's wonderful, wonderful. And what are you going to call this machine of yours? I've been thinking about the name Betatron. Beta from the Greek symbol used by scientists to indicate high-speed electrons. And tron, meaning an instrument for? The Betatron. An instrument for creating high-speed electrons. With these hopes for larger machines and greater accomplishments, Professor Kirst set out to follow the future he'd outlined for his invention. First, a 22 million volt Betatron was built and placed at the University of Illinois for testing and research. But this was barely completed when... This broadcast to bring you a spatial newsflash. Japanese planes attacked Pearl Harbor early this morning, inflicting what appears to be, at first estimates, severe damage. America was at war. Her men were called the farmers and the doctors, the mechanics and scientists. A cloak of secrecy was thrown over everything dealing with atomic research. Professor Kirst himself left the campus to take part in the vast atomic research project being launched by the United States government. His part in the atom project still is secret. So is that of the Betatron, which was installed at Los Alamos. But that instrument was the first of a new commercially produced model of the Betatron secretly developed at the University during the war. The second commercial Betatron went to the Army arsenal at Rock Island, Illinois. Say, boss, what is this thing? That? That's called a Betatron. It's a new 22 million volt x-ray machine. Well, that small thing, it's not much bigger than a desk. What are they going to do with it? Well, they're going to use it for x-rays to inspect parts. You see, with that machine, we can take a picture through a steel cast in nearly 20 inches thick. Boy, sounds like it might save us some time. Just yesterday, we machined a big casting and then found out there was a flaw in the thing and had to toss it out. Save time and money. Another thing we can do with it is to check the alignment of parts inside a machine. Now, you take the breech end of a gun, for instance. We can take an x-ray picture right through it and see exactly that everything's all right on the inside. I say, that's quite some machine. I can't wait to see it work. Medical science, too, became interested in the new and extremely powerful x-ray possibilities of this machine. You know, I had another of those deep cancer cases this morning. Pretty discouraging, isn't it, Doctor? Yes, because we don't have any really good treatment for it today. We just can't get at them. You know, I'm interested in seeing what this new Betatron can do for deep cancer. Betatron? Don't believe I've heard about it. It's a new instrument they're using for cancer study. The first time they've ever tried anything like that. They've just installed one at the University of Illinois College of Medicine in Chicago. Is that right? What's its energy? Something like 22 million volts. 22 million? Why, that's more than 10 times the present energies we've tried for cancer. Just what can it do? Preliminary tests are promising. They could control these extremely high x-rays and concentrate them deep inside the patient instead of on the surface. That sounds encouraging. Yes, it does. I'd like to know more about it myself, so that I can give these people some hope if there is the slightest possibility of success. It would be wonderful if we could find a new weapon against cancer. A new weapon against cancer. Industrial x-rays through 20 inches of steel. Today, the 22 million volt Betatron, a rugged machine with push-button control, is available to American industry and medicine. More is to come, and Professor Kirst is working on new and greater plans. In a meeting with the Governor of Illinois, Kirst outlined his new work. Betatron is of great importance to science, Mr. Governor. With the 22 million volt instrument at the University, we've revealed the exact energy necessary to split the nuclei of atoms. We've even done the opposite of the atomic bomb. On a small scale, of course, by producing one particle of high energy, which divides into two of lower energy, thus transferring energy into matter. Dr. Kirst, I don't mind telling you it sounds amazing. But, sir, it's nothing compared to the opportunities, the possibilities that are ahead of us. If we built a really high-energy instrument, if we build a Betatron of, say, 300 million volts, we can produce cosmic rays. Well, would you mind explaining just what would that mean? Well, no one really knows. That's all part of the problem. At the present, the only source of cosmic rays is in outer space, beyond the Earth. And most of them are filtered out by our atmosphere. So now, when scientists want to study cosmic rays, they must take their instruments to the tops of high mountains, or send what instruments they can into the stratosphere, on balloons. We have the opportunity of building an instrument which will produce cosmic rays right in the laboratory, at the push of a button. That's very, very interesting. And very important, sir. If we have a laboratory source of cosmic rays, we can really study them. We don't know what we may find. But, Dr. Kirst, what will be the value of all this? Why should the state of Illinois spend money on this project? Governor, a good many years ago, a Frenchman discovered radioactivity. At the time, it didn't have any practical value. It was just a new scientific fact. And when Einstein proposed his equation of the relation of energy to matter, what was its value? And when another scientist discovered that uranium could come apart, what was the value of that? Those men were scientists looking for truth. But would anyone say today that their work wasn't worth millions, even billions of dollars, when the whole atomic energy project, the whole future of atomic power for the world, was built on these facts? Mr. Governor, whatever we find will be worthwhile. The most important thing we anticipate is producing what are called mesons. These mesons may reveal the secret of what holds the nucleus of the atom together. We have engineered nuclear energy, but we don't understand it. The meson is fundamental to this understanding. Dr. Kirst, frankly, I have faith in your ideas. I'm going to back you on that 300 million volt betatron. Once again, Dr. Kirst began planning and building. The new instrument involved new designs, not only for greater energy, but for greater efficiency. To test these ideas, a pilot model of 80 million volts energy was built with months of painstaking care and testing. Like its predecessors, it, too, was successful, and the larger machine was started. Sometime before the end of 1949, it will be completed. And science will have a new tool, an instrument to make cosmic rays, create mesons, and study the heart of the atom. Another one, with a tale, ofwan, can be guaranteed. And we get stabbed a little kidnapper? Здесь of a Dahист durThat's a good idea, but the new music there.ديolns' soul is tearing up without a ray of amar. You're powerful The ideas and projects developed by Dr. Donald W. Kirst at the University of Illinois measure to some extent the way in which science is serving you. We know that the atom, the electron, isotopes and nuclear physics can be weapons of war. But more important to us is their role in peace, their work in industry, in medicine and in science. In this way, your state university has erected another milestone in the unending research which goes beyond teaching. b
