1950, pivot point of the American century. From 1900 to 1950, America has seen changes undreamed of before this century. Mechanical changes that have revolutionized industry and agriculture. Economic changes that have made big business a part of the American scene. Social changes that promise to give security and freedom to 150 million American citizens. We have had a magnificent half-century of progress. It has been the age of startling inventions. Radio, the airplane, and now television. But today we face a new half-century. In looking toward the years that will unfold after 1950, we search for leaders who can answer the question, what will 1950 bring? 1950, pivot point of the American century. How will the new year change the face and fortune of America? Will labor seek another round of wage increases? What about taxes? Will they be raised or lowered? Will business continue at a high level? What changes will the 1950 elections bring? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents I for Sea in 1950, a special transcribed New Year's program of the reviewing stand. Eight outstanding Americans, Robert Taft, Claude Pepper, Margaret Chase Smith, Philip Murray, Henry Kaiser, Paul Hoffman, Bing Crosby, and Fulton Sheen, bring you their candid predictions for the coming year. These men and women are helping reshape the destiny of this century, of this world. They are writing history, writing the significant chapters of a book that might well be titled, The American Century. One of the names that stands out in this volume is that of Robert A. Taft, prominent spokesman of the Republican Party. For a decade, he has helped write history from his seat in the United States Senate. What do you predict for the first year of the second half of the century, Senator Taft? I do not remember a time when the political situation, both in America and throughout the world, was as confused as it is today, or when it was as difficult to make predictions. The world situation depends largely on the Russian state of mind, which I do not claim to understand. I feel a little more able to predict the domestic situation, because I have spent the last three months traveling into nearly all of the counties of the state of Ohio, whose population is fairly typical of the United States. I believe the 81st Congress will reject the extreme plans to destroy liberty and equal justice in the United States by new economic controls and new handout programs. I believe specifically that this Congress will reject the repeal of the Taft-Hartley Act, the proposal for socialized and nationalized medicine, the Brannan Plan for agriculture, and universal military training. I believe its action in those regards will be overwhelmingly approved for the people at the polls in November by the election of a more conservative Congress than this one. On the other hand, I believe this Congress will act to improve our present system, in particular by providing greater equality. First, by passing some of the civil rights measures, perhaps the poll tax repeal and anti-lynching laws. Second, by revising the tax laws, probably without any net increase in taxes, however. Third, by improving the old-age insurance plan, perhaps providing a comprehensive study of pensions. Fourth, by passing laws to assist states in doing a more comprehensive job in the public health field and providing for more doctors and nurses. The most serious delinquency of this Congress is likely to be a continuation of the policy of deficit spending and extravagant appropriations such as were made in the first session. If we do still face a continuing deficit in November 1950, I believe the people will speak convincingly at the election against the fatal danger of continuing such a policy. I believe that in that election, those senators and congressmen will be elected who speak out most clearly for progress within American principles of liberty, equality, and justice, and against bureaucratic control and free handouts to those who are able and, in fact, willing to stand on their own feet. In our chronicle of the American century, we turn now from the viewpoint of Senator Taft to that of Senator Claude Pepper, an outstanding advocate of most administration policies and a bulwark of the Democratic Party. What do you foresee in 1950, Senator Pepper? I see in the new year the further unfolding of the American dream, the recognition we are all children of one God, brothers in the fraternity of man, seeing in every human being the dignity that deserves respect and justice, disdaining intolerance, bigotry, and injustice, a people aware of a common destiny, discharging a common duty to help one another and to help all to rise to higher levels by those standards which time and faith have taught us are dependable, learning to reconcile the two entities which we are, individuals and a people with due regard for each, and when we cannot otherwise effectively further those ends that we hold dear and help one another as we feel is our duty and others' right, using a free government as the servant of a sovereign people to help all and especially to help those who need help most, particularly helping people to live better in their homes, to enjoy better health, to be more secure against disease, and wherever the genius of science can save life or cure ills to help it to do so. Yes, a serving government of a sovereign people, helping to develop all our capacities which serve good purposes in every proper way, assisting the people to exercise the divine duty to work where they can work best, helping to lighten the burden of disaster and to ease the shock of misfortune, to care for those needing care, either in illness, disability, or old age, and stimulating all endeavor which promotes the common good and those mental and spiritual values which give the deepest of all satisfaction. And above everything else, may we be a people seeking and serving an honorable peace through which the human race may become more perfectly the human family. As this is our dream, we pray that it may be the will of the Father of all men to put great dreams in the hearts of all people and that he may make our dreams and the dreams of other peoples ever more alike and less different, possessing more of good and less of bad. Believing in mankind and that man was made to rise ever higher and higher, though it be step by step, I see in this great land in 1950 a prospering and progressing people in a bettering world. one feature of our book on the American century is the ever-growing influence of women on the political and legislative life of our country. One of the most brilliant exponents of the American woman's viewpoint is Margaret Chase Smith, United States Senator from Maine. Senator Smith's far-sighted opinions on American politics may well affect the course of the Republican Party in the year to come. Her predictions for 1950 will be read by a member of WGN staff, Miss Virginia Gale. I foresee, in 1950, a growing awareness on the part of our federal government and the major political parties of their responsibility to the American public. More important, I foresee John and Jane Q. public accepting their responsibility for greater participation in their government, going to the election polls in growing numbers to register their approval or disapproval in the most effective way they can instead of staying at home as 45 million eligible voters did in 1948. I foresee women awakening to their political power with an increasing number of women gaining elective and appointive high-level positions in our government on the basis of ability rather than prejudice for or against them merely because they are women. in its attempt to make a political comeback and give the Democratic Party a little more competition, I foresee the Republican Party making definite progress in humanizing itself in the eyes of the electorate, of dispelling, without preaching, class hatred against honestly earned wealth, the misconception that it is the exclusive club party of wealthy wearers of orchids and top hats. I foresee the development in the Republican Party of a moderate middle group between the extremes of me-tours to the left and againers to the right who oppose everything the Democrats have done including the good things. Attuning the thinking of the Republican Party to the thinking of the people and getting away from the error of trying to tell the people what to think. In fact, I foresee as the number one national development in 1950 an emphasis and growth of moderation and a trend away from the extremes that have marked the recent years. I happily foresee business, labor, and political parties beginning to learn to think beyond the narrow limits of their own advantages, projecting their thinking beyond to the public and its interests and becoming more sensitive to and appreciative of public opinion. All in all, I foresee in 1950 a growing realization on the part of all of us, of all groups and individuals, of our interdependence, our mutual dependence upon each other. That realized interdependence will pave a two-way street between the government and the people. The government will think more about its people and the people will think more about their government. From the field of politics, we turn now to the place of business in the American century. The past decade has witnessed an unbelievable expansion of production and has uncovered many new figures who dominate the business world. Among the foremost of these leaders is Henry J. Kaiser, whose genius fashioned and produced many of the weapons so vital in winning the war. Mr. Kaiser, what do you foresee for this mid-century year? I foresee 1950 as a year of opportunity, a really great opportunity for individual Americans. Businessmen have raised their sights to the magnitude and to the lasting nature of post-war opportunities. They have shaken off most of their qualms over the readjustments that they surmounted last year. They now recognize that people's demand for a higher standard of living is permanent. The new year is an appropriate time to remind ourselves that the long-range direction of the people is forward. The pace is dynamic. Generation after generation, our people and their industries have doubled the national production every 20 years. And to the imaginative youth of our land, to the men and women who still dare, the voice within says, what we have done in the past can be improved and we will do better in the future. I foresee 1950s, better human relationships, better employee management relationships to raise productivity, a better standard of medical care. I foresee doctors developing the opportunity ever increasingly to combine prepayments, group practices, medical centers, and private medicine into a wider and better distribution of the best medical care for the people at the lowest cost on a private enterprise basis. I foresee great opportunities for Congress to adopt tax incentives to stimulate our savings and investing. I foresee tax incentives to industry, which will keep the national economy dynamic, expanding, producing more goods at lower cost with the fundamental, important result of bringing more things to more people. I foresee all these things because it is true as the Bible teaches us that if thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believe us. Thank God that in the United States we are free. Each individual has the freedom and the opportunity to work out an unlimited personal destiny for himself. William James said, men habitually use only a small part of the powers which they possess and which they might use under appropriate circumstances. I foresee more and more people using their untapped powers of achievement to make the new year greater, not only themselves as individuals, but for the nation. Business expands only when working with labor, and perhaps labor itself has made the strongest impact on the American citizenry. Today, America's working men are well organized to express their desires. In the American century, two great labor organizations, the CIO and the AFL, have grown to phenomenal strength. Outstanding leaders have emerged from the ranks of labor itself to direct labor's destinies. Philip Murray, what do you foresee for 1950? Labor in America has come of age during the past 50 years. Its activities have contributed greatly to the welfare of the people of our nation. Thanks to the effectiveness of our workers in our unions, we have maintained constant progress toward our goals of political and economic democracy. But today, at the turning point of this eventful 20th century, we cannot and we must not rest on our past accomplishments. The CIO will continue to press forward its crusade to win a better, more secure life for the workers of America. These gains will not be confined to the membership of our unions, for it has always been true that what is good for labor is good for all the people. In 1950 and the years ahead, American unions will actively support a number of projects in which every group in the population is intensely interested. We want peace. Labor wants international stability and international control of the atomic bomb which can destroy us all. We want democracy strength. At home, we want civil rights legislation. Abroad, the CIO, together with other American unions, is joining with unions from the democratic world to improve living standards and human rights in every nation. We want prosperity. It can be preserved by giving workers a fair share of the benefits of the country's constantly rising productive efficiency. and we shall strive to regain full employment, a job for every person. We want security. Our unions have pioneered in obtaining decent pensions for older workers. This campaign to improve the security of the individual will certainly continue. The day has passed when this nation can ignore the hardship and suffering of its elder generation. labor in 1950 will make progress toward the attainment of these laudable objectives of peace, prosperity, and security. And all America will benefit by labor's actions. We must not permit the effectiveness and constructive program of organized labor to be hampered by such restrictive laws as the Taft-Hatley Act, which I know will soon be repealed. The Taft-Hatley Act will be repealed because most Americans know that a free labor movement is one of our nation's most precious assets. In the American century, the United States has grown to world leadership, has shouldered responsibilities for the well-being of peoples around a shrinking earth. The world has looked to America for help, and help is being given. Through the Economic Cooperation Administration, we are working to rehabilitate millions of less fortunate people. Men of character have emerged to direct the international activities of this nation. Administrator Paul Hoffman, what do you foresee for 1950? In the first five months of the new year 1950, the United States will be called upon to make decisions that will affect the course of history for the next five decades. among the momentous decisions which must be made is whether we will carry through to its completion the Marshall Plan, which was initiated by the United States nearly two years ago. It was initiated as a four-year program scheduled to terminate on June 30, 1952. Its purpose is to help the free nations of Western Europe to achieve a degree of recovery that will form the basis for a just and enduring peace. When the Marshall Plan started operating, many millions of people in Western Europe were war-weary, hungry, and filled with despair. They looked to the United States for leadership and aid because we alone had the material and resources to avert the total chaos that threatened. Today, the people in the Marshall Plan countries have a sustained diet. They are working hard at useful jobs. Despair has turned into hope. This progress has been made in the face of a Cold War which the Kremlin openly declared against the Marshall Plan at its inception and which it is still relentlessly carrying on. Through propaganda, sabotage, and Moscow-inspired strikes, they are endeavoring to bring back hunger and despair. In the remaining two years of the Marshall Plan, our task is to help the free nations of Western Europe win the Cold War that the Kremlin is waiting against them and to build the economic space of liberty so soundly that there can be no possibility of collapse in the chaos. The job immediately ahead is to tend us. Europe must modernize its way of doing business through the use of new tools and methods. Output per hour must be lifted to new heights so that the standard of living in Europe can be increased sharply. The Marshall Plan countries must continue to increase their exports to us and in that way earn dollars so they can become cash-on-the-barrel-head customers, not charity-hades. In all this, we must continue to lead. History has devolved this role upon us no matter how reluctantly we accept it. We shall, I know, accept it and act with wisdom and mercy and great vision because the alternative is unthinkable. The alternative to our continued leadership is nothing less than a new dark age for mankind with war emergencies, misery, and even enslavement, the common lot of man. I am convinced that with our help the free nations of Western Europe can win the Cold War, that America will continue to play its part, that the free nations of Western Europe will stick with this free nation of ours in building a peaceful, prosperous, free world. If we do this, and I believe we will, the prospects that I foresee in 1950 are bright. It could indeed become year one in the golden age of which all men of goodwill have dreamed over the centuries. An essential phase of American life has always been entertainment. Its growth to a nationwide business is testimony to the significant place it holds in all our lives. For a prediction about the future of the entertainment business, we turn to a man who is known and loved by all Americans. A man who is identified with all the joy and happiness the word entertainment implies. A man whose influence only begins in the entertainment world because he has a place in the affections of people the world over. This is Bing Crosby speaking. I foresee great progress in the entertainment field in 1950. You know, Americans like entertainment, and they like to be entertained. In 1950, promises a bumper crop in all branches of show business. Those who guide the destinies of the theater, radio, and the motion picture industries, they realize that they must, this year, do battle with that happy little newcomer, television. They further realize that they must go all out for more improved and better entertainment to combat the competition television is bound to offer during this year. Here's a point which occurs to me which seems outstanding in endeavoring to contrast television with radio. This point, of course, is solely from the artist's point of view. I think he should appear half as much and he has to be twice as good. Of course, television at present leaves much to be desired, but it will greatly improve, vastly improve, in 1950. Thus, the whole watchword of the entire theatrical world is improvement. This naturally means more and better entertainment for all. Thank you very much and a happy new year. Deep within every man's heart is a hard core of belief. It makes him not just an American citizen, but a servant of some higher force. No chronicle of the American century, no predictions for the coming year would be complete without an appraisal of man's feelings on moral issues. The right reverend Monsignor Fulton J. Sheen. Friends. Friends. I foresee a wiser and happier people in 1950, and for three reasons. First, because people are beginning to see that the cause of our troubles is not in things, but in our hearts. If it were in things, all that we would have to do would be to change our politics and our economics, or through a revolution, shift booty and loot from one pocket to another. But the newer insights of people perceive that since nothing ever happens in the world that does not first happen in their hearts, unless these are changed, nothing is changed. That is why they are beginning a new era of soul-making under God. Secondly, because those who are suffering, sick, or the victims of injustice are learning that the only consolation that they can have for their tears is a God who himself has walked down the road of suffering and found victory in defeat. Looking at the cross, they no longer say, what does God know about pain? For here is a God who has taken his own medicine. If he has taken suffering, then it fits into the divine plan and can be used not only for the purification of our own souls, but also for the redemption of the world. Thirdly, because people are coming to a deeper understanding of love. They see that love has three stages. The first is the digestive stage, where we take all the loving we can, but give none. The second is the reciprocal stage, in which we love only those who love us and treat them as equals. The third stage is one in which we offer ourselves for others because we see them as better than we are whether they love us or not. I foresee a day when the American people will go around putting love where they do not find it and thus find everyone lovable. Then will come to them that happy new year in which they will thrill to the knowledge that it takes not two but three to make love. You and me and God. God love you. You have just heard the voices of Robert Taft, Claude Pepper, Philip Murray, Henry Kaiser, Paul Hoffman, Bing Crosby, Fulton Sheen, and Margaret Chase Smith by proxy. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is proud to present America's outstanding citizens in this important New Year's broadcast. To secure a copy of this program, just send ten cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. The reviewing stand wishes to thank Station KCNA, Tucson, Arizona, Station WCPO, Cincinnati, Ohio, Station WOL, Washington, D.C., KROW in Oakland, California, KCLW in Detroit, Michigan, KQV, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Station WTAL, Tallahassee, Florida, and WTVL Waterville, Maine, for cooperating in the production of this program. We wish to thank all of the stations of the mutual network who have cooperated with us during the year 1949 in securing transcribed speeches for reviewing stand broadcasts. Next week, the reviewing stand searches for the formula for success on the job. Our broadcast is titled Selling Your Ideas on the Job. Our guests will be James Alsdorf, president of the Corey Corporation, Ben Cartman, associate editor of Coronet Magazine, Harold North, manager of the industrial relations department of Swift and Company, and Albert C. Van Dusen, associate professor of psychology at Northwestern University, and head of the adult counseling program at University College. We invite you to listen next week for Selling Your Ideas on the Job. This program was organized and directed by Leighton Boren. Continuity was written by Clifford Hicks. The program was transcribed. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Bill O'Connor. This is the world's largest network, serving more than 500 radio stations, the Mutual Broadcasting System. issue one of attest host So wood is here conference