Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. From the grand ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, your city station now brings you the broadcast of the annual Alfred E. Smith Memorial Dinner. Among the speakers this evening will be the Honorable Vincent Impelletari, Mayor of the City of New York. And now, to introduce the speakers, here is Charles Silva. The Eminence, Vice President Barclay, Governor Dewey, Secretary of Labor Tobin, Ambassador O'Dwyer, Acting Mayor Impelletari, Honored Guests, and Ladies and Gentlemen. We are gathered here this evening to pay our annual tribute to one of the most beloved Americans of our time. Our dinner this year takes on an unusual significance. It is being held at a time when the freedom of men is threatened by the dark forces of those slave states which would engulf all mankind. Yet, we need not despair. We honor the memory of a man who poured out his very life and fine abilities for the men, women, and children of a great democracy. And tonight, we know that on the blood-soaked battlefields of Korea, together with our sister democracies in the United Nations, we are driving back the cruel red hordes and saying to them, in effect, we shall not permit you to pierce the heart of democracy with a prison spear of your godless philosophy. What are we fighting to preserve? Is it an economic theory, a system of government, a way of living, human dignity? I would say that it is all of these and even more. But above all, that it was all of these, we are engaged in a struggle to preserve the freedom of the individual and to keep him from being thrown in a pit of terror and slavery. Millions of words have been written on communism and the misery and bloodshed which it has already caused in various parts of the world. Commentators in the press and on the radio, not only in this country, but in other democratic nations, have described with great clarity and intelligence the aims and objectives of communism. But it seems to me, my friends, that the reason for our dislike of communism has been compressed in a few simple and stirring words by one who gave his life for democracy. He understood thoroughly what we were fighting for and he spoke his mind not to a large audience or through the medium of a newspaper, but in a permanent and eloquent letter which he wrote to his two little daughters in Philadelphia. He was Private John J. McCormick and his letter came from Korea. It reached Mary McCormick, his wife, three days after a telegram from the Defense Department advised her that he had been killed in action on August the 10th. This is what he said in his heartbreaking letter which Mrs. McCormick read to the little girls. I want you both to know that I would be with you if I could, for there are a lot of bad men in the world and if they were allowed to do what they wanted to do, little girls like you wouldn't be allowed to go to church on Sunday or be able to go to the school you wanted to. So I have to help fight these men to keep them from coming where you and I live. It might take a long while and Daddy may have to go to help God in Heaven. And if I do, I always want you to be good to Mommy because she is the best Mommy in the whole world. My friends, there you have the answer. It is the answer I imagine that Al Smith would have given, that Lincoln would have given, that every American leader and statesman would have given. And if you are asked what we are doing in Korea or in any other part of the world where freedom is being threatened, just quote the words of that young man who gave his life for democracy. None can give a better answer. None can speak with greatest sincerity. In that final letter to his children, this young man told with simple honesty and conviction what is meant by the American way of life. And his words came from his heart. And so in opening the proceedings at this dinner, I should like to leave with you one other thought before presenting the distinguished and eloquent speakers from whom we are to hear presently. We who are gathered in this great banquet hall, men and women in all walks of life, of all faiths and creeds, are united, I am sure, in our loyalty to our country. Loyalty. Loyalty was one of the strong qualities of Al Smith. Loyalty to America and its institutions and its friends. We are blessed with great natural resources. Our standard of life is the highest in all the world. We have food and clothing in great abundance. We who cannot actively participate in the military phases of our defense program must accept the challenge that faces us in the area of moral and financial support. We know that we have no alternative but to be prepared to meet any threat that may be hurled against us. Building an adequate armed defense will call for heavy financial burdens on us. Each of us will have to pay his share. I have heard some speak of sacrifices. But have we a right to use the word sacrifice? What we are asked to give are mere dollars and cents. How puny, how insignificant that is compared with what that young man who wrote to his children and the thousands like him that have given their last measure of devotion to the sacred cause of liberty. It is they who are making the sacrifices. The supreme sacrifices with their bodies and their souls. It is they who carry the torch of freedom on the field of battle. It is they who have died and shall die so that democracy may remain on the face of this earth. As I said a few moments ago, our dinner has an unusual significance because of the world situation this year. It is significant for another and very important reason. We have opened the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Wing to St. Vincent Hospital, an institution sponsored by Catholics whose doors are always open to the sick and ailing and helpless of the Protestant and Jewish faith. That is also one of the symbols of democracy. There are no barriers of race or creed in our beloved country. Those who seek aid in St. Vincent's Hospital are not asked to what political party they belong or in what church they worship. But democracy in St. Vincent's Hospital, democracy in this country and indeed through many parts of the world is now on the march. The path which it travels can have no turning. It leads straight to human decency and love of fellow men. We Americans will not falter for we know in our hearts that democracy will live so long as men cherish the ideals of our founding fathers. Communists and communism have challenged us and we have given our answer. They cannot mistake it. And when the forces of democracy have triumphed, we shall stretch out our hands in friendly greeting to the peoples throughout the world who have thrown off the yoke of their masters. We shall not speak of military victories nor will we gloat over our triumph. For it will be a victory of truth and justice instead of being written in letters of love. It will be written in lofty and inspiring words and phrases from the hearts and minds of peace-loving men. Thank you. My friends, the city of New York, with its large population of all races and creeds, is constantly faced with numerous problems. One of the most vital of these problems concerns the increasing need for more hospital facilities. The Alfred E. Smith Memorial addition to St. Vincent Hospital is intended to help meet these pressing needs. I myself know how acute these problems are because I happen to be the president of the Beth Israel Hospital. My associates and I are being called down constantly to make vital and very difficult decisions. Our city officials have been coping with these problems for many years. And few are more familiar with them than the head of our great city, Acting Mayor Vincent Impeletere. It is my pleasure to present to you, ladies and gentlemen, an able servant of the city of New York, the honorable Vincent Impeletere. Thank you. This is my pleasure to present to you, ladies and gentlemen, an able servant of the city of New York, Mr. Silver, Your Eminence, Vice President Buckley, Governor Dewey, distinguished guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is a privilege and pleasure to join in this tribute tonight, honoring the memory of a great American and a great New Yorker, Alfred E. Smith. As Acting Mayor, I have the additional pleasure to extend the city's warm welcome to the charming Dione girls, their classmates, and to Papa Dione. May their stay in our city be an interesting and memorable one. For many of us, particularly those who entered life's arena a generation or two after him, the man we honor tonight was the personification of all the opportunities of our vast, sprawling city and our American way of life. Al Smith was born down on South Street, underneath the Brooklyn Bridge, the next to the last day of the year, 1873. Of God-fearing, humble parents, he grew with New York. His rise to greatness was a saga of hard work coupled with the opportunities of our free, democratic society. Throughout his life, he remained the good American and devout Catholic his parents were, and adhered to the ethics and principles instilled in him from boyhood days. He once told the story of how, as an altar boy, at the old St. James Church, and I quote, a boy named Johnny Keating, who lived in the double alley in Cherry Street, and myself, drew six o'clock mass in the month of January. My mother insisted that I have a cup of coffee in a row before I left in the morning, and her sacrifice during that month was even greater than mine. Al Smith learned of sacrifice early in his life, and throughout his life, he devoted himself to sacrifice for his God, his country, and his fellow man. His life was just as simple as that. He never shirked a duty or an obligation. Never forgot his boyhood experiences. Had a deep love for his fellow human beings. And considered all life as a stewardship for his creator. His great program of social legislation for the state of New York, which was a forerunner of the Democratic New Deal and Fair Deal, was propelled by an understanding of the principle laid down by Pope Leo XIII, that whenever the general interest or any particular class suffers or is threatened with injury, which can in no other way be met or prevented, it is the duty of the public authority, that is the state, to intervene. And intervene he did, time and time again, taking his fight for social justice and progress directly to the people, when legislators and lawmakers stood in his way against the people's betterment. Yes, his life typified the strength and opportunities, but also the weaknesses of our American way of life. May I cite only one instance, and again from his own book, discussing the religious bigotry that was injected into his campaign for the presidency, Smith in his autobiography, entirely without rancor, and as the keen political analyst he was, said, and I quote, The distressing thing about any degree of success in a campaign of that kind is the exhibition of so much ignorance in a country which has expended so many millions of dollars in the cost of public education. It is amazing in this day and age that such countless thousands of people are so stupid as to believe the absolute false and senseless propaganda that was whispered around during the last campaign. We might ask ourselves tonight, have we learned much since then? I sincerely hope that we have. In the few minutes remaining to me, I should like just to touch upon the lasting memorial to this great American and Catholic, the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Hospital of St. Vincent's Hospital down in the village, in which his old friend, Charlie Silver, our distinguished Toastmaster, has taken such a leading role. During his lifetime, former Governor Smith worked hard in the hospital's behalf. Through his influence, a half-million-dollar bequest was granted St. Vincent's, which enabled it to build its present clinic building in 1931. Later, he headed a special fund appeal to the fray building costs of the hospital's Spelman Pavilion, which was dedicated in 1942 by his eminence, Cardinal Spelman. In 1945, it was decided to name the proposed 160-bed addition to St. Vincent's in memory of the happy warrior. And on October 4, 1945, the first anniversary of his death, a dinner at this hotel marked the opening of a nationwide fund appeal for the Smith Memorial. Two years later, construction began, and Cardinal Spelman dedicated the new Alfred E. Smith Memorial Building on May 10th last. This addition brings St. Vincent's total bed capacity to 622 beds and 50 bassinets, making it the largest Catholic hospital in the East. There could be no more fitting memorial to Alfred E. Smith than this great addition to a great hospital of charity, which for over a century has cared for the sick and injured, regardless of race, creed, or color. From Civil War days, to the survivors of the battleship Maine and the Titanic and General Slocum disasters, the Triangle Factory fire, and the victims of Al Smith's own Empire State Building disaster in 1945, when a low-flying B-25 bomber crashed into an upper floor of the skyscraper, killing 13 and seriously injuring 25. The story of Al Smith is, for me, the story of the rise of Christian charity in a humble man's heart and also in his mind which made him forever a leader of men. And, apropos of this, I should like to quote our Cardinal's words to the Sisters of Charity, oldest religious order of women in the Archdiocese of New York, and heart-spring of St. Vincent's Hospital. He said this at the dedication of the Spelman Pavilion, for which Al Smith headed the successful fund drive, and I quote his eminence. The most conspicuous service is the humble day-to-day, week-in and week-out, year-in and year-out dedication, devotion, and consecration of their lives, in the help and care of the helpless and needy, till the end of their lives. I know the Cardinal will forgive me, as will the good sisters whose prayers flow heavenward daily, for the repose of the soul of him whom we honor tonight, if I take the liberty of paraphrasing this eloquent tribute and say of Alfred Emanuel Smith. His most conspicuous service was his dedication that flowered spiritually through his lifetime because of his deep, inborn faith in God and in God's creatures. Thank you. Your city station has brought you, from the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, a broadcast of the annual Alfred Emanuel Smith Memorial Dinner. You have just heard the voice of the Honorable Vincent R. Impelitari, Mayor of the City of New York. We return you now to our downtown studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.