Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We're speaking to you from the mayor's office in City Hall, where your city station is about to bring you the ceremonies welcoming General Brehon Somerville, director of the United States Army Service Forces during the war. General Somerville was the man responsible for the unending flow of supplies that reached our fighting men on the far-flung battlefields of the world. And it was through his organization and foresight that the words too little and too late became an antiquated phrase of history. His Honor, Mayor F.H. LaGuardia, will present the general with an honorary citizenship of the city of New York during the course of these ceremonies here in the mayor's office. The general has just arrived, preceded by two motorcycles, the police escort, one of them bearing his four-star flag. He was greeted by a flourish of trumpets and drums from the Department of Sanitation band. He made his entry immediately after recognizing the greeting from the band while standing at attention with Captain Kelly, the mayor's police aide, with his gold braid stringing from his shoulder. He made his entry with his party, Mrs. Somerville accompanying the party to the mayor's office. The group is gathered here now, and there is a very large group of noted people. Among them, the representatives of the Army, the commander of the New York Port of Embarkation, Major General C.H. Kells, the chief of the Eastern Defense Command, Colonel Paul J. MacDonald, Major General Edwin Levy, the new national chief of transportation who's just come from Washington for this ceremony, Major General Larkin, representing the Second Service Command, who took General Terry's place. Representing the Navy is the, just a moment, commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier, Vice Admiral H.F. Leary, USN. And, ladies and gentlemen, we're just about ready to turn you over to the ceremonies. The next voice you will hear will be that of Mayor F.H. LaGuardia. This is a very happy occasion for New York City. We're honoring a native son of Arkansas, but an adopted son of New York City. General Burns Somerville is well known to the people of our city. We learned of his great organization genius, his vision and ability as an engineer, and we saw his administrative skill. the performance of one of the most difficult tasks ever given to one man. And he held that post for four long, difficult, trying years. General Somerville was selected take charge of WPA in New York City, the most important post in work relief during those hard years. He succeeded Mr. Victor Ritter, who did a magnificent job, who in turn succeeded Hugh Johnson, General Hugh Johnson. Of course, there was a great deal said in those days about work relief. It was the butt of jokes. It was the routine of gag men and the special delight of smug, comfortable, well-fed publishers who couldn't understand the plight of the head of a family who through no fault of his own found himself out of work and his family destitute. But what they said and the criticism of those days is no longer remembered. But what General Somerville did is the constant reminder all over this city of what these unfortunate people did. He created useful work as so that men and women could retain their self-respect and the dignity of an American citizen and bridge over the period until regular employment was available. great municipal airport in New York, which we're so proud. Credit is due entirely to General Somerville. All we had was an option for land and an idea. I remember, General, the first day we went out there on top of the hill in a cold, afternoon, bleak. first thought grading, having a small field there for private crimes. And every time I saw the jungle, which was about two or three times a week, that field grew larger and larger and larger. That's the monument. the unemployed of that period. Forty million dollars went into that field. Twenty-two federal government, 18 New York City contributions. Hundreds of miles of sewers were laid. Hundreds and hundreds of acres of swamp, mosquito breeding, marshes were reclaimed. Station houses, firehouses. We even built one of the public schools. A laboratory up at NYU built in conjunction with the sanitation department, public work. Hundreds of miles of trolley tracks were removed from the street. Hundreds of miles of pavement, all under the personal direction of General Somerbaugh and his predecessor. Then WPA came to an end. The madmen of Europe turned loose. General, then Lieutenant Colonel Somerbaugh resumed his military duty in the Engineering Corps beyond. His ability, his genius, his vision was soon recognized and promotion followed in weeks up to the time that he was given full and complete command of the entire service of supplies. Greatest responsibility in the entire war. We know our men are brave and we knew that we had the officers to train them. But modern warfare requires equipment, material, food, transportation, guns, cannons, planes, tanks, trucks, ships, there's no air. General Somerbaugh marshaled the great industrial forces of our country. And it's his task, it's his responsibility to have everything that the army needed anytime, anywhere. And that was accomplished. Now, if the general had been short any time, you would have heard it. And perhaps he wouldn't be here today, be up on the hill, Washington. Now, general, let me get you on the hill because you did have enough. And I'm sure that the million of men who served in the armed forces, the army, one day will be able to look from a distant perspective at what was accomplished and what they had, the best fed, the best clad, the best armed army the world has ever seen. We're proud of you, Senator. General, now, as you know, General, there isn't much a city can do except to record our feeling on paper. And we hope that you will take this knowing that it comes right from the heart and to always remember that you have the love and the affection and the admiration of seven and a half million people of this great city. I'm happy and honored and proud to read the citation of the city of New York. The city of New York, the people of the city of New York will hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, General Baron B. Somerville, whose outstanding work as WPA administrator for New York City in the years 1936 and 1940, and whose incomparable accomplishment in equipping, supplying the greatest army that the United States has ever put into the field as commanding General U.S. Army Service forces in World War II have enlisted the heartfelt gratitude and deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York. Mr. Mayor, I deeply appreciate this honor that's been done to me, particularly because I know the warmth of the affection that goes with the presentation of this scroll. I'm glad you recall the days I spent here as WPA administrator. I'll admit they were somewhat trying days, but I'll also say that because you and all of your commissioners took me into the official family, so to speak, my task was made possible. We certainly couldn't have done what we did do unless we had the wholehearted support and backing of the city. work. As far as the ASF is concerned, I think this skull is a tribute to the men of the organization, the men who worked with us in all government departments in producing and transporting what we had to do more than it is to me. the organization had a slogan of enough and on time, and I'm awfully happy to feel that we made good on that slogan. But I think the thing that occurs to me most in connection with this scroll, Mr. Mayor, is a little conversation you and I had one day when we were discussing a certain subject. you felt that the position I was taking was a little bit too strong and you wound up by saying, hell, the trouble with you is you want to be appreciated and I certainly recognize now after all these years that we are appreciated and I sincerely appreciate the honor. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard the ceremonies from the mayor's office, the Mayor F.H. LaGuardia right here in City Hall, where Mayor LaGuardia presented an award of merit and an honorary citizenship to General Briehon Burke Somerville, director of the United States Army Service Forces during the war. gathered here were a vast group of notables of the forces. The Army was well represented. The Navy was represented by Vice Admiral H.F. Leary, commander of the Eastern Sea Frontier, Gulf Frontier, and of the 16th Fleet. Several gentlemen working in General Somerville's office were here to see the ceremonies, General Robinson and Colonel Gottschalk. Among the civilians who were here, a vast group of people, including Mrs. LaGuardia, of course, Mrs. Somerville was here, Newbold Morris, Grover Whalen, Chief Magistrate Edgar Bromberger, Fire Commissioner Patrick J. Walsh, Police Commissioner of the City of New York, Wallander, Bar President Lyons of the Bronx, Commissioner Huey of Public Works, Brooklyn Councilman Genevieve P. Earle, and a good many others that we can't even see to give you an idea of. The ceremonies were accompanied by a general photograph taking and a good deal of applause, as you no doubt heard, and now there's just the usual conclusion to this affair, a general good feeling, a good deal of handshaking all around, and we think we're through from this point, so we return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.
