Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent, affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, the Roundtable discusses stress and disease. Taking part in this program are Dr. Hans Selye of the Institute of Medicine and Experimental Surgery of the University of Montreal, Dr. Jerome Kahn of the Medical School of the University of Michigan, and Dr. Albert Dorfman of the Medical School of the University of Chicago. And now to open today's University of Chicago Roundtable on Stress and Disease, we present Dr. Dorfman. Almost two years have now elapsed since the announcement of the discovery of the effects of ACTH and cortisone on rheumatoid arthritis. During this time, many patients have been treated with these drugs, and many experiments have been conducted to attempt to understand their action better. It has been clear to everybody that they represent a very major change in our entire thinking about the disease. Dr. Kahn, you've had a great deal of experience both experimentally and in treating patients with these drugs. How do you feel about the impact of this discovery? There are, in my opinion, two major potentials regarding the use of these compounds. First, the employment of these substances as experimental tools, so to speak, with which it may be possible to learn many of the fundamental mechanisms about disease, what a disease is all about. And the second potential is the use of these substances as medicines in the treatment of disease. I think that the use of these substances as research tools probably represents their greatest potential. That is to say, we now have at our disposal materials which allow us to turn a disease on and off again. And so it ought to be possible for researchers to find out what's going on with respect to a particular disease. Dr. Selley, you've long been interested in the effects of hormones on disease process. How do you feel about this? Well, Dr. Dorfman, to me, the most important part in these discoveries is that I hope these substances will give us efficient tools with which to study adaptation, the adjustment of our body to any change, such as disease or cold or heat, changes which we might encounter in everyday life, including even nervous and psychic stress. We all know that everybody's heard a great deal about the miraculous cures of certain things, or at least changes in certain diseases by these hormones. They've been well publicized in the public press. But today we want to discuss a little more about the impact of this discovery and our thinking in medicine in general. Dr. Selley, you spoke of adaptation, the effects of stress. How did you relate these hormones to the effects of stress? Well, Dr. Dorfman, you mentioned that ACTH and cortisone are hormones. That is to say, they are chemical messengers, one might say, which the glands produce and by which they regulate various organs in the body. Now, in 1936, I was trying to isolate chemically some new hormones from endocrine glands, from these hormone-producing glands, and we prepared an extract which was very impure. It was a toxic, impure extract which we injected into animals, and we found that that extract stimulated the adrenal very much. By their microscopic structure, by their appearance in general, these glands seemed to be not only large but also extremely active. And this adrenal enlargement was associated with various other changes in the body. I think it would be too lengthy here to discuss them all in detail, but there were changes outside of the adrenal which represented a syndrome together with the adrenal changes. Well, how are the changes in the adrenal different than any others? Well, during stress and strain and damage, the body suffers. One loses weight, for instance. Well, the individual cells of the body, the cells in each organ, lose weight and show what we call signs of damage. Only the adrenal glands seem to be different in this respect. They seem to flourish on stress. They became larger and they were stimulated by stress. So we thought that perhaps this adrenal change, together with the other changes in the organs, represents what we call in medicine a syndrome, that is to say a set of symptoms or manifestations which belong together somehow. And we felt that this may be a syndrome of adaptation. We called it the adaptation syndrome. We felt that that syndrome represents the expression of an effort to adjust ourselves to change. We were able to produce that same syndrome, including that adrenal enlargement, with such different agents as drugs, infections, nervous strain. We were able to produce it with cold. But one couldn't say that it's really due to cold as such because the same syndrome was produced by heat. So we came to the conclusion that here we are dealing with a syndrome of stress, a syndrome caused by stress in which the adrenal enlargement was particularly obvious. Dr. Selya, you had some notion, didn't you, what would make the adrenals enlarge, by what mechanism the adrenals might enlarge. Well, in the beginning we didn't have very much of an idea about that. We thought that perhaps the nerves which go to the adrenal might be responsible, but if you cut the nerves, that didn't change anything. Stress would still stimulate the adrenals. So, a little later, stimulated mainly by the work of Dr. Evans in California and Dr. Philip Smith in New York, who have been working on the pituitary as having something to do with the regulation of adrenal function, we have removed the pituitary from animals and found that after the pituitary is removed, the adrenal does not respond anymore. So we felt that perhaps during stress, the pituitary is stimulated to produce something, to discharge something into the blood, a corticotrophic hormone, as one calls it now, or ACTH, which would be the agent, the chemical messenger, that tells the adrenal that there is an increased need for its work, for its activity. Under the influence of that ACTH, the adrenals would produce what we call corticoid compounds, and the cortisone that you mentioned, Dr. Dohertman, is one of these corticoid substances that the adrenal produces. Now then, at that time, of course, we didn't have any cortisone or any other pure adrenal cortical hormone, but we had adrenal extracts, and when we injected those into animals, we imitated some of the changes which occur during stress. And if you remove the adrenals, then these same changes were not produced by stress. So gradually, as you can see, this concept developed, that perhaps during stress, the pituitary is stimulated to produce ACTH, that in turn acts on the adrenal, and causes it to produce corticoids, and all that must be somehow useful for defense and resistance, and adaptation or adjustment to stress, because if you interfere with the mechanism at any point, either by removing the pituitary or the adrenal, then resistance to stress is at a low ebb. So, that way, we arrived at the conclusion that the pituitary and the adrenal play an important role in the adaptation syndrome, that the adaptation syndrome is perhaps a useful response necessary for adjustment, adjustment during disease, for instance, and that perhaps by helping that reaction, by injecting some of the hormones produced by the pituitary and the adrenal, one could fight the stress factor in disease, and help adaptation to what causes disease. Well, now, we've spoken a good deal about the things that happen in the experimental animal as a result of stress, and the role of the adrenal hormones, such as cortisone, in protecting the animal against the effects of stress. The problem of ACTH and cortisone and the thing that is so striking to everybody were its effects on certain human diseases, of which we knew very little. These diseases, of course, are now well known to everybody, particularly rheumatoid arthritis, rheumatic fever, a number of related diseases, a number of allergies. Now, some of the people who've been interested in these diseases from an entirely different point of view have regarded in a way not unlike your diseases of adaptation have considered these diseases as diseases which result from the reaction of the body to some type of unknown stimulus, whether we call it stress or some bacterial infection. They're different than the diseases such as pneumonia, which result specifically from the action of a particular microbe or bacterium. Now, ACTH and cortisone are hormones which affect these diseases very strikingly. Dr. Kahn, you've had a great deal of experience with their use. Have we gone far enough to say anything about what they really do? Are they really the miracle drugs that most people have been led to believe they are? Well, Dr. Dorfman, I would say this, that from the point of view of the clinician, he sees some very miraculous results when he gives ACTH or cortisone in a wide variety of diseases, things that the physician hasn't ever seen before. On the other hand, certain definite generalizations can now be made after a period of experience of almost two years with these drugs. First, we actually do not cure the disease when we give ACTH or cortisone because when these drugs are stopped, the disease comes back to its former state, even though the patient has received these materials for many months. It appears that we block the clinical manifestations of a disease which is still present. What do you mean by these changes that you see? What sort of changes does one actually see when these drugs are administered? Well, if a patient has severe arthritis and is bedridden, one frequently finds that the swelling of his joints disappears in several days and that a man that otherwise would not be expected to be able to walk is up walking with normal temperature and a good appetite. And as we say clinically, he feels very well. Then when the drug is stopped within a few days, sometimes several weeks, he's essentially back to the same place that he was before so that we haven't actually hit the underlying disease. Well, Dr. Kahn, from the experimental point of view, we have made the same type of observation. Now, for instance, in experimental animals, you can easily imitate an arthritis, for instance, by injecting a little bit of an irritating substance in the joint region that will cause swelling of the joint and will be an experimental simile of a human arthritis. And if you give ACTH or cortisone, then the same injection will not cause an arthritis. So that, just as you say, I think one can conclude that the manifestations of the abnormal reaction are inhibited by these drugs. And in the sense in which I tried to introduce our own interest in this subject, I would interpret it as indicating that the actual causative agent is not eliminated. In your case, whatever causes the disease, in our case, we say experimental animals, the irritating fluid that we injected into the joint region, the cause of the disease is not eliminated, but its manifestations are eliminated in the sense that we adjust ourselves to it. But you would agree, Dr. Selye, that no one yet has discovered the actual fundamental mechanisms by which these manifestations of disease are made to disappear under the influence of these hormones. No, I think the actual mechanism is entirely unknown. I wonder whether Dr. Dorfman perhaps has something to say here. What we can say and what seems to fit give us a certain unity of this is that here we have a wide variety of diseases. In some cases, we know something of the causes or the remote causes of these diseases. And although they have many different causes, we have in some way stopped the diseases from becoming apparent. I think all we can say at this stage of the game is that we've in some way changed the body so it no longer shows these reactions. But what we've done, I don't think, Dr. Selye, I can say any more about them than you can, and I doubt whether many people are willing to say that at this time. Dr. Dorfman, one of the difficulties that all of us have to contend with is that there doesn't appear to be any evidence at the present time that any of these diseases which respond so dramatically to these hormones have as the basis a deficiency of these hormones. That is to say, the amounts of materials that are required in order to make a disease go into so-called remission are far in excess of what we usually expect to find clinically. and so it's difficult to think of ACTH and cortisone as substituting for something that the body doesn't make. Well, then this is different than our knowledge up to now of the use of hormones so that this isn't comparable to using insulin and diabetes where we supply the amount of insulin that's required. This is some other kind of an effect that we're dealing with, you think? I think so because compared with the amounts of ACTH or cortisone that are needed for replacement in conditions where there actually is a deficiency of these hormones, the amounts required for these other diseases like arthritis are far in excess of that. Well, now, I wonder what you would think about the possibility that here we might be dealing with a relative deficiency of these hormones. That is to say under normal conditions we need a certain amount of ACTH and a certain amount of cortisone to get along and to meet the daily stresses of ordinary life but if we acquire some disease, for instance, which would seriously affect one part of the body, for instance, a joint, we would need very much more to meet it without showing manifestations of a local reaction. So that actually in the final analysis perhaps it would still be a sort of a deficiency deficiency in comparison with the increased amount needed. I think that's very possible, Dr. Selye. In fact, I think it's very likely but there's very little evidence at the moment with which we could support that. Well, now, you spoke of the fact that these drugs act to mask certain symptoms. Is this always a desirable thing? Do we have any adverse effects due to the fact that these drugs do these things? Yes, I think so. I think that we're coming now to see an increasing lack of resistance to infection by patients under long continued treatment with either ACTH or cortisone. And I think in this respect there is experimental evidence to back that up in animals as well. it probably is wise in view of what we're learning now to use some of the antibiotic agents such as penicillin in association with long continued use of these materials which seem to lower resistance to invading organisms. in addition to that there appear to be definite changes in the pituitary gland of people who have received these received cortisone at least for a week or two. Whether these changes are important still remains to be seen. There are other things that bother me a little bit. It still remains to be seen whether masking some of the clinical manifestations of a disease is a desirable thing. What you're saying then Dr. Kahn is that these agents apparently prevent certain types of reaction in the body. Sometimes these reactions are undesirable things and produce disease and sometimes these reactions help us get rid of disease and when they prevent the reactions which help us get rid of disease they're undesirable and lead to undesirable conclusions such as spread of infections and dangers of various kinds that we encounter so that these are agents that have to be used with a great deal of caution. Do you think at the present time that they can be used freely, safely or there's some special things that have to be observed in their use? No, by what I've said I don't mean to discourage the use of these compounds to alleviate suffering in many patients but simply to point out that we're dealing with extremely potent materials the precise activities of which are not yet fully understood. I think that if these materials are used carefully and with a full knowledge of our present background and with rigid control of the patient that one can feel a reasonable degree of safety but not completely because no one yet knows which way these things are going. One of the critical questions of course if they're going to contribute to our knowledge of disease is how they do them and this of course is a question that's occupied us all and many other people. Dr. Selley do you have any way that you think these fit into the general concept that you've developed over these years in which we can better explain what they all mean? Well, meanwhile we can only express thoughts and formulate theories. I don't think anybody would want to make any very definite and final statement about it but from what has been said around this table here it seems pretty obvious that wherever we give cortisone or ACTH there is always some question of helping adaptation or adjustment under abnormal conditions helping adaptation or adjustment to something that would be able to cause disease and I think it's in this sense that one might interpret their action. You will recall perhaps that when we first worked with a cortical hormone, the first one that was available to us in large enough quantities, that happened to be one of those cortical hormones which have in a sense antagonistic opposite effects to cortisone and with that hormone, about five years ago we've injected large amounts of these hormones into animals and we produced the same kind of disease that can now be beneficially influenced with cortisone or ACTH in men. So there seems to be a sort of a balance between the various types of cortical hormones and I think that this balance may help to adjust our adaptation to our surroundings. The diseases which we have produced experimentally by the hormones which seem to be opposite to cortisone are of the rheumatic and hypersensitivity type and it's again in the same type of disease that cortisone and ACTH can be effective. So I think that although this is not a final explanation and it is somewhat vague the easiest way to unite our knowledge and express some sort of a uniform opinion about it would be to say that these hormones of the adrenal help to adjust the response of various tissues to change to injury to the stress of disease to the stress of daily life. Well then you would emphasize Dr. Sully that what we're really doing with these things is we're essentially increasing the amount of substance available to the body to combat disease in the same way that the body does physiologically under conditions of stress but for some reason which at the moment is unknown to anybody certain individuals don't have enough enough or the right balance of substances and for that reason develop disease and if we give to these individuals artificially as medicine some of these compounds we accomplish the same purpose. Dr. Kahn do you feel this fit in with your concept of how these drugs act? Well in general but I'm not at all certain that it fits with all of the things that we see clinically. That is if one gives ACTH or cortisone to a patient with ordinary pneumonia the manifestations of that disease seem to disappear although the pneumonia keeps on going and then when one stops this ACTH or cortisone the patient again manifests the clinical evidence of pneumonia. I have difficulty in applying all of the basic concepts that Dr. Selye has mentioned to some of the things that we see clinically although they're obviously applicable in others. I think as I said earlier that the greatest contribution that these drugs can give to the clinical investigator is again the ability to turn off and on a disease and to get into the middle of it and find out what's going on. Well I think I would it seems to me from my own experience and experimental work the thing that impresses me that in some way we've created by giving these compounds almost an abnormal animal who doesn't anymore isn't capable anymore of getting a normal reaction. Now that normal reaction in some individuals or in the presence of certain disease stimuli is undesirable and if we prevent the animal from getting that reaction we've prevented or at least suppressed as you say the disease. On the other hand that normal reaction under other conditions is highly desirable and when we suppress it we do a highly undesirable thing. So it would seem to me from our own experience that we can sum it up our own feeling of the mechanism of action that we're creating a hyperadrenal animal. Now why some individuals should get these diseases even though at least by present techniques we can't find any evidence of deficiency of the reaction of the adrenals is something which none of us know. I think we ought to make it clear that in this last part particularly we're all speculating and that there's a great deal more evidence and we all may change our minds a great deal with future knowledge. Dr. Selye would you like to summarize your views and what you feel our present state is now almost two years after this great discovery what it all means to us now? Well I think for one thing thanks to the observations made at the Mayo Clinic which showed us the clinical applicability of ACTH and cortisone in the treatment of rheumatoid diseases we can now say this some measure of assurance that adrenal and pituitary hormones act essentially in the same way in the human being as they do in animals and if I had to summarize somehow our own participation in this research I would say that the most important outcome of it is that we're imitating a natural and normal defense reaction which helps adjustment and adaptation to the stress of various diseases there is little question that our experience during the last two years indicates that we now have new powerful drugs to use in the treatment of a wide variety of diseases including rheumatoid arthritis rheumatic fever and many allergies although ACTH and cortisone probably do not act to cure these diseases they do change their course in a dramatic way they relieve much human suffering and sometimes they save life these drugs of course have many undesirable side effects which mean that they must be used with caution and under conditions of careful control but when so used their benefits may be great the wide range of diseases on which ACTH and cortisone act has brought about a new synthesis in our thinking in medicine we begin to see for the first time the close connection between diseases with widely different symptoms thus the work of specialists previously working in widely separated fields of medicine is now coming closer and closer together in fact we are now beginning to see the manner in which a variety of stresses such as heat cold physical exhaustion emotional disturbances affect the tissues of the body we see that all these stimuli influence the body through common pathways we are only at the early stages of thinking about this new concept but the future should provide a much better understanding of man's reaction to his environment and how these reactions may be controlled to his benefit thank you gentlemen taking part in today's university of chicago roundtable on stress and disease were dr. hans sellier of the institute of medicine and experimental surgery of the university of montreal dr. jerome khan of the medical school of the university of michigan and dr. albert dorfman of the medical school of the university of chicago the printed pamphlet of today's roundtable discussion on stress and disease contains the full text of today's discussion and a special supplementary article explaining dr. sellier's general adaptation concept and materials on recent work on acth and cortisone you will want to order a copy of the pamphlet and study these additional readings to help you understand the importance to medicine of these recent research discoveries for your copy send 10 cents in coin with your order to the university of chicago roundtable chicago 37 illinois remember single copies are only 10 cents in coin or you may subscribe to the roundtable pamphlets for a full year for only three dollars and close three dollars with your subscription order address the university of chicago roundtable chicago 37 illinois next week the roundtable presents a special program in recognition of bill of rights week on civil rights and war be sure to hear this important discussion today's program originated in the studios of wmaq chicago and came to you in part by electrical transcription this is charles mountain speaking and this is nbc the national broadcasting company state-wide county um and block and well and that here you in the city and and and now