Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, from the annual alumni homecoming in Mandel Hall on the University of Chicago campus, the Roundtable presents a special discussion of how can the social sciences contribute to peace. Taking part in today's program are George D. Stoddard, President of the University of Illinois, Dr. Henry Murray, Professor of Clinical Psychology, Harvard University, and Dr. James G. Miller, Chairman of the Department of Psychology, University of Chicago. And now to open today's Roundtable on how can the social sciences contribute to peace, here is Dr. Miller. What can the social sciences contribute to peace? This is the problem for our discussion today. The University of Chicago Roundtable has had many broadcasts dealing with the problems of peace. But this is going to be a somewhat different one, because today we're not going to deal primarily with matters of politics, questions of power, international and national strategy. Rather, we're going to ask, rather humbly and tentatively, the question of whether the sciences can, by any way or means, contribute to the solution of this problem. This is a question on which the country at large has not given a great deal of thought, and concerning which there are many different points of view. And consequently, for this purpose, we have brought together here three social scientists to discuss the matter. Perhaps the best way to begin would be to decide what it is we mean by peace. Dr. Murray, you have been working for many years on the problem of human behavior, and have recently been interested particularly in this question of peace. How would you define the sort of peace we're working toward? I suggest that for the purposes of this discussion, peace may be defined negatively as the absence of imminent threat of war, or of war itself, and positively as world fellowship, friendship among nations. Just as health has been defined negatively as the absence of disease, and positively as optimal well-being. Now, how can we achieve peace as negatively defined? That's one of our problems. That is the abolition of war. Two major ways have been suggested. What are they? One, to diminish the instigations to aggression amongst peoples and nations, and two, to set up a counterforce as a deterrent to aggression, and by this I mean world law, world government, world police force. Well, Dr. Stoddard, as President of the University of Illinois, and in your many other capacities, for example, as United States representative to UNESCO, working in RAND Corporation, and other activities, you have had many ways in which you have been able to get insights into this problem. What comments would you want to make about it? Well, it's true, Dr. Miller, that sometimes the way in which we work towards peace seems to be pointing in the direction of war. Actually, I think we have to qualify the statement that we want peace above all other human and social virtues. I think we want peace. Well, what could be more desirable? Well, we want peace without a surrender of freedom. We want peace without tyranny. We want peace without corruption and degradation. Otherwise, as persons, or as social groups, or as nations, we choose conflict, not because we like war, we hate it and we fear it. But, if we win a war, a civil war or an international war, then we might at least, that's the hope, achieve a peace to our own liking. At the same time, in terms of general defense preparations, now and in the past, we don't like to say to anybody, an actual enemy, or a potential enemy, that we would never fight under any circumstances, because that might incite the enemy to attack us. Uh-huh. Uh, peace gained by surrendering to tyranny would not be peace for the American people. Surely, this kind of peace has not even been suggested. It is not the issue. Here, we are speaking of the prevention of war, as I understand it. And I, for one, would say that the aim of social strategy would be to persuade people that world law is their road to survival. But isn't that awfully idealistic? Is that really possible? Could that ever be accomplished? I think, on the contrary. Psychology has not yet found ground for the idealism of those who believe that nations will very soon become wise, just, and charitable enough to settle all the problems. To settle all their differences peacefully, without a world government and its police force to compel them. I think we can accept that, Dr. Murray, but the question is, do we get the world government because we believe in fellowship, and see a way to accomplish it, or do we get it as a kind of a derivative of world government? In other words, how can we approach these things from a position of having neither, neither peace nor world government? I think the two are linked together. And I'd like to say that on the positive side, social science strategy would be directed towards the encouragement of friendship among nations, mutual appreciation and respect. We need another Jefferson to compose for the whole world's benefit, a declaration of interdependence. Now give us some of your ideas, Dr. Murray, about just how you think this strategy ought to be conducted. What do you think this strategy ought to be conducted? What do you think this strategy ought to be conducted? What do you think this strategy ought to be conducted? What do you think this strategy ought to be conducted? Um... It is necessary to realize, first of all, that scientists do not and cannot band together of themselves to any extent for the achievement of some practical goal. The goal of science is knowledge, period. What can they do then? Well, it is true that knowledge is power, as Bacon has said, but the scientists who acquire the knowledge do not become powerful themselves. Well, Dr. Murray, if you are thinking of the pure scientists, I expect what you say is true. But when they become engineers, or meteorologists, or agriculturalists, you find they do band together very well, without much worry and without much anxiety across national borders. So, I think it would be rather hard to prove that the scientists could not band together, in terms at least of the application of knowledge. Yes, I agree. In the sphere of international action, it is the government, of course, that decides the ends. The scientists obediently find the means. Is there anything we can do to change the situation, which seems to be the one at the present time that scientists do what their government asks? Even the physicians, who have taken the Hippocratic Oath, never to destroy human life, sometimes work on the biotic bomb, the germ bomb, which can destroy human life more effectively than anything else that we've discovered in the way of disease. What about that problem? As long as there is war between nations, governments will ask scientists to devise methods of destruction. And there's no way out of that except for perhaps conscientious objectives. One can conceive, of course, of a great privately endowed organization, something like the Rockefeller Institute of Medical Research, composed of a few philosophers, humanists, and social scientists, dedicated to the discovery, formulation, and communication of knowledge relevant to the establishment of peace. That's a very interesting idea, and it's certainly one I think we should follow up some. Yes, but I think Dr. Murray has put his finger on a deficiency of the human race rather than a deficiency of scientists. You don't have to have science to have all sorts of attacks or vulnerabilities for the human race. The sea is a great hazard. Rivers are a hazard. Plagues, disease. And everything we learn, in a sense, about a disease, for example, could be turned against man, and it always could be. So that I don't think scientists, myself, are so detached. I think once in a while, maybe getting away from their science, they become great public leaders. You mentioned Jefferson. Well, Jefferson himself was a scientist and a great public leader as well. And in our time, I should say that a man like Van Ever Bush in the last war, remaining as a scientist, and let us say as a political aid as well, showed the power of science. Not only to win wars, but to get peoples together who have a common end, in this case victory against fascism and against the Nazis. I agree. But in that case, as in others, the scientist is still working for somebody. In this case, the government. And if the government wants him to annihilate 200,000 people in one blow, he'll do it. If the government wants something peaceful, he'll do that too. Your position then is that the only way to control the power of scientists is to have them work for a world government. Otherwise, they might misuse their knowledge. Not only knowledge over the physical universe, but also knowledge about how human beings behave for undesirable goals. Is that right, Dr. Perry? Well, the world government would be the first government in the history of the world that had no foreign enemy, no foreign policy. And therefore, there would be no reason for it to direct the scientists. And therefore, its war would be a civil war. Maybe. It would be fissionable material in the world of politics unless the people had agreed to it and were sticking to it through democratic means. In other words, you can have an overall government imposed upon a tremendous and hostile minority. You could have an oil and water government so that they might never mix. And I think it's that possibility that some of us worry about when those who press for world government get ahead of the facts of life. This seems like a pretty difficult argument for someone who supports world government to answer. How are you going to answer, Dr. Murray? Or can you? Just because governments haven't always been successful in the past doesn't mean that you want to abolish them. I understand that there are gang wars occasionally in cities of New York, but that doesn't encourage you to get up the police force of life. Well, not closer than that, for all I know. Yeah. Well, now we've decided that world government is perhaps a desirable thing to work toward, and we don't have it at the present time. Now, as social scientists, what can we do until that day has arrived? I want to go back, Dr. Murray, to what you said before about an institute for research in human behavior, like the Rockefeller Institute of Medicine. Now, what sort of idea do you have in your mind there? I think we'd both be interested in hearing you develop a possible program for an institution of that kind that was devoted to research and yet inspired by these values that we have been discussing. Well, let's work it out together because the three of us have thought a good deal about human behavior and the state of those sciences, which we call the social sciences at the present time. I wonder if it isn't true that at the moment the various fields which have been separate disciplines and the various schools which have disagreed among themselves in the past about why people act the way they do are not at last coming to some sort of theoretical agreement. And that it might be possible to bring groups of theorists together in various parts of the United States and throughout the world wherever they were competent, perhaps under the central apex control of an institute like the one that you suggest, and for relatively small amounts of money, see if they could not develop a systematic theory about how human beings act, which would be like the systematic theory that we find in the physical sciences. These people, having worked together for a year or so perhaps on the construction of such a comprehensive and coherent, adequate theory of human behavior, could then consider whether it might not be possible to develop a set of essential critical researches to be carried out, which would demonstrate the effectiveness or ineffectiveness of the the correctness or falsity of their theory. And once they had worked that out in detail, they could develop a strategy which could be organized throughout the world at large, where the social scientists who are competent to do such work would investigate the things that make human beings behave and develop certain basic principles, like the principle of gravity and physics, for example. Well, I want to ask Dr. Miller, if you would be willing to have the sites of this proposed institute, which appeals to me a great deal, somewhat lower than the establishment of peace over the world. We're used to medical laboratories, and they have very modest beginnings and very modest programs. Frequently, they feel rather happy if they solve the problem of a particular disease, such as smallpox or tuberculosis or cancer. And we've learned to be even more modest than that, and we've learned to be even more modest than that, and be rather pleased if we make some progress in the understanding of cancer. If we were to press the analogy, I should say that this institute would have the best chance of success if, instead of pointing toward the whole problem of peace in one great monolithic structure, it would begin to understand the conditions of frustration, of aggression, in the individual, in individual conflict, across social and national barriers. In other words, finally, it would contribute to peace, but it wouldn't rise or fall in terms of this one group of social scientists having delivered the world from war. It seems to me that would be an awful lot to ask, even of the social scientists. Well, I certainly agree with you completely, and I share in your humility and the desire to limit aims, because I think it would be unrealistic to believe that tomorrow or next year or perhaps even ten years from now, any real contributions could be made, which would immediately stop war throughout the world. On the other hand, if we could understand what it is about human beings that arouses this hostility in them, then it might well be possible to begin to work toward this goal. And I suspect also that the basic theory which we would develop in such an institute would apply to many other problems, like crime and delinquency, difficulties in marriage and divorce at the present time, business relations, labor management conflicts, inter-class conflicts. Yes, after all, people refer to those things as a kind of warfare, and maybe they're correct in their layman's description of it. But certainly until the basic theory is developed for science of behavior, these systematic applications are just as impossible as the atomic bomb would have been until the basic discoveries had been made in physics. Mm-hm. What you've been saying conforms exactly to my ideas, the problem, the large total problem would be divided up into many smaller problems. For example, social scientists have found that it is possible to study important social problems in miniature. For example, a host of experiments are being conducted now at Michigan and at other centers in the dynamics of small groups. Sociologists and psychologists, Cartwright, Bales and others, have been studying some of the factors which impede and some of the factors which facilitate group discussions, the resolutions of conflicts, the settlements of disputes, effective decision-making in such problems. Yes, and Dr. Murray will recall that much of that work stems from the work of one of our late authentic geniuses, Kurt Levine, who was himself a Nazi refugee. He applied his problems and his solutions, his theoretical solutions, at first to animals in cages, and then to children at the University of Iowa, and then to labor and industrial groups at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and finally, in a kind of retrospect, just before he died. He followed the same principles and the same experiments and showed how the Germans had turned their aggressive drives toward the Jews as a kind of scapegoat. And he showed how international tensions might be built up the same way. Now, when you talk about things like that, though, Dr. Stoddard, you get into a very difficult problem. Because suppose that we do get to understand enough about human behavior that finally we can predict pretty well what people are going to do. Isn't this going to be very dangerous? Isn't this a new form of fascism, control over men's behavior, thought control? That would be much worse than anything that we have ever had before. The possibility of a brave new world, like that developed in the novel 1984, would come to our minds, and we would say, this is not worth working toward. After all, wouldn't it be better to be blown up by an atomic bomb than become the slaves of people who can predict every act we're going to do? No, I think it's better not to be blown up. You still have some hope. And any science that builds up such an understanding and prediction of human behavior, in my judgment, carries with it the currency for freedom. Anybody who has that much understanding will think of some way of controlling his brain, his mental power, and his supplied social power, so that no external tyrant can take over. I really believe that. Perhaps it's just an article of faith. You mean, then, you don't think there's any danger that the social sciences might do more harm than good? Well, if I want to be realistic, I could say that I don't think they'll ever get to be that good, along scientific or technological lines. They can't control rats very well as yet. And most of our statements about behavior, control behavior, really don't have to do with persons at all, but have to do with rats. And the reason why we use rats is that we have a little more control over them than we have over persons. But the individual person, as I see it, is like the individual molecule. He's going to be hard to control. He's going to be hard to put into the formula. He'll be an artist in resistance, if necessary. Yes, I know that's true. But isn't that because, unfortunately, we've paid more attention to rats than we have to human beings after the present time? Well, rats will permit it. All right, but perhaps someday we will find that the human beings would like to learn enough about themselves that we could make a science of a similar character about them. After all, the science of astronomy has studied individuals. In this case, it happens to be individual heavenly bodies, like the planets Pluto and Saturn. But a great deal is known about the way they behave, and therefore it isn't impossible for science to study the individual. I suspect the reason the physicists don't know much about the individual subatomic particle is simply because they haven't been interested enough to study it. Until lately, they've been studying it, of course. Well, these are some of the questions that we'll have to face. And since you are mentioning rats, Dr. Stoddard, I'd like to refer to a research which I think has a good deal of implication for human behavior that appeared recently. I think in the last issue of Life magazine it was reported. And Dr. Tsai of Tulane University carried out these studies demonstrating that cats and rats can learn not only how to live together in harmony and eat out of the same dish, but that actually they can work together to open the barrier that prevents them from getting to the food. Now, it seems to me that if these notorious enemies of the Aesop's time on up to the present time have at last been brought together, perhaps some of the principles of learning and behavior discovered that those animals could be applied to human beings as well. What do you think about that? I think Dr. Murray should say something, but I'll say just a word. I think they can be applied, but I think they ought to be applied first in human experiments, rather than take the applications from scientific studies of rats directly to human problems. I'd like to see the next step taken, and that's why I like this working group dynamics. It's difficult, it's hard to control, and perhaps it's only semi-scientific, but when you get results, there's one great value to them. They're based on actual human beings in social situations. Well, Dr. Stodd, you know, Goodiel, about the UNESCO Pension Project, and that is particularly relevant. That is the study of group tensions, and... That's the work Dr. Kleinberg did. Yes. And conducted. Yes, and I know Dr. Kleinberg, and I've been rather active in UNESCO. In a nutshell, I should say that UNESCO, right from the start, since 1945, since its Constitutional Convention, in fact, has been interested in this problem of tensions. I think it's one of the biggest single problems in UNESCO. And Dr. Kleinberg, and his staff, and his successors have been studying what may turn out to be such practical problems as these. To understand the basic, uh, fundaments, you might say, the basic lines of the national cultures. What really makes them different, one from another. Do you think that's really going to be possible? Well, I think so. So far, they've had some studies to show why, uh, to show that you can predict that certain statements, say, coming over the radio, will make certain populations angry, or will please them. They will conform to their race, to their religion, to their economic aspirations, to their hope for a place in the world. And if you know that, then you can adjust these things. And in a sense, since we're interested in international peace, and good international relations, you can keep from putting salt in the woods. You can build up people, instead of tearing them down, sometimes, I think, unconsciously. Well, that's going to be long-run research, though, isn't it? Well, that's true. Just like the research that can be carried on, on the effect of unconscious processes on people's behavior, and how the sort of frustration that President Truman's .4 program is designed to avoid will arouse hostility, and how blocks to communication, like the Iron Curtain, will make people fight. All these things are long-run. Do you know of anything that can be done in the immediate future, uh, to contribute? Uh, why social scientists? When you say immediate future, of course, you mean Russia. As far as UNESCO is concerned, immediately, uh, they are studying this great problem, and there will soon be a publication on it. Namely, a study of the rise of fascism and Nazism in Italy and Germany. And so far as the social scientists are concerned, it will be, it will major in the problem of how these leaders developed. And those things are going on right now? They're going on right now. And what other things would you suggest, Dr. Murray, in the immediate future? Oh, there's a whole host of problems. In general, it is a matter of discovering the factors which impede and the factors which facilitate progress towards the goals we have defined. One area is the voice of America. Since it is the task of the voice of America to modify men's sentiments, social science should have something to contribute. Since on the practical side, it has always been concerned with the problem of how to fortify or change the mental state... In other words, if the voice of America presents things to the rest of the world, uh, as we see it, we're never going to win out. But if we interpret, uh, our desire to work with them and desire to understand them, we may have a more effective goal, uh, in what we're doing. Personally, I'd like to see some kind of a merger of the voice of America with this institute, this institute of integrated research that you've talked about. I think the voice of America must not depend so much upon standard salesman, uh, methods, but get down into the psychology of the thing. So then we've demonstrated that we have both long-range goals with basic research carried on in an institute, uh, and we can even contribute things right now. At the present time, various public and confidential researchers in the social sciences are going on to this purpose. And even though the sciences of human behavior are young and undeveloped compared with the physical sciences, we've agreed in conclusion that they have come a good distance already. And rapidly at that, is that with increased general support, they offer good promises of sound and dependable contribution to the solution of the major problem of the world today. Thank you, gentlemen. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on How Can the Social Sciences Contribute to Peace, were George D. Stoddard, President of the University of Illinois, Dr. Henry Murray, Professor of Clinical Psychology, Harvard University, and Dr. James G. Miller, Chairman of the Department of Psychology, University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable discussion contains the full text of the discussion and publishes a special article by Dr. Murray on America's mission, a discussion of how the United States can lead the world in the abolition of war. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address, the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Next week, the Roundtable discusses the social responsibilities of the modern artists. Be sure to hear this unusual Roundtable discussion of the relation of contemporary art to our society. Today's Roundtable program originated in Mandel Hall from the annual University of Chicago Alumni Homecoming. The Roundtable is directed by George E. Prost and is a public service presentation of NBC. Tonight, enjoy Theatre Guild, now here at the American Forum on NBC.