Jersey Oldsmobile, 93K, something like that. Oldsmobile. Has fallen into a sort of a ditch. Well, let me read this to you. They were carrying a water line up here. Yeah, is the water still on? And finally, there's an additional complication to the accident. Yeah. This is a big Greyhound bus, which is also almost halfway over on its side. Anybody in the bus? All the representatives of the city departments are on hand. Anybody in the bus? The situation is well under control. Water has been turned off on the street, but it does not affect any of the houses or any of the water consumption on the part of the public. Traffic is being detoured away from the particular corner, which is 88th Street and Columbus Avenue, and it's expected they'll have everything under control probably within the next three quarters of an hour. An hour. Doesn't affect the houses? No, it does not. And, uh, all right, here's the way I have the story here, the way I wrote it up. A Manhattan water main broke this morning at the intersection of Columbus Avenue and 88th Street, causing the street to collapse. The police report that an automobile, an automobile, and a Greyhound bus fell into the resulting hole, and police towing equipment wasn't strong enough to pull it out. A much heavier Department of Sanitation towing truck has been called in. At this moment, the water has been shut off, and all traffic has been detoured between 86th Street and 98th Street along Columbus Avenue. Uh, city departments are on the job, and the, uh, water main, uh, does not affect, uh, the housing, the house, the water supply of houses nearby. That's it, exactly. Is that good enough? Very, very good. Where'd you get it from? Well, I was checking with the police, and, uh, the water department hasn't been, uh, on the ball yet. I called them twice so far, and nothing doing on their score. But the police department was on the ball, so we got it. Very well. Good enough. I'm gonna put it on at 10.30. I'll see you. Okay. We're returning to the station now. Good enough. Well. So. Okay. Uh, JP-56543, off and clear. Okay. Okay.
