Ladies and gentlemen, as Dean of the School of Commerce, Council of Finance of this university, it's pleasant to extend to you tonight an official and personal welcome to this second lecture in the Edward L. Bernays Anniversary Lectureship that are forming a part of our observations of the 50th anniversary of our school. A mere counting off of calendar years, of course, generally means very little. As some of you have heard me say on a previous occasion, a thousand years have elapsed since 1929, a century's span since World War II began. How else can you put it? The speed and spread of what has gone on can be pictured, I think, with adequate vigor and vividness only by resort to exaggeration or hyperbole. We've gone through a pell-mell period of pitching, heaving, diving economic levels, of no work, made work, war work, pitch battles between employer and employee, horse trading efforts, and a rather thinly veiled at times, serious thrusts. Industrial peace, calm of necessity, has been very largely periodic, intermittent. Out of that welder of conflict, organized labor, however, has emerged with a good many well-deserved gains, most of which should be held in the public interest. The reaction of the sideline observer to what has gone on has at times been curious, I think. And many a John Q. citizen, of course, considers himself a sideline observer, even though there could be some question as to whether he's ever a sideliner in an industrial civilization like ours. In the days prior to World War War, John Q. read the strike headlines, yes, but I think customarily he shrugged off all the underlying issues. He merely wondered, somewhat facetiously, whether when next he took delivery of a new V-8 FOB Detroit, he wouldn't find the mechanic and an assistant vice president still arguing in the rumble seat. When the war clouds gathered, his attitude changed a bit. He became immediately positive, I think, that labor conflicts were by way of becoming a psychopathic clinical problem, calling loudly for the services of some distinguished psychiatrist to make an expert the diagnosis of what was wrong with the industrial love life of the nation. Moved by his patriotic sentiments, increasing concern for relatives and friends in the service, he went as far as to feel, believe, and even perhaps demand that all parties to industrial conflict should promptly be locked up in some observation war. Now today, I think there's still a great deal of emphasis upon a purely psychological approach to the problem of industrial peace. Certainly it's true that some of our universities seem to be centering their entire effort in making any contribution to this problem on an attempt to discover multiple psychological drives, pervasive conditioning influences and so on. For my own plan, I believe that the roots of our troubles may well be much less clinical than the psychologists would have us think. I doubt that all labor is abnormal, psychologically speaking, and at all management is normal. I doubt that the remedy for our troubles lies entirely in some kind of overly sentimental humanitarianism, in paragoric or PAP or even in a prolonged clinical treatment. So it seems to me that it is far more important for a school of business to approach this general problem in terms of social obligations. And that is why tonight we summon business management and its very important and necessary social ministry. Again, to a recognition and an evaluation of its social obligations. Now your speaker will present the point of view of labor. Educated at the University of Pittsburgh, sometime director of the internationally known Hull House in Chicago, and so he has been and is currently the director of the Department of Education and Research for the Congress of Industrial Organizations. It's a very real pleasure indeed to present to you now Mr. Stanley Rutenberg. Thank you very much, Dean Collins. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very happy to have the opportunity to come here today and discuss with you this question of the social responsibilities of management management as viewed from labor. The social responsibilities of management as I view them are many and varied. It may be well to understand at the outset the full meaning of the words social, responsibility, and management. By social, I presume the Webster definition pertaining to welfare of society in general is appropriate. This would encompass our entire economic, political, and cultural life. By the word management, I shall be referring to all the rungs of the latter from the foreman to the top corporation executive. By the word responsibility, I shall assume that all management people are interested and willing to answer the whys and wherefores of their conduct and action. It can be seen from these three definitions that the scope of the problem which I intend to discuss is considerably broad. The horizons of management as well as labor have broadened considerably in recent years. This is of necessity. We have developed from a barter economy through the various stages of industrial revolution to our present-day high level of economic interchange. The problems of today's living are more involved, exceedingly more extensive, and far more greatly interrelated. We have come to realize in our domestic relations, as in our foreign relations, that isolationism is a thing of the past. Labor and management cannot isolate themselves from the problems of each other. Of course, there are still many individual corporations and some unions that believe in tackling the labor management problems from an isolationist's point of view. However, in the main, unions and corporations have come to realize that many of our problems must be adjusted jointly through continual cooperation and consultation. I shall discuss four aspects of the problem of the social responsibilities of management. They will deal first with the community level, two with relationships with unions, three with plant problems, and four the general economy. At the outset, I should like to set forth each of these four points and then come back and examine each separately. It is the social responsibility of management, in my judgment, to one, work to improve local community conditions. Two, to accept the principle of collective bargaining and to work with unions as institutions that are here to stay. Three, to understand the fears and prejudices of workers toward scientific management. Four, to engage in business practices to assure job opportunities for all workers. One of the first social responsibilities of management is to take an interest in the welfare of the people in the local community in which they operate. All too frequently, local management people divorce themselves from the task of improving local conditions in the community in which their employees live. Yes, there is no question but that management folks frequently contribute quite heavily to charitable organizations. That is fine and all to the good. But unfortunately, they feel that their responsibility to their community ceases at that level, when really their responsibility commences after they have discharged their conscious obligation to charitable organizations. Management people should take a positive and an affirmative interest in improving the housing, educational, and recreational facilities of their community. I wonder how many top management executives have publicly supported and actively participated in the efforts to secure low-cost housing for their communities. Housing which their workers could afford. Housing which would enable their employees to live decently. Housing which would enable their employees to live decently. Housing which would enable their employees to have all the modern conveniences of a home. Housing that would enable individuals to feel that they have a tie to the community. Housing to subscribe and awesome. I must also view that Hadley G Israeli first, Amazon which gave secure money diese gist. And I will recognize some of the options. Housing such as nombreux are not iets that are made to the community. Housing. Members love to make that young man say to the community. Housing��居 ban hazard users are able to protect and protect and traditions. Of тиざ gist. Housing's efficiencies have gone to Washington, for example. Often jobs among public-cost local governments have dedicated public-cost housing. I wonder how many top management executives have worked in their local communities with the public housing authorities to condemn slums. secure land and aid in the manifold problems incident to the development of low-cost housing. On the contrary, I dare say, many top management executives have stood by and watched real estate developers fleece the public by building high-rental homes and apartments. Of course, in those instances where top management executives have engaged in improving the local housing conditions, they ought to be congratulated and to be urged to impress upon their fellow executives similar efforts to improve local community conditions. In the field of education, I assume many corporations and management executives have played a more active role than in the field of housing. At the local community level, it is exceedingly important to improve educational facilities and it should be considered a major social responsibility of management and all groups in the community. There has been considerable opposition to the question of federal aid to education. Many employer organizations, including the leading ones in this country, have opposed this type of legislation. Their opposition has stemmed in part from their desire to reduce government expenditures, to balance the budget, and incidentally to reduce federal taxes. Although there are many reasons why individuals have opposed legislation for federal aid to education, in the last analysis, most add up to the cost factor. I cannot help but comment at this point upon a development which I think indicates the social irresponsibility of management. This is the practice of large-scale nationwide newspaper advertisements by specific corporations designed to, quote, educate, unquote, the public on important issues. I advisedly use the word educate in quotes because these newspaper advertisements are not, to my mind, educational. Both labor and management should be able to present their individual points of view to the public. I am happy to say in this democratic country of ours that this is still possible. But when management groups engage in the practice of nationwide campaigns, they do so at public expense. Advertising is considered a cost of operation and consequently exempt from taxation, so that in effect these corporations are using public money to propagandize for their own interests. It would be far more advisable for them, if they believe, as I'm sure they do, in democracy, to do less of this kind of advertising, pay the difference in taxes to the federal government, and thereby permit the establishment of a federal aid program designed to improve our democratic educational facilities. I should like also to mention that some corporations are now beginning to promote lectures on economic problems during working hours and compelling workers to attend. The pay of the worker is continued during this period of compulsory attendance at lectures. The cost of the lectures and all other incidental expenses are tax-exempt items. In other words, they are supported with public funds. These lectures, in effect, are really given to what might be termed captive audiences. It should be the social responsibility of management to entrust the education of our people to the educational system of this country. And as a matter of fact, if they are really interested in educating the workers, as they appear to be by lecturing to captive audiences, they might well engage in support of legislation that would permit adult workers' education to take place in many of our educational institutions throughout the United States. It would certainly be in the best interest of our nation and would certainly fall within the scope of the social responsibilities of management to engage in improving the educational facilities at all levels of operation. There is a growing problem in most local communities relating to the problems of the aging worker. Since the war, the problem of the handicapped worker has become further accentuated. And of course, the old problem of minority groups continues with us. I think it is an important social responsibility of management to engage in employment practices that permit the hiring of the aged, the handicapped, and members of minorities. The problems of the aged worker would be considerably improved, for example, if our social security laws permitted adequate levels of pensions. I personally think it is a sad commentary upon the social responsibility of management that so little attention has been given to the aged workers' problems. We originally passed social security legislation in the Federal Congress in 1937 over the opposition of most employer groups in this country. Since that time, all efforts to improve this legislation have met with continual opposition of management groups. It was not until October 1949 that the House of Representatives in Washington passed a bill improving the benefits and coverage of our old age and survivorship program. Mind you, this bill was not passed until after the Steel Workers Union was engaged in a nationwide strike to secure a private pension program, and not until after the collective bargaining contract was signed between the United Automobile Workers and the Ford Motor Company. It took these actions on the part of trade union groups to really bring the pressure upon Congress to act to improve our social security system. individual employers have supported various improvements in our social security law. For this, they are to be complemented. They should carry on their social responsibility by securing the aid of other employers and seeing to it that this piece of legislation which passed the House of Representatives is approved by the Senate. In other words, a basic contribution could be made by management to the social welfare of their communities by their support for and the eventual adoption of improved social security legislation. I would say the same about the need for a public assistance program as well as the need for minimum wage legislation. Yet I must point out that legislation to accomplish these objectives have repeatedly, time and time again, met with the opposition of management groups. There is much discussion in our Federal Congress about the passage of a fair employment practices piece of legislation. From where does the opposition to this legislation come? I must say reluctantly once again that it comes mainly from the management groups. What greater contribution can be made to community conditions than to give every individual, regardless of race, creed, or national origin, equal opportunities to jobs? Community relations would be considerably improved. The welfare of the individual people would be benefited. Yet opposition to FEPC legislation from employer groups continues most vociferously. I can understand that the reasons for this may well be their opposition to the Federal Government entering into this field through legislation. If that be the case, that the management groups assume the responsibility of voluntary action to permit the accomplishment of the same objectives. This applies to the problems of the aged worker, the handicapped worker, as well as the minorities. I repeat, it is a social irresponsibility of management and of any other group which engages in the same practices not to take action to improve these local community conditions. I want to deal briefly with another problem which local communities face, and that is unemployment. Not unemployment resulting from a lower level of business operation, but unemployment resulting from conditions that make a particular community a distressed area. I have in mind a specific example. This is not too general a problem, but it is a sufficiently serious enough problem for me to mention. One of our largest corporations in the United States was subcontracting a large portion of its work out to Community X. Community X was almost completely dependent upon these orders, so much so that the moment these orders were cut off, this community was faced with being a ghost town. This major corporation decided, for reasons known only unto itself, to build a plant of its own in a town 40 or 50 miles away. After the completion of this plant, they shifted their orders. It so happens that this new plant is located in a thriving area where employment conditions were exceedingly high and where, as a matter of fact, the labor market was very tight. But this major corporation moved anyway, causing considerable distress and unemployment to an area where unemployment was already reaching serious proportions. Maybe corporations should have no concern for the social implications of such a move. But then again, maybe they should. In this type of situation, and I can cite similar ones, I feel that it is a social responsibility of management to be concerned about the welfare of the workers who have been dependent upon them for so many years. To me, it is very important that management realize its social responsibilities to work to improve local community conditions by improving the housing and educational facilities of the community and by adopting employment practices most consistent with improving the welfare of the entire population of the community. As a second area of social responsibility of management, I would like to discuss the problems relating to the acceptance of the principle of collective bargaining by management groups. It is an important responsibility of management to recognize that unions are here to stay, that they have a contribution to make to the community, and that it is in the interest of the corporation and its workers for the principles of collective bargaining and labor management cooperation to be completely accepted. There has been much progress in trade union organization in this country in recent years. At the turn of the century, there was less than 2 million organized workers in the United States. At the turn of the mid-century, there were more than 16 million workers organized into trade unions. Collective bargaining has now been established in plants in almost all the mass-producing industries in this country. Living and working conditions are considerably improved as a result of the establishment of trade unions. I can recall, as an organizer out in the Ohio Industrial Valley in the early days of the CIO some 13 or 14 years ago, the reluctance with which many employers agreed to sit down at the collective bargaining table and work out solutions to grievances which workers had borne for many years. In the past 13 years, much progress has been made in this field. Many employers now sit down quite willingly to bargain with workers. Many more should also follow this same practice. But I must say that those management groups that are still fighting trade unions, to those groups, I say, that it is their social responsibility to engage in collective bargaining practices. Unions have become a part of the American way of life. They are as much a part of our society as any other component. As such, it is the responsibility of management to deal and work with them. It is important that they have confidence in each other. My experience as an organizer in years gone by has shown me that the degree of responsibility in union leadership which is established is contingent upon the degree of responsibility exercised and exhibited by management. In other words, management's leadership determines the type of leadership which develops in the local union. I can remember the days when the phrase irresponsible unions was on the tongue of many management people. The fact which those management people did not realize was that these unions exhibited the same amount of irresponsibility as did the management in its contact with the unions. This situation has met with considerable improvement in recent years. To those groups in America, however, who are still fighting unions and fighting collective bargaining, I say it is their social responsibility to accept unions and to work with them. I might add parenthetically that almost everyone says he believes in unions and in collective bargaining. But in the last analysis, many who say they do in effect do not. It is to those people that I direct these comments about the need for accepting the principles of collective bargaining and trade unions. There is another area of labor management relations which bears mentioning at this point. And that is the establishment of labor management production committee. During the war, the war production board considered this problem of sufficient importance to urge all management groups to establish such committees. Some 3,000 such committees were established. Many, however, have gone out of existence since the termination of the war. The main function and responsibility of these committees was to encourage cooperation between labor and management in finding ways and means of improving efficiency, increasing production, and cutting costs. Here is a positive area where labor and management can develop wholehearted cooperation. I should like to cite a specific example of the contribution which such a committee can make. About three years ago, there was a steel plant owned by a corporation which was, as a unit, losing money. It was a high-cost operation. Its margins were extremely low. The corporation decided that it would sell this one plant. A new management bought it and took over. Under the old management, there was a union. There were many wildcat strikes. There were many grievances in many cases going to arbitration. And in many instances, neither the company nor the union would accept the arbitrator's decision after it was granted, thus producing wildcat strikes. When the new management took over, they held a mass meeting of the workers in the plant and of the union representatives and said, the future of this plant, our profits and your income is dependent upon whether we can increase the efficiency and reduce costs in such a way as to enable us to pay you a fair wage, make a fair profit, and return a reasonable amount to our stockholders. And we think, the management went on to say, that we can do this by asking and using the brains, the initiative, and the intelligence of the individual workers within the plant by urging you to establish labor management production committees, to make suggestions about production techniques, about increasing efficiency and reducing costs, and making certain changes in plant operations and so forth. In each department, a committee was established which worked on the problem of improving efficiency. Today, that plant is one of the most profitable of its kind in the entire steel industry. industry. The wages of the individual workers within the plant are now about eight cents above the industry average as contrasted to ten cents below the industry average under the old management. There hasn't been a single wildcat strike. There has been only one case that has gone to arbitration and almost every grievance is settled at the early stages. This is just one positive example of the development of sound labor management relations. This does not mean that labor desires to take over the management of business. It indicates only that management should utilize the ability, skill, and training of its workmen in finding a solution to many of its production problems. The principle of collective bargaining is being accepted. More and more management groups are beginning to realize that unions are here to stay and that unions have a contribution to make to the success of plant operations and consequently are prepared to work with unions of workers in their own plants. I commend this to you as the second major social responsibility of management. Scientific management developed in the early part of this century as a means and technique of reducing costs and improving efficiency of operation. Over a period of years, the concept of scientific management as such has grown into disrepute. This developed because management groups did not then and many do not now understand the fears and prejudices of their workers. Scientific management soon came to be associated with the speed up, the BDO system, and time and motion studies. The effort to develop time and motion studies came to be associated with an increased workload for less pay. Workers found themselves working harder and earning less. They came to distrust the man who stood over their shoulders with a stopwatch. There was little responsibility on the part of management in adopting sound and acceptable incentive systems. Generally speaking, unions are opposed to incentive systems. It is most difficult to convince workers that their fears and prejudices about time and motion studies and incentive systems are groundless because they know better. They know that time and motion studies and incentive systems developed unilaterally by management are usually part and parcel of speed ups. When employers conscientiously accept unions, they realize that their fears and prejudices of the workers can be overcome. Various types of incentive systems have been worked out bilaterally by the representatives of workers and representatives of management. In those instances where a bilateral determination of labor management incentive systems has been made, the system has worked out fairly well. fears and prejudices of workers have been reduced. I therefore cite this example of labor management cooperation as another social responsibility of management. By the acceptance of such cooperation, the fears and prejudices of workers can be eliminated with the consequent result of reduced costs, increased efficiency, and improved worker morale. many management people wonder why unions in the main have opposed the concept of profit sharing. Unions normally are extremely skeptical in participating in profit sharing arrangements. Some of their fears and prejudices which they have developed toward scientific management as a result of the speed up apply to the general area of profit sharing. For example, profit sharing plans have been used to stimulate the speed up. Profit sharing plans have been superimposed upon a wage structure as a means of driving the individual to produce more than what is considered to be a fair day's work. Profit sharing plans have been developed like incentive systems on a unilateral basis. Such determination subjects these plans to immediate skepticism, criticism, and opposition by workers. Frequently, profit sharing plans have developed as a substitute for the payment of an adequate hourly, daily, and weekly wage. It is for these reasons in the main, reasons which relate to the fears and prejudices of workers, that profit sharing has not been accepted by workers and their unions. I am sure that if management recognized its social responsibility to eliminate these fears and prejudices, sounder, more effective relationships between labor and management would be established. I come now to the fourth area of the social responsibility of management. And I can think of no greater social responsibility of management than to assure job opportunities for all workers. I shall discuss this problem from the overall standpoint of our national economy. Each individual corporation or company has a responsibility in carrying out the basic objective of developing a full employment and full production economy. There must be cooperation and coordination between all groups. Individual employers must know the significance of his role in the overall economic program. program. The most fundamental economic problem which we face is the necessity for providing new job opportunities for all workers willing and able to work. Each year between three quarters of a million and one million new workers enter the labor force and must be provided with employment. employment. This is a net increase over and above the number of workers who die, retire, or leave the job market for other reasons. In addition to this group of new workers, job opportunities must be provided for more than a million additional workers who each year are displaced as a result of technological development. total employment must increase each year, therefore, by at least two million if we are to absorb the new as well as the displaced worker. Over the decades we have been relatively successful in providing new job opportunities for these people. However, in the immediate post-war period we have not. For example, during the first three months of 1948 we had an average of approximately two and one-half million workers unemployed. During the same period of 1949 there were three and a half million. And in the same period of 1950 there were four and one-half million workers unemployed. Our economy has not been advancing rapidly enough to absorb the increase in the labor force. This is a serious situation. Within a five-year period we may well have close to 10 to 11 million unemployed if we proceed on the same basis as we have in the past three years. It is a major social responsibility of management to work out programs and policies which will lead to an ever enlarged national economy. This requires that management have a broad social and economic vision. This requires that they must be able to also envisage an ever increasing demand for their product. Goals of production in the years ahead must exceed production of past years. Unless this is done we shall be unsuccessful in providing full employment and full production. Let us take a specific example again. It is estimated that the steel industry during the next decade should have an estimated capacity of some 120 million ingot tons. Its present capacity is in a neighborhood of 95 million tons. The industry is not increasing its capacity to meet the anticipated need in the years ahead. Their reason for not expanding that rapidly is based upon the assumption that current demand is excessive and above the anticipated long-run demand for steel. Yet, if we relate growing population to consumption of steel per capita over the past years, it is quite conceivable that the demand will be at least of the order of 120 million tons a decade hence. I think it is a social responsibility of steel management to recognize the necessity for expanding its own capacity more rapidly than it is doing it today. I take the steel industry only as an example. The same can be said for many of our other basic industries. Expansion of capacity of course is in itself not the entire answer nor the complete solution. A concomitant set of policies must be developed simultaneously with expansion of capacity. As production increases and new supplies are brought onto the market this should theoretically produce lower prices. In a highly competitive economy this would happen. However in our economy where in our basic industries we have a very high degree of economic concentration much of the competitive spirit is non-existent. Prices are administered through the monopolies and oligopolies. it is therefore a social responsibility of management not only to expand capacity to meet growing needs and growing demand but it is also a major social responsibility for management to adopt the proper price profit production relationships. For example if steel capacity was expanded the automobile industry could then increase the production of automobiles a product which is still scarce. However there is a question as to how many more automobiles would be purchased if the average price remains the same as it is now. This means that as steel production is expanded the steel industry must be willing to reduce its price thus enabling the automobile industry to produce a cheaper car. If the price of other materials going into the production of automobiles were also decreased a very cheap car could be produced to meet the mass market for such a product that exists in America. All of this of course assumes that the automobile industry will pass on these reduced prices to the ultimate consumer. The acceptance of this philosophy of expansion of capacity with resultant lower prices necessitates an acceptance by management of a very fundamental concept. That concept is quite contrary to the currently accepted economic practice of determining prices and levels of production. For example, corporations in the main maximize profits through high margins on each unit of production by limiting production and increasing price. As contrasted to a more socially responsible position of maximizing profits through low margin per unit of output by increasing production and reducing prices. prices in an ever expanding economy where production is increasing prices must fall to permit an absorption of the increased product. economy It is It is therefore, I repeat, a major social responsibility for management to adopt enlightened economic policies looking toward higher levels of production, lower levels of prices, and reduced margins per unit of sale. Up to this point, I have not mentioned the problem of wages. But in an expanding economy, wage and price policy is as important as any other phase of our involved economy. It is through high levels of wages and consumer income that the mass of American people will be able to increase living standards and absorb the high levels of production. In other words, a high consumption level economy can be developed through proper wage, price, profit, production relationships. I would like to cite an example of social irresponsibility in this field of wages and prices. Not long ago, a top executive of one of America's largest corporations said at a public meeting of stock holders, quote, it is essential to make these high profits in order to permit an adequate amount of reserves to be set aside for future needs since the day will come when steel operations are at a lower rate than at the present time, end quote. I urge you to think about that statement, if you will, for a moment. what he is really saying is this, we must, within the realm of feasibility, have as high a price as possible for our steel products, so that we can make as high a dollar profit as we can during this period to protect ourselves against the future depression when the demand for steel products will fall off. This concept of high margin per unit of output is self-defeating. It brings on the decline in consumption with the consequent effects of falling production and unemployment. A full employment economy cannot be developed on that basis. It is socially irresponsible for management to follow this kind of a pricing policy. I should like briefly to refer to the problems of technological developments once again. Technological developments are the result of increased investment for more efficient new plant and equipment. This more efficient plant and equipment displaces workers, increases productivity, and reduces operating costs. Reduced operating costs may be passed on to the consumer in the form of lower prices or to the worker in the form of higher wages or can be retained by the corporations in increased profits. I regret to say that increased technological developments of the past few years have resulted in increasing profits more than in reducing prices or increasing wages. companies. For example, an examination of profit statements of many of the larger corporations of the year 1949 shows that net income increased even though net sales declined. This is due mainly as a result of decreased costs resulting from technological developments. these decreased costs have not been passed on to the consumer or to the worker, but instead have been retained by the corporations in the form of higher profits. This generalization, of course, is not true of all corporations, but I point out that it is a major responsibility of management to pass on the benefits of productivity to all groups including the workers, the consumers, and the stockholders. I have examined rather critically some of the factors which from labor's point of view are social responsibilities of management. While I have been critical of management in general, in most of these areas there are many enlightened groups of management following sound and intelligent policies that are socially responsible. we in labor would appreciate this type of an analysis of social responsibilities of labor as viewed from the point of view of management. I would hope that in the long run it becomes a joint cooperative effort of both labor and management to develop sound and intelligent social responsibilities which lead to an extension of the free democratic institutions which have come to be recognized as a part of the American way of life. Thank you. Thank you. ladies and gentlemen Mr. Ruttenberg has very graciously and generously agreed to take a few moments in which to answer any questions that may be presented from the floor. In the interest of orderly procedure I suggest that you ask the chair for recognition and if you are recognized if you'll stand you may direct your individual question to Mr. Ruttenberg. work. Now we don't plan to tarry along so let's have your questions. The gentleman here please. I'd like to ask the speaker whether the much-anredized top-top law has improved or has felt deteriorated labor management relations. If I were to give you a brief answer to the question I would say it has deteriorated labor management relations. If I were to give you a long answer to the question I'd probably stay here the rest of the evening. I would make only one comment that the Taft-Hartley Act has by the procedures which it has established made the problem of organization of trade unions exceedingly difficult particularly in the South where organizing campaigns have been conducted for the past three or four years on an extensive basis. Now maybe that's good or bad for labor management relations but if we're really sincerely interested and believe that trade unions have a contribution to make and that they should be able to represent the workers and the workers be able to speak for themselves through their unions then we ought not to have on the statute books many of the provisions that are now in the Taft-Hartley Act. Have we another question? The gentleman right here please. Mr. Chairman and Mr. Unberg. I noticed that you define business expenses as public funds because they're tax exempt and if I understood you correctly for that reason business should not spend those tax exempt or public funds for educational purposes purposes in their own interest. Now I judge that the views of unions are also tax exempt and by your definition would be public funds should they also deprive themselves of using those funds for educational purposes or do you ask for a special privilege for the unions you are from the grant to manage them? I ask for no special privileges for unions. I would make this distinction in your question. Very rarely does the union go to newspaper advertising except in serious strikes to bring forth its point of view to the general public. We publish various kinds of materials educational wise that are distributed on a wide and extensive basis. And I said in my remarks that I'm mighty happy that in this country both labor and management have a democratic right to present their individual points of view to the public. But what I was complaining about specifically in terms of management was its use first of newspaper advertising to in effect carry forth on an educational campaign that in effect is not anything but self interest on their part. Now it might well be that when a union does the same it's self interest on their part. But I don't think we ought to educate on that kind of a basis. I think our public institutions ought to be made available in such a way that everybody through adult education and workers education can participate in active programs. I was also complaining about a second type of thing which is far more serious and far more dangerous and I dare say completely irresponsible. And that is the captive audience concept where an employer forces a group of his employees to come in and listen to a lecture on economics which in effect is the employer's point of view on that economic question. Now union dues are exempt from taxation because they are not under the terms of the Internal Revenue Code they're non-profit organizations. Businesses of course do not have their income tax exempt because they're not non-profit organizations. Gentlemen on the aisle please. Just a minute. Thank you. I'd like to ask the speaker whether he is familiar with the context of some of the educational courses given in industry and whether he realizes the extent and degree to which members of faculties of the colleges are actually giving those courses for industry. And that refers specifically to some of the leaders in industry since our speaker has referred to leaders of industry as being guilty of these practices as the social responsibility. Yes I'd agree completely with your question and if you'll recall in my remarks I made a distinction between the two and I did very clearly say and I repeat again that those management groups that do engage in the kinds of practices which you indicate are to be complemented. And I directed myself at those individuals and we must admit there are still many of them in our country who have engaged in the other type of activity. Now a gentleman on the side of the media. You said that one of the major responsibilities of Spanish was the French employment for the next addition of one million as worked with the labor market to hear it. the same time it seems to me that unions and many other organizations are opposing efforts for management to expand. For example, in the steel industry, probably for every job that they furnish, there's a net investment of something like $15,000 per employee which means that they're only absorbed 10% of that million. They have to get something like a billion dollars a year to plow in the steel industry. Watch anybody invest that kind of money. into a business which is constantly under attack when big businesses are being attacked for being big, when they may be attacked by the justice department for monopoly crisis. All these things tend to discourage investment, not imperative. people Well then would you say it's the social responsibility of management to sit back and do nothing about this problem just because there are certain things in its way and in the road of progress? I don't think you'd say that. I think what you're what you ought really to consider is that on technological developments which do displace workers, the whole concept of the successful effect of such developments upon our economy is contingent upon creating new job opportunities in other industries and elsewhere in the same industry for the workers so displaced by the technological development. Now unless that happens we are not successful in creating job opportunities and what I was saying in my remarks was specifically that many corporations as exhibited by the 1949 profit statement are not passing on to the consumer and to the worker the benefits derived from technological developments and if they would pass on these benefits through lower prices and higher wages consumption could be increased and as consumption is increased production has to be raised and as production is raised employment opportunities are created for the displaced workers. Now I think the steel industry is not doing as good a job in expansion of capacity as it should in terms of the continual growing need of the products that the growing need of products in coming years. Now whether they're being attacked by the government for being big or not I don't think that ought to enter into the picture. They ought to engage less in practices which prevent small companies and make it more difficult for small companies to enter into the field and engage more in the practice of attempting to encourage small business to get into it and into the production of steel and other products. In other words what I'm saying is in effect that because of the economic concentration in the steel industry big as it is with US steel controlling a third of the capacity of the steel industry with that situation it becomes almost impossible for small business groups to enter into the production of basic steel. Now something ought to be done whether it's breaking up the big corporation or whether it's giving some kind of aid and assistance to the small company or whether it's giving tax incentives to the small company I don't know but such practices have to be worked out if we're going to recognize not only management social responsibility but all of our responsibilities to the American people that are coming on to the labor market who ought to be supplied with jobs. Does anyone hear? We can say that every management that spends money for advertising and education that they are spending money for public funds. Actually they're only spending 24% because they only pay the 24% tax to the government and they're spending most of their dollars themselves. I stand corrected to this extent that the tax rate is 38% and not 24%. there's a question right here. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rubenberg has told that management is responsible for expansion of its economy to ensure full employment and full production. Doesn't that imply necessarily a plan for a controlled economy with an authoritarian system and bloodied somewhere and eventually abolishing the competitive economy which takes care automatically of some of your problems? I would give you an unqualified no. Unqualified to your question. Unless we find voluntary cooperative means to accomplish the goal of establishing full employment and full production, it seems to me this free enterprise economy of ours in America will be neither free nor enterprise. we must find solutions to this problem. Management must take a greater degree of responsibility for finding solutions to these problems along with other groups in our economy because if we don't, then whether we like it or not, this free enterprise economy of ours may end up as quite a totally different kind of government which neither you nor I nor anyone else in this room wants to see. The gentleman yonder, please. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rosenberg, has the CIO or other unions to your knowledge taken any pro or con stand on ECA's program of spurring imports to lessen the dollar gap between our exports? You raise, of course, as you no doubt know, and I'm positive you do by the tone of your question, a very, very difficult question. Just the other day, one day last week, I guess it was, I appeared before the House Ways and Means Committee in Washington, presented the position of the Congress of Industrial Organization, on the question of the ratification of the ITO charter. Now, as you realize, the implication of supporting the ratification of the ITO charter would be for encouraging the increased importation of products into this country. A position against ratification of the ITO charter may well be interpreted as being opposed to increased imports into this country. The position which we took unqualifiedly before Congress was in support of ratification of the ITO charter. Because we recognize, and we recognize beyond question of a doubt, that we have a far more serious situation worldwide than we have domestically by a few people who might become displaced through increased imports. We have a responsibility to the democratic countries of the world. We have a responsibility to rehabilitating the European countries. We have a responsibility to our own domestic economy to continue high levels of American exports. So, therefore, we took the position that while temporarily increased imports may bring on temporary spots of unemployment, our major responsibility is one of producing a full employment and full production economy. And I might just say while I'm on the point that there is absolutely no distinction in my mind or in the minds of the people, the leaders of CIO, between unemployment created from technological developments or unemployment created from imports. It produces the same result. The solution to the problem is not opposition to technological developments or opposition to increased imports, but the solution to the problem is one of finding answers of providing job opportunities in a full employment economy. Now we'll take about three more questions. The gentleman on the aisle at the rear there. Yes, sir. Mr. Rutenberg referred to profit sharing, but I'm afraid he passed over a very important subject, very likely. I've always felt that profit sharing held a great deal of possibility for harmony between labor and management. Mr. Rutenberg had mentioned that unions were against it, were not in favor of profit sharing because they helped the speed up system and sometimes exploited labor. And yet I can't help but think that that would be a very important phase of harmony for unions to consider. And I wonder why it's passed off so lightly. well, I passed off the problem of profit sharing very lightly as I passed off many subjects that I didn't even mention. I spoke for, I guess, about 40 or 45 minutes. I touched a few points here and there, a little more heavily on one, a little less heavily on another. But in the problem of profit sharing, I would repeat in the main what I said in the main body of my remarks. That profit sharing could be used as a successful means of intelligent cooperation between labor and management. It could be. The way it is administered in some spots where profit sharing plans now exist, it produces the opposite effect. It comes down to saying that profit sharing plans which are unilaterally determined produce unfavorable reactions amongst the employees. in the main. There's some exceptions. On the other hand, where profit sharing plans have been developed bilaterally by the workers and the employers jointly, giving due consideration to what a fair day's work is, due consideration to the problem of the level of wages and the adequate levels of income aside from the profit sharing, where it's been done that way, success has been the result. And I think last week when Stuart Chase spoke before this group, he mentioned the Scanlon plan. Joe Scanlon is a former research director of the United Steelworkers Union, now a full professor at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Scanlon has worked out quite successfully in a half a dozen spots around the country, very, very excellent profit sharing plans. But my good friend Joe never approaches one of these situations until he has first seen to it that the union and the management have jointly agreed upon a joint solution. question. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That's very rare. This is the need for high dollar profits by managers to set up funds for replacement of claims for which the present appreciation reserves are inadequate due to the present buying power of the dollar. In other words, if you can't forget a dollar today with a dollar of free water. I've talked on that particular subject, that and that alone, for at least two hours. It isn't a question that can be answered very simply or very easily. Let me just try to give you, at the expense of being too brief and too concise in an answer, let me try to give you a specific comment that might set forth my point of view. There is now the claim by management that depreciation ought to be based upon replacement costs and not upon original costs. That's the issue you're raising. my general feeling is that it makes little sense to proceed on that basis. Because to do that is to cause the public, is to cause the public to pay the price of new plant and equipment. Because the public pays the price through higher prices for the products which are sold in order to produce the higher level of profits to permit a greater retention of earnings to make up for the difference between depreciation on original costs against replacement costs. And that is what I would call inequity capital. Inequity capital. Because the consumer contributes his money with no right to the determination of how it might be used and with no participation in the benefits derived from the investment of that money. As contrasted to equity capital where the corporation should get the difference between depreciation at original costs and replacement costs. Where in equity capital the stockholder does participate in part in the decisions as to the utilization of the funds and participates in the benefits produced by the investment of funds in the equity market. I don't know whether that answers your question but I think it clearly sets forth the point of view. I will take one more question. Gentleman here please. I'd like to ask Mr. Rumpfoy what are how he's going to consider how serious effect possible revival of the basing point license system might be on our closed expanding conference. That's too technical a question for me to answer. I'd only say that I would generally agree with the position taken by the Federal Trade Commission and upheld by the Supreme Court that basing point systems in effect tend to reduce competition FOB pricing tends in effect to increase competition and what we really want in this economy of ours is increased competition. In spite of the fact that we have rather urgently held our audience to direct question we have had considerable evidence tonight of clash and that is always good. When we find clash in a public meaning when I do I'm always reminded of that story about the British ambassador who dined on one occasion with Frederick the Great British when Frederick was pussyfooting refusing to take sides in the game of European politics perfect host of cars Frederick said to the British ambassador have a slice of cape on I'm sorry sire replied the ambassador but I have a great dislike for neutrals most of the problems which we have touched upon tonight are not simple have aspects of relativity some of the clash that has seemed evident perhaps is due to the fact that necessarily we have excluded pretty much both from our questioning and from our general discussion the role of public policy and its influence on these matters I should like to conclude this meeting by reminding you that on Wednesday May the 10th at 8pm we will continue this series of lectures with a discussion of the social responsibility of management from the point of view of the economy our lecture for the evening will be Edwin G. Norris formerly chairman of the council of economic advisors to the president the yawning time I'm afraid is approaching and so if you will join with me in giving Mr. Rudenberg a very hearty round of applause we will declare the meeting adjourned ter above the embrace over dro and so a very väldigtunal note of the震rum alive is holding his produced as it helped to farm yourself