That? Why, of course, Mr. McManus. Gosh, what will they think of next? I don't know, Mr. Mack. First it's the atomic bomb, then it's the sundial. Before you know it, someone will be inventing a wheelbarrow. They certainly will. Well, I'll tell you what I'll do, Dorothy. While you sing your number, I'll get busy inventing that wheelbarrow. So if you have any difficulty carrying the tune, I'll be able to help you out. Okay, Mr. Mack, it's a deal. The name of my song, folks, is Lover Come Back to Me. The sky is blue and high above The moon is new and so is love This eager heart of mine is singing Love, of where can you be? You came at last Love, of where can you be? You've gone away This aching heart of mine is singing Love, of where can you be? When I remember every little thing you used to do I'm so lonely Every road I've walked along Every road I've walked along, I've walked along with you No wonder I am lonely The sky is blue The night is cold The moon is new But love is new But love is old And while I'm waiting here This heart of mine is singing Lover, come back to me I'm so lonely You came at last Keep up the school Littleey I'm so lonely When I'm so lonely You came at last And you came with me Yeah The End The End Guys, there are lots of Dorothys here today First Dorothy McGinn, then Dorothy Graw Now Dorothy Chappelle And how are you today, Dorothy C? Fine, thanks And I haven't even had a vacation yet Like some people When do you expect to get away? Well, I don't know We're so busy at the office In fact, I was thinking of buying a dozen postcards Of some seaside hotel, you know Picking a room overlooking the ocean Marking it with a cross Writing, wish I were here And then sending them to all of my friends Well, Dorothy I wouldn't know whether that was taking a vacation The hard way or the easy way Well, at least I probably wouldn't gripe as much About all the rain we've been having Yes, a good name for a hotel this year Would have been St. Swithin's by the sea By the way, Mr. Child Did you go on any boat rides while you were away? Why, no, Dorothy What makes you ask? Oh, I was thinking about the PAL boat rides The PAL boat rides? What PAL boat rides? Oh, that's right I've forgotten You've been on your vacation Mm-hmm Well, during July and August The Police Athletic League has been And will continue to provide free boat rides Monday through Friday Aboard the steamer Claremont From Pier No. 1 North River to Bear Mountain 1,000 children Accompanied by PAL supervisors Will make the trip each day Are they all-day excursions? Oh, yes They're all-day excursions The boat sails at 10.15 a.m. And returns at 9 p.m. Further details can be obtained At police precincts and PAL centers Well, what do you know? Boat rides every day From Pier 1 North River to Bear Mountain Yes, on Monday through Friday What do you know? And the boat leaves at what time did you say? 10.15 a.m.? At 10.15 a.m. That's right Uh-huh And returns at about 9 o'clock in the evening Right We had to give that a double plug Do that Well, thanks anyway And now, folks, the young lady You've been listening to Dorothy Chappelle sings Conversation While Dancing I'm afraid, Mr. Child You've got that just a wee bit wrong I've changed it You know, a woman has to change her mind Oh, yes, why should I? Can't help loving that man of mine Mm-hmm Can't help loving that man of mine Fish gotta swim Birds gotta fly I've got a love I've got a love One man till I die Can't help loving that man of mine Maybe he's lazy Maybe he's slow Maybe I'm crazy Maybe I'm crazy And maybe I know Can't help loving that man of mine When he goes away That's a rainy day That's a rainy day But when he comes home The sun will shine The world is mine He can come home As late as can be Home without him Home without him Home without him Is no home for me Can't help Loving that man of mine Every advance on the road to victory means that our armies need more paper. Save your old newspapers, files, wrappings, cartons, cardboard containers, waste paper of all kinds, bundled up neatly, making sure to keep it free of garbage and refuse of all kinds, and have it ready for the collection trucks every Wednesday. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. That was the Corona Glee Club, under the supervision of Iona Tucker, singing Summertime, from George Gershwin's Poggy and Bess. The spotlight shifts now to Sally Anhang, and finds her at the microphone where she's all said to do her bit in today's vocal proceedings as she sings, If You Were But A Dream, and referring to me, that might be a nightmare. If you were but a dream, I hope I never waken. It's more than I can pray to feel that I'm forsaken. If you're a fantasy, then I'm content to be In love with lovely you And pray my dream comes true I love to kiss you But I would not dare I'm so afraid That you may vanish in the air Oh, darling, If our romance would break up I hope that I will never waken If I were but a dream Harvey Davis and his boys have accumulated their second wind now, so let's take off with them on musical wings for a visit to the dear old Southland. Thank you. Thank you. The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End As years go by I know the only one Honey and only be you I am the one free you My heart will try Further information concerning the work of the Police Athletic League and your own community, write to pals at the PAL and care of the station or to 240 Center Street, New York City. If you have any talent and would like to appear on this program and would like to appear on this program and would like to appear on this program, apply to the supervisor or your PAL Center or send a card to us and care of this station, we'd be glad to arrange an audition for you. This program was written and directed by Ed McManus for the police athletic league and music was under the direction of Arthur Ford. And there's another program for and with children on WNYC today at 6 p.m., a radio adaptation of Hans Christian Andersen's story of the power of the pure and hot, the Snow Queen, on the Global Neighbors series. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Hello, Mr. McManus. Hello, Thelma Murray. How are you today? I'm okay, Mr. Mack, except that I'm mad. You're mad, Thelma? What about? I'm mad because anyone, even the boss, should say you don't know the right time. Thanks, Thelma. And confidentially, when he said I didn't know the right time, he was wrong. It was daytime and I knew it. I'll bet you did, Mr. Mack. You said it. He can't pull the wool over my eyes and make me believe it's nighttime when it isn't. Of course not. Not an old clock watcher like you. Of course not. What? A clock watcher? What makes you think I'm a clock watcher? Well, from observing you in the past, I can sort of tell the shape of things to come. You can, eh? What do you mean, the shape of things to come? Well, for example, comes five o'clock and the end of this program... Yes? With one bound, you'll be out of that chair. With another bound, you'll be through the studio door. With a third bound, you'll be down the hall, and the fourth bound will land you right in front of the elevator. Now, now, now, wait a minute, Thelma. With all those bounds, this sounds like, uh, shall I say, the saga of a kangaroo. Oh, no, Mr. Mack. All those bounds mean it's a saga of our announcer, Homeward Bound. Homeward Bound. Okay, Thelma. And now, folks, as we get ready to make that first bound, Thelma Murray sings This Love of Odd. This love of mine Goes on and on Life is so empty Since you have gone You're always on my mind Though out of sight It's lonesome through the day And all the night I've cried my heart out It's bound to break Since nothing matters Let it break I ask the sun and the moon The stars that shine What's to become of it This love of mine Earlier in the program, Mr. McManus was asked jokingly if he knew what PAL stood for. If you were listening in then, you know, of course, these letters stand for Police Athletic League. But what is PAL and what is it trying to do? The Police Athletic League is an organization of boys and girls sponsored by the police department. Its primary purpose is to provide healthful, wholesome recreation for all the youth of New York. PAL believes that the grown-ups of this great city should guarantee our boys and girls an opportunity for adequately supervised play. If you agree, you can do your part by becoming an associate member of the Police Athletic League. Membership dues are only $1 a year. Enroll as a PAL at the nearest police station or send your dollar to Police Athletic League, 240 Center Street, New York 13, New York. PAL, LARRED Thelma Murray joins our pals Louise Whittaker and Dorothy Chappelle now to bring us a trio rendition of Hattie from Haiti. This is a brand new song, but we have a hunch that you'll be hearing more about it. We hope you like it. Hattie from Haiti Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Hot Hattie Probably ever. She won my tropic rain. You can say that man again and again. Hatsy from Hitchy is the glamour girl name. Hatsy from Hitchy is she a big great day. When I get home she wag big tail. Wag big tail, wag big tail. When I get home she wag big tail. Never wag song about rum, wine or rain. Got a glamour girl, she won my tropic rain. You can say that man again and again. Hatsy from Hitchy is the glamour girl name. Hatsy from Hitchy is she a big great day. On the day Gabriel blow that trumpet. And you get your just reward. Like it or lump it. I be dog and sure of heavenly bliss. If we score half as good as me big lovin' miss. Now the glamour girl, she wag big tail. She wag big tail, wag big tail. You can say that man again and again. Hatsy from Hitchy is the glamour girl name. Oh behold, Hatsy from Hitchy is the glamour girl name. Hatsy from Hitchy is the glamour girl name. Ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho, He ho ho ho ho ho ho ho ho The recreational facilities of the Police Athletic League are available to all children of New York City. This program is one of many PAL activities. If you have any talent as an entertainer and would like to appear on this program, send a card to pals of the PAL in care of Station WNYC and we'll be glad to arrange an audition for you. Grown-ups are invited to become adult members of the PAL at annual dues of $1. You may forward your dollar by mail to the Police Athletic League, 400 Broom Street, New York 13, New York. This program was written and directed by your announcer for the Police Athletic League. Music was under the direction of Arthur Ford. teaching también to fill the Folk Street in New York City. This is Station WNYC. game time time time time time time
