The Division of Licensed Places of Public Assembly of the Fire Department of the City of New York is provided for by law to enforce the provisions in relation to the protection of the public against fire and panic, obstruction to aisles, passageways and means of egress, standees, overcrowding, fire prevention and fire appliances in all places where the public assembles for religious, educational and entertainment purposes. This last includes places such as theaters, motion pictures, cabarets, dance halls, catering establishments, boxing exhibitions, baseball games, restaurants, automobile, bicycle and horse races and also entertainments in schools, churches, hotels and clubs. I have no intention of making this a statistical report, yet a knowledge of the vastness of our jurisdiction and responsibility is necessary. We inspect and supervise all establishments of assembly in the five boroughs with a staff of 46 officers and firemen. These men are especially selected because of their specific training, experience and personality. In addition to their intelligence, honesty, courtesy, loyalty and pride in their special responsibilities, they must have marked initiative to interpret the laws and properly apply them and be prepared to make clean-cut decisions when necessary. We have the responsibility of protecting the citizens and visitors in New York City 24 hours each day. I am happy and proud to inform you listeners that we have established an enviable record in the interest of public safety, your safety and that of your children, in that no deaths nor injuries have occurred in any of our licensed place of assembly since its organization in 1936. We can recall the disastrous fires and panics in recent years that have snuffed out many lives unnecessarily to illustrate the thought of what we are trying to forestall and prevent from ever happening in our city and, for that matter, elsewhere. In our city, of almost 8 million people, this division supervises the safety of at least 2 million people daily. We cover 2,500 licensed places of assembly and over 6,000 others of various types wherein the public assembles. In addition, there are others that accommodate more than 750,000 people, such as conventions, concerts, exhibitions, and our summer beaches. The duties of the members of the division are to inspect thoroughly every place of public assembly, to guard against fire, and to prevent panic. They check on all exits, aisles, passageways, lights, obstructions, overcrowding, smoking restrictions, flame-proofing, use of dangerous articles, and the availability of fire appliances, the safety of refrigerants and fuel oils. Fire drill organizations to train members of all types of premises in the quick removal of the public, and the operation of safety equipment in the event of fire, and also as a civilian defense method of operation in case of an enemy attacked. This division cooperates with the Department of Licenses, the Department of Housing and Buildings, the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity, the Police Department, as well as the State Athletic Commission in the interest of public safety. The fire force of this division issued over 5,000 corrective orders during the past year. There were 5,500 special inspections, not including the investigations of complaints and so forth. Over 120,000 visits and 3,000 special details were conducted during the routine rounds of division members. Summonses served when necessary all resulted in convictions in court. As an example of the efficiency of the division's work, we investigated a total of 84 fires in places of assembly and in which there was not a single loss of life. We gratefully acknowledge the wonderful and wholehearted cooperation we have received from the business interests concerned and from the public at large. This has been a major factor in keeping the proud record of this division at such a high level. We wish to prevent the fires before they occur and to protect the lives and property of our citizens to the best of our ability and the general public at large is the major factor in gaining that goal. Within the next 10 minutes, at least 10 American families will be threatened by fire. Don't let your family be a part of these tragic statistics. Check your home for fire hazards and eliminate them. Fight fire with fire prevention. This is WNYC, New York City's own station, and WNYC-FM. Welcome now to Chamber Music Time. For your late evening listening, WNYC-FM brings you music performed by the world's finest instrumentalists and ensemble. Tonight's recorded Chamber Music Time will bring you works of Beethoven, Schumann, and Tchaikovsky. Author's selection will be the Beethoven trio in C minor, Op. 9, No. 3, in performance by the Pasquier trio. You've heard the trio in C minor, Op. 9, No. 3, of Ludwig von Beethoven, as performed by members of the Pasquier trio. You're listening to Chamber Music Time, and you over WNYC-FM, the high-fidelity voice of New York City. Our late evening recorded Chamber Music concert continues with Robert Schumann's Chrysleriana, Op. 16, in a performance by the pianist Ray Lev. Ray Lev, pianist, has performed Schumann's Chrysleriana, Op. 16. Chamber Music Time concludes now, as we hear the waltz in F minor, and the humoresque, of Peter Ilyich Tchaikovsky, with Ray Lev once again, our recording artist. And so will the performance of the waltz in F minor, and humoresque of Tchaikovsky, Ray Lev, the pianist. We conclude this evening's presentation of Chamber Music Time, a nightly recorded presentation of your city station. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Closed windows in homes or apartments where there is a gas flame mean heavy risk of gas poisoning. Fresh air must circulate in a room where a gas appliance is in use. Special care should be taken with open flame gas heaters and gas flame refrigerators which run 24 hours a day. Remember, an open window assures best ventilation and your safety. This is WNYCFM, the high-fidelity voice of New York City. Cooperate with your department of sanitation. Help keep your city clean by using the trash cans which are placed on street corners for the disposal of newspapers, candy wrappers, and other refuse. New York is your city. Keep it clean. This is WNYCFM, the high-fidelity voice of New York City. the high-fady producer has a поч teamwork for sustainability. Is that anything you can do? You can also help or keep your cities fighting inside a cup? Before going back a few minutes, dunno, here you go.