Your City Station now brings you the second of an important series of reports on civil defense. Each week at this time, Civil Defense Director Arthur W. Wallander will hear informal reports from the heads of city departments detailing their preparations in the event of a defense emergency. On this program originating in the office of the Director of Civil Defense, Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Civil Defense Communications for the City of New York, will discuss the status of the city's communications facilities as regards the potential needs and demands of civil defense. Also participating in this discussion is Mr. James O'Brien of the New York Telephone Company, assigned to the office of the Civil Defense Director as a special communications assistant. Now to introduce this, the second report on civil defense. Here is New York City's Civil Defense Director, Arthur W. Wallander. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Tonight our report on civil defense will be presented by Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Communications, and Mr. James O'Brien, General Service Manager for the New York Telephone Company, who has been loaned to us for civil defense work. This report will cover the important subject of your city's communication facilities and just how they are being mobilized on a standby basis in order to be fully prepared for any conceivable emergency. As a matter of fact, as civilization has grown more complex, the factor of communications in times of stress and crises has assumed an even more significant precision. Many of us know how, during the tense fighting days of World War II, the organization of communications was invariably given top priority from the forward lines of the infantry back through the echelons to the home front. A civil defense plan is no better than the communications system upon which its execution depends. So much for the introduction to this evening's discussion, and now it is my pleasure to turn to the Director of Civil Defense Communications for the City, Mr. Seymour N. Siegel. Mr. Siegel, obviously you are the one best qualified to fill in the communications picture for us. First of all, by way of background, suppose you describe to us the functions of a communications network and a civil defense setup. Basically, Commissioner, our job is to organize a well-knit liaison among the many agencies involved in order that we may have complete control and coordination in an emergency. This includes the federal government, New York State, as well as other states, and of course the armed forces. It means maintaining contact with key officials of all city departments and an unbreakable line of communication with public utility companies. Finally, and very far from least important, we must be responsible for liaison with the citizens of our city so that they may be immediately apprised of what's going on. It means liaison between police and fire department communication systems, the air raid warning system, the report and control centers, the use of telephone and radio facilities, and even making available a core of messengers in the event that normal facilities are disrupted. Now, any discussion of communications mobilization in New York City should be divided into two more or less broad classifications. First, of course, is the pre-emergency planning and activation. The second classification, the one we all pray we'll avoid but are determined to be ready for, consists of the steps taken during an actual emergency. The first concrete step is setting up the air raid warning system. In addition to the regular sirens proposed to be installed at various points in the city. There will also be available the sirens on police cars and fire vehicles. In addition, a network of radio and television stations is being hooked up for instantaneous notification to the public of air raid alarms. Before a probable disaster takes place, the communication facilities in New York will primarily be concerned with information and training. In addition to the public of communications and communications and so forth. All of this to the public at large as quickly and expeditiously as possible. Let the people know, Commissioner. That's our motto, and with 23 cooperating broadcasting stations throwing in their full efforts, the people will know. We determine that within the limits of security, the people of our city will be informed immediately of the latest news related to civil defense. And we're confident that once knowing the news, the people will be informed immediately of the latest news related to civil defense. That once knowing the news and having been instructed, our citizens will act with the forbearance and intelligence that has always distinguished New Yorkers. Well, Si, and how about training? Just how well the communications facilities assist in the training program of civil defense? Commissioner, the 23 broadcasting and television stations I mentioned before, organized into three close-knit working committees, are throwing their full resources into this phase of the program, too. Radio and television can do a wonderful job in the training of key specialists, such as radiological defense volunteers, air raid wardens and spotters, control and report center personnel and first aid workers. Crucial defense subjects can likewise best be taught via informative, interesting radio and television programs. These will include all sorts, everything from spot announcements, dramas, lectures, forums, on the spot broadcasts, question and answer programs. We hope to use the latest audio and video techniques for rapid, thorough-going instruction. We have FM receivers located in all schools, which will cover civil defense training material and bring them material especially prepared for students. It's proposed also that television receivers be installed at police precinct station houses and fire stations. And our working committee of broadcasting stations are setting up a pool of writers, directors, and engineers to help prepare this program material. And we'll have the full use of the production facilities of the member stations. And when produced, these training programs, we hope, will be performed on choice time segments over those stations so that, again, just as in the case of the information programs, full coverage of any subject relating to civil defense will be guaranteed. You've covered the pre-emergency information and training functions of our city's communication facilities very thoroughly, Si. Now let's move on and could you describe the steps you've taken in the event the emergency really comes upon us? What then? Well, Commissioner, the main thing we're concerned with in the event of a hot war is the threat of some sort of disaster and whether or not we're equipped to handle it. Now, apropos of this, I'd like to make a preliminary point. As a city of over 8 million people, and no one should know this better than a retired police commissioner, sir, we've had our share of unavoidable disasters of one tragic type or another. We've had building collapses and train wrecks and fires and ferry collisions. We've run the gamut. And over the years, growing out of these emergencies, there's developed the best emergency communication system in the world, that of our own police department, which, since 1932, has pioneered in the usage of a large-scale two-way radio system, covering now over 900 widely scattered headquarters and vehicles. A comparable two-way system within the fire department is also about to be installed. And this, like the police department network, will be available for civil defense communications. So it's a point worth mentioning, I think, that this is by no means a Johnny-come-lately scheme, but we have an emergency communications network in this city that has never been found wanting and is constantly being modernized and improved to face any new threat, however violent, however mysterious. Well, that's interesting. Suppose you give us a brief description of the proposed means of notifying the public in case of attack. Well, Commissioner, air raid warning information is sent from the Army Information Service to police headquarters over direct telephone lines and are then relayed by teletype network to all police station houses, report centers, control centers, and fire headquarters. It's sent by telephone to key people in the city administration and by radio to police patrol cars. Fire headquarters relays the warning to all local fire houses. From each police station house, the warning is further relayed to radio and television stations, to schools, to hospitals, to public utilities and defense plants, all of this by means of a push button that activates a wire network furnished by the New York Telephone Company. Several hundred locations are expected to be served in this fashion. Well, what about report and control centers? How are they set up? Commissioner, here's James O'Brien of the New York Telephone Company who's been doing so much to set up wire communications for you. Yes, Cy, in line with this, we are now planning for the establishment of a system of precinct report centers and borough control centers, manned 24 hours a day. The precinct report centers will flash word of any emergency within its area, a water main burst, a fire, an explosion, say, back to the borough control center. At the borough control center, representatives and specialists from all city departments will be present who will immediately go into action to bring the emergency under control. If the emergency is too great for the picked teams at the borough level to handle, calls will be relayed back to the city central control center, as well as adjacent borough control centers for assistance. And if further reinforcements are required, we have special lines set up for direct contact with the armed forces, state, and other municipality civil defense authorities. We are, of course, arranging for the establishment of alternate locations for the borough control centers, as well as auxiliary police and fire communications headquarters, with independent power suppliers in the event that the primary installations are rendered inoperative. I would like to state publicly my appreciation for the work of Mr. James O'Brien, who has been assigned by the New York Telephone Company to this office as a special communications assistant, and who has been doing such a competent job of setting up the telephone connections for the precinct report and borough control centers. Parathetically, I might mention that the support of the New York Telephone Company has been absolute, and we are all aware of the great assistance of that organization during World War II in the establishment of our communications system, as well as many other civil defense preparations. In addition, Commissioner, we've met with the wholehearted cooperation of the Consolidated Edison Company, the Brooklyn Borough Gas Company, the Brooklyn Union Gas Company, and, of course, every one of the 23 broadcasting and television stations in the city. Well, Si, I noticed that WNYC, the city station which you direct, as part of your responsibilities, made extensive use of radio amateurs or hams in its fine coverage of the last election. It strikes me that these radio amateurs are a source of potential value in an emergency situation. I know that they cooperated wholeheartedly in our civil defense plans during World War II. Radio amateurs do occupy a key position, and we intend to use them to the full, Commissioner. Experience throughout this country has proven that in major disasters, floods, forest fires, landslides, the value of these radio hams has been virtually immeasurable. That's why we're organizing the hams for emergency service. What we've worked out, then, is really an extension of our regular communications setup, where, in addition to our police and fire department organization, we're mobilizing the efforts of private broadcasters and utility companies, as well as WNYC, the city's radio station, so as to do the best job conceivable of informing, training, and guiding our citizens through any civil defense emergency that may arise. Well, I presume that the broadcasting stations will keep the public advised minute by minute of the situation as it develops. Is that so? Yes, indeed, Commissioner, and they can convey necessary instructions and advice from civil defense headquarters. Standard operating reports of disasters or requests for aid will be permitted only if authorized. We're also planning the use of sound trucks and portable two-way radios, particularly in operations close to the scene of any disaster, or when normal facilities are disrupted. As you stated in your opening remarks, Commissioner, you know, this is clearly a case of that old dictum, prepare for the worst and hope for the best. Since that must be our slogan during this troubled period, it should be a comforting feeling to know that our network of communication facilities will be ready for almost everything. Thank you, Seymour Siegel and Jim O'Brien for this very informative talk on communications for civil defense of the city of New York. I appreciate you being here. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the second of an important new series of reports on civil defense. On this transcribed program, Civil Defense Director Arthur W. Wallinger has discussed the emergency communications aspect of the civil defense situation with Seymour N. Siegel, Director of Civil Defense Communications for the City of New York. Also participating in the discussion was Mr. James O'Brien of the New York Telephone Company, assigned to the office of the Civil Defense Director as a special communications assistant. Remember, each week at this time, Civil Defense Director Arthur W. Wallinger will have present here in the office of the Director of Civil Defense the head of a city department, who will offer to Commissioner Wallinger and the people of the City of New York another important report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.