The man who won the first marathon was carrying a message. He carried the message at the distance of the marathon race, but he dropped dead in its delivery, but his tragic end immortalized him much more than those who lived to receive it. And it is for that reason that we maintain this hope and aspiration for the athlete. I remember a police commissioner saying one time in the studios of your city station that in every instance where they picked up a criminal, in almost no instance was he an athlete. Because the athlete gives you an opportunity to fight back. And win or lose makes no difference. In the highest elements of sports, it makes no difference who wins. It's the effort that creates the sport. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arum Pelletieri, the Honorable Grove Ray Whalen, and the committee who have turned out here to meet Sugar Ray Robinson today on his return from the battlefields of Europe, in a different sense, why they've just taken their place on the stands now. And there's a few minutes for personal greetings, because as happens in these occasions at City Hall, the grandstand is crowded with those who have come out to express their interest in the occasion, whatever it may be. And some of them are meeting the mayor for the first time here this morning. The mayor was very busy earlier in the day, as you know, swearing in the fire commissioner of the city of New York. And now he's in front of the city hall with this tribute to an American athlete, Sugar Ray Robinson. The situation now is that the guests are taking their seats on the stand directed in front of City Hall. And Sugar Ray will certainly know that win or lose, we're behind our athletes. And it's like a ball game. You may win it today, or you'll win again tomorrow. And then, of course, we all look toward the World Series by a series of win or lose, with, of course, the differentiation being on the winning side. And Sugar Ray will have every reason to know that we have confidence in him as a good athlete. And his next opportunity will no doubt prove the fact that we're much better on our home soil than we are in the diversions of the foreign scene. That's always a difficult matter. I sometimes think when we travel, we accept too much entertainment and a different environment, so much so that we're never quite ourselves to the extent that we feel like when we're at home or in our hometown, surrounded by our own pals and friends. And Sugar Ray will be very encouraged today with the turnout here at City Hall to greet him on his return from England. It's not the final instance of the situation, as you all know. There's going to be another contest early. You say it. Hello, everybody. This is Cowboy Snakeshuller of New York City, meeting this one most great American in the world, Sugar Ray Robinson. He's going to win the next time on the 12th, I think. Well, at least there's one fan. And now Mr. Whalen has just called for the anthem. Hey! Hey! THE END And now the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee. Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Mayor, and it's a great privilege for me to present to you the head of the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund, Walter Winchell. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Your Honor, Commissioner, and Mr. and Mrs. New York, thank you very, very much. I think most of you know why I'm here. I'm here, ladies and gentlemen, to personally thank Sugar Ray Robinson for all he has done for the Runyon Fund. It will be one year ago, in a few days, August 9th, I believe is the date, when Sugar fought Charlie Faseri at Roosevelt Stadium in Jersey City for the Runyon Committee, at which time the cancer fighters realized almost $47,000 because Sugar Ray turned over his entire purse. Thank you. And while it wasn't the first time that a champion turned over his entire purse to a cause because Joe Lewis did it for Navy relief when, incidentally, I chairmaned that at the Garden several years ago in 1942. But it was the first time in an awful long time that anyone else followed suit. Sugar, it's what you said in London that made us all very proud. When I say all, I imagine all of us in the 48 states. But I know how proud it made all of us on the Runyon Committee feel when we picked up the papers and listened to the radio and learned that in your sorrowful hour, in defeat, you were still a champion and you conducted yourself the way Americans like to know Americans conduct themselves when they're overseas. when you said you were a better man than I am or than I was tonight. I put that in the paper, Sugar, and I added, you see, no sour grapes in Sugar. when Sugar Ray went overseas, he brought with him from the Runyon Fund eight Runyon Fund checks for cancer research in eight different countries abroad. $10,000 each, and they went to Ireland, Israel, Italy, Norway, Scotland, England, and France. Sugar delivered them. But, before he delivered any of those checks, in his fight with Kid Marcel in Paris for the French Cancer Society, Sugar again turned over his entire purse, I believe, in the sum of about $20,000. all of which have been reported in the sports pages and eventually in the history books of sports. And so I see no further reason to add to any more comments of introduction for Sugar Ray Robinson. You all know what kind of a man he is. Ladies and gentlemen, Sugar Ray. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, you've heard the introduction which has just been given by Walter Winchell, and I'm sure that he hasn't exaggerated at all about his charitable work and his humanitarian efforts. And it's a great pleasure for me to ask you to welcome Sugar Ray at this time to the City Hall. Thank you. Drover Whalen, Waller Winchell, Sugar Ray, Mrs. Robinson, ladies and gentlemen, this great gathering here today is a real tribute to one who is temporarily and temporarily only the former world's middleweight champion. And I say this in no disparaging sense of the game Englishman who won the crown in London on July 10th, but rather because I think I know a little something of the stout heart and the master skill of Ray Robinson. We honor Ray Robinson today not because he requires any morale building for his return bout, not to ease the sting of his defeat, but because he is a great champion, typical of the line of champions who have brought fame and distinction to our great city and to our great nation. applause We honor Ray Robinson not because we wish to memorialize the fact that his fall from the championship less than four weeks ago was his first defeat in 126 professional bouts, but because Ray Robinson has been our cities and our nations, goodwill ambassador here and abroad for many years. We honor him because fistic success did not dull his senses where civic responsibility was concerned, but rather prodded him on to greater endeavors on behalf of his fellow men. If I were to continue much longer in this vein, Ray would become even more fidgety than I'm sure he is right now. However, I should like to add just a word or two to the comments made by Waller Winchell about Ray's very real contribution to the Damon Runyon Memorial Cancer Fund. Fighter Ray Robinson and successful businessman Ray Robinson, emerged a finer human personality when early last year he offered his services in the fight against one of man's most terrifying diseases, cancer. In our own city, cancer last year took a toll of almost 16,000 lives, being surpassed as the leading cause of death only by heart disease. New York's beloved columnist Damon Runyon, whose own guys and dolls are cavorting on Broadway now, fell victim to this disease. Waller Winchell and many of his colleagues threw their talents into this battle against cancer. Thousands have benefited and the hope of all is that funds set aside for research will lead the way to the cause and the cure for this dread killer. I think that it is rather accurate to say that in true greatness imagination always plays a very important role and I think it is also accurate to say that Ray Robinson's imagination was fired by this new challenge of a fight even greater than any of his ring victories. Following his championship fight with Charlie Fuseri in which his cut of the gate went entirely to the Damon Runyon fund, he went on a tour of Europe to make more research dollars available in the fight against cancer. It is for these reasons that we are here today to honor Sugar Ray Robinson. I know that for you and for me and for every New Yorker, Ray Robinson will always be a great champion because on his ledger already much is written of good that he has done for his fellow men. It is now my great pleasure to present to Ray Robinson New York City's scroll for distinguished and exceptional public service which I will now read to you. Office of the Mayor, City of New York, know all these men by these presence. that I, Vincent R. Impelletary, Mayor of the City of New York, to hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service, Ray Robinson, former middleweight champion of the world, whose interest in the welfare of his fellow human beings has manifested in his various activities as ambassador at large for the Damon Runyon Memorial Fund for Cancer Research, has secured the heartfelt appreciation of the people of the City of New York. Ray, it's my great pleasure to present this scroll. Now the usual thing, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, has been asked by the cameramen to pose for the scroll presentation with Walter Winchell on one side, Sugar Ray in the middle, and Mayor Impelletary handing the scroll to Ray Robinson. The cameramen, you know, are sure to get their picture, and for the benefit of those who cannot be here at present, they can refer back for all time to this occasion through the energy and industry and the commands of the cameramen. And they're issuing plenty of them right now. They're down there clicking, and on this very clear day, the only reminder we have, if there ever was a thunderstorm in the arc, is the flashing of the bulbs that might remind us a little of the lightning that precedes it. Sugar Ray himself is in a rather chartreuse colored coat. He looks very calm and peaceful and suave. We've heard a splendid record cited by Walter Winchell in the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund and the terrific energy he expended in the Tour in Europe in carrying not only the eight checks to the various nations for the cancer fund, but fighting some bouts on the way. The athlete is always uppermost in the mind of the American who always and at all times wants to be a good sport. We can't always win, that's proved in baseball, but when we don't win, we place more hope on the team because they have to fight to win the next game. We have some very enthusiastic Dodger fans right in our municipal building. There's one young lady in the morning that cheers us all up as we come in, Verna Clark, and she's the greatest Dodger rooter I ever met. She can give you any play in any baseball situation back over the years that ever the Dodgers took part in. And the men try to catch her in the morning, but she's got them all down straight. She's always in a happy singing mood. But the very moment the Dodgers don't win, why, Verna's face is down to her knees until the next time. Then they win a doubleheader and even the elevator runs faster. So you see, it's these inspirations that count so much in life. It isn't the victory, it isn't the thing we throw around it or the glamour, it's the reality, the inspiration that the thing brings to us. And Sugar Ray makes a very handsome appearance now in spite of his... And now Mr. Whalen's just presented him. And now Sugar Ray's going to reply. Here's Sugar Ray Robinson. Thank you. Your Honor, W.W., ladies and gentlemen. It's very hard to stand here as I stand here in front of you to hold back tears, which I imagine I'd feel a lot better if I could let go. You know, it's very easy for a champion to come home and victory and receive the blessings and good tidings of friends and all his associates. But very seldom a champion in defeat can come home and find such a wonderful thing as I have here today. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, after losing my title, rather after losing your title, applause, because I lost the recognition by you as your champion, because I lost the recognition by you as your champion. Immediately after the fight was over and the arm of the champion, Randolph Turpin, was elevated in victory. The first one I met at the ringside as I was coming down the stairs was my wife. She offered her condolences and told me that I'll always be her champion and don't feel bad. Thank you. applause The first telegram I received was that of my good friend, W.W. The telegram read, You still have your running fun title. applause And then, ladies and gentlemen, I received a wonderful letter from His Honor, Mayor Impeletere. applause Thanking me for deeds that you people think that I'm worthy of for things that I try to do overseas and welcoming welcoming bringing me back home to our city, New York and letting me know asking me to let him know the time of my arrival so that he could plan this wonderful turnout here today. Ladies and gentlemen, from the bottom of my heart, you'll never know how I feel. As you know, you have a lot of company on the way up the ladder. As soon as you start to come down, the situation pretty near changes. And when a fellow winner champion has things like this, comes home and see that his country, his city, his people, his friends, they're all with him more so than when he was riding on the top. It just, I don't know, I can't explain it. applause I'm very happy to be back, ladies and gentlemen. I can't tell you what it meant to me when I got my first glimpse of the Statue of Liberty. applause In all sincerity, Europe is wonderful and all the places that I had the pleasure to visit, but there really is one America. applause I'm very happy to say that I think that I was fortunate in making a lot of friends for America on behalf of WW and my associates from the Runyon Fund and other things, American Ambassador. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that I did not, I won't say I did not come back because in coming back here today, I am still a champion, I know. I'm sorry I did not bring back the recognition as the middleweight champion of the world, but I promise you on September the 12th, I'll do my sincere utmost to again bring the middleweight championship back to America. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Sugar Ray Robinson, he is being received here at City Hall in recognition of his wonderful work in the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund, sponsored by Walter W. Winchell. Mr. Whelan. An unusual compliment paid to Sugar Ray Robinson today, because the P.A.L. Glee Club asked for the privilege to sing. They'll now render a few selections. When you walk through a storm, keep your chin up high, and don't be afraid of the dark. At the end of a storm, there's a golden sky, and the sweet silver song of the law. Walk on through the wind, walk on through the rain, For your dreams be tossed and thrown Walk on, walk on with hope in your heart And you'll never walk alone You'll never walk alone Thank you very much. The police band will now play the processional march. And all those on the platform will please wait until the mayor escorts the guest of honor from the City Hall steps. We're all familiar with the wonderful work of the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund, and no man has done more to build up the interest in that cancer fund and contribute substantially to it than Ray Robinson. In his tour of Europe, he carried substantial checks to eight principal nations of Europe to aid in the cancer research in those nations. And you have heard the tribute of Walter Winchell to Sugar Ray Robinson here in front of the City Hall today, and the tribute to the mayor of the city of New York in representing to this champion. At the present time, struggling under a slight difficulty which he glossed over so beautifully himself with the great promise to September 12th. And we know that once a champion, always, whether it's in the contest or whether it's in the deed, you perform for the good and welfare of your fellow man. And no man has done more for that particular thing than Sugar Ray Robinson in his splendid cooperation with the Damon Runyon Cancer Fund Committee. And now the mayor of the city of New York conducts Mr. and Mrs. Sugar Ray Robinson from the stand into the City Hall where they take their cars uptown. The Honorable Grove Ray Whelan, chairman of the mayor's reception committee today, was the chairman of today's proceedings in front of City Hall. And now that is all we can bring you from the plaza at City Hall. We join with the program now in progress on your city station. Thank you.
