Tonight we're speaking to you from the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria in order to bring you the proceedings of a testimonial dinner given in honor of Comptroller Lazarus Joseph of the City of New York. This dinner is not only for the purpose of honoring the 20 years of public service that Comptroller Joseph has given to the people of New York, but also for another reason. The Educational Alliance Alumni Association of New York, which is composed of men and women who attended the Educational Alliance Association settlement house, is giving this dinner to admit Comptroller Joseph to their own Hall of Fame. This honor is extended only to those who have contributed a great deal to public service and to the association itself. In the background you're hearing Harry M. Hirschfield introducing the guests of honor on the dais. We're going to turn our microphone over to him. Later on in the program you will hear Mr. Hirschfield introduce many famous guests, familiar to all of you. Now Mr. Hirschfield. ...movement in the Garment Center. Interfaith. That should be the keynote and is the keynote tonight. Thomas J. Shanahan. ... Honorable Bernard L. Scheintag. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Honorable Henry Stackl. ... Honorable Erwin Steingutt. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Where is the table? Huh? Honorable Morris Eder. Philip Evergood. Nathaniel L. Goldstein. Jacob Holman. Louis L. Kahn. Honorable Aaron J. Levy. Murray L. Jacobs. Honorable Anna M. Cross. Samuel Markowitz. Honorable Samuel Orr. And William Weiss. And before... Oh yes, this is very important. Just let our audience, listening audience, know that two large bouquets of flowers have been handed to Mr. Hirschfield. Mr. Hirschfield will now expand them. Honorable Vincent Impeletari. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For the two ladies who are to receive these beautiful flowers, I love to repeat, and it goes for both of them, what a poet said to his adored one when he brought her some roses. He said, In tripping through the fields today, I came upon these roses that dared say they were more beautiful than you. I cut them down, and now I lay them captive at your feet. Mrs. Joseph Lazarus. Lazarus Joseph. Oh, this is interesting. You're not celibate. He says, This is a laugh. You think I got something wrong? That's what he said. He said, She's celebrating her 30th wedding anniversary. She is not... And, wife of our chairman, who has done such a tremendous, tremendous, successful affair here, wonderful in every way, Mrs. Isidore Cummings. Will you... Yeah, take her to me. Thank you. And one more mention, and then we're into the speakers. All through the evening, we often wonder why things are pleasant. We hum along, feel joyous, but we never stop to figure that there's some basic background for all of it, because we take it as a matter of course now when a great orchestra plays. That always should be a matter for mention. Anything that can make us, even for an hour, two hours, three, happier than we were when we came in, calls for mention. And he has done it to the finest degree, this great orchestra under Frank Silver. In praising these gentlemen that I am about to introduce as speakers, I'm in a tough spot. All I can say is what happened to Al Smith. When Al Smith spent the last part of his highly colorful life, highly wonderful life, as Major Domo of the Empire State Building, you remember he took great joy in piloting up and down the elevators all visitors, not everybody that came in, but if they wanted to really be piloted around, Al Smith took them. And one day, there were a bunch of school teachers that came into the elevator. This story is supposedly true. And as he was taking these school teachers up this elevator, he tried to explain to them that the speed of the going up and going down depended purely on the mechanics of that elevator, the pressures on that elevator, what made it go up and down at that terrific speed. So she said, one of the school teachers spoke up, said, Mr. Smith, if something should happen to the mechanics of the elevator, would it take me up or down? He said, Lady, it depends on what kind of a life you've been leading. These people have left and led great lives. A leading figure in the interfaith movement in the borough of the Bronx. Anybody that does anything for the betterment, even for a fraction, and it's all made up of fractions anyhow, if accumulated value is what we want, is worthy of our attention at all times. They must speak and we must listen. The Reverend John Walter Hauk. Well, you couldn't have given a better speech, Reverend, than the Holy Bible. Listen, he's good as folk. Give him a hand. In fact, give him another hand for not speaking again. The president of the Alumni Association of the Educational Alliance, and that's what it is. I love the idea of Educational Alliance. I love the idea of alumni. I love the idea of being president of it. It all adds up to a great score. I give you with pride Mr. Isidore Goldberg. Lazarus Joseph, our guest of honor, members of the clergy, Governor Joe R. Hanley, Mayor William O'Guard, distinguished and honorable guests, members of the Hall of Fame, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Alumni Association of the Educational Alliance, I too welcome you and thank you for being here this evening to help us honor one of our deserving alumni members, the honorable Lazarus Joseph. We are happy to be the means of bringing to him the recognition which he deserves for his fine contributions to the community and to the Educational Alliance. The Alumni Association, through its dues-paying members, is able to provide additional services for which the regular budget of the Educational Alliance makes no provision. among these desirable extracurricular activities are summer vacations for mothers and children at Camp Solomon and for boys at Surprise Lake Camp. We, who participate in this work, experience the gratifying thrill that one can only receive through helping others. If you are an Alliance boy, we invite your membership the dues are only $5 per year. You will thus help the underprivileged to receive some additional pleasures out of life. You will help make them better citizens. I thank you. That is a great standard set beautifully. Goldberg, that is fine. And in case the hint isn't there yet, I gotta tell you about the fellow who worked for Concern for 22 years. and he was finally fired. So he asked for a letter of recommendation and the letter of recommendation read as follows. To whom it may concern, Sam Gordon worked for me for 22 years and when he left, I was perfectly satisfied. a man who was the former attorney general of the state of New York, deputy mayor of the city of New York. He was an attorney general, he knows what the law is. I would like to ask somebody this question who, those people involved in law, people who help the laws, people who help enforce it. I can't figure this out. You know, this is the only country in the world where they lock up the jury and let the prisoner go home every night. You ever hear everything like that? I introduce with great pride really a great official, a great citizen. over the years, steadfast, real quality in this land. Believe me, in every respect, and I'm not just adding it because he's a speaker, the honorable John J. Bennett. Thank you. Harry, Governor Hanley, Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished guests, my old colleague Larry and all of his friends. I can take a hint, Harry, and I'm glad that the first speaker set the example which I shall be glad to follow of being brief. But I must say, Larry, that it would take a long time tonight if I had the time to say all the nice things about you that are in my heart. on January 1st, 1931, I assumed the office of Attorney General. It's a great office, has multifarious duties, important duties, and I needed help to carry out those duties. And I was very happy on that day to know that Lazarus Joseph walked into the office with me as an assistant Attorney General. He served with me for some years, and I'm sure that I need not tell all of you who know Larry so well that his service was distinguished service. And when he left to go to the Senate, while I felt that it was a promotion for him and the thing that he wanted to do, I genuinely regretted seeing him go. I watched him in the Senate. He had a great deal to do with him. And I know what a distinguished career he had in the Senate. I've been with him now for three and a half years in connection with the government of the city of New York. He's still the same Larry Joseph, still doing a good job, still a man who remembers the fact that he's an alumnus of the Educational Alliance. I wouldn't want you folks to feel that I'm here merely to say nice things about Larry as a public servant. I want to say nice things about him too because he and I have been close personal friends for a good many years. A fine character, a real friend, a splendid husband and father, a man for whom it is my great honor to be able to call my friend. I'm happy to join with you tonight in honoring him and wishing for him many, many years with every year full to the overflowing with the happiness that he deserves. Thank you, Judge Cohen. I said earlier and some of the speakers called attention to it that we were not going to talk politics. But when I was on the Chicago Daily News a good 40 years ago, I covered murder cases. It's on a level. And I saw a case there and they had the murder in court, a tough looking murder. And they were examining jurors, talesmen, for this trial. Finally, they got one of my compatriots up there, asked them a lot of questions and they finally came to the very important question. They said to him, do you believe in capital punishment? He looked at the murder and says, in this case, yes. I come to one of the most delightful assignments in my whole life. Don't know where to start, don't know where to finish, because this is for all time what I'm going to say now. You are a witness living in a period when you are seeing in this world of chaos and grab and greed. You're seeing an example of something you wouldn't have believed if you had read the history of politics. I've seen presidents not adhere to this. Second largest assignment in America, which means the world, that any man on one leg would grab and hold onto. No. This man, if ever there was a man of stature, if there was a man of integrity, if there was ever a man who took the beating like no man ever had in this city as mayor, right from the very start, from the very first day, they battered him. He lost much. Someplace in the scheme of things in the physical being. Someplace in this fight, except in his heart itself. The symbolic heart has not been touched. Oh, I don't say he's a sick man, he's not. But we don't want him to be a sick man. That's the important point. You're seeing something tonight. I'm all emotion when I talk of him, see what he has done, and what does he do. He's simply called an armistice, as I would say. You don't think you've heard the end of this man who was sitting on the sideline just in a few months. Others would have said, well, long as I'm not to continue by my own free will and accord, I might as well quit now. No, this man gives full measure as a day took an oath, and if he was to gasp with the last, which may it be long from now, he would go up to that stretch in that line to fulfill his duty, but he is not going to just rest and see that he has done his part and just left. He is watching this great city of New York. He's going to see that the best man, to his knowledge, whether he's picks him or not, has nothing to do with it, but he's going to watch. You are witnessing in your time one of the greatest souls, one of the greatest human beings you'll ever meet. I could cry at this, believe me, when I mention the name of William O'Dwyer. Thank you. Mark Bay, thank you. Harry Hirschfield, Lazarus Joseph, Henrietta, Ethel, Bobby, Your Excellency, the Governor, Reverend, distinguished guests, and friends of the Educational Alliance, and Larry Johnson. No one who follows a galaxy of speakers such as those who are listed tonight would want to be prepared because everything would have been said. They have dissected you, Larry, taken you apart, put you together again, and that limits the distance that I can go. But I couldn't help during this evening looking around at the faces, the friendly faces, in this luxurious room in the water without thinking that our coming here has been the end of a long, long journey. It began not in New York City, but in faraway places places where people were troubled and harassed, where tyranny and starvation and discrimination made life scarcely worthwhile. And only the courage of a people who could take it to the moment of death and still have enough fight left could have come through. For some, they did not come through. There was no survival. In some inscrutable way, it was that we cannot understand. It was God's will that some would have to go. And those who did survive found a very many found their way over the tumbling seas in the humble holes of the immigrant ship until land was sighted. A blessed land was sighted where food was, where some form of shelter was, but where above all freedom and protection from the conditions that they left was the guarantee of a sacred constitution and where friendship where humanity where welcome was their love knocking at the door of our beautiful city that were made at home. Naturally, in times through which they passed, there was a turmoil, a searching, a feverish, nervous drive, and easily that herd might have gone off. they had passed the statue. They couldn't read the inscription of Emma Lazarus. Send me, troubled ones, the refuse of your shore. love. I would lift my lap before the golden door. Leadership came to them from out of their hearts and out of their poor, troubled lives. And one leader was Rabbi Jacob Joseph. Days came when youngsters were born and grew up in humble surroundings, little thinking of the green pastures that lay ahead, struggles, living with people who struggled, understanding people who suffered, looking at the sick, looking at the ones who were no longer able to work, looking at the little people who went out in the winter, who went out in the summer sun, seared and burned with the wounds of coal in their hands, looking at the fathers and the mothers who were never given a full lap until the day that their children graduated from public school, looking at the ones who had one compensation for the troubles of living, praying for the day when this great gift of education would come, that every once in a while one would graduate from high school. And there were those fewer, of course, who saw the children of their own bodies actually graduating from college and taking their places among the professional people of the world. That's how we have all come together tonight. Our luxury is an edifice born under struggles of those who made it possible for us to be here. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And if we pass for a moment, if we bypass permanently over the field that has been covered so ably by the previous speakers, and come specifically to our guest of art, and take him back three and a half years to that day when we took office, and I, speaking of him, speaking generally of every man on the board of Estonia, who have worked so faithfully and hard, week after week on every major project for the three and a half years, and paying to them, blanket compliment for the splendid work that they've done. And if anyone should compliment me because of the administration, I refuse to accept it for me because I want proper justice to be done to the men who made it possible, the members of the Board of Estimate who worked with me. Thank you. Tonight is Larry Joseph's night. I have seen him work. An elected official in the five counties, wholly independent of the mayor, separate, city-wide officials, provided for in the charter, the man who duty flies and is to study every expenditure and to make sure that it's right, that it's just. This man had that particular position in the administration, and how I have seen him struggle with the headaches that were left to him. So, Judge Cohen, he threw you into the net? Why, he threw the port authority into the net on Idlewilder in it yet? I could go down the line one night and after another, where we leaned on him for the help that he so generously gave. I was so happy to hear Colonel Hooper speak of him tonight, because that is precisely how I knew him. I knew him to work and struggle when a weaker man wouldn't have stood up. I have seen him go to his home, and I do regret to open the womb, but I have seen him go to his home, where that beautiful, friendly human had learned suffering, some of them long before they should have, because there was a vacant chair. I know the conditions under which he stayed with us when a weaker man could not have carried on. And for that, those days, Larry, that are closing in, I shall always remember what you've done in this administration. And I know that I'm joined by every member of the Board of Estonia, and I know that I'm joined by every one of our official family, most of whom are here to join with your friends in the educational alliance to tell you this outstanding tribute, to leave you and we alongside of you when you're being led into the Hall of Fame. May that Hall be nice to you. May it welcome you with soft, warm, hot and heavy. May it protect you and his joy to you and to your loved ones and to your friends. May you long to enjoy it. Please Please remain, because we come now to the purpose of the evening. I can call on Mr. Israel Goldberg, the president, of course, you know, of the Education Relax. Alumni, rather. This is a part of the program that I really did not expect to participate in, and I can prove it by the paper here. However, Larry Joseph, it gives me great pleasure to present to you the citation for the Hall of Fame, and I will read it to you. The Hall of Fame Committee of the Educational Alliance Alumni Association sites Lazarus Joseph, Comptroller of the City of New York, who rose from a humble but cultured background on the Lower East Side, where he was a member of the Shakespeare Club of the Educational Alliance to achieve high station and fulfill great responsibilities successively as assistant attorney general of New York State, as state senator of the New York legislature, and as comptroller of the City of New York, for his earnest devotion to the public welfare, and for his honorable and capable contributions to the civic cause, for his outstanding services and extraordinary qualities. We elect now to place the portrait of Lazarus Joseph in the Hall of Fame. Applause Applause Applause Applause And now call on the president of the Educational Alliance, Mr. Chauncey Mayer. Applause Applause A hand after all he's president. Applause Applause Harry Hirschfield, our grand guest of honor, Governor Hanley, Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. My name made it Frankenstein виде. Thrown of honor to join52, Molly, politician. della America I Karate think of my embarrassment at this moment. Please, as a private citizen, I must confess that my humble way I came here prepared, who spoke so magnificently and so feelingly and came unprepared. In welcoming Larry Joseph to membership in the Hall of Fame in the Educational Alliance, it seems appropriate to state what the Hall of Fame signifies. Some years ago, at the 50th anniversary celebration of the Educational Alliance, a room in our building at East Broadway and Jefferson Street was designated to house the photographs of illustrious citizens distinguished in all walks of life. Who in their youth used our facilities? Physically, the Hall of Fame is just this room in the Educational Alliance. Spiritually, however, it is a thousand times more than that. The room and the many photographs are but symbols of that far greater Hall of Fame, the hearts and minds of the people of New York and the Educational Alliance alumni scattered throughout the nation. Among those men and women, we find in the profession of law, Judge Maricida, Judge Jonah J. Goldstein, Nathan L. Goldstein, Muriel Jacobs, Judge Louis L. Corn, Judge Anna Gross, Judge Aaron J. Levy, Samuel Martowitz, the late Judge George Medallia, Judge Samuel Orr, the late David Padel, Judge Simon H. Rifkin, Judge Ben Raven, and William Wise. In industry, we find Dr. Louis Dublin, Brigadier General David Sarnoff, and Jacob Holtz. In stage and screen, Eddie Cantor, John Garfield, Samson, Samson Rikelson. In art, Peter Blum, Jacob Epstein, Philip Evergort, Maurice Glickman, and Hein Gross. In journalism, Eugene Lyons, George Sikalski. In education, Gabriel Mason, Robert D. Brody. In philosophy, Professor Morris Raphael Cohn. The Educational Alliance is a member of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropic Societies of New York and is the largest community center in our country. Its facilities and extensive program of social work are available to young and old of both sex, regardless of race and religion. Every day, some 2,500 individuals use the facilities of the Educational Alliance for recreation and the improvement of their minds, bodies, and personalities. Here, they are taught the meaning and appreciation of our American way of life, social adjustment, and much else that contributes to a contented and youthful life. Larry Joseph has gone far since the days when he attended the dances and used the gymnasium of the Educational Alliance. And yes, in the summer, sought relief from the hot east side streets at our surprise Lake Camp. It will be a source of lasting pride to those of us who work for the Educational Alliance to have the portrait of the Honorable Lazarus Joseph in our Hall of Fame. We of the Alliance wish him what he deserves, many years of good health, contentment, and happiness. Thank you. How are you? Live long, wisely, and sanely. There is truly a man in the tradition of this country. Not that he boasts about the Mayflower. Remember when somebody said that their ancestors came over on the Mayflower? Will Rogers says, well, the immigration authorities weren't so strict then. This man would qualify in his family at any time. He is more than the acting governor. He is governor, and all it means with great, great pride and respect, and I give you theological and that unto you. The mają but now, Bye-bye, then let's go to this get started here. Mr. Chairman, my good friend Larry Joseph, Mayor O'Dwyer Distinguished Guest, ladies and gentlemen, you will note at the outset of this splendid dinner that your delightful Toastmaster emphatically said, no politics. Now, he didn't worry as far as I'm concerned because, ladies and gentlemen, I'm steeped in politics up to my ears the year round, and you can't realize what a joy and relief it is to come here where I can cut out the bunk and tell the honest-to-God truth once in a while. I'm very happy to be here, and I'm here on my own. I'm not representing anybody. I didn't call across the Atlantic Ocean for permission. I just came down here. And I'm down here because I wanted to greet the first place, the colleagues of mine in the legislature that I knew would be here in honor of Larry Joseph. I've been in that legislative halls in one capacity or another now for 25 years. And during that time, I met some very lovely men. It was my privilege to be leader of the Senate when Larry Joseph was a member of those who occupied the other side of the aisle. Now, we are not of the same race. We're not of the same religion. And we're not of the same politics. But I'm very fond personally of Larry Joseph. Larry Joseph. I never could understand his politics, but I didn't fuss with him about that. I just put it down as a case of mistaken judgment on his part and let it go at that. And I want to say this to you, that he was a great help to me, a great help to me in my leadership, in some of the complex questions with which we were dealing, and I didn't know anything about it. And I turned to him. And I recalled very distinctly one day of asking, beckoning him to come over to my seat and saying to him, Larry, what is the right of that thing? And he told me what he thought about, and I said, all right, that settles it. That bill's dead. Now, I may have made a mistake, but I still think I was right. But the joker of that thing is that an editorial in the Albany paper the next day said that Governor Hanley, Senator Hanley, showed his usual sagacity and familiarity with the law by killing such and such a bill. Now, after all, that's what makes great leaders. That's why Bill O'Dwyer is such a wonderful leader. He gets good guys to tell him what to do. Seriously, this state and this nation is to be congratulated on the opportunity that we have given men of ability and of courage and integrity to serve in a public way. I think that the government of this nation and the government of the Empire State is entitled to have the best brains of its citizenry at its command. These are terrific times. It'll take the best judgment, the most courageous heart, and the most far-seeing vision to successfully survive the capacities ahead of us. And while we may differ, and while we may differ even in the racial blood in our veins, I think we're all alike in one thing. We recognize the glory of our own country. This is God's last experiment of democracy. And we dare not fail. And I believe we get big enough to look beyond the narrow bounds of bigotry and the divisions of politics that separate us and have only one motive in our hearts, and that is the service for the best of our country and our nation, we'll survive all of these difficulties we now have here. So, Larry, that's why I'm here tonight. I'm down from upstate, just a country boy here in this city. I'm up here before this big crowd half scared to death. And I'm just here because I love you. And because I know that's in your heart. And I want to say this to you, that if our country will produce more like you, the future will be secure. You have the wishes of all your former colleagues, upstate and downstate. We like you, we appreciate you, and we know that you're honest and straight and sincere. And above all, we know that you're an honest-to-God American citizen. Thank you very much. Applause Applause Applause What the Governor tried to say earlier was this, if he dared tell you the story. What he was going to say was, the story of the Papa Bull, the Mama Bull and their little son, they went to walk to another pasture. It was quite a way. So after walking a few miles, Mama Bull fell down. After about three more miles, Papa Bull fell down. But the little son Bull kept going, proving that a little bull goes a long way. I introduce now to you. That's all right. That speech was from the heart, that's the same. I introduce to you an intimate friend of the Controller. He's been active with him in many his philanthropic works and communal activities, of which, of course, the Controller is steeped in to the limit. A wonderful, self-effacing gentleman I'm going to introduce to you. Kindly, kindly, still stern where justice is necessary. Always with sagacity, always with great sanity. A really wonderful person. It's a pleasure to know him. Every time I meet him, it's like meeting him for the first time, he's so delightful. I give you with all the respect I can summon, Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, the Honorable Albert Cohen. Thank you, Mr. Toastmaster, Governor Hanley, Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished guests and friends. I have been asked to speak on the guest of honor as a man. Speak of his personality. I've known Larry, as the Toastmaster told you, for a great many years. Perhaps there are some things that I should not tell you about him. But I think I know him well enough to give you a frank portrayal of Larry Joseph the Man. He's a product of the Lower East Side. He's a product of one of the finest institutions that exist on the Lower East Side. That is the Educational Alliance. Some 40 years ago, I think that's the correct number of years, he was very active as a young man down at that character building institution. At about that time, I attended the Young Men's Hebrew Association at 92nd Street and Lexington Avenue. There was a great rivalry that existed between the YMHA of 92nd Street and the Educational Alliance. We always had a great deal of respect for that institution. And whenever we'd meet in athletic contests, we always knew that we were to meet our superiors in the athletes and the gymnasts who came from the East Side representing the EA. I tried to play basketball at 92nd Street and I essayed to get on the basketball team. And I heard that we were to play the Educational Alliance in a basketball contest. And I learned that Larry Joseph was to be one of the members of the Educational Alliance basketball team. I had heard of his physical prowess and of his skill as a basketball player. And I asked to be excused when the contest came on. Because I knew that if I'd gotten into that fray, in the thick of the fight, Larry probably would have grabbed me instead of the basketball and hurled me into the basket. After Larry was graduated from the Educational Alliance, he came up to the Bronx. And there in very short order, he got his start and he made good from the start. Larry was graphically described to you by our presiding justice, Jed Pegg. When he described Larry as rough and ready, he's really a diamond in the rough. Yet underneath that rugged exterior, there beats a fine red heart and there exists a kindly soul. Gentle, generous, sympathetic, and always forgiving, his touch of kindness wins friends for him everywhere. Governor Hanley said to me while we were sitting on the desk earlier in the evening, that Larry Joseph's great legion of friends come here tonight to pay him tribute because he is the kind of a man who makes friends. And the man who makes friends is a real man. And that may truly be said of Larry. In public life, he's always distinguished himself as an assistant attorney general in the state of New York, as state senator, and during the last three and a half years as controller of the city of New York, he's acquitted himself with credit, with distinction, and with honor. And it is indeed fitting and proper that the Education Alliance, where he got his first training, should tonight give him a tablet in the Hall of Fame. We all rejoice in his achievements in public service as we admire the guest of honor for what he has done in the innumerable charitable activities in which he has devoted himself, and to which he has devoted himself so generously and so unselfishly in the years gone by. We congratulate Larry tonight. We congratulate the Education Alliance. We have a great honor for the Education Alliance. And we know that its past history of 50 years is truly exemplified in the life, in the attainment, and in the achievements of Larry Joseph. I have seen him discuss an argument, stop an argument with a word. I have seen him engage in the vernacular of just that spot and that subject. I never saw a man who could measure up to the situation. He could talk the language of nearly everybody he met, because he had lived meeting every form of human being. I'll say this about Larry. They say about Broadway. There are many people with them, but not of them. Never was changed, never was hurt. I yet have to meet... You know what somebody said to me tonight? This is the God's truth. Forgot who the gentleman was. Oh no! Forgot it! Sitting right here, Jim Sawyer. He said, why do we have to sit in a hot room for hours? Let everybody get up and say, Who here does not like Larry Joseph? And then let's leave. That would have been a great expression. But still, we have to go through the formula. The people did pay for the tickets. And Larry, all during the time we were being honored tonight, said to me, Harry, don't forget. Tell the people, if they haven't got the best seat, not to complain. There has been complaints. A complaint came from the end of the hall. Said the acoustics were bad, you could hear every word. What a wonderful soul he is. You heard the mayor of the city of New York give his appraisal. After all, you worked with the mayor of the city of New York. His appraisal should be the final word. And yet it isn't the final word. Twelve hundred or fourteen hundred people crowded in here tonight. When they could have had bought the tickets and still not show up. People buy tickets, but they're not obligated to show up. They're just obligated to buy them. But not to show up. And they showed up. On this one of the hottest nights we've had. And I tell you why, Larry. I don't think they'd been right with themselves. If they didn't come here to watch this glorious, unadulterated evening for you. Unadulterated, yes. There isn't a trick in this whole evening tonight. There isn't a scheme on anybody's part. There isn't a ticket to be fixed. There isn't a scheme planned. This is a labor of love by people who bought tickets and showed up. That's the important part. A wonderful soul. A great executive. Mayor said so. He ought to know. I can only read by the papers, the opposition papers. And I discount that. But your record. It's been magnificent. What else can I say? It's getting late. The honors have been given. And I like to repeat this. I've said it many times, but that goes for you and for everyone in this room and their children's children. And that is the saying, I think I translated it once for Bill O'Dwyer. And we say, There's a hundred and sponsor. Means we hope, you know, our people always say, we hope you live to be a hundred and twenty. And it just came out why they say that. God knows our people. He knows we like the handle abyssal. Means we like the bargain. Which a lot of that is going on right now in the city. Larry, it's been quite an ordeal for you to sit here. It's not so easy to take it, even if you deserve it. It's tough going. You're nervous as you can be. I don't need a doctor to feel your pulse. I can feel it. So I'm not going to take another second of your time. If you can get up, get up. Larry Jones. Does not know if you tried to burяни? Gary. K awf. Yes, and thatØ, everybody and you need sponsors, about Jason and Sam, who will recommend you, 블� 000ン the zoo. And there should be a record, these are their giggling. And there must be some real record ρos. All I can see are done.保атели. The quê. It's Charlie, he, Mr. Mayor, Governor, distinguished members of the Hall of Fame of the Education of the Law, distinguished array of men on the desk, clergy, and friends. This is a tough spot. I don't know how you people could have taken it. To me, you're all real heroes. I know you for the price of admission to this affair, you might have got seats for South of the Pacific. You came here on a real hot night to pay me tribute. I'm thankful for your attendance and your indulgence. I listened with a great deal of attention to all the very fine things tribute paid to me. I didn't know who they're talking about and I couldn't wait until I found out what the guest of honor had to say about the things that were said about it. I received an admonition from my very dear pal, Ferdy, to keep my sense of modesty. Ferdy, I know how unimportant I am. Because when a guy like Harry Hushfield can introduce Henrietta as Mrs. Joseph Lazarus, I know that I'm going home with the same hat that I came here with. Fame is a great thing. Don't take it too seriously. I was up in a little camp last summer, up at Valcour, and I heard two people arguing at the next table. I didn't know them from a hole in the next table. I didn't know them from a hole in the next table. I was up in a little camp last summer, up at Valcour, and I heard two people arguing at the next table. I didn't know them from a hole in the next table. Then I knew I was up in a little camp last summer. I was up in a little camp last summer, up at Valcour, and I heard two people arguing at the next table. I didn't know them from a hole in the ground, and they didn't know me. But they had a discussion. Something was in the papers at that time affecting the mayor and myself and my distinguished members of the board of Estimates. I'm very, very happy they're here tonight. And I heard one fellow say, Don't I? I'm happy they're here tonight. I heard one fellow say, Don't I? I'm happy they're here tonight. I'm happy they're here tonight. And I heard one fellow say, Don't argue with me. His name is Lazarus Joseph. The other fellow says, You're crazy. What are you talking about? I know the man 35 years personally. His name is Joseph Lazarus. He's the guy that's the guy that's the guy that's the guy that's the guy that's the guy that's the guy that's the guy. The trouble with testimonials of this kind is because the managers don't know how to run them. I suggest in the future, for the benefit of those who pay the tax, that they should have the following list of speakers in order to get the truth. Number one, the guest of honor's wife. Number two, a member, number two, a member of her family, not mine. Number three, the guys you play gin with. And number four, the fellas who you cheated golf. Then you'll get some idea of who this guy is. I get a kick out of this dinner and I'll tell you why. Because I think I can call 95% of the men, not the women, by their first name. And that's the kick I get out of this dinner. And then I see so many of the people of my race. And yet this hall is filled with people of other creeds, of other religions. Men like Joe Callahan, Eddie Dwyer, Harry Durning, Bob Moran, Al Henderson, who I discuss very important topics with nearly every Sunday night. It finally ends in a little bridge game, who have been my lifelong friends. As a matter of fact, this guy, Joe Callahan, I don't know whether he understands Yiddish, but he's too decent a fella for me to wish him anything, was one of those instrumental in making me a politician. I see groups here, the Rabbi Jacob Joseph School and Federation United Jewish Appeal and every worthwhile endeavor and I get a kick because my colleagues on the Board of Estimator here. And I see the Schneiders and the Goldsteins, men who I've been affiliated with in charitable work for so many years, who came here to pay their little homage and respect. And yet I appreciate the fact of what a big shot I am, Mr. Mayor, because when I get home tonight, after a little while, the missus will say, put out the lights and go to bed. And yet what do they do to this poor woman? Married 30 years to this guy. 30 years. Saturday night. I didn't take her out Saturday night. I didn't take her out Saturday night because I knew it would cost money and tonight it was free. And for all that she went through, the trials and tribulations of living with a guy like me, all they give her is a bunch of flowers. She's entitled to every medal that was ever struck off. For having been able to continue to live with me for the length of time that she did. And yet the little success that I obtained is due in a great measure. To her loyalty and devotion. Yet, when we go home, we know that this one figure here we would have left to have had. God's ideas were different. But we've got to carry on. Because we are truly Americans in every sense of the word. And for what this country has done for us, we must in some measure repay. The education of the Lions. I started there when I was six years old. I took advantage of every facility. The gymnasium. The roof garden. Outings in the summer. The Cretona Park. Van Cortland Park. Yes, I think Belasco made the greatest mistake in his life. When I sent him a photograph when I was 16 years old in the retirement. I wanted to be an actor. The education of the Lions has been responsible for keeping more decent boys on the straight and narrow path than I care to mention. There were many evil influences on the East side. And thank God we had an institution like the education in the Lions. I never knew what a blade of grass was. Until I went to Surprise Lake Kent. The charges were terrific. Three dollars for two weeks, including car fare. It was a lot of money at the time. I slept in the same bunk with Eddie Cantor. And I met all these fine, lovely chaps. A great many of them are not here tonight. Some have gone to their eternal residence. Some of the closest friendships I ever developed was a result of my being a kid. On the East side. I appreciate what that institution has done for me. I love that kind of work. I even joined the 92nd Street YMHA when I moved to the Bronx. I played basketball with them after I got through with NYU. I coached there for three years. I got the greatest thrill in my life. Because I loved to be with kids who looked for a chance that it was given to me. When I was a kid. My mother may her soul bless me. My mother may God grant her a kind of rest. I had to make a bar mitzvah speech and she decided I must be a lawyer. I'm not kidding you Milton. I made three bar mitzvah speeches. I had to deliver one in Hebrew in the synagogue. One in Yiddish. And then when my wealthy aunt came from the Harlem. I had to talk English and I got a beautiful dollar and a half pound. I had to say a half pound. Time went on. I practiced law. Then I became an assistant attorney general with Jack Pound. Then I went to the Senate. Where I met some of the finest men in this country. At one time presided over by one of the sweetest characters in the world. Joe Hanley. And Joe. With all due deference to what you said before. Joe, I love you. But you're the one that made the mistake. And being a former minister, Joe, you know it's never too late to repent. When in the public life. People don't understand and can't appreciate the sacrifice that men make when they do go into public life. There isn't a man on the board of estimate who can't earn at least twice and three times as much as the city of New York pays. And yet in spite of your efforts, conscientious efforts and hard work, day in and day out, no hours, subject to criticism. All the time. Never receiving commendation for what you do, but God help you if you make one little mistake. I know how we work in that court. Day in and day out. Conferences, sometimes four days a week, and we have to do a lot of work. Conferences, sometimes four days a week. Executive sessions. Thank God under the guidance of this sweet little Irishman here. I think, if I may say so, and this is impolitive, that the city of New York has received a damn fine, outstanding administration in the last three and a half years. I am exceedingly grateful to all the fine things that were said about me tonight. Dave Peck, not of my party, Joe Hanley. I am particularly happy that old, old friends of mine, like Sam Caney, who I have known ever since I was a kid nine years old, are here to pay their respects. I wish that I was able to make a different candidate's speech. I wish that I was able to make an appeal to UJA, a federation, one of those institutions. But that'll come at some other time. The hour is late. Ladies and gentlemen, you've been more than kind. I appreciate your coming here. I appreciate the attendance of every man on this great dais. I appreciate the sentiments expressed, not by men who were just in public life, but by my friends, if I might say so. I wish you all many, many years of health and happiness. And God blessed every night. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter what the event, no matter what the tribute, no matter what the condition, we're always mindful that we're in the hands of God. I introduce to you, representing His Eminence, the Cardinal Spellman, I give you the Right Reverend Monsignor Christopher J. Weldon. Wisdom and understanding, prudence, patience and courage. May these blessings in generous abundance come from Thy hands along with fame, O Lord God, Heavenly Father, upon Thy son, our brother, Lazarus Joseph, whom we honor here this evening. May the abundant fruits of these graces redound us through the years to his greater personal happiness and success, to the greater prosperity and well-being of this community, and to Thy greater honor and glory. Amen. Ladies and gentlemen, may you sleep well. Thank you, John. The next gentleman who will address you is that to the nth degree. long record of service to his nation and to the world. the darkest days, he was monumental. but he would have accepted any office to serve his country. the darkest days, he was monumental. but he would have accepted any office to serve his country, because it proves it that when he left the service, not only the most important thing, but he would have accepted any office to serve his country. the most important thing, long record of service to his nation and to the world. The darkest days, he was monumental. but he would have accepted any office to serve his country, because it proves it that when he left the service, not of his country, but the left the service of that special branch of the service, he didn't just rest on his laurels. giving as much time as he possibly can, giving of his health, his strength, fiber, mind, and the great cause that followed the war, the UJA for Israel. for Israel, this is indeed a great figure. Henry Morgenthau, Jr. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, his honor of the mayor, Mr. Joseph, distinguished guests, and friends. So far this evening, I'm the only speaker who is really not prepared. Uh, I was up in the air this morning in a helicopter, dusting my orchard at six o'clock, when I got word that I was wanted here tonight for my good friend, Larry Joseph. I thought being up in the air a thousand feet was a good place to stay after this recent movement that I, draft movement that I joined, and I thought I'd stay up there until the fellas here in New York got this thing settled. But I couldn't resist the call to come down to Broadway and, and join the many, many friends and admirers of Larry Joseph. In the work that so many of you here are participating in for the United Jewish Appeal, none has done more than our guest of honor, Larry Joseph. And he told me earlier this evening that his only wish is he could do still more. But he has a great responsibility here, and I know that the citizens of New York look to him to carry on. I don't suppose that there are many people here in the room remember my connection with Education Alliance, YMHA. But it goes back a long time ago when the two organizations were about to split up over Surprise Lake Camp, because they couldn't get along. And that great distinguished Jew, Felix Warburg, wanted to see these organizations continue. So he asked Eddie Greenbaum and myself to go on and see if we couldn't sort of heal the wounds. And amongst the things that I've been associated with during my lifetime, that episode that I played a small part in that the YMHA and Education Alliance continued. Their work with Surprise Lake is one of the happy experiences in my life. Larry Joseph, our friendship due to my absence from this city in Washington for a long time, has only been during the last three or four years. But during that time, I've come to admire you and to love you, and I'd like to be on the list of your friends. Thank you for letting me be here. Thank you, Mr. Morgenthau. The reason I always mention again the name, in case we are on the air, and if somebody is tuning in for the first time, they're entitled to know who I go around with. You know, Mr. Morgenthau, very few racial stories are complimentary. But I think the most complimentary story for Israel I think I ever heard, is the current story that's going around. It is so highly complimentary. And it's the story of this Irishman who was so happy, so imbued with the spirit of Israel, because it reminded him of his own fight in Ireland. He could hardly wait when Israel was proclaimed to States. And he went to Tel Aviv, and he's sitting in Tel Aviv in a restaurant, and he's knocking off the knishes and the borscht, and he's smacking his lips, and he's eating the fish out of order, but he's smacking his lip and enjoying it. And a fella comes over to him and says, you look like an Irishman. He says, I am. He said, what's your name? He said, Riley. He said, Riley, what are you doing in Tel Aviv? He says, I'm living the life of Goldberg. From your office, Mr. Hooper. A man who would have a chance to study Mr. Larry Joseph? I don't think you have to really study the man. I don't think that you ever have to question the sun that shines on you. Just wonderful. But he has been in the office, and he is there. And after all, under the different crises that people have to work, you get a pretty good measure of a man. And I think this man, as deputy controller, would have a word to say, and he has it to say. I introduce with pride, Honorable Chauncey M. Hooper. Colonel. Colonel, it's Colonel. They got it on over here. Colonel! Mr. Master of Ceremonies, Governor Hanley, Mr. Mayor, my boss, the controller, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sure that you folks here would not expect me to tell a humorous story when we have, as the Master of Ceremonies, one of the most and greatest humorists of our time. But I will confess that he's made one mistake. He may be a humorist, but not a soothsayer. This suit that I have on is not mine. I borrowed it. Oh, that's marvelous. If he thinks he's in a tough spot, you folks who are sitting out there looking at this four rows of people behind me know that I, too, am in a very much tougher spot. To be in the company of such a distinguished group is, in itself, a high honor. To be a participant in the program as a speaker is a responsibility so great that I hardly know how to begin. If you will believe me, I'm truly frightened. I know of no institution in the city of New York which has so many of those who might be called alumni who have rendered notable service not only to our city and to our state, but to this great country of ours. The names of these read like a section of who's who in America in the arts, in science, in literature, in journalism, in finance, in the theater, in industry, in law, and in government. I have known for a long time one of your very famous alumni who is a member of the Hall of Fame and once your president, the honorable Samuel Markowicz. And I consider myself fortunate that I am acquainted with him and have his friendship. There is nothing in my own humble career which entitles me to be ranked with these. And after a great deal of consideration, I've come to the conclusion that the real reason for my being honored is because I am now associated with another of your famous alumni who in his own right has attained signal stature in the life of his community in the person of your guest of honor, the honorable Lazarus Joseph, controller of the city of New York. I could say nothing to you which could not be better said by some of the distinguished sons and daughters of the educational alliance. And certainly will be said by many of the other speakers on this problem. But I am in a unique position in that I have worked under the direction of a public servant whose modesty and native reserve tends to obscure the tremendous service which he is rendering each day to the citizens of this great country. Great city. This can be said, and I am glad of the opportunity to say it, that beyond any partisan consideration, New York City has rarely had a servant so unselfish, so devoted to the well-being of its citizenry and so conscientious in the performance of his duties as the present controller of the city of New York. You know him perhaps better than I do, and there are here present those more intimately acquainted with him, but it so happens that I have been the beneficiary of his high intelligence and his profound knowledge of the administration of municipal government. He is a man who exemplifies the best that is an American democracy, whose life is a demonstration that equality of opportunity to make of oneself that what one can and will should be the most treasured possession of us all. In the light of the challenge which we face today, from the sinister forces of communistic dictatorship, it becomes more and more apparent that if we are to survive, we must guard this heritage with all the strength which we can muster. Not only the strength of powerful military and naval forces, nor the possession of atomic power, which we possibly possess exclusively at the moment, but the spiritual strength which cannot be determined by any measurement, any unit of measurement, which also generates the driving will that enables youth limited in opportunity to attain the heights which so many of the alumni of your alliance have achieved. It is my personal belief that much of the success which has come to our guest of honor is as the result of the spiritual guidance and instruction which he received and which he has followed from his parents and from his illustrious grandfather, Chief Rabbi Jacob Joseph. In the conduct of his life, as well as in his official position, our guest follows that guidepost for human conduct, which it is said establishes the essentials of decency. We know that the reason for the greatness of our nation has been through the vision, the wisdom and the foresight of our founding fathers who believed in and established justice, and who were humble before our God. Throughout the years, ever since, by the efforts of individuals, they have expounded and expanded the principles set down in our Constitution to give strength to the ideas and the ideals of democracy. Thus, with this talk by Colonel Chauncey M. Hooper, we bring to a close our program, a testimonial dinner being given for Comptroller Lazarus Joseph of the City of New York. Tonight, we also heard Harry Hirschfield, who acted as chairman for the ceremonies here, Isidore Goldberg, president of the Alumni Association of the Educational Alliance, the Honorable John J. Bennett Jr., Henry Morgenthau Jr., and our final speaker, Colonel Hooper. All these people were here to celebrate the admittance of Comptroller Joseph to the Educational Alliance Alumni Association's Hall of Fame for his 20 years of public service. This dinner is being held in the grand ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel. And now we return you to the WNY studios. This is the municipal broadcasting system.操 다B 브라우드 Astoria Hotel interests andcoated public service. Thank you gentlemen. Thank you. And with WebTon and Dave Irving Board of dipl gefunden, thank you.撤