General Motors also produces Fisher Bodies, GMC Trucks and Coaches, Chevrolet Trucks, Frigidaire Products, Delco Heat and other products. Look to General Motors for more and better things for more people. Listen to another Taylor Talk next week at this same time. This is ABC Radio Network. This is ABC Radio Network. This is ABC Radio Network. Fellow citizens, beside me as we talk is a stack of documents about eight inches high. These are the agreements that were signed in Bonn and Paris last week. These agreements touch the lives of every one of us. They represent the birth of a new Germany, a new Europe and a new period in history. They were created to strengthen the cause of peace. Pray God that they will succeed in that purpose. European statesmen of deep patriotism and broad vision brought wisdom and largeness of spirit to our work. I saw and heard them around our conference table last week. Men whose people only a few years ago were locked in the most desperate struggle. They were freely working together to end the causes of these old conflicts. For many months they had been patiently working in hard, often heartbreaking, negotiations to harmonize the interests of all their people to meet new dangers of the present and the future. Many times in history, victors have sought to impose a settlement by force and have failed. The striking thing about these two meetings in the capital of cities of the two countries who have fought each other so bitterly in the past, France and Germany, was the free agreement of all upon measures that look toward the future and not toward the past. Now what do these documents do? And what do they mean to us? They boil down to three major actions. One ends the occupation of the German Republic and returns Germany to the community of free nations as an equal member. The second creates a European army in which Germany joins to be part of the North Atlantic army. The third extends to all the European army countries guarantees of help from all the NATO countries in the event of attack and in return for similar guarantees running the other way. Each one of these actions is dependent upon the other two. Together they enlarge and strengthen the structure of peace which shelters and protects every one of us. Suppose we look at the agreements relating especially to Germany. And this is what they will do. The occupation in all of Germany, not occupied by the Soviet Union, will end. The sole exception to this is Berlin, where the situation requires us to maintain our full rights as an occupation power. The three Western powers and the German Republic reaffirm their abiding purpose to bring about a free and a united Germany. In doing so, both the interests of this united Germany and of the parties to this agreement are protected. The Federal Republic will control its domestic and its external affairs. Limited and specific exceptions to this relate to the fact that Germany is divided and faces dangers with which it cannot deal alone. So the foreign armed forces stationed in the Federal Territory will cease to be occupation forces. Joined by German contingents in the European army, they will safeguard the freedom and the security of Germany and of the Western world. The German Federal Republic, in carrying on its internal affairs, will maintain the democratic rights of individuals. The federal institutions already provided for in its constitution. In its foreign relations, it agrees to abide by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, which renounce aggression and the use or the threat of force, except in defense. The German government will carry out a number of programs already well advanced, such as the breaking up of cartels, compensating the victims of Nazi persecution, caring for displaced persons and refugees, and many other matters. Finally, Germany will contribute to and will participate in its own defense and the defense of Western Europe as an equal partner in the European army. There will not be a national German army. And this brings us to the second major historic action of last week. Six nations, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, and Luxembourg, have signed a treaty for the creation of a European defense community. I believe you will hear these initials, EDC, the European defense community, many times in the coming months. All the troops of these six nations, except those required for duty outside Europe, will be under a common command, wearing the uniform of a European army. The soldiers of each nation will be formed into units of approximately division size. These will be combined with similar divisions of other nations into European army units of core strength. And only at the core level will the troops have the air support, the supply support, and generally what soldiers call logistic support, to permit them to operate as self-sufficient units. And this will provide a safeguard against the troops of any one nation being pulled out and used independently. For the national divisions will not be able to operate independently. The European defense community will be closely related to NATO. The European army will serve under General Ridgway as supreme commander, alongside American and British forces. And the forces of other North Atlantic treaty countries, which are not members of the EDC. But the European defense community is more than the European army. Not only will there be a common military budget, and common purchase, production, and supply arrangements, but also there will be a number of common political institutions in the defense field. A council of ministers, an assembly, a court of justice, and a nine-man executive group with power above and beyond national power. Moreover, the treaty provides that the assembly shall within six months propose a development of the present structure, so that it may fit in as one element in a federal union in Europe. The proposal is to be promptly considered by a European conference. And this is what makes the European defense community not only a great present achievement, but the foundation for still greater achievement. The European defense community, together with the Schumann Plan, opens the practical way towards still broader economic and political unity in Europe. Now the third important action of last week was the signing of an amendment to the North Atlantic treaty. This extends to the Federal Republic of Germany as part of the European defense community. The same assurances as applied to areas covered by the North Atlantic treaty. The German Republic, along with other members of the EDC, has accepted corresponding obligations in return. Now the safety of this whole area has been of deep concern to us for a long time. Every American knows that a strong, free, and independent Europe, as our partner and ally, is of vital interest to us. The President and the Congress have stressed this time and time again. It's a goal upon which all of us, regardless of party, are agreed. So there must be no misunderstanding about how we would regard any act which would affect the integrity or the existence of this community. The President stressed this point in his message, transmitting these documents to the Senate earlier today. It is evident, the President said, that the United States has acquired a very great stake in the maintenance of the institutions and relationships thus established, and would consider any act which would affect their integrity or existence as a matter of fundamental concern to its own interests and security. Now the British and the French governments joined with us in a declaration signed at Paris, which makes the same point. That these three governments would regard as a threat to their own security any action from whatever quarter, which threatens the integrity or unity of the European defense community. They have each expressed the resolve to station forces as they deem necessary and appropriate on the continent of Europe, including the territory of the German Republic. As to Berlin, the three powers make it absolutely clear that they would maintain armed forces there as long as their responsibilities require it. They reaffirmed, and I quote the words of the Declaration, that they will treat any attack against Berlin from any quarter as an attack upon their forces and themselves. The documents forwarded by the President to the Senate today state all the engagements we have entered into in these negotiations. We have given no secret or undisclosed commitments or guarantees. Let me make that absolutely clear. Our whole purpose has been to give unmistakable and public notice of our intentions. The arrangements we have entered into threaten no one. They are wholly peaceful in purpose. They constitute an alliance for peace. Despite this, the Soviet Union has continued to stage in Berlin and along the borders of its zone a series of intimidating gestures. We shall meet these and such other actions as may occur in the future with quiet determination and steadiness. These actions by the Soviet Union shall not succeed in their purpose, which is to deflect or delay the continued progress of the European defense community. The very extravagance of Soviet propaganda in recent days is an impressive tribute to the extent of this progress. The treaty signed last week set an important goal for the free nations. The achievement of this goal will depend upon prompt ratification by parliaments and wholehearted support by the people of all the countries concerned. And nowhere will this be more important than in the United States. We know that the strengthening of the free nations is essential to our security as well as to theirs. And that without our support it could not be done. The prompt consideration and ratification of these measures by the Senate and the strong support of the American people for these historic developments will send a message of encouragement to all our allies. In the year 1952, as in every year, our national security must be placed above all personal and party interests. The success of our leadership in the world will be profoundly affected by the soberness and resolution with which we approach our programs of defense and of mutual security. Generations of statesmen have vainly tried to achieve what was recorded in the actions at Bonn and Paris last week. These actions are not only historic for Europe, but of importance to the entire world. These agreements upon principles and institutions, welding together free peoples for their defense and well-being, greatly advance the purposes to which all our efforts since the end of the war have been directed. The blueprints have been drawn. The foundations have been laid. The work of preparation and organization is over. The hour is at hand for affirmation and action. Dean Acheson spoke to you from Washington. This is ABC Radio Network. . . . . . . . . . . .