The President of the United States who labored long and hard to get out the vote. And most of all, tribute for this victory must be paid to all the American people, working men, farmers, professional men, and civil servants, businessmen, and the millions of housewives who helped swell the Democratic vote. They showed that they are politically alert and completely able to judge candidates and political parties on their record of performance. The American people have shown what they want. They have given the Democratic Party a challenge. The Democratic Party will live up to its great trust. We have the official victory statement by Democratic Senator Jay Howard McClain claiming the election for President Obama. We're going to take the microphone to the platform and see if we can speak to him. We're up now. He's standing amid the flashbulbs which are going off here. His family wants to pass. Is this Mrs. McGrath? That's right. Mrs. McGrath, how are you? Oh, fine, thank you. How do you feel today? Very happy. Your husband, of course, is the man who led as the national chairman of the Democratic Party to this victory. May I speak to the kids? Could you get them over a second? Yeah. That was Mrs. McGrath. She's being pushed and jostled here so by the photographers that she can hardly speak. Here is young David McGrath. I'd like to get you to talk. Can you say hello? Hello. Hello. The photographers are pressing in just as quickly as they can, and we had to get back for a second while they could take their pictures. Mrs. McGrath spoke to us a moment, and perhaps you'll talk again. No, we have to wait till these photographers. They are standing on the platform now. Directly behind them are the pictures of President Truman and Vice President Alvin W. Barkley, for whom Mr. McGrath has just claimed victory and made the official victory statement, which we've been waiting for in this remarkable election so far. He's shouting back and forth to the photographers, has a great wide grin on his face. Next to young David McGrath, his son, is Mrs. India Edwards, who is Executive Director of the Women's Division of the Democratic National Committee. I think she'd certainly like to have some. She reaches over and gives Mr. McGrath a great big kiss. They kiss directly on the platform here. We're going to try to get to the Senator in just a moment, but of course there's quite a rush here with television, newsreels, and everything else. We have to take our time before we can get them to speak to us individually. Senator, could you come over just a second, please? Let me step out of the way. Here is the Democratic National Chairman, Senator J. Howard McGrath. Could you talk to us a second? Oh, just to say thanks a million to the great many mutual listeners who have stayed up all night and all day for this great moment. Well, thank you and thanks for mutual, Senator. And now here is Mrs. India Edwards, Executive Director of the Women's Division of the Democratic Committee. What do you have to say? I think it's the most glorious victory the women have ever won. I know they came out and elected Harry Truman President this time. And we wanted to talk to young David McGrath a moment ago, but he was so pushed out that he didn't have a chance to. What about you? Well, I think that it's very nice to be up here and I didn't want to miss any of this and I hope Harry S. Truman will win. He did win, Lord. Well, Mrs. Edwards looks over and says he did win after that victory statement. She's not forgetting her politics. They go back now. Mr. McGrath. We take an offer. To keep our nation strong and free and to establish peace in the world. Thomas E. Dewey. What time was I sent you? Just sent a few minutes ago. That's all. That was James Haggerty, Governor Dewey's press secretary, reading the telegram, which of course means that Governor Dewey has conceded the election to President Harry S. Truman. Mr. Haggerty is now on the floor. And that probably winds up affairs here at Republican headquarters in New York. It's been a long vigil throughout the night. We've been here now for some 18 hours. And finally the climax has come. Governor Dewey has conceded the election to President Harry S. Truman. Mr. Haggerty is now re-reading the telegram for the press. Photographers are really having a heyday here, taking pictures of this very dramatic moment in this 1948 election. This is Hollis Seavey speaking from Republican headquarters in New York City. We now return you to mutual election headquarters in New York. On one נגבwww. Okay, let's do this. Copyright these memorial houses, so, for some reason, you'll actually live the house to, for from the Lord D. Well, the pictures are all done now, and I think Truman will retire for a few minutes, perhaps to work on the formal statement that he will issue later. I return you now to Mutual's election headquarters in New York. Thank you, Charter Heslip in Kansas City. Ladies and gentlemen, Harry S. Truman, by the vote of the American people, has been elected to succeed himself as President of the United States. Now, here is Gabriel Heater. Hurry, hurry, hurry. It's time for the Vaudeville Theater. Give me a short vamp there, please, Mr. Conductor. Yes, it's Thursday night, and time for WNYC's recorded presentation of the Vaudeville Theater. So sit back and get ready to be taken once again to those days of the three-a-day in the Keith Circuit. Yes, sit back and listen to the Vaudeville Theater. The Vaudeville Theater The Vaudeville Theater The Vaudeville Theater The Vaudeville Theater Now here to do the first vote of the evening is the greatest showman of any time, any nation, one and only Maurice Chevalier singing, It's a habit of mine. When I was in my infancy, I formed a little habit. If anything looks good to me, I'd want to reach and grab it. I used to get a kiss for this, which made the habit of my kids. I always want to be a kiss for this, which made the habit of my kids. I used to get a kiss for this, which made the habit of my kids. I used to get a kiss for this, which made the habit of my kids. Yes, I used to get a kiss for this, which made the habit of my kids. Yes, I used to get a kiss for this, which made the habit of my kids. I used to get a kiss for this, which made the habit of my kids. I used to make problems to do. I used to get a kiss for this, but I vowed to be kids. Okay, let's get down the stacked cast. Yes, I got to eat, yes, I've got to be kids. Yeah, there's four kids. I've had these little habits since my babyhood. So give me one more wish. Aha, I knew you would. Don't be blue. If I keep on the Jews, that's a habit of mine. Oh, pardon me. If I keep on the Jews, that's a habit of mine. Oh, pardon me. It's a habit of mine. But I've got to be a kiss, oh, yes, I've got to be a kiss. In order that we may bring you a special broadcast, Cedric Foster and the news will be delayed. We take you now to Republican headquarters in New York. We are speaking to you from Dewey headquarters in New York City. We're speaking to you from just outside the ballroom. Governor Dewey has just entered for a news conference with newsmen. He is posing for photographers now and in just a moment we will bring you this press conference of the air here from the Dewey headquarters in New York. The governor looks somewhat tired. We can't blame him for that. We're a little tired ourselves having been on an 18-hour vigil since 6 o'clock last night. As you probably all know, the governor has been spending the whole night checking very closely the returns. And it wasn't until 11.20 this morning that he finally conceded the election to President Truman. And now, in just a moment, Governor Dewey. The governor has not yet begun the press conference since literally hundreds of photographers are taking pictures of him as he stands before the table. He's turning in various directions, wearing a gray suit. I believe the same suit he wore yesterday when we last saw him at the polling place. Now, Governor Dewey. Governor Dewey. Will you, uh, will you allow us to go ahead without any more interruption now? So long as you won't interrupt. All right. All right. Let's regard the pictures as done now. Will you not interrupt any more? That's right, sir. All right, boys. No interruption. All right. All right. Thank you. Is there anything I can tell anybody here that they don't already know? What happened? What happened? I am just as surprised as you are, Dick. And I gather that, uh, that is shared by, uh, everybody in the room. As I read your stories before the election. And looking back over at Governor, was it an error of strategy or tactics or what? No. I, uh, uh, I'm, Governor Warren and I are both very happy. I've talked with him that we waged a clean and constructive campaign. And, uh, I have no regrets whatsoever. Was there anything about failing to get out the grassroots vote? I don't know. I haven't had a chance to study the detailed figures. Governor, what role do you think labor plays? The question is, it's impossible to, uh, know that you know more about the figures. And the governor has said it's impossible. But, uh, it's very hard to tell. Particularly when you find, uh, states like Wisconsin and, uh, Iowa. Going contrary to the opinions of all observers. Along that same line, Governor, what do you think we're the chief operating faculty? I think that would be, uh, impossible to, uh, answer at this stage. I'd have to study it a little more and hear a lot more opinion. Read what you, uh, ladies and gentlemen, write over the next few days. You think you need a little guidance on the subject? Governor, sir, what are you up to? Uh, Governor, sir, what are you up to? I'm not a better able to guide you than, uh, before election. Governor, what are your own plans? I'm going to Albany at, uh, five o'clock this afternoon with, uh, uh, Mrs. Dewey and my mother and the two boys. And then I imagine I'll go down to the farm pretty soon. For the weekend at least. You don't intend any long vacation to get over the rigors of the campaign? I haven't any plans for that. Governor, how about political plans? How about political plans? I have no plans for anything at this moment. Governor, the AP has a story on the wires that you claim to resign shortly. Pure fiction. I don't think he's got the answer. His answer was pure fiction. The gentleman from the AP would like to have the, uh, AP part of your question taken out, since he says he doesn't think it was the AP. That's a private fight you have to settle between me. I don't think that'll be clean. Do you think resentment against the 80 of Congress may have had something to do with your treatment? The question was, do you think resentment against the 80 of Congress? Well, I think, uh, I think that also is one of the things we'd have to include by, after careful examination, the fact that the 80 of Congress and the election. What do you think is the future of the Republican Party? What do you think of the Republican Party? What do you think of the Republican Party? Well, as I understand it, the difference of half of 1% in three or four states would have made a different result. So, uh, that leaves the question pretty wide open, I think. Governor, what do you think of the future of the Progressive Party? Not much. They said not much and got a big laugh. What do you think of the future of the political polls as the next question? Well, I don't like to comment on anybody else's misfortune. I guess all the newspapers in the country that had polls have red faces too this morning, don't they? Yep. They didn't even have the polls, haven't they? Have you received any words from President Obama, Governor? Have you received any words from President Obama? Have you received any words from President Obama? I heard his reply read on the radio. What do you think of the future of the political polls as the next question? Well, I don't like to comment on anybody else's misfortune. I guess all the newspapers in the country that had polls have red faces too this morning, don't they? They didn't even have the polls, haven't they? Have you received any words from President Obama, Governor? Have you received any words from President Obama? I heard his reply read on the radio, but if it had come in before I left, it hadn't reached me. But I hear from the radio what he said. Governor Dewey, do you think that the American people maybe are not ready for an intellectual appeal if they still like polls? Thank you. Ruth, I'll have to leave that to your own conclusion.