New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce, a new series of transcribed historic educational dramas recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, Wealth of the Indies on New York, Queen of Commerce. Say, Milk, smell that sea air. Yeah, Jim, walking in Battery Park on a day like this sure beats being holed up in a broadcasting studio all afternoon. You have to go back, I don't know. Yeah, I do, for a 6.30 show. What's the show this time? Well, it concerns a couple of guys. Say, wait a minute. What are those fellas doing over there? Why, it looks like they're setting up a statue or something. Hmm, let's go over and see. Yeah, come on, we'll go over there. Say, he's a rugged looking guy on those statues. The sign says Giovanni Verrazano. A Giovanni da Verrazano, a Florentine navigator who captained the Dauphine, a French ship set out by Francis I in 1524. Say, the radio announcers know everything. No, I just happen to remember a news item. This statue has been resting in a park warehouse for the past 12 years, while Commissioner Moses and his department have been restoring Battery Park here. Seems that now that the lusty captain is being put back in place again, a number of our city officials, including members of the Italian Historical Society of America and a good many others interested in the Battery area, are going to rededicate the statue here on October 18th. Mayor Impeletteri is going to speak at the ceremonies. Well, now, what did this Verrazano do? Well, he was the European who we know with certainty first saw the bay out there and the Hudson River. I thought Henry Hudson did that. Oh, wait a minute. Let's sit down here. No, it seems several others probably saw the bay and perhaps the river too, Jim, before Hudson in 1609. But de Verrazano reached it and recorded it 85 years before him. While he didn't tarry in these waters because of storms, he did pause long enough to name this section Angoulême after the French king's family. How'd you like that name for New York today, Jim? I wouldn't. How could you have subways, baseball, or hot dogs in a city called Angoulême? Yeah, well, many explorers, adventurers, even rovers probed the western seas for a water passage to the Orient from the 15th to the 17th centuries. Hendrick Hudson is best known to us because his name stuck to the river. Wasn't he Dutch? No. He was an Englishman who had already made two trips to the New World searching for a northern passage to Asia. The Dutch East India Company hired him to try again for them in 1609. Ice and cold caused him to abandon the northern course. Well, coasting wide off Cape Cod, Hudson reached the Virginia Capes and then turned north again to seek an opening to the west. His decision to do this probably came from the little-known fact that Captain John Smith of Virginia sent this advice and maps to his worshipful friend Hudson in England sometime before. And it was on September 11th, 1609, after sighting the Navasink highlands, that Hendrick Hudson and his crew worked their craft, the Half Moon, cautiously through the Narrows and into the bay. Although a number of natives were seen, there were no signs of hostility. Then after changing position during several days, the Half Moon slowly tacked southward toward a sandy, hook-like promontory. You know, you tell it so well, I can almost see it now. Right out there. We've been sailing a long time. Where are we going now? Not home, to be sure. Only yesterday I heard Captain Hudson speak with Mr. Coleman, our master's mate, about the shore to the south. We seek fresh water, too. Shh, shh. The captain speaks. Mr. Coleman, come about and drop anchor. Aye, sir. The wheel are down to port and bring it aloft. Both of them, watch aloft. Stand by the anchor cable. Drop it. Captain, we're secure, sir. Excellent, Mr. Coleman. Please be so kind as to put over the pinnace and carry out your instructions. Mark the channel and sound for shoals as you go. Methinks a good flow of fresh water crosses the beach at the foot of this bay. Confirm it on your way back. Take four men. When you near any shore, be sure your arms are primed and matches lit. Keep alert. All right. Blow the boat. Good luck, Mr. Coleman. All right. Look lively, lads. Keep clear. A little bit clear of the ship now. All the way together, men. Come on, row. That's the way. All right. All right. Ease away now, men. Sorry. There's a fine stream tumbling out of that hill beyond those trees. Till now, it's never seemed so far from home. Can you see the ship? It's a pagan shore. I like it not. What? Pagans it is. Master Coleman, look to meward. Two cockle-shelled craft with a double dozen painted pagans. Lean to it, men. Bend your backs. Never did I see such speed as in those pagan craft. They're heading us. Row me. Row. Tis thunder they've never heard before. Ouch. I am. I'm here. Master. Master, the master's stricken. Look. One of their shells is swamped. The others flee. Pull away before more come. The master's mate. Shot through the throat. His life is gone. God loves his soul. There's the boat. Heave. Ho. Heave. Ho. Ho. Ho. ventures. Find thy heaven in this strange new land. We commit thy mortal remains to this sea-clenched shore in prominence, that henceforth shall be designated by thy name to be kept forever in the memory of your comrades. Amen. So the Sand Punter Point, which we now call Sandy Hook, was once named Coleman's Point by Henry Hudson, Jim. Well, painfully warned of the dangers in this strange new land, Hudson went on to explore the river which has his name, sailing to the head of navigation near the site of Albany and exploring 30 or 40 miles beyond by small boat. Here was no route to the fabulous east, so with great disappointment, our resolute captain dropped downstream and sailed away. Well, then he didn't find a northern passage. No, Jimmy didn't. He made another attempt for England the next year and discovered Hudson's Bay, but he became lost in the icy wastes of the Arctic seas and was never heard of again. Then what happened? Well, other rivers along these coasts were explored. The wealth of the Indies and dreams of distant oriental treasures gradually grew dim in the light of the greatest natural riches the world had ever known. In 1614, 13 merchants of Amsterdam sent out five ships to investigate the resources and trading possibilities of this newfound world. Probably the account of Adrian Block is the most interesting, Jim. He reached the Hudson first, but the Tiger, which he commanded, was grounded on the lower New York shore by a squall. His partner, Captain Hendrick Christensen, following in the ship Fortune, was afraid to attempt a landing, and so he returned to Holland. And stranded on a strained shore was bad enough, but during repairs, the Tiger caught fire and was destroyed. Well, disaster seemed complete to the crew who faced the unknown dangers and hardships of a howling wilderness. Captain Block, sir, do you think we shall ever see our homes and loved ones again? Toss another log on the fire, lad. Do you suppose, sir, Captain Christensen will ever return to find us? Toss cowardly to be afraid, son. God made men with a power of resourcefulness which lifts him above other living things. Do not be ashamed of fear. Without fear, there could be no God-given courage to overcome it. Man has another quality inspired by God, by the very devil for all I know, and that is the plague of restlessness. Now, this waiting is a poor game. Restless. Restless. Well, we've waited long enough. Lad, summon the trumpeter. Aye, aye, sir. And so the smiths, sawyers, carpenters, and sailmakers were all marshaled and all hands set to the task of building the first ship in New Netherlands. Axes rang through the primeval forests. The endless ripping of the sawyers went on for weeks. Charcoal kills burned day and night. Anvils rang to the hammer blows of the smiths, reworking irons taken from the old tiger's carcass. The new craft, Yacht Class, was laid down with an overall length of some 44 feet by a beam of 11 feet. And then, Jim, when the trim little craft slid into the Hudson, there across her stern was carved the Dutch name Onrust, or Restless. And that, I think, was a rather prophetic touch for the future of the greatest and most restless city in the world. Well, Block and a staunch crew then sailed through Hellgate into Long Island Sound. Now, he was the first captain to establish that Manhattan was an island, that there was a Long Island. He found Block Island. Later, he again met Christensen, who returned from Holland, and the three other skippers of the original group of five. Calling a meeting of the captains, it was then decided to open active trade with the Indians. This was the beginning of the commercial tradition, the surge and restlessness that has centered about New York and has made her really the Queen of Commerce. Hey, look at the time. Sorry, Jim, I got to beat it back to the studio. I'll be seeing you. Hey, Milt, wait a minute. What's the program? Well, the program? Oh, it's a dramatic sketch called, uh, New York, Queen of Commerce. See you. You have heard a transcribed episode of New York, Queen of Commerce. Today, Wealth of the Indies. In today's cast were Lloyd Moss as Milt, Alan Feinstein as Jim, Arthur Selam as Hudson, Alfred Israel as the boy, and Bill Myers as Coleman. Music and sound were by Bob Gollin and Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunche and A. M. Sullivan. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the the City of New York and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNY-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. Be with us again next week for New York, Queen of Commerce. New York City и kills hills even a while из-to-besлушно- cities lottoаfeld. New York City and callerệ yesterday! in Writer ainda 외у by perenç prices thanking your city and my city Já låts silencing access theirati поáч HR haч About 0我們 америк иг buna internation에 Persona The End The End The End The End