...phonic matinee may be heard on WNYC-FM at 93.9 megacycles. The U.S. Conference of Mayors has been in session this week here in New York City. WNYC's Special Events Division has been on hand to bring you a specially transcribed presentation of some of the highlights of this important civic gathering. We present now the addresses of William L. Lawrence, science editor of the New York Times, and Paul J. Larson, director of the Civilian Mobilization Office of the National Security Resources Board. The chairman of today's meeting, being held in the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, is Mayor Robinson of San Francisco, who will introduce the speakers. Now here is Mayor Robinson. Ladies and gentlemen, I present a distinguished American, Mr. William L. Lawrence, who will speak to us on new concepts of atomic energy. Mr. Lawrence. Mr. Lawrence. Mayor Robinson, distinguished members of the Conference of Mayors and Distinguished Foreign Guests, it is indeed for me a great honor and a great privilege to come before you again to share with you the knowledge, whatever I have of it, about the developments in atomic energy. Five years ago, when I talked to you, we thought that the atom bomb, known as the uranium or plutonium fission bomb, was the ultimate in weapons. At that time, I knew, but I couldn't talk about something that could even be more powerful, more devastating, than the A bomb. At that time, it was very much against the law, the rules, to mention even the hydrogen bomb. During the past five years, in fact, during the past few months, two momentous developments have taken place. A, we have learned, we have received definite evidence, as the President said, that there had been an atomic explosion in the USSR. Our monopoly, which we had hoped would last for some time, had ended much sooner than we had expected. One of the main principal reasons why the monopoly did not last longer, as we had expected, was because at Los Alamos, unknown to us, tragically, there was an arch traitor in our midst, who imparted our deepest and most important secrets to the Russians, and thereby saved them at least three, five, and possibly even ten years of work in their achievement of their goal. That changed the picture overnight, from being the sole possessors of the A bomb, we now have our greatest potential rival, and the one nation most responsible for the Cold War, the only one, in fact, now has a similar weapon. However, again here, we should not lose perspective. We are still way ahead of them, not only insofar as the stockpile is concerned, which will take them at least several years to catch up with us. We also have better bombs, better models. But in addition to that, this other threat, the hydrogen bomb, has come into the open at last. What is a hydrogen bomb? I hope you will forgive me if I give you some of the elementary basic facts about it, because I believe that the same old maxim that was true in the days of Christ and before, you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. Only by knowing the facts can we develop a sound, rational system of civilian defense. Only by knowing the facts can we avoid needless fear and hysteria. The greatest weapon of all, really, is the fear of the unknown. And as long as we know the facts, we will be able to cope with them. I therefore want to say from the very beginning that a great deal of hysteria, a great deal of the fear that has been generated about the hydrogen bomb is groundless. Nevertheless, the threat is great enough. We have heard stories, let's say, about a hydrogen bomb blowing up the earth. That is scientifically impossible, and the sooner we get rid of that kind of a superstition or an ungrounded statement, the better it will be for us. Secondly, there is no such thing. The hydrogen bomb as we know it is not the ordinary hydrogen that makes up one-ninth of all waters on the earth. That hydrogen is used in the sun for its energy and is responsible for all life on earth. But that process that goes on in the sun is not possible on this earth. The only two elements that can be used in the hydrogen bomb are two types of hydrogen, one of which exists in nature in a proportion of one to five thousand parts of all waters on the earth. That hydrogen is known as deuterium, and deuterium is twice as heavy as ordinary hydrogen. It can be separated from ordinary water in fairly large amounts. The other type of hydrogen has not existed on earth practically since its beginning. That form of hydrogen is three times as heavy as ordinary hydrogen and is known as tritium. Tritium today can be made, can be made in our atomic plants. At present, it is very, very expensive and very difficult to make. We probably would have to build new plants, such as we have in Hanford, Washington, to produce tritium, because the plants at Hanford, Washington, are used for producing plutonium. Now, what is the principle behind the hydrogen bomb? And why is it so much more powerful than the so-called A-bomb? To understand that is not difficult, but we have to keep in mind certain fundamental elementary facts. To do so, you will forgive me if I go back just to ordinary fuels such as coal. What is coal? Coal is bottled sunshine. Coal is a petrified plant that grew on the earth some 200 million years ago. Coal is a petrified plant that has been radiating. Coal is a petrified plant that has been radiating, that has been radiating, that has been radiating on the earth some 200 million years ago. Many, many millions of years before man appeared on this earth. Now, what do you do when you burn coal? You apply a little bit of heat from a match. And that little bit of heat is enough to start what you might call a chain reaction in coal. You apply a little bit of energy, and with this little bit of energy, you liberate a tremendous amount of energy. But that energy, you must keep in mind, was not created. It was there all the time in bottled, stored form. It came originally from the sun. About 50 years ago, we learned that a nuclei, the hearts of the atoms of which the world is made, stores up energy about millions of times, many millions of times greater, per weight, per given weight than the sun. The trouble was that we couldn't get to that energy. We couldn't unlock that bottled energy. We couldn't uncork it, as it were, because we didn't have the proper match, the same way as we have in the use of coal. Now, in the year 1939, when we say that uranium fission was discovered, in simple terms, it means we had found the proper match to light uranium with. That match, really, is merely the assembly of a certain amount, quantity, of uranium, known as a critical mass. And once you assemble a certain amount of that uranium, the explosion takes place automatically. In other words, it's equivalent to a form of spontaneous combustion. The spontaneous combustion here takes place when a given mass, a critical mass, is assembled. Luckily for man, this uranium, 2, 3, 5, and no two elements, no unofficial elements, made by man, converted from simpler, from other elements, do not exist in nature in concentrated form, otherwise they would have disappeared long ago. It's a difficult process to concentrate them, to purify them. And that's what we are doing in our great plants in Hanford, Tennessee, and in Hanford, Washington, and in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. Now, from that fact, you can see well that there must be a limit to the fission bomb, because the minute you get a critical mass, the thing goes off automatically. Therefore, that limits it entirely to a certain given size. The critical mass is in itself a great deep secret. But there have been some estimates published, and I can give them to you, without telling you whether or not they are right. The estimate, for instance, by a British scientist published in 1946, was that the critical mass is from 10 to 30 kilograms. That means that a mass, let's say, of 10 kilograms of uranium or plutonium, once you have 10 kilograms, the thing would explode automatically. Or 30 kilograms if the outside limit is true. The same would be true with plutonium. The same would be true with another form of uranium called uranium-233. Those are the only three elements, by the way, we can use in the old-fashioned A-bomb. Therefore, you can see that if you have a mass beyond 10 kilograms, if that is the critical mass, or a mass beyond 30 kilograms, it would explode automatically in your face. Therefore, you couldn't have an A-bomb larger than either 10 or 30 kilograms. Now, a kilogram in terms of TNT, if you get complete conversion of that kilogram, that is, if every atom in that kilogram is split and releases, is uncorked, you might say, and releases the energy that had been stored up in it since the beginning of time at the creation of the universe, then you will have the equal of 20,000 tons of TNT. Now, obviously, you can't get 100% efficiency. So a bomb, let's say, in Hiroshima of 20,000 tons of TNT, was quite an efficient bomb. You may have a bomb, probably, that would be five, six times as efficient, so you could get a bomb maybe of 50 to 100,000 tons of TNT, where that would be the limit. Now, we have also known for a long time that if you could combine the lighter atoms of hydrogen that I told you about, such as deuterium, if you could combine two into one, into two atoms of deuterium, and make a heavier atom out of it, that there would be a tremendous amount of energy released. But in this case, it is vastly different from the fission process. In the fission process, all you have got to do is get together a critical mass of a certain size. But in the case of hydrogen, that is the heavy hydrogen, deuterium, you have got to have a tremendously high temperature, namely a temperature of something like 50 million degrees. In other words, you have got to have a match that generates a heat of 50 million degrees centigrade. Now, obviously, such a temperature could not be released on Earth. The highest temperature we know of is about 3,000 degrees. But here is the point. When the atom bomb was made, the atom bomb, at the instant of its explosion, generates a temperature of somewhere around 55 to 60 billion degrees. Therefore, the atom bomb constitutes the fuse, as it were, the trigger, or the match, if you will, with which to set off this other reaction, this deuterium reaction or tritium reaction, namely the heavy hydrogen or the triple heavy hydrogen. Now, therefore, if you could incorporate this deuterium or this tritium in an atom bomb, you could get this reaction. But here is the difference. Because since it requires 50 million degrees to set it off, you could incorporate in a bomb as much as 1,000 times the quantity that you put, that you, the quantity of uranium that can be used. In other words, 1 kilogram of deuterium is equal to about 24,000 tons of TNT. Therefore, if you put in, let's say, 1,000 kilograms, which is only 1 ton, in an atom bomb, and you use, when the atom bomb explodes or will explode, then it would set off this kilogram of deuterium, this ton of deuterium, and you will have a bomb of 2,400,000, or rather, 24 million tons of TNT. Now, that is a bomb 1,000 times as powerful as the bomb that destroyed Hiroshima. That doesn't mean that it would be 1,000 times as destructive. The facts are that the power of blast goes by the cube root of the energy. Therefore, let's say, if you had a bomb 1,000 times greater, the cube root of 1,000 is 10. The Hiroshima bomb was good for a total destruction over a radius of one square mile, or one mile. Therefore, a bomb 1,000 times as destructive energy would be good over a radius of 10 miles, which would mean an area of about 300 square miles, 300 to 400 square miles. The other terrifying thing, potentialities about a hydrogen bomb, is the fact that it can give off much more powerful radiation than the ordinary atom bomb, and that you can rig it in such a way, make the casing of the bomb in such a way, that when the bomb goes off, the casing would be pulverized and create a cloud of radioactive dust that could cover a city, and that radioactive dust could be made, let's say, out of cobalt, which would be equivalent, which would be 320 times more powerful in its radioactivity than radium. Now, people have said that the hydrogen bomb would be a greater weapon in the hands of Russia than in our hands, because we are more vulnerable. And that is the point, I think, that is of vast importance to us and to all of you. Namely, we have many more cities of a million population or over, or 500,000 population or over, than Russia has. We also have a great many coastal cities that Russia has not got. Now, this bomb, of course, will have to be limited, in a sense, by its carrier. Beyond a certain point, you couldn't build airplanes to carry it. On the other hand, in coastal cities, it can be carried in a tramp steamer, and since it has such a large radius of destruction, you could, let's say, the tramp, innocent tramp steamer could steam into a harbor city and stand about even five miles away from the city, and have it detonated, and that bomb would still destroy the city, and not only destroy it, but by its radioactivity, make it uninhabitable for many years to come. In fact, I mean, theoretically speaking, it is possible for an enemy to make an area uninhabitable for, let's say, depending on what material he chooses, to make it uninhabitable for five years or ten years or longer if necessary, or make it uninhabitable for one year, because certain materials, all radioactive materials, have certain lifetimes, and the hydrogen bomb could choose the material according to its lifetime. Now, however, there are certain limits even to that. The point is that that changes our entire picture of civilian defense. I do not want to pose before you as an expert on civilian defense. Mr. Larson will talk to you about that, and all of you know more about it than I do. But I think that these facts should be kept in mind by all of you when you plan civilian defense. One of the important things about this, here is one of the greatest national decisions that was made. It was done in secrecy. A great deal of these facts that I am telling you are known facts. There was no reason at all why the American people should be kept in the dark about it. Why all these facts that I have told you, which are widely known, should not have been widely disseminated, and why forces and facts separating fact from fancy, the truth from fiction, should not be given to the American people. That is the function I feel that I should perform. I can only end by reading a quotation from the late President Roswell to the United Nations in 1942. He said, our Earth is but a small star in the great universe. Yet of it we can make, if we choose, a planet unwaxxed by war, untroubled by hunger or fear, undivided by senseless distinctions of race, color, or theory. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Lawrence. Mr. Lawrence will be available to us later, gentlemen. Your gravest responsibility and mine is the civil defense of the people of our city. We are indeed fortunate that we have with us today Mr. Paul J. Larson, Director of the Office of Civilian Mobilization of the National Security Resources Board, who will discuss civilian or civil defense. Mr. Larson is widely known as an outstanding figure in the field of electronic and radiological engineering. He has been cited for his work in the engineering of weapons and in the development of the proximity fuel. He was formerly Director of the Atomic Energy Commission's installation at Scandia, New Mexico. Mr. Larson has been in his present post for slightly more than two months, and he is therefore, may I say, exempt from criticisms we may have of the civil defense program up to this time. Mr. Paul J. Larson. Mr. Larson. Mayor Robinson, honored guests, mayors of the city of America, and I understand we also have some honored guests from foreign countries. Teents of learning disabilities, mayors of history-to- amargo, um, nation-perfect. Dr. Lemus, mayors of this conference, mayors of various Brother Hagel Larson, mayors of landslide notable ascend Frois μπο Wentz of presidential VoIP. If any of the militaryتيures that mayors can say in terms of NT, their Podcast saysych Extra-Main of правible TabIA, mayors of изв journaling public passage of是什麼 letzten Moines occupies or attend a fellow Now that you have heard the President's message, which I understand was read to you yesterday, I believe that burden of responsibility in respect to civil defense weighs even more heavily upon you. This national problem of civil defense can be briefly defined as the defense of the home front by civilians and civil authority in time of war. However, civil defense is a huge, complex task which affects every phase of our individual and national life. Moreover, as the President said, civil defense is a mutual task in which the federal, the state, and the local governments must share the responsibility of the people. Our strategists have told us that in the event of war, we must be prepared for sudden and perhaps extensive enemy action against us here at home. Such enemy action would undoubtedly be intended as a surprise attack to give us low or no warning. No one can say with certainty just where or with what weapons an enemy would strike. The attack might be through the air or from the sea. It might take place on either or both coastlines or be inland and attacked upon a number of cities. The attack could take the form of or be aided by an effort of wide-scale sabotage designed to create national panic and disaster by crippling our key installations. Depending on the enemy's strategy, he could make use of any number of a wide range of weapons against us here on the home front. The atomic bomb, gas or germ warfare, or the latest types of conventional weapons. If an attack should come, it would be to your cities and your people that would bear the trust or the brunt. Your cities are the potential targets. That's obvious because your cities actually produce the largest part of our industrial production. You mayors are at the point of immediate impact should another war come. We lose sight of what war means when we think of it as a nation against nation. Bombs don't fall on nations. They fall on the people and the cities. That is why your responsibility as mayors of cities are great and grave in the matter of civil defense. I present these facts to you, not to create scare headlines or frighten anyone. That would serve no decent purpose. These are facts. They are the realities which we must face together in civil defense should war come to this country. The kind of modern civil defense program which we must develop to meet the needs of our national security is in many ways an unfamiliar problem to the American people and their authorities because our nation has never been attacked on the mainland in modern times. We can no longer think of defending ourselves and our cities solely in the terms of tin hats and sand buckets. They would hardly do more in combating an atomic disaster or one caused by gas or germ warfare. After looking squarely at these problems, we can realize that 100% security is obviously not possible, nor is it desirable even as a goal, unless we are willing to become a garrison state. For if too much of our national effort and income are used for military and civil defense purposes, the very liberties which we are trying to make secure will be wiped out, just as surely as if an enemy was to defeat us in battle. Facing these facts, we can all realize that our national civil defense program is not one which can be lightly put together in an afternoon. Planning for our civil defense program has and will continue to take a tremendous amount of backbreaking research and study by nearly all agencies of the federal government under the leadership of the Civilian's Mobilization Office of the NSRB. A number of cities and states have followed the recommendations of the NSRB in doing similar planning as a basis for their own civil defense programs. To some people, that kind of research and basic planning for civil defense sounds either like too much trouble or like a lot of bureaucratic eyewash. Grim experience has taught to the contrary. You will recall that the president in his message to you yesterday stated, and I quote, Since last October, the federal government has transmitted a substantial amount of guidance material on civil defense to the governors of the states for subsequent transmission to their local governments. As you well realize, in our democracy, the federal organization must operate with the states and the states to their local governments. During the several months which I have served as director of civilian mobilization and civil defense, I have had many, many meetings with state and local authorities on our mutual problems. One of the questions which is continually asked at these helpful sessions is this. Why doesn't the federal government tell us something what must be done about civil defense and what should be done? Since October 1949, the federal government has given the green light on civil defense to the state and municipal authorities in many different forms. I believe that question has been answered once and for all in the president's message to you yesterday. And I quote again, I urge that you, as municipal leaders, who will have primary responsibility for implementing civil defense plans in the event of need, proceed in your local civil defense planning program and cooperate in its development with state authorities and the federal government. A natural question at this point, which will be asked by every municipal authority in the nation, is, does this mean that my town, regardless of size or location, should begin its civil defense planning program today? And I give you the answer to that. The answer is yes. There are two reasons for that answer. First, civil defense is a vast nationwide problem to the solution of which every citizen and every city must contribute at just and proportionate share. Secondly, there is no city or town in a nation that can claim absolute immunity from wartime disaster at the hands of an enemy. I would like to refer to some experiences as to what civil defense means that occurred during the last war. Some of the mayors from foreign cities, I believe, will appreciate these remarks. I'd like to give you a story of two cities in Nazai, Germany, which will help to emphasize the second point, which I outlined before. In many German cities where civil defense programs were well organized, Allied bombings did not result in complete community disorganization under attack, which was a case in German cities where civil defense measures were ignored or poorly planned and organized. Now take the case of Duisburg and Hanau in Germany. The city of Duisburg was exposed to air raids early in 1941, and that was from conventional weapons. A competent and well-organized civil defense system gradually grew up in that community. As a result, the civilian casualties were small and essential work was maintained during the period of the intensive bombing, intensive bombings in 1943 and 1944. The city of Hanau, on the other hand, felt that it was too small and industrially unimportant to be a target for a heavy air attack. Civil defense measures in that city were generally ignored by the civil authorities, and they paid a very heavy price for that neglect. When a large Allied bombing raid struck Hanau in December of 1944, the civilian population was panic-stricken. The civil authorities had no organization or plan to cope with the disaster, and the people fled the city in wild confusion. Within one night, that city of 43,000 people became a mass of ruins with only 5,000 or 6,000 people left of its original population. Today, that city has still not recovered from that disaster. Now that incident is not a real one. It was duplicated many times wherever disasters struck without warning during the recent war. It might be well to pause here and remember that of all the cities bombed or devastated in the war, only Nagasaki and Hiroshima in Japan were visited with a kind of atomic disaster with which our cities may have to cope with should war come. Where do you start in tackling the serious problem of modern civil defense planning for your cities? Fortunately, the natural line of responsibility and authority with which we are favored in this democracy is the basic pattern for civil defense action in time of war. The prime mover is the individual citizen. Then a natural succession comes from your local municipal government, then the state government, and finally the federal government. Here is a graphic outline of how this natural system of ours should operate in civil defense. One, the individual. He should be calm and well-trained, and as well-trained as possible, and he does everything within his power to help himself and those around him. One, two, the family. Seeking self-preservation operates as a unit in handling its own problems as far as it honestly can. Three, the community. The community should be well organized and equipped in advance, and it should put its civil defense organization to work instantly to meet the crisis. The nearby cities should come to the community's assistance with mutual aid and mobile reserves when they are needed. The state should stand ready to furnish its organized assistance if the situation gets beyond local control. The federal government should have its resources in readiness to answer the state's call for large-scale help. And as a final, in event of complete disorganization because of the state of the attack, military aid may be required to be called upon by the state or the national government. With that natural pattern in mind, let's get back to the matter of civil defense planning and the urgent need for today by the municipal and the state authorities. Now, I'd like to urge our news to constantly keep in mind a most important element in planning your civil defense program, and that is the cooperation with your state and federal governments. It would be both unwise and disastrous for any city or state to do its own civil defense planning as though it were only by itself on a map. Self-sufficient and detached from neighboring cities and states. Planning in that fashion might have served a purpose in a revolutionary war. Doing it today would mean ignoring all the grim realities of modern warfare. The disasters of modern warfare simply wipe out local boundary lines in a nation such as ours. Acceptance of that fact will immediately start your civil defense planning in the right direction. The answer is one as old and as sound as our nation, mutual aid in time of disaster. Without practical plans for such large-scale, free-moving, and freely given mutual aid between cities and cities and states and states, we would be licked before we started in any national civil defense program. Here is one example of how absolutely essential mutual aid between the cities and states is in civil defense planning. Suppose that the city of Washington, D.C. were hit by two modern atomic bombs within a few hours. Obviously, those two explosions would cause such devastation of the city's facilities and such a great number of casualties among the civil defense workers and the civilian population that the Washington Civil Defense Organization would be almost helpless to cope with the disaster. Fire, police, medical, monitoring, and other civil defense units, equipment, and supplies would have to be rushed to the immediate aid of Washington from the nearby towns and cities in Virginia and Maryland, from Baltimore, and perhaps from larger cities as far away as Philadelphia. Effective mutual aid on a scale such as this is certainly something that won't just happen at the spur of the moment. Pacts, plans, and standardization problems must be worked out carefully far in advance by the various cities and states. May I emphasize here that the problem of mutual aid is not a new concept outlined here for the first time. Recommendations for action on this and other basic planning problems in civil defense were contained in some detail in Part 3 of our Planning Advisory Bulletin, which was sent to the governors of the various states on December 1, 1949. In that same bulletin, we outlined in detail the federal objectives in civil defense planning, information on various federal activities in civil defense planning, specific recommendation for state and local civil defense planning groups, to which I will refer to later, and a request for information from the states on the detailed status of civil defense. This week, we sent out a fourth major civil defense advisory bulletin to the governors and their state civil defense directors. Since that material is now in their hands, we are taking the liberty of discussing it here in detail. That document is known as 121 Slant 4, and to it is also attached a brief report on, quote, civil defense planning by the city of Washington, D.C. Copies of these documents will be available, and other pertinent documents will be available at the doors, and you gentlemen may wish to ask for them when you leave, and they will be given to you. This latter bulletin, which we just sent to the states, deals with four major items. The first is as follows. The action required now are needed civil defense legislation and programs. Two, procedures for civil defense training in atomic warfare subjects. Three, civil defense activities. And four, the responsibilities for civil defense planning. In the field of civil defense legislation, the bulletin outlines four steps for immediate action by the states and three activities which the state defense director, the state council of defense, and the local agencies should undertake. These three programs are of particular interest to you, and therefore I will quote them. The first is, make such studies and surveys of the industries, resources, and facilities in the state and in the principal cities thereof in preparation for civil defense and to plan for the most efficient emergency use thereof in event of a disaster. Two, on behalf of the state, enter into mutual aid arrangements with other states and to coordinate mutual aid plans between the political subdivisions of the state in order that ambulances, firefighting equipment, trucks, and other equipment, as well as relief and medical supplies, may be available in event of an enemy attack. The third, give guidance to the state and political subdivisions in developing urban planning and building activities of the future. In this connection, particular attention should be paid to municipal problems of strategic dispersion, including the wisdom or desirability of constructing vital buildings and utilities in the center of cities already congested. Your attention is called to suggest a construction and dispersion policies outlined in advisory bulletins which we previously sent to you. Part two of this bulletin also discusses the current status of and makes recommendations to the state and municipal authorities on a vital subject of medical and radiological monitoring training. As you well know, in recent weeks, civil defense training courses in atomic warfare subjects have been conducted by the National Security Resources Board in cooperation with the Atomic Energy Commission. These training courses were given a priority status because of the following facts. First, the realization of an immediate need for informed persons who could serve as competent advisors to their own state civil defense authorities. Two, recognition of the long period of time required to recruit, train, and organize teachers, trainers, and adequate numbers of monitors. The first level of training courses have been completed to appointees which were made by the governors. One hundred and fifty-four persons from thirty-seven states and three territories attended these courses in medical aspects of atomic warfare. Sixty-nine persons from thirty-six states and three territories have attended or have been assigned to the radiological monitoring courses. You will note that in no case have all the states sent trainees for these courses. Suggestions will be formulated soon and submitted to you, or through the governors, concerning the second level of training in the medical aspects which includes the physicians, the dentists, and the nurses within the states. It's too early at this time to start the second echelon of training of the radiological monitoring courses. You will be advised at a later date when such further training will take place. The reason for not taking place at this time is that the instruments which to date have been designed for this purpose are inadequate for the purpose, and there are developments going on in research in the improvement of these instruments. Without proper guidance, states and cities could dissipate their funds, the personnel, and effort. Monitoring instruments which are worthless for civil defense purposes might be purchased. Monitoring principles unrealistic for wartime disaster purposes might be employed. It is therefore suggested that all action on second-level radiological monitoring training be held up until further notice. I believe it's also fair that realistic studies should be made of municipal resources and needs for civil defense. It might well be to remember that keeping them locked in a safe in your city hall could be a serious error if your city was hit or was destroyed in an attack. In order to be of any real value, these resource studies, plans, and blueprints should be put in the hands of your state civil defense director with authority that they may be used immediately upon such a disaster. Just as importantly, that material should be put in the hands of all the municipal civil defense authorities in other cities with which you have or will make mutual aid agreements. In this last bulletin, we have also outlined the responsible tasks of the different organizations in civil defense. Civil defense is a national task which must be shared by all levels of government, federal, and state organizations. The federal government has the obligation of developing a national civil defense plan and furnishing that plan through the states to the local governments for their information, action, and guidance. The federal government has the responsibility not only for furnishing guidance to the states and communities for the development of their organization, but also for being ready to render aid to the states and communities in time of actual or impending enemy attacks. The NSRB is responsible prior to mobilization for formalizing this national defense plan, which must be based on democratic privileges which for the guidance of the states and local communities. It's also responsible for assisting the states and local communities in training of civil defense workers, for establishing schools for training of key state and community civil defense personnel, for evaluating the requirements of equipment and resources of civil defense and determining which of these should be the obligations of the federal government, the state, or the local communities, evaluating the damages from weapons and their effect in order to determine what dispersion and evacuation policies we must adopt, determining the need for reserved stores of critical materials which would be required for civil defense in the event of a disaster, and control and distribution of these resources for communities requiring them in the event of disaster. And our seventh main function is to maintain close relationship with the public and public groups through the medium of information, public relations, and education on civil defense planning for three basic purposes, for four basic purposes. Acquainting the public with the dangers of enemy action without introducing hysteria or fear. Two, maintaining high civil morale, stimulating volunteer participation in civil defense as a patriotic endeavor, and four, ensuring continued top-level civilian productivity for the national defense and security. Now, detailed organizations for specific communities must be affected by local governments. Civil defense must be based on self-help. Effective community action in time of disaster requires the development in peacetime of a sense of community responsibility for self-preservation. When a disaster strikes, immediate organized action will minimize effects, save lives, restore morale, and ensure early resumption of normal life in the community. Therefore, the main effort must come from the individual city, uh, individual citizen, and the community group, with needed help coming from the county, the state, and the federal agencies as time allows. Because of the serious amount of time and effort which must be put into the making of these resources, studies, mutual aid PACs, and other basic civil defense planning activities, the federal government is most anxious that state and municipal authorities get those programs underway today with an early completion date in mind. These plans must be well underway or completed before any realistic consideration can be given to an actual organization of state and local civil defense organizations. Certainly, you can't build a new jet bomber these days merely by picking up a tool chest and heading for the garage workshop. It takes a lot more than just doing that. Likewise, you can't build a local civil defense program that will give maximum protection to the cities and the people by whipping up an organization chart and calling for volunteers. I am certain that these facts are some that you all know about because you are all experienced municipal authorities, and therefore you know yourself that just an organization chart does not produce results. Once these studies have been completed, you and your cities will be ready to take action. on the next phase of the program which the President announced to you, and that is that we will release later this year a suggested plan for civil defense organization which will serve as a guide to the state and the municipalities. By wise and sound action now and in the months ahead, I feel certain that you will more than meet the challenge of our mutual problem of civil defense by building an integrated program which will provide adequate protection for our people, our cities, and our nation's security should war come to this homeland of ours. I would like to close this statement with just these few words. Prior to my coming into the federal government, and this is my first position in the federal government, I had precisely the same feeling which I have heard expounded to me from time to time since I've come in, that what is the federal government doing on civil defense? Gentlemen, I can tell you frankly that we are doing a job. We are doing a job for our citizens, for you, for the state, and for the federal government. This is not a job that you can put down just on paper, set an organizational pattern, and expect it to work. Unless we do the resource analysis that I have mentioned in this address and analyze it from every aspect, a civilian organization can be more hindrance in a time of a disaster than if we didn't have one. And I will say to you gentlemen, that when we submit the plan, which will not be a paper plan, it will be a plan that will have been tried, because we are using some cities as guinea pigs if you wish to call them that, that that plan will be an effective plan. It will cover the mutual aid assistance that that city will require from its urban communities. It will be a plan that will be national in scope. It will be a plan that will be coordinated and that will be helpful in the event that we should ever be attacked. I can assure you that I will continually strive to implement that plan along the democratic principles which we all must continue to strive for. We do not want a garrison state. We want to maintain our democracy, and if we ever have to fight by the cause of any action against us, we still want to retain that democracy. Thank you.