The secret of survival in atomic attack is to know the true danger of the bomb. This is a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. This is the network from which you will get your official information and news in the event of an emergency anywhere in New York State or a nearby area. To bring you essential information and instruction, to tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of an atomic attack, and what you can do to help, each week at this time we present officials and specialists who speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. Now, here's Bill Leonard. This week our topic is concerned with the problem of health, and we shall answer some of the questions on that subject that listeners have asked in letters to us. Also, as is our custom, this program will be in two parts. First, questions relating to the state as a whole will be answered by Dr. Herman E. Hilleboe, Commissioner of Health of the State of New York, and then local stations will be given an opportunity to talk about health in their individual communities. To start us off, Dr. Hilleboe hears a question from a man who lives in Putnam County, and he says, we run a small farm here where we raise vegetables. If a bomb should drop during the growing season, I've heard that the ground becomes poisoned. What do we do with our crops? How long before we can start growing again? There should be no fear about contamination of the soil in farm areas. The cost of producing the atomic bomb is so great that it would be used only against large industrial centers. Even if there is an airburst over one of our major cities, we could expect no important radioactive contamination that would endanger health. The radioactive particles which settled in distant areas after an atomic airburst are so widely distributed that they would have little or no effect on health, either through contamination of crops or otherwise. Many listeners, doctor, keep asking about radiation sickness. Here's a typical letter from Albany. My neighbors say that you don't even know you're sick until it's too late. Please tell me, how will I know I am sick and what do I do about it? Well, medical science knows how to detect and treat radiation sickness. Persons who have been exposed will be speedily identified and given every advantage of new medical knowledge. However, it must be pointed out that radiation sickness is not the most important effect of the atomic bomb. Ordinary injuries such as occur in automobile accidents will be far greater in number and severity. This letter is also about radiation and it says, Is it possible to buy a device which will measure the amount of radiation in the air? Yes, there are devices which measure radioactivity. However, they cannot be operated successfully by persons who have not had special training. Such trained personnel are a part of the civil defense forces of each large city and they will determine whether there is any danger from radiation. This letter comes from Syracuse. And it says, what foods and medicine shall I store in my shelter for an emergency? We would suggest that shelters be stocked simply with part of the ordinary home stock of non-perishable foods, such as canned and packaged goods, together with a tightly closed container for drinking water. For first aid supplies, the state health department recommends the home pack. This was recommended in turn by a group of physicians who are experts in home care of the injured. What is this home pack? The home pack are items any family should normally have at home. Two sheets and two large thick Turkish towels. They should be freshly laundered in a steam laundry and separately wrapped at the laundry. And there should be three roller bandages three inches wide and besides half a dozen safety pins. Now with these supplies, it will be possible to cover burns and most wounds far more effectively than with the usual contents of the commercial first aid kit. Doctor, does the state have an overall health program which would begin to function immediately after a bombing attack? We most certainly do. In July 1950, the New York State Civil Defense Commission requested the state health department to prepare a plan for the medical aspects of civil defense. By December 1950, an official guide for local civil defense medical staff was completed and it now forms the basis for local plans. Here's a letter from a listener in Rochester. I've heard conflicting stories, he says, about the use of water after an atom bomb burst. Some say, take a bath if you're exposed to gamma rays. Others say that water will be contaminated and unsafe to use. What's the truth in this matter? Well, the truth is that an air burst is the most probable way the atomic bomb will be used. And so there is no contamination of the water supply. Nevertheless, an attacked city would be helpless in firefighting if everyone who thought he might have been exposed to radiation were to take a bath. As a matter of fact, a bath would be of no value after exposure to the rays. If you should have been in any area contaminated from a ground burst or a water burst, you will be notified. And you will be informed also in time whether or not the water is not safe for such bathing. Dr. Hillibault, we have a number of listeners who want to know why the state is spending millions of dollars for medical supplies and equipment in the present emergency. They would like to know why we can't use what equipment the hospitals now have on hand. That's a good question. Peacetime disasters such as fires or train wrecks rarely involve more than 100 people. Consequently, existing stocks are woefully inadequate in the face of the thousands of expected casualties. To supplement existing supplies, the state is purchasing and distributing vast stocks of necessary items to areas near target cities. Well, now, Dr. Hillibault, I know that volunteers are desperately needed throughout the state of New York, and particularly so in medical services. Don't you think that such volunteers in civil defense generally help us in the present war effort? Yes, I do. Every volunteer in the civil defense forces, and particularly in the emergency medical services, is actively contributing to the program. If we are fully prepared to meet and overcome the effects of attack, this preparedness is just as effective against the enemy as our guns and planes and ships. Volunteer for the emergency medical service at your local civil defense office, and know that you are helping to make an attack unlikely and also ensuring victory if attack should come. Thank you, Dr. Herman E. Hillibault, Commissioner of Health of the state of New York. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. The subject of health in atomic attack is of great importance to any large city, particularly if it is a target area, such as the city of New York. It's no wonder, therefore, that a great many questions have come from residents of New York City. And we have with us in the studio Commissioner of Health for the city of New York, Dr. John F. Mahoney, who will answer the questions you listeners have sent us. Commissioner Mahoney, here's our first question, and it's from a woman who lives in Brooklyn, and it's been asked repeatedly by many others in the city. If a bomb should strike New York City, will it be safe to use food from the house? Would contamination affect canned foods, and how will I know whether the food I get from the store is safe to use? Stocks of packaged and canned foods, either in stores or in home, will be usable following an atomic explosion. It will be advisable to wash the surface of all containers before they are opened. Inspectors from the Department of Health will be available as soon after the explosion as is practical, for the purpose of condemning food supplies considered to be unfit for human consumption, either through spoilage or through radioactivity. Well, Commissioner, here is a letter from a listener in Queens, and it says, I'm 65 years old and can't get around much, and also, I take medicines almost every day. Now, if a bomb hits, will anyone be around to take care of me? The Organization for Medical Care following an atomic explosion presents some of the most difficult phases of the civil defense program. The first concern will be the making available of life-saving services to the injured. Subsequently, the attention of the medical emergency division will be directed toward the establishment of adequate medical care for all. As to the continuance of personal care during an emergency, insofar as may be possible, an understanding with one's personal physician would seem to be a wise precaution. Although first aid stations and hospitals will be equipped and staff for general medical care, it would be unwise to promise that a highly personalized type of medical care can be maintained throughout a major disaster. Dr. Mahoney, here's another question, and this one comes from a listener in the Bronx. If I escape the bomb, how will I get food? This city, I understand, depends on food deliveries from out of the city, and won't all forms of transportation be tied up? Arrangements will be made for the delivery of food to the various agencies of the civil defense system. The waterways and harbor transportation will be dependent upon for the delivery of supplies in the event of the bridges and the tunnels being obstructed. There's another point, I think, that should be made on this question, Dr. Mahoney. Just recently, Arthur Wellander, the director of the New York City Office of Civil Defense, told us that New Yorkers can feel confident about their food supply during an emergency, and he pointed out that at any one time there's enough food in New York to feed the city for a period of about six weeks. I'm very glad that you mentioned that point. Not only do we have the food, but plans have already been made for emergency feeding of people in devastated areas. And it is highly significant that the city of New York can provide for the feeding of people in an emergency without relying upon Army rations. Well, here's another question from a listener in the Bronx, and he says, my wife is going to have a baby, and she's in a highly nervous state. She keeps worrying about what would happen if a bomb exploded. The possibility of births taking place during the period of disaster has been taken into consideration. As I mentioned before, a highly personalized type of obstetric service may not be available during the emergency, but it is felt sure that the facilities which will be provided will be adequate to reduce the dangers to either mother or child to a practical minimum. Well, now, here's a question that keeps coming up all the time, Dr. Mahoney. Just what is the situation in the hospitals? Have we got enough beds and doctors and nurses to cope with a bombing attack if it should come in the city? The plans for the expansion of the present hospital facilities and for placing in operation at distant hospitals in emergency hospitals has been fairly well advanced. Well, these plans, however, depend in a good measure on voluntary workers, don't they? Yes, indeed. Without volunteers, we cannot cope with the emergency. You must remember that we are depending heavily upon a mobile corps of medical, nursing, and other professional personnel. And this corps must also have assistants, is that it, doctor? That is right. They will all be welded into a mobile corps capable of being shifted rapidly to advantageous points in the disaster area. This organization will accomplish much in the field of the relief of human suffering and in bringing of life-saving services to the distressed area. Where would people have to go to register for this type of volunteer work, Dr. Mahoney? They may go either directly to the Civil Defense Volunteer Headquarters at 500 Park Avenue in New York City or inquire at any police station, fire station, or district health office. Thank you, Dr. John F. Mahoney, Commissioner of Health of the City of New York, for answering these questions that are troubling listeners in the city. Our topic next week will be aircraft warning. And now this is Bill Leonard reminding you that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You have been listening to the ninth in a series of programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer more questions you listeners have sent us, specifically those about aircraft warning. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Many of you have been wondering about the whole Civil Defense picture, what you can do, what would happen if your community were attacked, what plans have been made to move you to a safe place, and so on. Send us your questions. We'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at the same time next week when we'll discuss aircraft warning. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. We'll see you next week.