The field of classical music. ...me is the radio. The, uh, today you received the plaudits of New York as you traveled through, uh, the, our, our streets and you found a warm heart waiting for you at every corner because all of us feel, as you do, that you must triumph if we're going to have a free world. Thank you. One of the things that I always am hoping that I will never do is to make a speech. So therefore, I am fearful to get into a disguise, uh, any extended remarks in connection with the great work that is being done by our guests of honor. And I shall leave that pleasant duty to the acting mayor of the city of New York, Joseph Schake. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Your Excellency, Dr. Gasparri, Signora Gasparri, Reverend Clegy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. We've had a beautiful day thus far. We've even imported some of the traditional and beautiful Italian weather for our distinguished guest into the city of New York. And we've had considerable of it recently. We're happy to be with our honored guest. We've watched him since he has reached the shores of America in the past few weeks. And we've wondered how he was able to withstand the rigors of the American scene. He's done very well. I presume tomorrow when he leaves for Rome, he'll go back there for a well-eigned rest. He's even lain to handle our photographers where there's just one more shot. His great patience and his wonderful humor has impressed us all. We feel it's a fair exchange here in the city of New York. This interchange of ambassadors, we've just sent our ambassador to Italy. Our ambassador from the city of New York and our mayor. And we've had good reports, fine returns from this trip. The only rift in the otherwise pleasant news that we've received from Italy is the fact that he has had difficulty in securing spaghetti in Italy. And I presume that's within the sphere and scope of Grover Whelan. I hope that Grover's taking care of that little detail. But Your Excellency, it is my privilege to welcome you officially earlier today at City Hall after the splendid parade in your honor. You know how happy we are to have you in our midst once more. We owe a great debt to Italy. She was the cradle of our civilization. We are grateful to her for the fine contributions she has made to our cultural and artistic development. She was a source of inspiration to our founding fathers. But we in New York know the people of Italy from long and close association with their descendants who today are proud Americans. We also have a great affection for our gallant sons of Italy because we know and understand them. And we want you to know that they are a vital part of this teeming metropolis from the highest office to the lowest. Our distinguished mayor, Vincent Impoliteri, is, as you know, on a tour of your country, his native land. He is our first citizen, and we are proud to work in close association with him and many of his co-nationals who occupy some of the most important posts in our city administration. Yes, the sons of Italy have made tremendous contributions to the growth and development of our country. They have helped build our great railroads, bridges, tunnels, and the skyscrapers in our great cities. They have swelled the ranks of our great professions. They have given us skilled architects and engineers, lawyers, teachers, and doctors. They have filled with dignity and honor some of the most important political offices in the land. and they have fought in all the wars in defense of our democratic institutions since the birth of our nation. Dr. de Gasperi, please accept the best wishes of the people of New York who are proud to salute you, not alone as the prime minister of a great freedom-loving nation, but also as the most distinguished son of Italy among so many distinguished sons, a symbol of the vibrant democracy that triumphed over the red menace of communism. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Far be it for me to tell the acting mayor of the city of New York that what he reads about spaghetti is not true. I traveled from Nice to Rome by road, and there wasn't any little restaurant that I stopped at that the first course wasn't spaghetti. So, therefore, those reports that have come to you from Italy recently are inaccurate, Joe. Don't pay any thanks to them. It's a great privilege for me to present to you His Excellency, Dr. Caspari, Prime Minister of the Republic of Italy. Mr. Axi Mir, Ladies and gentlemen, I regret the absence of my friend, Mr. Impelitieri, whom I had the good fortune to see on my arrival in New York. I hope to see him even before you do on my return to Italy. Today, gentlemen, has been indeed a day of warm-friendlyness. New York certainly knows how to welcome her guests, and I shall carry off with me a very lasting impression of what I have seen and heard. your kindness. Your kindness has not been merely official, for I have felt at every corner and in every street that there was a friendly face and a friendly word. that is why I know there is sincerity in your reception, and sincerity is what encourages us most. For apart, apart from the concrete conclusions of our meetings, I have received many assurances of friendship and help in the course of this official visit to the United States, and I know you can rely on the truth of what I have heard. We have expounded all our problems, and we have stated what enormous contribution we can give to the common cause if they are sold. We need your help so as to be able in turn to help, to help build up our strength, increase our welfare and ensure peace. While renewing my appreciation, gentlemen, of the generous hospitality of this magnificent city, especially of the friendly feelings that stand behind it, may I drink to these ideas that remain common to us all. applause to the help of the city of the ark. Benediction will be given by the right Reverend Charles Boynton of the Cathedral of St. John Divine. Under God's gracious mercy and protection we commit you. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face to shine upon you and be gracious unto you. The Lord lift up the light of his countenance upon you and give you peace, both now and forevermore. Amen. Thank you. From the cert room in the hotel wall of Astoria, the mayor, acting mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Joseph P. Scharkey has paid his compliments to His Excellency, the Prime Minister of Italy, the Honorable Alcide di Gaspari, in the splendid luncheon served here in the cert room under the arrangements made by the Mayor's Committee by the Honorable Grover A. Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of the City of New York. And that is about all we can bring you now from the Hotel Wall of Astoria where the Honorable and excellent Prime Minister of Italy, Alcide di Gaspari, terminated his speech by raising his glass and drinking to the health and continued splendor of the city and the people of the City of New York. That is all from the cert room in the Hotel Wall of Astoria. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building where we join the program now in progress.