Monday of a new week, Andrew around New York reporter is back at a rusty microphone, with a few of the highlights and foreshadows of what's to see, hear, and do, in the big town and its suburbs. Along the intellectual front, we note that among the increasing activities, well in the man in popularity, is a series of short courses being held at Town Hall. This evening, from 5.30 to 6.30, the Town Hall will be the scene of a lecture by one of the truly great men of our century, Thomas Munn, author of the classic Buddenbrooks and the Magic Mountains, will lecture on the problem of freedom. From 7.30 to 8.30 tonight, the Town Hall Club Roundtable will feature Arthur B. Bester in a lecture on the nature of democracy. Meanwhile, at the Institute of the Academy of Music, that being Brooklyn's show, Dr. Edward Howard Griggs lectures on Washington, the First American. The time for that item is 8.30 to the evening. Just in case you have never been to the Brooklyn Academy Museum, you may as well play safe and remind you that the address is 30 Lafayette Avenue, Brooklyn. The pictorial arts are starting strong this week to use the language of the stock market and promises to hold steady. For instance, good news is surely the first item, that the Washington Square Outdoor Art Show is right in full stride. This is the 16th semi-annual outdoor show to be held along the historic fences of the nerve center of Greenwich Village, and like its pretty scissors, it is infinitely varied and quite fascinating. Personally, we are definitely on the yokel side in the sheer delight which it gives us. We have our portrait sketch, preferably with a hand of onlookers gazing at the operation. Yes, there is no getting around it. There are exhibits and exhibits, but this is the exhibit. And as far as we are concerned, Greenwich Village is still the glamorous stronghold of our artists. Of course, there are those who sometimes get tired of moving past the pictures, and prefer to sit down unless the pictures move past them. And we still are a man who's soul so dead that he doesn't go to the world. Of the fall, there are two showings daily instead of the previous one, and the times for these are 3 and 5.30 in the afternoon. 5.30 is hardly the afternoon these declining days, however. About that time it's getting dark, and you're through with the day's work, and that's the whole point. This new late showing is for the benefit of those who, because of work, cannot make the afternoon show. The address of the Museum of Modern Art, in case you don't know it, is 11 West 53rd Street, Manhattan. More news of movies. Today's program in the Brooklyn Museum series of educational motion pictures concerns Canada, or more specifically, Montreal. The time is 4 p.m. this afternoon. And now a most unusual and most useful note. The School for Expectant Parents opens its fall term at the Maternity Center Association next week. There is only one prerequisite for admission to the classes. The candidate must be expected. The mothers' and fathers' classes will meet separately, and at times convenient for them. The first class for mothers begins on Monday, October the 16th, at 2.30 p.m. The prospective fathers meet for their first session on Thursday, October the 26th, at 8 p.m. Both classes will be held at the Maternity Center Association 654 Madison Avenue. There will be lectures and demonstrations on all phases of parenthood, and then each student will have a chance to practice on Patience, the famous rubber baby who takes all abuse without complaint. Apply for registration by letter or phone. And that's about all we can jam into today's five minutes. And with one more reminder, that a request and a three-cent stamp will secure your copies of our Around New York booklet. This is your Around New York reporter, Hal Halperin, saying so long until tomorrow. See you next time. This is what you put in front of your room. I mean, it won't be up. See you next time.
