The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeletere, is host today to Mr. A. Philip Randolph, President of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters. Mr. Whelan has just conducted the guest into the Board of Estimate room here at City Hall, and Mr. Whelan has just called for the National Anthem. The Mayor of the City Hall, and Mr. Whelan has just called for the National Anthem. The Mayor of the City Hall, and Mr. Whelan has just called for the National Anthem. The Mayor of the City Hall, and Mr. Whelan has just called for the National Anthem. The Mayor of the City Hall, and Mr. Whelan has just called for the National Anthem. The Mayor of the City Hall, and Mr. Whelan has just called for the National Anthem. The Mayor of the City Hall, and Mr. Whelan, the Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee, will now make the introductions to Mayor Impeletere. Mayor Impeletere, the International Sleeping Car Porters Association is represented here today by its president, Mr. A. Phillips Randolph, who is no stranger to New York, having graduated from CCNY in our own city here. It's a great privilege for me, Mr. Mayor, to present Mr. Randolph and his fellow officers to you. Mr. Whelan, to Randolph, officers and members of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, and a very good friend, Dr. Bunch, ladies and gentlemen. In the name of all the people of the City of New York, numbering 8 million, I welcome today a group of our old friends, members of one of the most deservedly famous unions in the entire labor union movement. The International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters was founded in our city just 25 years ago. It had six members. Although weak in numbers at that time, these six were strong in courage because of the righteousness of the task that lay before them. These six founders faced a battle for recognition in which every cruel device known to labor's enemies was used against them and their struggling organization. Many of those who joined them in their work were fired and blacklisted. They were spied upon. Their leadership was insulted. Even the pensions of retired porters were stopped. Up to 1925, these economic sanctions had prevented the porters from organizing effectively. But now they had found a leader who could not only be fired, could not be blacklisted, could not be intimidated. In A. Philip Randolph, they found a man of untiring courage and a vision that foresaw the great benefits that could come to their membership and to the Negro race as a whole. Under his leadership, the Brotherhood has grown to a membership of 18,000 individuals of 11 different races. From a wage of $67.50 for a three to four hundred hour week in 1925, their pay has reached a minimum in 1950 of $235.90 for a work month of 205 hours. This amounts to an overall annual increase of $12,500,000. Social gains have been equally outstanding. The Brotherhood and Mr. Randolph led the movement in 1941, which brought about the establishment by President Roosevelt of the Fair Employment Practice Committee. This committee opened thousands of new industrial jobs to Negroes, a blessing not only to their race, but to our entire war effort. Again, the Brotherhood can be credited with the progress that has been made in eliminating discrimination in the armed forces of the United States. The struggle of this great labor organization has been the American struggle for equality under law, for equal rights to employment, for freedom of the individual, for the entire democratic process, which strengthens our nation and protects us all. I wish Mr. Randolph and his fellow workers in the Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters continued success in their efforts. I join the entire community in admiration for their courage. I pledge them my continued support and friendship. I want them to know that the people of the City of New York welcome them and are proud of the great organization that had its start here in this great city of opportunity. Ladies and gentlemen, President A. Philip Randolph. Mr. Whalen, Honorable Vincent Impelletari, Acting Mayor of the City of New York, Honorable Vincent Impe Turk on behalf of the Legates, members, and for the位 of the Deutschen Of Sleeping Car Porters, my wzoroc. We want to profoundly express our appreciation and gratitude to you both for this delightful, splendids and unusual reception upon the occasion of the 7th Diential Convention of our organization, of our organization and its 25th anniversary in the freest and the greatest city in the world. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Well, while the Department of Sanitation Band was playing, the maestro John Celebrate conducting, the Honorable Vincent Impelitere took the occasion to pose for pictures with Mr. A. Philip Randolph and his guests, and all the distinguished guests who have come here today to City Hall, commemorating two occasions, the meeting within our city of the International Brotherhood of Sleeping Car Porters, and observing the 25th anniversary of the organization as well, which started with six men and now has a membership of 18,000. Mr. A. Philip Randolph is a graduate of the College of the City of New York, and it is particularly interesting that so much of this has happened right in our own city. Now the Mayor and the Honorable Vincent Impelitere, Mr. Randolph, and the guests today are leaving the Board of Estimate room in City Hall. The Mayor had planned a very beautiful reception outside City Hall for his guests today, but the weatherman was a rather mean person today, and as we said in an announcement here in the chamber, we hope that if the weatherman ever gets on a Pullman train, the Pullman porters will know what to do with him. Well, that's all from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Municipal Broadcasting System.