And that was the Gray Goose, as sung by Leadbelly and his guitar. And now I'd like Leadbelly to sing a work song. You know, the work songs of the Deep South, and in fact the work songs of all people everywhere, are perhaps the most basic and fundamental expression of the need for music in everyday life. Because work songs, after all, develop out of the need of rhythm in work. And I'm going to ask Leadbelly to sing the Axe Chopping song. How about it, Leadbelly? Okay. Axe Chopping. Now this is Julian Johnson. You're swinging double-bit axes. All the axes dropping together. The boys liked Julian Johnson, and they would sing about it. Julian Johnson, oh Lord. Julian Johnson, oh Lord. Gonna leave you, oh Lord. Gonna leave you, oh Lord. Goodbye, Julie. Oh Lord. Goodbye, Julie. Oh Lord. Oh Lord. Oh Lord. You land Johnson. Oh Lord. You land Johnson. Oh Lord. I done got married. Oh Lord. I done got married. Oh Lord. I married Martha. Oh Lord. I married Martha. Oh Lord. Oh Lord. It's Martha promised. Oh Lord. It's Martha promised. Oh Lord. Goodbye, Julie. Oh Lord. Goodbye, Julie. Oh Lord. I'm gonna leave you, oh Lord. Gonna leave you alone Goodbye, Julie Oh, Lord Goodbye, Julie Oh, Lord Thank you, Leadbelly. Thank you very much. That was an axe-chopping song, an example of a work song of the rural South. And now, before Leadbelly turns the mic over to the next star, I'd like to ask him to sing one blues for us. How about it, Leadbelly? All right? Okay. Well, I'm going to ask him to sing the TB blues. You know, in the Deep South, as well as in other parts of this land, things aren't all that they should be. And this is one of the, well, I should say, one of the needs for self-expression has shown itself in this blues, the TB blues. And the lyrics are self-explanatory. Go ahead, Leadbelly. Now, this is the TB blues. The first girl had the TB, she died. And she liked three or four men. The men that had money were overhauled. The one who's dressed up all the time, he didn't have no dime. She asked him for the dime, and he couldn't give it. And every time her mother come to her bed, she look at her mother. It's too late, too late, too late, too late, too late. It's too late, too late, too late, too late. I'm on my way to Denver and Mama must have hesitated TV's alright to have if your friend didn't treat you so low down TV's alright to have if your friend didn't treat you so low down Don't you ask for no fever, they even stop coming around Mmm, the TV's killing me Mmm, the TV's killing me My mama's like a prisoner, I'm always awake in the street But alone, my feet, couldn't even walk down the street But the men's looking at me, from my head to my feet But it's there now, the TV's killing me I want my body buried in the need to see Mmm Mmm Mmm Mmm Mmm I got a two burger lois, it's con, something is killing And those were the TB blues of Lead Belly Lead Belly, are those your own blues? TB's not It's an old blues, but it's made by some of the old singers long years ago I see, well that really is an old number I see, well as I say, Lead Belly has lots of his own compositions And he also sings lots of traditional tunes And now I'm going to introduce to you a new blues singer I don't know if many of you have heard of him He is primarily a pianist, a bandsman and recording artist for DECA His name is Sam Price Sam Price, and he really is a very fine pianist And I think he's primarily a blues pianist But he also plays very fine modern jazz And I'm going to ask him to play first a blues Which is really a boogie woogie blues He learned it from a friend of his, Cow Cow Davenport Whom I'm sure you've heard of if you're a jazz collector But if you haven't, why, it's just a name to you Cow Cow was a, is I should say A blues composer and pianist And he's traveled all over the United States He's given blues concerts and so on And Sam, I believe, worked with him Isn't that so, Sam? You're right, Ralph Yes, and Sam has worked with him Of course he knows the Cow Cow Blues very well Well that's nothing, all blues pianists know the Cow Cow Blues But I'd like you to hear Sam Price's version of it Go ahead, Sam Go ahead, Sam Don't Go ahead Good Yhin You're right, Sam Go ahead, Sam Go ahead, Sam Go ahead, Sam Go ahead Go ahead Go ahead, Sam Go ahead See you Go ahead vermnymi Go ahead và Go ahead, Sam Go ahead Looks like Go ahead Dull Thank you. Thank you. Look how Davenport has played for you by Sam Price. And now I'm going to ask Sam to sing for you a very charming blues that he sings very, very well indeed. I always ask him to sing it everywhere we go, whether he's at my house or if we show up somewhere. The first thing I want him to do is sing Hey, Lordy Mama. Meet me round the corner Bring my shoes and clothes Hey, Lordy Mama Great God Almighty Meet me round the corner Bring my shoes and clothes I ain't got no one to love me But I've got so far to go Now my mama told me My papa told me too Hey, Lordy Mama Great God Almighty My mama told me My papa told me too Now they said, son, you stay at home And let these women come here to you Now if I had to listen To what my mama said Hey, Lordy Mama Great God Almighty If I had to listen To what my mama said Now I would have been home Sleeping in my mama's bed Jetzt being my beach Such an old one When the sun rose this morning, I was laying down on my floor. Hey, Lordy, Mama, great God Almighty, when the sun rose this morning, I was laying down on my floor. I didn't have no one to love me. I didn't have no place to go. I didn't have no place to go. I didn't have no place to go. I didn't have no place to go. The studio audience looks as though it wants to applaud. I guess I'll let them. Come on, give them a hand. Thank you. And that was Hey, Lordy, Mama. I'm going to ask Sam before he gets away from the piano to do one more number. And this is one by, I think it's a composition of Speckled Red. It's called The Dirty Dozens. Isn't that by Speckled Red? You're right. Rufus Perryman is the man's real name. Right. And Lord only knows where he is. He used to record for Bluebird, but he's disappeared long ago. I don't think anyone knows where Speckled Red is now. He recorded out in St. Louis somewhere. And he really is one of the obscure collector's items of hot jazz and bottom blues. And this tune that he wrote and recorded, The Dirty Dozens, we won't have the lyrics today, but it really is a very, very, very amusing blues. And it also comes into the falls, I should say, into the category of boogie woogie. Let's go, Sam. Do you know what you mean. I do know if someone said to me, too. I love you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And... And that was Albert Ammons playing the Mecca flat blues, and now I'm going to ask Albert to play the Boogie Woogie Stomp. I know you're all waiting to hear him play that style. Ipele Stomp. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. This place is beginning to look like Cafe Society Uptown. The Golden Gate Singers just walked in a quartet of boys who really sing the spirituals from the deep south without any accompaniment of any instrument whatsoever. I'll let you hear them in just a moment. But first we've got Mead Lux Lewis here. You know, I wish you could be here and see Mead and Albert sitting together. You know, they each weigh about 180 pounds. Five feet high. I think that's five feet high. Oh, Mead holds up two fingers. Two hundred pounds. And Albert Ammons must be at least 20 pounds heavier. I think that Mead holds up three fingers for Albert. Three hundred, two hundred, three hundred. That's five hundred pounds of marvelous musician. And I imagine that they must have come up in the elevator separately. Now for Mead Lux Lewis, I know that there's just one request that must come first. And that is the tune that he dedicated to Jimmy Yancey, who I believe, unless I'm corrected, and I've got some awful expert cats in front of me now, but I think that Jimmy Yancey is really the father of modern boogie-woogie style. How about that, Mead? Is that true? That's true. Mead says yes. Okay. I'm safe on first. And now I'm going to ask Mead to play his own tune, the Yancey Special. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I wanted to have Mead Lux Lewis play outside of his Yancey Special another number. but I'm afraid the time is getting short, and I want you to hear the Golden Gate singers. So let's thank Meadlux Lewis. Oh, he's not from Uptown Cafe. He's from Downtown Cafe. I'm always getting them mixed. But the Golden Gate singers are coming up to the mic right now, and I'm going to ask them to sing spiritual. The name of it is, let's see, I want them to sing Pure Religion, but they're going to sing Wade in the River, Wade in the River. Wade in the water, Wade in the water, children, Wade in the water. Oh, well, my God's going to trouble the water. Why don't you wait in the water? Why don't you wait in the water, children, Why don't you wait in the water? Oh, well, my God's going to trouble the water. Well, the first step I took in Jordan, children, the water came to my knees. And the second step I took in Jordan, Children, the water came to my waist. And the third step I took in Jordan, Children, the water came over my head. And I saw King Jesus on the other side. He was making up my dying bed. Why don't you wait in the water? Why don't you wait in the water? Why don't you wait in the water? Oh, well, my God's going to trouble the water. Oh, well, my God's going to trouble the water. Oh, I've never heard anything more beautiful than that spiritual. Wade in the water. I think I said Wade in the river before. Well, now I'm going to ask these boys to sing Noah, Noah. And this is really characteristic of the Golden Gate style. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Oh, Noah. Brother Noah Well my God's talking Said he's gonna ride On the rain and tide Children stop still and listen to me Jehovah walked by the briny sea Beheld the evil of sinful man Declared that he would destroy the land He spoke to Noah, Noah stopped and said Noah, I want you to build me an ark I want you to build it big and strong Build it 300 cubits long 30 high and 50 wide I want it to stand the rain and tide