The President of the International Municipal Singing Association, I now declare the 55th annual convention in session. We will now have the singing of the national anthem by the Department of Glee Club. For you will see, I'm the dawn's early light. What so proudly we hailed, as the twilight's last gleaming, who brought strife and strife stars through the perilous fight. O'er the wrath of the war, was the gallant with grieving. And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave for the land of the free and the home of the brave. O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave Before undergoing any important undertaking, we should always invoke the blessings of deity. So at this time, I'm going to call on the Honorable, the Reverend J. A. Nakafe to render the invocation. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. O Almighty and eternal God, who has dominion over all mankind, look down with favor upon these members of the International Municipal Signal Association. Consider how they have devoted their lives to the protection of property and the safety of their fellow man. They have gathered here today to exchange ideas in order that they may become more perfect in their work. Grant, O Lord, that they may... Grant, O Lord, thy blessing to their deliberations and may all that they do or ever hope to accomplish as an association redound to the greater honor and glory of God. Amen. In the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of IMSA, I wish to take this opportunity to extend my personal greetings and a most hearty welcome to each of the members of IMSA and their guests who have gathered here on our 55th Annual Convention. It is deeply appreciated. A most interesting and instructive technical program has been provided for you through the diligence of Mr. O'Brien, General Chairman of the Convention Committee, and I sincerely hope that each of you will make a... May I impress upon you the obligation of regular attendance at each of the textbook meetings in order that our speakers may have the audience that their valuable papers deserve. The manufacturers have also prepared a very interesting exhibit, and I trust that each of you will make a careful and systematic tour of the entire exhibits. I wish to make grateful acknowledges to each of the sections which I have had the pleasure of visiting during my administration for the splendid reception and courteous treatment which you have given me. Each section has held most successful and instructive meetings, and we are deeply grateful for the wholehearted cooperation which you have given to the program of active activities during the past year. Your association, due to your cooperation, has today the largest membership in its history, and I sincerely hope that the day is not far distant when every municipal singing engineer in this country will be a member of our association. I want to personally express to the membership at large, the officers of the association and the manufacturers, my appreciation for the wholehearted cooperation which you have given me in every instance. And may I bespeak for my successor in office the same wholehearted cooperation which you have so graciously given me. And I trust that the achievements of the past year, though small, may at least be stepping stones for greater success for our association in future years. I thank you. At this time, I want to introduce the man who is responsible for this meeting. The man who has worked untiringly for the past 12 months to make this convention one of the outstanding in the history of IMSA. And I'm sure before this meeting is over, you will agree with me that he has done an outstanding job. So without further ado, I want to introduce Mr. Thomas P. O'Brien, General Chairman of the Convention Committee. Who will be? Who will be? Who will be? Who will be? Mr. Thomas P. O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin. I'm sincerely grateful for your remarks and also very grateful for that laudatory bouquet as to my achievements pertaining to this convention. But I should like to take each flower of that bouquet you so graciously tendered to me and present it to the chairman of the various committees. And if this convention has any measure of success, technically and socially, I can assure you that the plaudits belong to the respective chairman of the various committees. Thank you. Our convention has been singularly honored this morning. We have with us to greet us a gentleman who, to the rank and file of the city of New York, always held in very high respect. As a key member of the administration of the city of New York, he has always championed the cause of civil workers such as you and I. It is therefore a distinct pleasure and privilege for me as your chairman to present to you the Honorable Vincent Impoletari, our mayor of the city of New York. Chief O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin, Reverend Clergy, ladies and gentlemen. Chief O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin, gentlemen. My job here this morning is a very simple one. Those of us who are engaged in the business of administering the affairs of the great city of New York are always proud and happy to participate in events such as we witnessed here this morning in the Hotel Commodore. Chief O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin. Chief O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin, I have been in exactly the same sort of position that you are in. Chief O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin. Chief O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin and Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin. Chief O'Brien, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. Goodwin, Mr. et cetera. in one capacity or another for almost 20 years, so that I feel that I know the problems of the average civil service worker because I came up from the ranks of civil service myself. Here in the city of New York, we have, as you probably know, a tremendous army of civil service workers. Here in the city of New York, we have on the city payrolls almost 175,000 employees. Now that's a lot. It probably, that army alone is larger than the population of a great number of large cities in the United States. But the amazing part of that story, and that the story that very few people know about, even here in the city of New York, that out of that army of 175,000, almost 95% are there because they passed very stringent civil service examinations. 95% of all of our workers in that army of 175,000 are civil service workers. That goes for almost 19,000 members of our police department. That goes for almost 9,000 or 10,000 members of our fire department. That goes for almost 40,000 teachers who are on our teaching staff. And that goes for practically every other city department within our city. And we're proud indeed of those civil service workers because they have had to come in by competitive civil service examination, and their advancement rests entirely on their capabilities of in doing the right kind of a job for the people of the city and at the same time passing further promotional examinations. Essentially, I was asked to come here this morning to bring you a word of greeting. Those of us who administer the affairs of the city are very anxious to have people from all over the country come to visit our city. We are a very large city. We have almost 8 million people living within our borders. But don't let the size of it scare you for a moment. I imagine many of you have been here before. I know that those of you who have not been here before will come back again after you see what the city has to offer because, frankly, although it's a large town, the people who live within our city are no different at all from the people in your own communities. You will find that New York City is broken up into a great number of small communities where people say, hello, Jack, and hello, Jim, pretty much like on the street corner of the town or city from which you hail. You will find large skyscrapers here. You will find subways. But believe me, that concrete and steel doesn't make up the lifeblood of the city of New York except in a business way because the fact of the matter is that the people who make up our population are exactly the same kind of folks as the people from the cities from which you come. You will find that here in the city of New York. You will find that the people are courteous, that they're anxious to extend to you a warm hand of welcome. If you lose your direction or if you want some information, just go up to the average New York City cop and you will find an intelligent man, you'll find a courteous man who's anxious to make your stay in the city of New York a welcome one. You will find in our city that we have everything to meet the needs of the average fellow. We have something to meet the needs of the man in the middle brackets. You will find that we also have means of taking care of the ultra-ultras. And by that I mean this, to give you a very simple example. If you want to take the safest, the longest train ride in the entire country, we can give you that here for a dime. It used to be a nickel. But you see, we're no different than the cities from which you come. We also have had to pay additional building costs. We've also had to take care of meeting the higher cost of living by paying our city workers a fair and commensurate salary. So the subway fair went up from a nickel to a dime. But you can go all the way from Times Square or even further north all the way out to Coney Island, rapid transit, distance of almost 20 miles for one dime. And it's a good, safe, clean ride. Now, we have restaurants here to fit all types of needs. we also have a great number of medium-priced restaurants that'll take care of you. On the other hand, if you feel like spending 20 bucks for a dinner, we can take care of you too. And that goes on in all fields within the city. whether you want to spend 10 or 15 cents for a neighborhood movie, you can do that. On the other hand, you can go up to Radio City Music Hall and see a perfectly wonderful show together with a picture. It'll cost you a little more, but you'll get your money's worth. I can't tell you that your committee can get you any seats for South Pacific. I can't get those myself. but you will be entertained. You will be welcome in our city. Today, you, ladies and gentlemen, represent the nerve center of the entire country. Here in the city of New York, people within your organization are all key figures in our civil defense program. Here in our city, we have already activated and set up a civil defense program. We hope and pray God that it will never be necessary to actually use it. But we can't be blinded to the facts and we are preparing. Here in the city of New York, we've already made an initial appropriation appropriation of $1,800,000. And that's just scratching the surface. We hope that we won't have to go further, but we all feel that we will. So much so that in my annual message released only last week, I felt that within the coming year, we would have to earmark at least $25 million of city funds to keep pace with this program of civil defense. We hope, as in World War II, that civil defense, which is really national defense, will be assumed by the federal government. we feel that it should be because whether it's in New York City or in Spokane or in San Francisco, it's all a part of a national defense scheme and we don't feel that New York should have to bear a bigger share of it than any other city in the country because we're all vitally concerned with the same problem. In World War II, the federal government assumed approximately 80% of the total cost of all civil defense and we hope that the federal government eventually will take its proportionate share this time. But it's people like you that are vitally interested in and vitally necessary to any good, sound civil defense program. We know here in the city of New York that we will have the brains, the intelligence, and the cooperation of the men and women who make up your membership here in our city. And I know from your standpoint that you will give exactly that type of help and cooperation to the people in government in your own communities. On behalf of the people of the city of New York, we want you to know that we welcome your presence here. We feel that we have the best convention city in the entire world. We have splendid hotels, wonderful sources of entertainment, fine meeting halls, and everything will be adapted to your needs. We want you to be happy here. We know that you are welcome. We want you to come back again. So may I hope for you that this 55th annual convention of your organization will meet with great success success and that after you finish with the plain folks that live here in the city of New York that you'll go back to your community and say to your people, New York is a nice town. New Yorkers are nice people. Go there, visit New York, you will be accorded the same welcome we receive and may I say to you, whenever you come back to the city of New York, I will be happy to extend the official welcome of the city of New York. Thank you very much. Thank you.