I think it's a proper plot, I'm not sure. One of the things wrong with radio, and is wrong with all of us, is imitation. You get the same thing from every program at the same time, practically. You get in the groove. They do it in the theater, too. There's nobody that can stand upright this season on the stage, they're all in bars drinking. I didn't think that Harvey started it, because it's contention of the awful that Harvey has ever, under the influence of liquor. He just takes a drink, he's a convivial drinker, and likes to see other people happy. And there are three or four plays coming in with unseen characters, too. So that, uh, whenever anyone does a successful play, he gets a string of scripts shortly after that, imitating them. And apparently that's what goes on in radio. I bet if you tune in now on any station in the land, across the board, it'll be playing I'm Dreaming of a White Christmas. If you find me a station that isn't, I will present you with an Eversharp 51 pen. Thank you, Jim. Maybe we should have got to round up our seats before this time. One of these things where you say, when you, I do that, then laugh. The same thing goes for quizzes. Seems to me they've gotten all of the questions asked. And that even with inflation, there's no longer a $64 question left. I don't know enough about your organization, how you're organized, but I should think a plan and scope, as we call it in our business committee, and you probably have them, would be at work all the time to try to figure out new stuff to get out of the groove so that every program is not exactly like every other program. The soap opera, you can't really be funny about that. You get none of those plays about the radio industry, and none of them is as funny as the radio industry. I doubt it, clearly, that the professional radio play will ever be written, because they all write about the studio and the goings-on itself, instead of writing about people and human emotions, which the stage is, is emotion. I can't be funny, therefore, about soap opera because there's nothing that you can write or nothing that I can say that would be as funny as they are. How any happy home is left in this country? Well, from 10 in the morning to 6 at night, the radio is telling of the infidelities. There's a little man down at the office with a snout crony that me, I don't know. Some, some radio company is going to reverse the situation and show what he's doing on at home, and I'm sure it will be no other thing. If I were running radio, I'd have the sports broadcasters, and I think we are among your best crowd-owned men who's playing and have a score. Because I... I'd say every now and then to find out, and I have the least bad idea what's going on, because somewhere toward the end, you go out and send for a five-star final and get the final score. I think we've seen a young face the fact that you have to have some material written, and not just go on with the gag comedy anymore. If you're hiding for ratings, I think you will find that practically all in the field of character comedy. It's harder to get, it's harder to cry. But certainly everybody, and all of the gags by now, all of the twists and turns, and the straight gag comedian, I should think, is about on its way out. This brings me to the theater and our connection and our association with you. I wish it went a little deeper. I've been told that a lot of men in radio don't know that the musical business extends west to Sixth Avenue. But they have very little interest in the theater. I wish they had more. I think the theater is practically the mother church of all entertainment, both of the movies and of the radio. That you can profit by working with us. I do wish, and I say this with Mr. Schubert sitting here, I do wish you would leave us a few beers to present plays in. I do want to care because business is pretty good in our line of business too. But I really believe that there is more in common between the two things. I think the theater guild program, moving up to what I understand is the number two spot in popularity, at least with the people who write about it, proves that you can take the theater and make it attractive and interesting in the air. Of course, we're not forgetting the steel millions that they're able to work with. But against that, you'd have the new salaries. So there you are. And I would like to say, at this point, that I think it would be a fine thing to return a little to Americanism on the radio. And that you would shoot or drop through a trap or do something with some of your commentators who still think that the war, you remember the war that was one single habit by the Russians for us. And for all of these Elliott Hart's quizzlings, I wish we'd give them the gate. I don't know whether that's really your power or not. But I'm getting awfully tired of listening to them. If they like Russia, why don't we go back to it? If this is offending any of you, I understand there's a red network. I don't know what that means. I'm very sorry. If any of you have any impression of messing up my office as the dooms did a few weeks ago, I'll give you the key to the... I don't have to break the glass doors. That's exactly the way I feel about the subject of Americanism. And now we've called the minute for station identification. You've just been listening. This is the remark that I've got a little to do with radio by Rob Thundert. This is station DTNG. Goodbye. Hello, recording. Do you hear me now? All right. Just hop. Check out why pipeline. Take this. Let's get started. You, may be late at least, you can't wait. sitten? All right. Here we go. I'mladım. I'm going to say... Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you, I thank you, I thank you, and I'll tell you why. On the occasion of my first public speech, some 26 years ago, which was the opening night of my first New York production, I woke the next morning to read in the New York Times under the byline of Alexander Wolcott, with whom I'd worked three years, a young producer had come out and made a rude speech. It was in the days of the Algonquin Roundtable when such intellectual blades as Bob Bensley, Bob Sherwood, George Kaufman, Johnny Weaver, Harold Ross, many others used to gather at the Algonquin for the daily luncheon. There was a rumor around that we were a log-rolling bunch, but I assure you we hit each other over the head off of them, and we rolled logs for the other one. Finally, when Alec and I were speaking, I asked him, I said, why was the speech rude? And he said, because you didn't thank your audience. So I thank you, I thank you, I thank you. Also, I find it good to thank you at the start when there is applause, because sometimes you never get another chance. Aside from the universal conceit that most men apparently that they know more about the other man's business than he does, the thing that brings me here today is James Farley Sauter. I used to wonder as I passed Sauter Square, called Times Square, at 42nd and Broadway during the war, it was my great privilege to work with Mr. Sauter, as he's told you, on numerous campaigns, and as I saw his name jiggling around on those traveling lights, and saw that huge statue there, and saw each successive Sauter bomb drive go higher and higher, I marveled at what it was that made him tick, that made it such a success, that made it possible for him to assemble this vast array of talent that he always got for anything. And he turned it loose on me over the phone, and he asked me to speak to you here today, and he said that I would be following William Calton Barnes and Fanny Hurst, and the thought of being in professional company because I'm probably the world's amateur, unpaid radio speaker, and the thought of meeting real tycoons because in our business we only have two or three, and they're here to my left today. Not to mention a distinguished acting tycoon, if you can have an actor with a tycoon too, over on my right, but we don't have tycoons in our business, and I thought it would be wonderful to see what they look like at close range. I assure you that this business of thinking that you know more about the other fellow's business than he does, you can tell him how to run it, it's pretty universal. I know it is in our business, I know it is in the picture business. For instance, I had a play called The White Rabbit, and it was later called The Pooh, and then it came to be known as Harvey, and I was in California. And a producer friend of mine who had just produced a four million gross motion picture, and had always talked about going into show business, I wanted to read it. I let him read it, and it was at his house for dinner when he did, and he looked kind of sorrowful, and he said, Rock, I don't see anything in this play except at the end of it you'll find out what a poop is. Well, at that particular time, the definition came at the end of the play. We moved it up, now you can find out at the end of the first act, and leave then, if that's all you want to find out. So I said, all right, and the day after the play opened in New York, I received a frantic wire from my picture producing friend, and he said, Congratulations on the marvelous hit. I think they make a terrific picture. Please count me in on it. A few months later when he came to town, he said, uh, Brock, you didn't give me any argument on that. Why didn't you, why didn't you try to talk me down? And I said, I never stick the chin out because I might easily have been wrong. Uh, I have been wrong many times, but if you sit in Times Square with your feet in the gutter of 44th Street as I have for 26 years, something is pretty apt to hit you eventually. It may be a car, it may be a taxi cab. I sat there for 26 years. So the Delta Tones of Jim got me here, and I swear to you, I know nothing about radio. I'm the guy that can take it or leave it. Mostly I leave it because I have a pretty busy life. I do too now on the things I like, the things I want to hear. I skip most of the others. I was in Memorial, Hartness Memorial one time for seven weeks with pneumonia, and I caught up with my radio then. And since then I've been more or less allergic to it, but I do listen in enough to know. It's an easy thing for me to stand here and tell you how to run your business, or is it an easy thing? Uh, I know the things that you are up against. I know that you have censorship, and that's number one. There are only certain things that can go on the air. I know that you have sponsorship, which is worse. A bunch of stuffed shirts, as far as I can see, standing in the glass room there listening, and wanting their little friend to have the solo part, when she probably can't sing very well. Also, I know that you're up against what all of us are up against, and that is a scarcity of material. And I shudder to think what you men are up against, because I computed that whereas I have had to do nothing for the past two years and a month but sit, I haven't just done that, but anyway. You men have had 206,550 periods of 15 minutes each, if you count your day as an 18-hour day to fill. And if you make that exclusive of the Roosevelt's and Ron numbers, that would be 206,000 who would have to fill. And I say that anybody that can fill those hours is good. And I'm not going to cavil with you, but it's not all good. A few years ago, I made the mistake of going out on a lecture tour. I quickly changed it to calling the non-fireside chat so that the customer wouldn't feel cheated. And my first appearance was in Pittsburgh. I was supposed to speak on the American theater at war, or in the war. And I was supposed to speak for an hour, and at the end of 58 minutes, I was still talking about myself. So, Jim, would you kind of get me onto the subject pretty soon of what's wrong with radio, or what I would do with radio? I think, frankly, if I had radio handed to me, I would run like hell. I wouldn't know what to do. I wouldn't know what to do with radio. I wouldn't know what to do. I wouldn't know what to do with radio. I wouldn't know what to do. Of course, it's an easy thing to tell you that the commercials are all wrong. You know that. You have to have them, though, with the commercial institution. But I do think that they could be minimized. It seems to me if you only got them 10 times during a 15 minute period. And then, I think this goes for singing commercials, too. Although, the inflation is more or less taking care of that, because it's hard to find a rhyme for six cents. Nickel, nickel, nickel is all right. I think, too, that your commercials are making a race of hypochondriacs out of us. I don't see why, because as I sit there and listen to the headaches and things that come over, it's pretty terrific if we live through all of that. I think also that some of the commercials are needlessly realistic, particularly some of the laxative commercials. So, you're out. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. That's all right. But I do think the commercials might be cleaned up, and it wouldn't hurt anybody at all. If I were running radio, I would see to it that everybody but us amateurs, and of course, you can't govern us, and you get us for free anyway. But I see that the people who weren't on radio had good diction, and that they knew how to pronounce words. It's awful when you listen to some of them, and mispronunciations particularly. Of course, everybody isn't born with good Kansas diction, but then they ought to learn how to pronounce anyway. And there's deportment on the program. I think there's nothing ickier than the back slapping and the, hello, Jim, old fellow, that stuff that goes on, and the first name calling, and the laughter among the people on the air. The audience doesn't know what the hell's happening out of their end because it's visual, and that goes for the laughing of audience studio audiences that laugh at visual stuff because, don't forget, the television is just around the corner. That's where I'm going to throw my weight because the other night I got $150 for two minutes interview at the end of which they mopped me up after standing on all those hot lights, and the most I ever got in radio was a new hat and a package of Tums, as I remember. But these esoteric jokes have gone particularly on your informal early morning programs. I think we could do without those. Laughter, if you don't know what I'll tell you, as a producer of comedies for more years than I'd like to mention, should be in the audience and not on the stage. If a comedian laughs at a line that somebody has said or he has said, the audience has said, all right, you've taken care of that, and they don't laugh. I've listened to a number of pretty good radio artists who laugh at their own stuff so excessively that there's no laughter at my end, I assure you. And this giggling that goes on often between the gal who's interviewing you and the stooge who's telling the stuff about, you know, the mic and what he's called, laughing at stuff that isn't very funny at all, not mine, because that's all right, I expect to laugh at that, but their own stuff, because I think it's awfully annoying. Laughter over the mic, it should be at the other end of the mic. That brings me to the warm-up show. Maybe it would be good just to reverse it and throw the warm-up on the air and the other thing in the studio. Try that sometime. Laughter I think the business of interviewing should be looked into. I say that because I've been interviewed all over the country. I'm a boy that hops a plane and goes to where my companies are playing, because America, at this particular stage of the game, it's a great country to visit. It's just as much fun in most of the cities as it is in New York. It's really a wonderful place, so I go and so I get on the air, so I don't want to cut down on that at all. But I think there should be some screening of people that they get on the air to interview, because some of them are awful duds. And you ought to know in advance whether or not they're going to be that way before you give over your good time to them. I have some platters that any of you talent scouts would like to listen to. Laughter That I brought back to them, and I will send them COD. Laughter I say that because three times at the beginning of this season, I was phoned to, made appointments, and very distinguished little gentleman came to my office and said, how would you like to emcee a program on the air about the theater? An hour program, terrific money and so forth. I never heard from one of the three again. Laughter I think it's a problem, I'm not sure. apartheid military continue to be a food brand politician, I think, at?!?
