We will open with the National Anthem. We will open with the National Anthem. We will open with the National Anthem. We will open with the National Anthem. We will open with the National Anthem. Honorable Acting Commissioner and Acting President of the City Council, Honorable Mr. Sharkey, fellow clergymen, distinguished speakers, and members of the Fire Department Band whose music we've been enjoying so much, ladies and gentlemen, on this happy occasion, the laying of the cornerstone for this Hunts Point pollution control project, I feel that every one of us wants to convey our congratulations to the hardworking committee whose foresight and vision and energy and knowledge has made possible the laying of the cornerstone here today in this Hunts Point. section of the Bronx. But while we admire all that is being done here, and we'll probably receive a liberal education from the other speakers as to what all this sewage control really means, we must not forget that in days like this, a huge project of this kind needs supernatural guidance as well as the best of our natural intentions and work. And so I know that you expect me to invoke the blessing of Almighty God, not only upon this plan here, but the 16 others that are to be completed at a cost of $327 million in the course of approximately the next five years. It is an immense project, and many things that can happen between now and then. and then. So I turn to Almighty God in the crisis of this kind and ask Thee, O God, to hear our prayers today for the success of this project, to bless the efforts of the good men who are in charge of it and who are so conscientiously and so well discharging their tasks. We ask You also to bear with us sometimes that our indifference because at times and distractions of life we're liable to forget the importance of God Almighty, even though this month of November when there's an icy coldness in the very air that we breathe, reminds us that our own death may not be far away and we have a duty to pray for our dead souls in purgatory. We're also reminded of our carelessness perhaps, we have not thought of God as much as we should in our national affairs. At times we notice a tendency to sort of shove Him out of this universe that He has created as though it belonged to somebody else instead of Him. And so we know that this nation that will not serve God will perish and that unless the Lord watch over the city they labor in vain who guided or watch over it. We must have His help. And so dear God we ask forgiveness for our mistakes in the past, for our lack of confidence in your cooperation and intercession. And we ask that this grand work may go on now to a very happy fulfillment, that there'll be no labor strikes of a serious nature, that there'll be no plagues in the neighborhood, there'll be no long depression, or no third world war to torment us. We ask you almighty God to hear our prayer for our nation and our country and for these grand works that are being done for our benefit, the facilities that this great plant will give us in health and in educational and also in recreational advantages. Dear almighty God, help us and especially this project that it may not fail, that it may be carried on to success. So I turn to put a blessing down upon this cornerstone that God's approval may rest always with us. May the blessing of the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen. May the blessing of almighty God, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost descend upon this cornerstone and remain with it forever. In the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen. May the blessing of the Son and the Holy Ghost. Amen. Thank you, Paul. Commissioner Commissioner Frederick Zemmelin, Commissioner of Public Works, who has to preside today, came up here a few days ago to make sure that everything was all right and managed to catch a cold. I'm hoping that that doesn't happen to the rest of us today. So that the doctor has ordered him to stay in. It's my privilege under the circumstances to preside and it's a happy occasion for the Department of Public Works. This plant is part of our pollution control program and it's an important adjunct. The completion of this plant which is and it will probably be put into operation early next spring means that the waters of the upper Bronx Ace River and the lower bay or lower sound will be practically free of pollution insofar as any pollution from the city of New York is concerned. It's going to permit a clean up of the adjacent waters and permit the park department to advance its plans for the development of bathing beaches at the Ferry Point Park in the Bronx and at the Clearwater Park in Queen. This before I call upon our distinguished speakers. This project of course is not the work of one individual or one contractor. The actual conception of this sewage pollution program is in the hands of the engineers of the Department of Public Works headed by the Department of Public Works headed by the director of that division, Mr. Richard Gould, who is a leading authority and recognized, I believe, throughout the world as an authority on sewage treatment and pollution control. Mr. Gould, will you take a bow? I think the credit for the development of this entire city program insofar as the technical details go should be given to Mr. Gould and his staff. The actual development of the plans, that is the drafting work and some of the development work, was in the hands of Greeley and Henson. The, I can't name all the contractors, the prime contractor on this job is J. Rich Steers, and I believe Mr. Steers is with us. Mr. Steers is sitting here and he is responsible for the biggest contract. Other contractors, Poyer-McLean, I believe they are represented, Tully and DiNapoli, Driscoll, and others. Now, it's my pleasure at this time to call upon the Honorable Mr. Sheridan, Commissioner of Borough Works of the Bronx, to speak to you, representing Borough President Miles. Commissioner Arthur V. Sheridan, Commissioner of Borough Works. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Acting Mayor, commissioners too numerous to mention, ladies and gentlemen, may I at the outset present the regrets of the President of the Borough, who was suddenly and unaffordably detained, causing me to be authorized to come here on about five minutes' notice. Today is the culmination of hope that has been in the hearts of the citizens of the Bronx for at least 30 years to my knowledge. There have been many changes and many different, sometimes conflicting ideas concerning how the natural waterfront of this borough could be saved for posterity. Possessed on three sides by splendid facilities, it had become badly polluted, with the result that bathing had been more or less prohibited at many of its beach facility locations. Recently, the Commissioner of the Commissioner of the Park has succeeded in reclaiming one beach, and is about to reclaim another, subject of cost to the accomplishment of this particular project. It is perhaps not out of water to express regret at the illness of Commissioner Zemeleman for the particular reason that he was born in the Bronx, and perhaps that had something to do with finally bringing to fruition the hopes and aspirations of the people of this borough. It is also significant, and I hope not out of water, to note that several of the engineers, including the project engineer, are Bronx citizens, and they too are entitled to the thanks of the people of this community. One could not, however, pass the occasion without noting the fact that the help that has finally come required the support of the Board of Estimate. The financial backing, which has long been lacking for these projects, was more or less forced on us by the Interstate Sanitation Commission. And the Board of Estimate and its representative here today, the President of the Council, Joe Sharkey, have in recent years lent an exceeding sympathetic ear to the needs of this borough. And I think that you will all agree that more progress has been made in the last few years than in the previous generation. In closing, one can only say that he hopes that all the intention and purposes of this magnificent improvement, for it is magnificent, despite the fact that it does not have the publicity and perhaps the glory that is sometimes attached to other types of work. Sanitation is, next to water supply, perhaps the most necessary of all public improvements for an urban community. But it lies much of it underground and seldom receives the recognition that should accrue to it. It is a difficult engineering project, requires a great deal of highly specialized knowledge. And the people of the Bronx, I'm sure, will be doubly grateful to the Board of Estimate, to the Department of Public Works, to the contractors, and to the engineers who have finally brought this project to fruition. Thank you. I might mention that the present Chairman also resides in the Bronx, but he doesn't benefit. He's over on the other side of the Bronx. It would be rather foolish to attempt to introduce the next speaker. He's so well known, that I believe it is only necessary to say that we will now hear from the Honorable Robert Moses. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Chairman, Mr. Sharkey, ladies and gentlemen, I'm glad that Arthur Sheridan spoke of the unsung heroes of the engineering profession who work on these somewhat undramatic or un-melodramatic projects like this one, which are forgotten because there are so many other things that have so much more appeal to the emotions and generally are not nearly as important. This is a basic thing, as Arthur has said. I don't know whether it comes before or after water supply, but they go together. Anyone who has worked on problems of municipalities here and elsewhere knows that those are the first things that you look at. And if you don't find them, you don't find any civilization. To analyze some of these countries that we're trying to help abroad, you find out that it's the lack of sanitation, the lack of water that makes them backward countries. I want to say, just emphasize just one thing. We're at the end of a campaign, which if I may say so without any disrespect to any of the contestants, including my friend Joe Sharkey, has not been distinguished for its emphasis on constructive matters. I don't see anything that this administration or the previous one has to apologize for when it comes to public improvements. I know that it makes a popular appeal to put on a television show. I know that it makes a popular show, radio performance, circus, has more appeal than it has to talk about a sewer program. But this administration and the previous one in this field inherited a god-awful mess. I was in the previous administration, I guess the only full commissioner who survived the 12 years. I don't know now how that happened, but so it was. In any event, the O'Dwyer administration, when it came in, face to face with a problem, which is, if you read your circular, you'll see in the end, it's going to cost over $3. $300 million to solve. There wasn't much done about it in previous administrations. My mind goes back to when I was a boy and began this kind of work in the Mitchell administration. The Mitchell administration made reports on everything under the sun, but did nothing about any of them. Now, when you think of the pollution of our waterfront, destruction of natural values, destruction of residential values, destruction of recreation, we were in desperate shape when this program got underway. And it's well underway now. It means that we're going to reclaim our waterfront. It means that after the first stage is finished, a large part of the reclamation will have been carried out, including the two parks that have been referred to. The one here in the Bronx, Ferry Point, which will relieve the pressure on Pelham Bay, Orchard Beach, the one across the way in Queens. And out of the byproducts of this and other plants come the material to make topsoil, which we couldn't get in any other way. I think it's a swell job. I think it's a swell job. Nothing to apologize for. I might refer in passing to the fact that within the last year, we've had a number of visiting firemen from many other countries who've been looking over our improvements. And among them, quite a few people from Brazil, and in particular from the city of Sao Paulo, which is, I suppose, the fastest growing city in the world. They have a terrible problem involving the treatment of sewage. These engineers who've come up here, including a new mayor, recently elected governor, all the top engineers have been amazed at the progress that's been made in this city in dealing with the sewage problem. Same thing applies to the garbage problem, which is also left to recent administrations. Garbage was just dumped, most of it on private land. The benefit, no doubt, of the benefit, no doubt, of the private landowner, but it didn't do the people of the city much good. Now we're building plants, and in the interval, while the plants are being built, we're reclaiming and filling land for parks. Same thing applies to many other fields of public improvements. There's a lot been done here. You wouldn't think so if you read the papers during the election. The city hasn't so much to apologize for, but I wish that from now on there were more emphasis put on things of this kind, and less on criticism, mud throwing, fouling our own nest, because this is quite a good town. I want to congratulate those who are responsible for the improvement. Commissioner Zermullin, they don't say much about people like that in the course of these mudslingings. There's a first class public servant. There are lots of them in the city of New York. There's only a minority of people that we have any occasion to be ashamed of. I want to congratulate the engineers and consulting engineers and the contractors, and last but not least, the men who did this job. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Morris. I'm going to ask before introducing the next speaker that the Reverend Jacob Wagner, who is President of the Bronx Division of the Protestant Council of New York, to deliver a prayer. Let us pray. Almighty God, our eternal Father, in whom we live and move and have our being, we thank thee for our city. We bless thee for homes that are substantial, churches that are vital, and citizens who put public service above personal and petty selfishness. We pray thee, O God, bless this project designed to improve our city, provide for healthful and sanitary conditions. And we thank thee that thou hast given wisdom and strength to men who create it. We pray thee, O Lord, thy forgiveness upon us for the unmet needs of the multitudes of people in our city. And ask that there may rise up in our city a community of goodwill, of tolerance, of service, and faith, which will make our city more nearly the city of God. Amen. Thank you. It's now my pleasure to introduce to you the Honorable Joseph T. Sharkey, President of the City Council. And I hope that keeping him out here in the breezes of Hunts Point has not harmed that throat any. The Honorable Joe Sharkey. Thank you, Commissioner. The Reverend Claygee, Commissioner Moses, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. New York is the finest and cleanest big city in the world, morally and physically. It's been my pleasure to come here today. Just a week ago I was at the opening of the Rockaway Beach Plant. And shortly we'll, I hope, open the Owl's Head Plant in Brooklyn. We're doing something about pollution in this city, both of our waters and our air. We have an air pollution program which we hope will eventually clean this town. And while we don't ever expect to make it as clean as the Kansas farm town, if we get a 75% improvement, it'll be well worthwhile living in and something the people of this city really deserve. We do something about our morals, too. We get after them. We don't just let them linger on as they do at other places. This is the finest and the cleanest big city in the world. We've built a hundred schools since World War II and we're building them at a terrific cost. We're getting one school today where we used to get three. But thank God for men like Bob Moses and others who sat around a table six years ago and a new administration came into power in the city and debated whether or not to go ahead with our building plans because of the excessive costs at that time. Thank God for their great and good judgment they decided to go ahead. Of course today this town would be in utter chaos if we hadn't continued to build even in spite of the prices because they never did come down and continued to spiral upward in all that time. I'm proud to be a guest at this very important occasion. The opening of the Hunts Point Pollution Control Project is one of the last links in the vast system that is eliminating sewage pollution throughout our city. The conception and execution of projects such as this represents long-term municipal planning of the highest sort and is a further indication of the many activities of your city's government and its desire to provide a healthy, wholesome atmosphere for the inhabitants of this city. Similar plans are to be constructed in other boroughs of the city. It is the aim of this administration that the overall plan will be completed by 1959. Recreational facilities will greatly benefit by the cleaning up of the waters in this city. Reclamation of the vast natural resources in this area, the transformation of previously unusable land into modern, fully equipped parks, bathing beaches, boating and fishing facilities are all being made possible through the sewage control project conceived by our administration. I think it only fair to point out that these projects show a civic mindedness that is part of the makeup of every person in this administration. There are only a few of those who have been completed or planned during the past years and that the plans for the future are on an even more ambitious scale. This project stands as a tribute to our city and a stinging rebuke to those who would seek to defame it. And ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to be very brief because if I'm not, I'm afraid that some of us will be in the same position that Commissioner Zimulman is in. Thanks for being with us here today. Thank you, Mr. Schreck. Now on behalf of the Department of Public Works, its engineers who have planned this plant and have struggled with it and have lived with it, who have been here with the contractors, on behalf of the individual men who have laid the bricks and a mortar and done all the other work, I wish to thank the Honorable Joe Scharkey, Commissioner Moses, Commissioner Sheridan for coming here and officiating at this ceremony. I am now going to ask Rabbi Abrahams, President of the Bronx Council of Rabbis, to say the benediction. Lord of the universe, who favorest men with knowledge and teachest mortals understanding, we come unto thee this day with rejoicing to praise and render thanks unto thy holy name for thy loving kindness and truth. O receive in mercy and in favor our prayers that thou establish this Hunts Point Pollution Center for the good of all the peoples who live in our wonderful city. Pour forth thy blessings on the founders, builders and administrators of this great project. And upon all those who have gathered here to take part in the cornerstone laying ceremony. Preserve them from every evil. Preserve their lives. May there be realized in them thy gracious promise. Blessed art thou when thou comest in. Blessed art thou when thou goest out. O spread thy tabernacle of peace over our country and over all the nations of the world. And let the pleasantness of the Lord our God be upon us. And establish thou the work of our hands for us. Yea, the work of our hands. Establish thou it. Amen. We kind of reversed things a little bit today. We had our cornerstone trial ceremony in advance. And this concludes the ceremonies therefore. And I hope that nobody caught cold.