Terror by night. The Columbia Players present the play of the supernatural. Walton Butterfield's dramatization of Oscar Wilde's famous story, The Canterful Ghost. Ghosts? Precisely, a ghost. My lord, you actually expect me to believe that Canterful Chase is haunted, or that there exists such a thing as a ghost? My dear Mr. Otis, I feel it my bounden duty, as the present owner of Canterful Chase, to acquaint you and your family. As the prospective owners, with the facts, your belief in them rests. Quite naturally, with yourselves. In America, my lord, we have everything that money can buy. We have many of your best actors, your prima donnas, your plays, your novels, your works of art. Believe me, if there was such a thing as a ghost in Europe or England, we'd have them at home in one of our public museums or on the road in a theatrical production. Possibly, Mr. Otis, possibly. Possibly, Mr. Otis, possibly. I fear, however, that the ghost exists, though it may have resisted the overture of your enterprising American impresarios. It has well been known for three centuries, and always makes its appearance... At Canterful Chase? At Canterful Chase? At Canterful Chase. Immediately before the death of any member of our family. Well, so does the family doctor for that matter, Lord Canterful. We have not cared to live in the place ourselves. But there is no such thing, sir, as a ghost. My grand-aunt, the Dowager Duchess of Bolton, was frightened into a fit. By this ghost? By two skeleton hands being placed on her shoulders as she was dressing for dinner. Imagination, Lord Canterful, pure, maybe impure imagination. In conclusion, Mr. Otis, I feel bound to tell you that the ghost has been seen by several members of my family. None of our youngest servants would stay with us, and Lady Canterful slept very little at night, in consequence of mysterious and persistent noises that came from the corridor and the library. My lord, I appreciate your frankness. I'll take the furniture and the ghost at evaluation. We won't mind a ghost in the house. It's perfectly all right. Quite so. Only I beg you to remember. I warned you. I'll bid you welcome to Canterful Chats. Thank you, thank you. Oh, what a lovely house. Say, I'm going to like this. Thank you for permitting me to stay on. Hey, Roger, ask her where the ghost is. We should be lost in this great house without your care. Tea. Any cakes, Pa? Come on, Roger. Now, don't you children touch anything. I like tea in the library, Mum. So my children have discovered. What a beautiful room. Don't you just love this black paneling, Harlan? Hmm? Oh, yes. Very pretty. Better pour the tea, Elizabeth. I'll take your up, Mum. Gee, these muffins are good. They're not muffins, Roger. They're scones. Aren't they, Mother? Uh, what, dear? I don't care whether they're scones or muffins. They taste swell. I'd rather have cinnamon. Tea, Washington? No, thanks, Mother. Gee, I don't think I've seen such a beautiful sunset since we've been in England. Well, we deserve a clear day for a change. I never dreamed there could be so much rain in one month. But today is perfect. Oh, dear, I pushed something off the tray. A spoon, I think. Oh, get it, Mum. Uh, thank you, Mrs. Umney. Right over there in front of the fireplace. I must have, uh... Why, Mrs. Umney, that... that spot? Children, did you spill anything? Where, Mother? There, in front of the fireplace. I'm sure something has been spilled. Oh, yes, Mum. Blood. Blood? What's this? Blood has been spilled on that spot. Get out of my way, Roger! Let me see the blood! Are you serious, Mrs. Umney? Quite, Mum. Here, let... let me see. How horrid! I don't care at all for blood stains on the carpet. Don't worry, Elizabeth. We'll get rid of it. It's the blood of Lordy Ellen of the Cantable. I don't care whose blood it is, Mrs. Umney. It must be removed. She was murdered on the spot in 1575. Murdered? Yes, Miss, murdered. By her own husband, Sir Simon de Cantable. Say, Dad, some family, these cannibals. Sir Simon survived the nine years, and then mysteriously and suddenly disappeared. His body has never been discovered. It's his spirit, his guilty spirit, that's still on such a case. What nonsense! Get the Pinkerton from my suitcase, Washington. Gee, it's a swell blood spot, ain't it, Rowland? Have it removed at once, Mrs. Umney. It cannot be removed, Mum. Bah! Pinkerton's champion stain removal will clean it up in no time. There, you see? It's disappearing already. What's that? Mr. Otis! Oh, there do ya? See? Now, it's all gone. I knew Pinkerton would do it. You should've done it, sir. You shouldn't... Hiram! Hiram, quickly! Mrs. Umney has fainted. Virginia, get me some water! What good is a housekeeper who faints? Oh, hush, Hiram. Here, Mother. Now, what do you suppose made her faint? Maybe it was that blood stain. She ought to be used to it since 1575. There, she'll be all right now. Are you better, Mrs. Umney? Oh, Mum, this trouble coming out. And this your first failure. What do you mean, trouble? Ofcene things with me, oh, no, sir. What would make any Christian there stand on end? There are awful things, Dunya. If you're talking about ghosts, we're not afraid of ghosts, are we, children? Of course not. I'd like to see a ghost, though. So would I, a big one. Many and many a night. I'll not close me eyes forever and I'll wank a sleep. Tonight, it's sure to be another. I'll take me supper, Maroon, if you don't mind. That storm didn't come up that much, Trouble. Well, my dear, sir, I'm not. What's that strike now, Elizabeth? What's that strike now, Elizabeth? Oh, it must be 12. We came up about 11. Go to sleep, Hiram. I've been asleep. Just before the clock started to strike, I thought I heard something outside the hallway. Sort of clanking sound. Now, Hiram, if you're trying to frighten me... Oh, of course I'm not trying to frighten you, but I tell you, I heard something. Be quiet. There. Do you hear that? Yes, I did, Hiram. It sounded like a chain being dragged. Like a rusty chain. Get up. Strike a match. It's coming nearer. It's right outside the door now. See what it is, Hiram? Oh, that's exactly what I'm... What the devil are you screaming about, Elizabeth? Did you see it, Hiram? Did you see it? Of course I saw it. Horrible. A terrible-looking old man. His eyes were red as burning coals, and his long gray hair was... Ugh. Something was hanging from his wrists and ankles. Chains. That's what we heard. Why don't you do something, Hiram? I am. Be quiet. Quiet. My dear sir, I really must insist on your oiling those chains. Here's a small bottle of Tammany Lubricator. I shall leave it here on this hall table. If you want more, just shout. Good night. Hiram, what did you do? I did the only thing I could think of to stop that blooming clanking. Maybe we can go to sleep now. What was that? I don't know, but I'm going to find out. Something broke. Whee! You missed him, Rowan. Now he's gone. Here, what's going on out here? We saw him, Daddy. We saw him. A dirty old man. There must have been that cannibal ghost. Rowan would miss him, too. Why, she almost hit him with our pillow. What's all of his glass? Oh, it's the bottle of Tammany Lubricating Oil I put out here on the table for that, uh, whatever it was. It was the ghost, Daddy, of that old man who murdered his wife down in the library. Nonsense. You can't tell me that. Ah! What the? Virginia, Virginia, where's Virginia? Here she comes. What's the matter, Virgie? Mother, Daddy, I was just down in the library. I couldn't sleep. I went down for my writing case, which I'd left in front of the fire. Did you see him, Virgie? Him? Who? The cannibal ghost, the old man. He was up here in the hall. He broke a bottle to pieces and disappeared, just as I threw a pillow at him, and Daddy saw him. Virginia, are you all right? Yes. I'm all right. But, Mother, Daddy, that blood stain on the carpet in front of the fire. Yes, dear, forget about it. Your father wiped it out. That's it, Mother. It's back again. It's redder and bloodier than it was before. More! Well, if you ask me, we've been here a whole week, and we haven't made much progress. What can you do in weather like this? We're lucky to have such large fireplaces. I'm not talking about the weather. I'm talking about the ghost. Oh, now, Washington, can't we go to bed one night without talking about that horrible apparition? The more we talk about it, Elizabeth, the less it should frighten you. You don't see me or even the twins shuddering and screaming. Virginia isn't afraid. No. I feel sort of sorry for him. Poor old ghost. Well, I can't help feeling that it would be much safer if you, Hiram, and Washington, even the twins took it more seriously. We don't want to have to move. Seriously? I don't mind the old fellow if he'll just keep quiet and let me sleep. After more than 300 years, he certainly has a claim on the place. But I'll tell you one thing. If he doesn't use that tammy lubricator and quit smashing my bottles to pieces, I'm going to take his chains away from him. He who laughs less. Ghosts do not laugh, Elizabeth. Mind you, I do think that pillow throwing and pea shooting... Now, for heaven's sakes, Hiram, don't start the twins again. They're fast asleep long ago. Getting rested up for midnight, probably, the little devils. Might I come in, Mum? Of course, Mrs. Umney, come in. Mum, and sir, I'm so upset about everything that's possible. Of course, we all are, Mrs. Umney, but it's not your fault, this beastly weather getting settled. No, Mum, it's not that. It's what goes on tonight. Nonsense. We'll have all those hijinks cleared up in no time, Mrs. Umney. Besides, Mrs. Otis gave you full permission to remain in your room safe and sound. Say, was old madam did tremble like safe when she woke up early one morning and saw her skeleton sighted in her favorite armchair and reading her diary and was like, he's such filth straight when five unseen fingers clutched her throat so tight that she almost strangled and had to wear a black velvet band around her throat until the day she died. I could go on like that. Please don't, Mrs. Umney. I admit that while I do not, of course, believe in such a thing as this Canterville ghost, there is something about the house that... That interferes with our sleep and that we're going to squelch if I... It is going to the light of one of your family. Mrs. Umney, please. If you persist in your silly fears... Then, please, might I give notice, sir? We'll talk about that tomorrow or the next day. Tomorrow I'll be too light. Doesn't the persistence of the blood spot in the library carpet tell you anything, sir? Yes, that's a humdinger. I must admit, if I myself hadn't locked up the library tight every night after removing the stains, I... Six nights, that's been, sir. And each morning the blood spot is back again as though you'd never touched it. Yes, but what kind of blood is it? Washington, you've got your list. Yes, here it is. The first morning it came back blood red and returned even bloodier the next three mornings. The fourth morning it was a dull, almost Indian red. The fifth it was vermilion and this morning it was sort of a rich purple. Sort of like a chameleon, isn't it? I don't think we ought to joke about it, Mother. Oh, no, you shouldn't, Miss. I'm considering writing an article on the subject of the perseverance of sanguineous stains when connected with crime. I think I'll go up to bed, Mother. I think we'd all better. It's long after 11. Are you going to lock the library, Hiram? I certainly am. Come on, Washington, and we may have a new color for your chart tomorrow morning. Good night, Mrs. Omney. Good night, Mum. And I pray it is a good night. Good night, Miss. Sleep tightly, Mrs. Omney. Did you screen the fire, Washington? Okay, Dad. Lock her up. Are you coming, Hiram? I'm coming, Elizabeth. It's almost time to wake the twins. Have you got everything ready? Yes, in my closet. I'll wait until just before midnight. Good night, Dad. See you later. Good night, son. Good night, son. Good night, son.