Happy New Year, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. I hope you all enjoyed the holiday break very much, and we're very delighted to see you back here in the Great Hall. This evening we're continuing our series on the psychology of emotional growth, and our topic of discussion tonight is the wartime generation. Now perhaps some people might not think that the subject of wartime generation would fit into a program that runs from prenatal problems up through problems of old age. But it seems to me that we have had so many wars during the last few years that it would be impossible to discuss the psychology of emotional growth without discussing the wartime generation, because it certainly has been part of the emotional growth of so many of us today. Our speaker this evening, Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower, comes to us from diverse places such as the University of Hawaii and the University of Washington, State of Washington, Columbia University. He teaches or lectures at New York University, and also has had some experience at Hunter College working and assisting with a gentleman named Fairchild in that rather venerable institution. I can personally vouch for Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower because I have seen some of the excellent and fine work that he has done with students of the wartime generation. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to present the doctor this evening because he was going to come about Pearl Harbor time. Because Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower was in Pearl Harbor when the bomb started to drop. And he had a very fine opening for his lecture all fixed up. And if anybody spoiled his opening, I did. And I want you all to know that it isn't the doctor's fault that he wasn't here on the evening about Pearl Harbor time. It is my fault. Dr. Ralph Wentworth-Rower. Thank you. Dean Fairchild and the friends of Cooper Union and the people who come here to this great hall to hear what various speakers have to say. Oh, boy, water. You know, after World War I, we had the gay 20s and a liquor shortage. After World War II, we had the neurotic 40s and a water shortage. He nearly split my speech tonight also because I was going to start off and say eight years and 27 days ago. It was on a beautiful Sunday morning and I was out on the beach and at Lantakai, Oahu. And out of the distance, high in the clouds, in the sky, came an armada of planes. It was very beautiful. It was terrifically beautiful with all the planes coming. And they divided it into three parts. And one part went to the right of where I was living and one part went to the left and one part went over the mountains to Pearl Harbor. The Army and Navy had been playing games. They call them maneuvers. Up till the night before, and none of us knew that the maneuvers were over or anything. So the only comment that we could make was that these maneuvers were getting very realistic, terrifically realistic, at both of these airfields on either side. And we still thought they were maneuvers until we saw a plane coming down the beach and taking a pot shot or two with red oranges on its wings. Then we decided it was time to get out of sight and went in and turned on the radio and heard the same things that you heard on that December 7th morning, eight years ago. And except it was tremendously a lot more realistic to us who were there and didn't know what was going to happen or what was happening. By that very morning and by that very act, my life and the life of millions of others in this world were changed. They were changed and sidetracked from what was, seemed at least to me, a very settled and progressive plan. And out of that attack came three great groups of people whom I wish to talk about somewhat tonight. And these three great groups are what I call the wartime generation. This war generation consists of those in service, of those who were rejected from service, and of those who were left at home. Now a democracy, while it's very comfortable to live in, is not so organized that militarism is easily adopted by the individual citizens. In the first place, in the 25 years previous to this last war, there had been a certain degree of confusion on the part of young people in their attitudes about government, political systems, and economic and social questions generally. And this period takes time through a time of extensive readjustment the readjustment that had to come after the First World War, a period during which there has been no clear, generally accepted attitude about the soldiers of that war. war. And these boys and girls who were growing up in that age, they had heard of their fathers and uncles and brothers, older brothers. They'd heard them described by people as heroes, saviors of democracy, and other people had described them as suckers and tools of the capitalists and other derogatory names. They watched through that area, that whole era, and heard of people with little value to the community who became rich to many devious and sometimes illegal means. I had a patient one time who, talking about illegal means, who came, was sent to me by a psychiatrist for testing, and she was telling me about her boyfriend who she had thought a great deal of and been with for a good many years. But she said that was stopped all of a sudden. And I said, why? And she said, well, because he had to go out of business. I said, well, what was his business? Oh, she says, I don't like to talk about it. It was slightly illegal. It happened to be Murder Incorporated. Slightly illegal. Anyway, these same boys and these same girls, they survived the crash of the economic world around them in the Depression. And then on top of this, World War No. 2. And it was very shocking, extremely shocking, to many thousands of young people to find that their elders apparently did not know how to stop a war. Or if they did know how, didn't care to do anything about it. So it's not strange that at the beginning of this war, this last war, these young people who were in their 20s and their 30s did not find much that would inspire them with devotion to a cause because they didn't know exactly what the cause happened to be. Now, many of them had never really worked at all. They'd come out of high school or college or had to quit high school or college at the time of the Depression and still couldn't find work. But they had been brought up to one thing. They'd been brought up to get what they could for themselves, to be concerned primarily with their own safety and their individual success and the regimentation of the armed forces and the lack of moral consciousness and the personal inconveniences and difficulties did not make for enthusiasm at all. You know, 20 years of cynicism, pessimism, and sterile isolationism did not suddenly disappear with the bombs that were dropped on Pearl Harbor. Now, the regimentation of these men that went in the Army started the very first day they went into the service and we psychologists were as much to blame as anybody. Uh, we certainly helped. The men were as helpless as guinea pigs in a bacteriological laboratory when they went into the service. They were not asked whether they, as a human being, would expose his innermost self through psychological tests and his honorable self as well, not through the test, to the scrutiny of whoever might have the authority to inspect it or not. They all had to submit willy-nilly to psychological tests, physical tests, and other intimacies that we won't mention. A Democrat who is drafted to save democracy is no longer a Democratic individual but just another one of the mass. And the testing of the psychologist was just a beginning. There was basic training. You've heard about that from your men. There was loss of even the individuality in dress. They all looked alike. Of course, looking alike helped in one way. They could release many impulses and inhibitions that they could not release as John Jones at home. And now as just another soldier or sailor or marine, no one would know. I know. I was in the service. So they indulged their sexual and other sensual experimentation. of various types. Things that they would not dream of doing at home or in their own communities. Many reacted to the escape mechanisms of alcohol with its result in further letting down the taboos of their own particular culture. Then they were shipped overseas and we were introduced to many other cultures with very different value on things than we had on things. The values of primitive people to those of the most sophisticated cultures in the world. Then they were introduced to battle conditions, the cheapness of life, the common placeness of suffering and the ugliness of men who were cowardly. All of these things had their impress. Every single one. I remember before the war, the fall before the war, taking a young man big game hunting for the first time over on the big island of Hawaii. And the first thing he shot was a lamb of a mountain sheep. And just as we got up to that lamb to see what he'd gotten and how he'd hit it, the lamb sort of raised its head and said, Bah! In a very pitiful voice. I'm not a very good lamb. But, nevertheless, the young fellow looked at it, turned white, and turned around and vomited. I happened to be in the same division in 1942 with that young man in Guadalcanal. And one day, his patrol was ambushed by the Japs. And he came back and I could see something was bothering him. He didn't say anything to me for two or three days and finally came over and said, I had to kill a man. Well, there's nothing much that I could say. I said, well, war is in wars. We're sort of expected to do that, aren't we? After that, he was wounded himself and finally shipped over to the European theater and went through the entire European campaign from the crossing of the Rhine. And I got a letter. And this letter said, the Germans give up when they're outnumbered. At least we had the pleasure of killing the Japs. And that change of attitude from that time when he first killed his man and he said, oh, by the way, one of the things he said when he first killed, when he was in this ambush, that all he could think of was that damn sheet. But this whole thing, this whole change of attitude and that very sensitive young man is a thing that has been changed and one of the changes that's happened in the thousands and thousands of young men all over the world. Now, since 1943, I have worked with over 5,000 veterans on their psychological problems. I've worked with boys who have been prisoners of the Japs and the Philippines, soldiers of the Lost Battalion in Burma, boys who made landing in Africa, Sicily, and Italy, and boys who sat in lonely islands in the Aleutians, and those who fought in the tropic murkiness of Guadalcanal and the Solomons, those who lived through the terrible days of the Bulge and the terrible, and waited in the terrible days of concentration camps and prison camps, boys from the Caribbean, Greenland, Iceland, South America, boys to whom Biak and Hollandia and Iwo Jima were no longer just spots on the map. And among this group, there were paratroopers and artillerymen and infantrymen and sailors and Seabees and Marines. and these are the fellows who have come to me during and since the war for help and their problems, their worries, and trying to find a solution and wanting to adjust to the world that they left behind. And the problems have been many. One boy came to me right after the war and he says, Dot, he says, I've been overseas three years. He says, when I come home, he says, my wife has a three-month-old baby. He says, that isn't good arithmetic. Another one had had six tanks shut out from under him and it was the only survivor each time. And the last time, the head of his buddy rolled over in his lap and that finished him off. Others who, I know of one boy who all his life had been battered from pillar to post, shipped from one relative to another, from one orphan's home to another orphan's home, and who finally found somebody that he thought cared for him and took care of him, the officer he was assigned to overseas. And then, in a scraping, had to pick up the pieces of the one friend he'd ever had in his life. I've seen all of these things and I could go on and tell you the stories of these boys for hours of the types of cases, the types of problems, the types of things that they had. But that isn't the point. In this lecture, I've got to get down not to just telling stories about what's happened, but I've got to get down to actual figures, to the facts and figures of this war generation. I don't know whether you know it or not, but 8% of the people inducted in the armed forces came from New York City alone. Also, 30% of those who were rejected in New York City were rejected for neuropsychiatric reasons. And of the boys discharged from the Army, I haven't been able to get the figures on all the services, but the boys discharged from the Army in New York City, 40% of them were discharged because they had mental unfitness for Army life. Now, this takes in a pretty good percentage of the men inducted from this area. And it does not count those who developed in Rosa since the war because of it. But it does mean that in our own community, over 150,000 men out of this city alone have had or have mental problems that resulted or came out of the war. And I think that's a pretty good picture of the nation as a whole. The men who developed the so-called war neurosis, I think that war neurosis was predetermined before he entered the service. You can say that in my opinion that war neurosis were all made in America. They only came at life or were labeled as such in combat. In the study of the mental cases that went through one hospital in the South Pacific, only 4% of them had what you and I would call a normal home. 35% of them had experienced some psychological trauma in civilian life. And 65% of them had such symptoms as nail biting and bed wetting when they were young. In a study that I made, I analyzed 1,016 case histories. of returned overseas veterans of the United States Army. And these all came to me voluntarily at the Santa Barbara Redistribution Station. The men were from the nine western states. Every area in the world where United States troops were stationed were represented in this group of 1,016 men. about 71% of them were in combat zones and had been at least under fire to be bombed once at least or some sort of fire. About 17 and 5 tenths percent of them had not been under any type of fire. And most of the neurotics, the greatest percentage for any age group of neurotics was in the age from 20 to 29. The ones who were born at the end of the last war or during the last war and since. Now this was a greater percentage than all the 20 to 29 year old boys that came through the station. There were a greater percentage of neurotics in that age group than in any other age group that came through. Now from some facts that I think concern us all. Ninety percent of the neurotics were of average intelligence or better. Seventy-five percent of the neurotic cases were of superior intelligence. the more intelligent the more intelligent the soldiers happened to be it seemed the more susceptible and sensitive they were to their environment. Approximately ten percent of them were bedwetters as children and eleven percent had stammered or stuttered sometimes in their life which were all neurotic symptoms generally. their higher percentage of single men that were neurotic of the total population that went through the station than a married man. And here's something and that was especially in the Pacific zone. It was also found out that the oldest or the youngest child was more after be neurotic. The poor only child wasn't as neurotic as the oldest or youngest children. The families of the neurotics averaged five and nine-tenths children. That nine-tenth child is the neatest trick of the week but that's the way they averaged out. Over fifty percent of them had come from broken homes and twenty-five percent of the rest of them had come from unhappy homes. About seventy percent of the neurotics came from city areas although forty-three percent of the population of the United States lives in communities of twenty-five hundred or below. Approximately seventy percent of them loved their mother better than anyone else. About seven percent of them loved their father best. The rest were assorted. I think this is one very significant thing. And I think it's one reason we have a neurotic younger generation. It's our American custom of the father keeping so completely in the background in the home that the mother's relationship relationship with a son stands out and over excessive attachments are made. We find that our sons are pretty much women raised by their mothers, by the maid, by women school teachers, and we find that that group of boys, in every study that I've been able to find, of the mental cases of this last world war, that that group of boys are the ones who were not able to adjust to the stringencies of war. We find that there are great groups of neurotics who had nyctophobia, I'll tell you, or fear of the dark. They also had fear of height, and fear of closed spaces, and fear of crowds. We find that most of the neurotics preferred to have solitary recreation, or with very small groups. all their life. And as for their sex behavior, remember, these came to me on a voluntary basis. The figures were so shocking that when I presented them in 1946 to a Western college for a doctor's dissertation, they refused to publish them. I will say, however, that it didn't differ from Kinsey's report, over 3% on any item. Now, the results of this whole study brought some things that I think we should consider about this war generation. We found out that people who were in their home surroundings and people who didn't leave their home were less apt to be neurotic than the soldiers who were in the regimentation of the services. This is indicative, I think, that the man who is among his loved ones in a familiar environment is less apt to be neurotic because he's more protected than the man separated from home, family, and familiar environment. there are exceptions to this. We find a peculiar type of neurosis coming up now with the four F's who pretended to be a homosexual or who pretended or faked some disease to get out of the army or the services. We find that they're developing a little peculiar neurosis of their own. We're also finding that the four F's who looked physically fit but who had a bona fide pathological condition that you couldn't see from the outside, suffered a great deal and lost a great deal of confidence and their own feeling of themselves as a man. And that's too bad. And as for the service cases, the majority of these cases showed symptoms, neurotic symptoms, previous to their army training. And they showed these neurotic symptoms in their sex behavior, in their fear behavior, in their love behavior, and in their emotional behavior. Their education, as far as I've been able to ascertain, has promoted guilt feelings. feelings. And as a teacher, I feel pretty guilty about that too. The high percentage of mother fixations as contrasted with the so-called normal home where the child is fond of both parents is startling. the varied and unusual sex behavior, the prevalence of phobias, fears, and guilt that are based on childhood experiences, not army experiences, or service experiences. The insecurity of broken and unhappy homes all point to the predisposing factors in pre-army life. The is why we have such a crop of war neurosis. The kind of education that this generation had, my generation and people who were younger, appears to have been to inculcate into the personality of our youth a semantic unreality as to their basic drives and as to their social relationships. The guilt healing, which is common to the neurotic, are indigent to the accumulated camouflage that is taught in our schools and our homes and churches in the matter of human relationships. people who are not afraid of people. Some of us have been taught pretense, and it pays to appear other than we really are. Now, the guilt feeling that is fostered by such education, those are the primary causes of the maladjustment of our youth, and I think the basis of many of their conflicts. And they're all pre-army predisposing factors. And the proof of this is that when we treat them for these neuroses, after the war, those symptoms will not disappear until we get down to those childhood predisposing factors. And not only these predisposing factors have helped develop the neuroses that was precipitated by the regimentation of the services, but these same factors have nurtured and further developed the neuroses after their return to civilian life. Do you remember those articles? Well, there were innumerable articles about how to treat our returned soldiers, how to treat Johnny when he comes home, you know, sort of to handle him with kid gloves because he's apt to be a little touched or something. I remember them. Every magazine you picked up had at least one in them. And the awful thing about it is that our mothers and our sisters and our wives read them. And not only they read them, they tried to follow them out. Oh, I would like to have got any one of those authors and made them take their own prescription. Really, I would. It was one of the worst things that could have possibly happened to the war. Then the boy who returned home in order to go to college, say, or to school, in many, many cases, not all, many, many cases, though, was Mama's little boy. And he treated just like he'd returned from a summer's boy scout camp when he was 12 years old, with a few hysterical additions. I know I've worked with these boys. I've heard them tell about you mothers and fathers when you came home. I've worked with thousands of them. And also, with a little bit of the idea that they were probably just a little bit touched. So many of the mothers and fathers forgot thought that their little boys had been away from home from two to five years and had been treated like a man, had acted like a man, and had suffered like a man, without the tender care of being tucked in each night, and how a style lady was going to be before he went out, and all other attentions of a doting parent except being spoon-fed. Then a lot of them wanted them to take a rest when they came home. Now you must take a good, long rest. And they encouraged the returnee to lay around the house for a while. But the more he tried to rest, the more restless he got. And then he got the feeling sort of disgusted with himself. And he began to think that he wasn't worth anything. Never could be. Or if he'd been to work before the war, he went back to his job, or found a lot of those who had stayed home from the war and got promoted ahead of him while he was away. Or perhaps he went back to school, and he found himself as a freshman, with students who were fresh out of high school, and teachers who resented the overloading of their classes, and the new problems that confronted them with teaching adult students. not only were the men who were in service affected mentally and emotionally, but they were also affected physically as well, with a great alteration in their mode of living when they came back home. physical changes to civilian life, and the change from an active outdoor life that they had mostly in the Army and Navy, to the college, or to indoor jobs, wasn't easy. And this is especially true of those who went to indoor jobs. school, and during the process of getting used to the factory tempo, or went to college and getting used to the school routine, they were bored, and they felt restless, and they felt unhappy, and unwell. And this physical condition reacted on their minds, and reacted on their emotions. Now, although service life, when you were in it, seemed awfully dull and monotonous, it did have many interests, and often there was excitement and adventure. And it does not take a great deal of imagination to realize the difficulty the men had in settling down to the dullness of eight hours at a factory bench or a typewriter, or studying and trying to memorize the requirements set up by a teacher who was used to teaching children just out of high school. The sexual freedom they found in the services and the sexual needs they developed, they found more difficult to satisfy. Many times they found their wives unfaithful, or their sweethearts being afraid they were going to be old maids and got married to someone else. Or worse yet, they found the change so great had taken place in their lives and in the lives of those that left behind that the gap seemed just too great to bridge. Furthermore, in their dreams about their home and their loved ones, they'd rather idealize them in the years that they'd been away. They carried in the memories of their loved ones all the nice things. They forgot how their wife looked when she hadn't combed her hair yet and came down to breakfast. They remembered all the beautiful and all the nice things about their loved ones. And they came down to earth by finding out them not like the dream that they had remembered. Of course, on the other side, many of those who stayed at home expected to find the return servicemen a dangerous, sex-starved psychotic. In one of the women's colleges, which admitted men temporarily after the war, and which I hate to give this story now, in which Dean Fairchild and I were employed, one of the women deans wanted the dean and I to patrol the tunnels between the buildings to protect the girls. That's true. From my observation, we needed to protect the men more from the girls. At one time, it was proposed in those early days, when they were scared to death of these boys coming back from the war, that certain benches on the campus be designated for men, and others reserved for the daily buttocks of the feminine girls, students. Sitting on the same bench by members of both sexes evidently was to release the tiger in the veterans or something. Actually, the teenage girls, regardless of their war psychology, were not of too much interest to many of the returned veterans. there were plenty of interest to some, because these men were seriously there to study. And I've never seen a finer group of men than the men who came back to school to study in the colleges. I taught in colleges before the war, and I've taught in colleges since the war. And I tell you, it's a great pleasure to sit down in a classroom or to stand in a classroom and have men who are seriously wanting to learn there. Now, it's very easy to look back the past nine years and see what has happened. But the picture today is one that we should try to examine here tonight and analyze. First, there are those men who went through the services and have made a good adjustment to civilian life because they were fortunate enough to have a normal home and a normal childhood, and they were not upset by the service life. Second, there were those who had psychiatric and psychological care and who benefited by it. And then third, there are those who are still neurotic and have not found the niche for which they were intended or in which they can function well. Now fourth, there's a further group who are not working efficiently, who lives are not only unpleasant to themselves, but to all of those dear and dear to them. These people definitely still need help. If their neurosis was service connected, help can be secured free from the Veterans Administration. But if it's a post-war development, it has to be secured from public or private professional workers. Now it's foolish and dangerous for any of us to accept the problem of a neurosis or problem of not being able to function properly as a permanent condition or not to do something about it. The world, I admit, as it is today, doesn't help this condition at all. The constant threat of the atom bomb, whether it's in the hands of the enemy or whether this present mild winter is the result of the last of those test explosions, regardless of whether it's so or not, all of these things are fear-producing. Then the seeking out of adventure by veterans and by our young people, and such demonstrations have taken place in Peekskill and other parts of the country. The so-called red scare, the fomenting of religious and racial prejudices on all sides, those are part of our national neurosis unless we, the people, do something about the future. We have a right to be afraid there, too. Now many of you here tonight are male parents. I hate to say this because it makes me lose business and everyone else who is a psychologist or psychiatrist would lose business if people would pay attention to the next statement I'm going to make. Every psychiatrist and psychologist would have a lot less work to do if you male parents would be something, would be fathers in something besides name and that paycheck only. Many of you here tonight, this is not going to be as popular, are or will be, are or will be doting mothers. and I hold you responsible personally for 90% of the neurotics I've treated in my lifetime. many of you here tonight are husbands or will be if you don't watch out. And I hope your marriages are something more than being dominated by a new mother image in the form of your wife. I hope your contribution to the home and to your marriage and to your children will be more than the wherewithal to live with. Now many of you are wise or will be if you're working at it. and I hope your husbands are something more to you than a bore who brings home a paycheck and whom you no longer love. There are also many of us here tonight far more than like to admit it who are neurotic. And I hope that your resolution for this new year is to do something about it and do it now. You and I we who are here tonight here together whether we were too old for the war whether we were active in the war whether we were too young for the war or whether we let other people take care of it for us. And I hope that each one of us as we go out in this great hall where Abraham Lincoln spoke and where for 90 years words of wisdom or words that were supposed to be of wisdom in practically every field of human knowledge have been spoken. I hope that each and every one of you will resolve to take a realistic approach to life in the future and see that your children or your children to be are not doomed to the torment of emotional immaturity for the same reasons you and I are like we are today. Let's be realistic in our attitude towards sex. Let's be realistic in our attitude towards human relationships and especially our children. We are the war generation. Every person here whether you've lived through two of them or one of them we are the war generation. And let's not make our children neurotic in order to feed our own inadequate emotional lives. Let us make this new decade not a neurotic one but a realistic one. And for one who has lived through two wars like many of you have and one who has been affected just as much by it as most of you have I say I say tonight is the time to change I thank you. Thank you very much doctor Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Ralph Wentworth Rohr, for this very fine talk. Yes, sir. We have quite a few questions here, doctor, so it might be nice if you could answer them as quickly as possible without, you know, cutting any one of them off too short. Answer them as long as you can. We have quite a few here. The first question here, somebody would like to get off on the right foot. They'd like to know what is a neurotic. A neurotic is a person who matters chaotically against his environment, trying to seek some sort of escape from it. A psychotic is a person who has withdrawn so much from the environment that they no longer can live in it, and we institutionalize them, and then legally they are called insane. An adjusted person or a normal person, and I have to give all three of these to show the difference, is a rare bird who adjusts to whatever environment or circumstances they find themselves. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Why do most servicemen seek escape and drink? I assume that means alcohol, not water. Well, I'm sure it's not because they're thirsty. I also would not agree with the question that most servicemen seek escape and drink. But I think most people who do seek escape and drink is for one of two or three reasons. One is because life is just so painful they can't face it. Two, it might be that they find themselves shy or withdrawn because they do not know how to adjust to the people around them or get along with the people around them because of fears or inhibitions or frustrations. And so they take a drink or two because they find it lets down the bars and as a result they feel like they're a pretty good guy. And they can talk to other people, they can enjoy themselves and have a good time. And then there's some of us, I, who just like it. Dr. What is this realistic approach that you talk about? How does one find this realistic approach and how does one reap the fruits of understanding from it? Several little questions there. Be realistic about this microphone I get. One thing is to face facts. We kid ourselves a great deal in this world about the kind of people we are, about what we do for others. I'm sure most of us think that everything that we do for our family and that is for their own good. And I'm sure a lot that we do for our own family is because we get a great deal of satisfaction out of doing it whether they like it or not. I think being realistic is to face facts about ourselves and about other people. In other words, to use the word self-conscious in a little different way. To be realistic is to see ourselves like I can see this gentleman down here. To take a good look at ourselves objectively, just as we were another person in the group. And to see the reactions of other people to that person who was ourself. And if we can be objective with ourselves, I think we'll be plenty realistic. Dr. Wentworth Rohr, will you please describe the behavior of the ideal mother of an adolescent son? I could do the negative better than I could do the positive. You know, we have a lot of peculiar kinds of, of mother fixation in this world. We have the California type, you know, and I get a lot of California neurotics. Where mother is just the pal, goes out on dates with the son, and you know, especially the broken home and that sort of thing. Then we have the New England mother of a particular type, who sort of hates the children because they had, she had to submit the sex in order to have the child. And so they're probably wrong. Then we have various national and religious groups of mothers who, some of them will just absolutely, practically smother the child to death. And get very emotional and yell and scream and get back aches and everything else. Uh, because a child doesn't do what? First thing I'd say to be an ideal mother is don't lie to your son. Don't be a fake. And second thing, I don't think you can be an ideal mother to an adolescent. Unless you started in a lot earlier than that. Because if you haven't started in earlier than being an adolescent, I mean, uh, of being a mother to an adolescent, he's going to not trust what you say anyway very much by the time he gets to be an adolescent. So I'd say the ideal, I'm sorry, the ideal way to be an ideal mother to an adolescent son is to be realistic with your child and teach him to have responsibility to take part in the whole and to have a part for the child. And to have a part for him to take in the whole from the time he is born, not when he's adolescent. And to have a part for him to be a child. Doctor, I didn't realize you knew so much about motherhood. Now I've often heard, this is a question now. I've often heard and read that some of our geniuses were neurotic. Is this a fact? And, uh, would you please explain, uh, the actions and relations of these geniuses? I don't believe anybody has made any creative contribution to the world that hasn't been neurotic. Whether it's scientific, in the field of the art, in the field of literature, field of humanities, or anywhere. But I do think they are the chaotic neurotic, and then I do think they're the people who want to change their environment and who channelize their neurosis in this creative effort. I opened my mouth and you spoke. That's very interesting. Uh, you state that many neuroses have deep institutional, that is, economic, sociological, or social causes. Can you specify one institutional factor that causes neuroses, and how would you go about changing this? Maybe you don't want to change it. Uh, I don't know how I could change some of them. I don't think anybody else could. But I do think, for instance, in the whole American attitude about sex is unrealistic. I think, uh, uh, Philip Wiley, in his rather hysterical book, The Generation of Vibers, put it very clearly. When he was talking about how we all hold the ideal and that our wives are always virgins. But he said so many boys fornicate, the girls must. Doctor, uh, does not adjustment to a neurotic environment result necessarily in neurotics? Pardon? Does not adjustment to a neurotic environment necessarily result in neurotic people? No, they could be psychotic. Don't look at me. I didn't make it up. All right, Doctor. Uh, would you say it is to the best interest of children for a husband and wife to live together when the wife is neurotic and refuses to recognize it, and where the husband has a mother fixation and is, uh, receiving, uh, psychiatric help? Well, here's something, uh, your knowledge of motherhood, and so should be right down here. Well, I think in, I think a home, if it can be, and, uh, there are many homes where there are neurotic mothers and neurotic fathers. In fact, if we broke them up, we would have to have an awful lot of institutions for children. But I do think that if the home can be salvaged, that it, so it could be a happy home, not just a miserable home. And if the mother could be made to recognize her neurosis and do something about it, it's no disgrace, really, to go to a psychologist or a psychiatrist. Uh, we treat lots of people who aren't insane. In fact, I never work with an insane person, except when I'm testing them at Creedmoor State Hospital. But, uh, we treat lots of people just like, well, there are a lot of my cases here, so don't, uh, I see tonight. So, and you're perfectly safe. But I do think that they ought to try to do something about it, that cause a home, if it can be a good home, and it should be, because once they must have loved each other to have gotten married, we hope it was that, anyway. Uh, uh, a home, if it can be a good home, is the best place always to raise a child. Can you suggest a book which a young man with war service might read? And, uh, this book is supposed to help him to achieve emotional security. Do you, could you recommend any good age of this type, Doug? Or help him reach emotional maturity? Uh, Uh, there's a definition of emotional maturity in Alport's book on personality. But I don't think that you can reach it by reading a book. Uh, I think books on self-analysis, and all of that sort of thing, uh, do a great deal of harm. I'm a psychologist. I've taught it for a good many years at, at universities, and I've studied it a great many years. But I have emotional problems, even though I know the answers to the, to the people who come to me. And even though the person I go to, when I have to go, gives me the same answers that I would give myself. Yet I have to have those things outside of my own consciousness before that I can help myself. It's like having a splinter in your hand. If you don't take the splinter outside of the hand, it's going to fester. And it's the same way with mental splinters. So Alport's got a good definition of it. That's about as good as you could get. In the new revision. But I can't, I recommend that you go to someone or the veterans or some clinic or, or some private practitioner for help. Doctor, is it neurotic to dread and fear the thought of a third world war or realistic and normal to accept its inevitability? Well, I think it's, uh, is it neurotic to, wait a minute. I think it's not neurotic to dread and fear the thought of a third world war, but I don't think it's realistic or normal to accept its inevitability. Uh, why not send men to search the scriptures where they find words of eternal life and where man is the head of wife as Christ is the head of the church? In other words, do you feel that people might be helped, uh, possibly by turning a little more to religious books and religions? Uh, religious healing. Uh, religious healing. There are a great many people who have given witness to it. Both mentally and physically. I happen to be a scientist. And if you have the faith, I suppose you could be helped that way. But I am a scientist and I believe that the reason that we have our science isn't that if the, is because that is one way of getting help. Doctor, this question is not, uh, exactly on the subject of the wartime generation. But is there any relation between neuralgia and mental adjustment? I am not an MD and therefore I will not make any statement on this question. Thank you. Thank you. And the gentleman over here has been preparing a question now for about, uh, 20 to 25 minutes. And he has been very kindly trying to boil it down and he has explained that it's a fairly long question. And so we're going to give him an opportunity to try to boil this long question down. So you listen very carefully now, Dr. Wentworth-Roy. Your name, sir? Uh, Robert Solby. Uh, actually, doctor, after working on this question for the 20 or 25 minutes, I'll have to ask it orally because I haven't got it really complete in my own mind. Uh, more than... It's going to be hard to answer. Well, I think as I go along, perhaps it will simplify itself. Uh, more than a decade ago, a rather earnest group of university men allied themselves under a rather prophetic name of veterans of future wars. If you'll remember, doctor, the foresighted individuals demanded their bonus while they were yet alive to spend it. Their demands have seemed to have went unheeded to a general chorus of laughter. Now, about 10 years later, I strongly beginning to suspect that the laughter of these happy people was due to the fact that they felt completely unaware of a potential new wartime generation. Doctor, the point I'm trying to get across is that neither Adam nor myself were born to a peacetime generation. Following every war, there seems to be a noticeable emotional upheaval on the part of returned warriors. And the disturbed individuals are sometimes gleefully classified by the public as psychotic, neurotic, or otherwise maladjusted. The point, or the question I should say, that I'm trying to ask is this. It seems that every generation is more or less a wartime generation. A few people return from these wars, and they have very definite high moral principles that they believed that they had fought for. And therefore, on discerning a very true set of values in combat zones, as men sometimes do, they return to see that most of this strife was to no avail. And the public is ever ready to try and adjust them to their society. And yet, we have a new society, a new generation, and a new war. I'd like to ask, Doctor, isn't it about time that the society of ours adjusted itself to the returning veteran? I think that I probably am not going to be able to answer all this question as a ramifications. But I'm going to say that I think the fundamental problem of all this question and all of its ramifications is not who's adjusting to who, or who was foolish, or who was not foolish by the organizations they belong to, but the fundamental thing in life as we as members of the social group of adjusting to each other in the interest of the good of the group. And that group should be large enough to include all the peoples of the world. And when we can teach people to adjust to each other, to try to live for the good of all, then I think that question would not be understood, or would not be necessary. I think the way we could do it is if we could start teaching it and leaven the whole world with it. And when anyone, anywhere, try to destroy that trust and that fundamental belief in the good of the social group, there should be a great outcry and exposure of that sort of behavior. Thank you very much, Doctor. There's a slight addition to that, the new twist that you gave me. You mentioned adjustment to the group, I think, which we all recognize as being a basic fact. However, do you not think that in our schools, in our psychology that we have been taught, in our texts and so forth, that too long we have been taught the group as being the smallest unit of our society that we move in, rather than that group is on an international sphere and is the world itself. I don't think we have been taught anything about the group but a lot of fault are wrong. I think we go to schools that are taught to live by an authoritarian method. And I think when our schools could really become democratic in administration and in action, that then we won't have to worry about teaching it in work. Doctor, do psychologists consider a strongly emotional reaction to killing and warfare as abnormal and as the work of a neurotic? Well, who knows? I mean, I think most of the killing was so far away from the actual act that they didn't know. You never knew who you killed if you dropped a bomb. You don't know whether it was your bomb that destroyed them or somebody else's. When there was a whole attack and rifles and machine guns and everything, you never knew whether you were killing or not. And the whole point was to get through and I think to save your own skin. And I don't think there was much emotional effect at the time of that. You mentioned three neurotic symptoms, Doctor. Nail biting, stammering and bed wetting. Can you mention some other symptoms? Please, go to any good book on abnormal psychology. Read all 1,400 pages. There's a symptom. All right, you've worked very long and hard tonight, Doctor. And thank you very much, Dr. Ralph. I'm going to go.