Everybody seems happy and bright like the day itself, and well, it's a great day for the Irish and it's a great day for history, because when the little people emerge, there's nothing to worry about. In a few moments, you'll hear the brilliant voices of the Police Glee Club, raised in song here in the Council Chamber in City Hall, and Mr. Whelan is about ready now to inform the Mayor that he has brought another distinguished guest to this great and wonderful building, City Hall. Mr. Whelan. Will you please be in order? The Police Glee Club will open the proceedings with the national anthem. I'll sing you a song, a soldier's song, with chilly rousing chorus, as round our blazing miles we throng, the starry heavens all of us, impatient for the coming fight, while we await the morning's light, till in the silence of the night, we'll chant the soldier's song. So soldiers are we, whose lives are played to Ireland, Some have come from a land beyond the way, sworn to be free. No more our ancient style, and shall shelter the despot or the slave. Tonight we man the barn of will, in Ireland's cause of all the will, Mid cannons' roar and rifles' fill, We'll chant the soldier's song. The End Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars, through the perilous fight, all the ramparts we watched, were so gallantly streaming? And the ramparts we watched, the bombs bursting in air, It proved through the night, that our flag was still there. O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the lands of the free and the home of the brave? And the home of the brave? And now Mr. Whalen will make the introductions. The mayor of the city of New York is receiving the foreign minister of the Irish Republic, the honorable Seán McBride. Mr. Whalen. Mr. Whalen. Our distinguished visitor, ladies and gentlemen who have come here to take part in this official welcome to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ireland, Sean McBride. Mr. Whalen. Mr. Whalen. Our distinguished visitor, ladies and gentlemen who have come here to take part in this official welcome to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ireland. Grover. As I see it, I regret to say that the mayor of the state, the mayor of the country has been a part of the party. What is your name? Now, that is the mayor of the country, the mayor of the country that is the mayor of the and the mayor of the state. And the mayor of the state, the mayor of the country, the mayor of the country. Mr. Whalen. Our distinguished visitor, ladies and gentlemen who have come here to take part in this official welcome to the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Ireland. Grover, as I see it, I regret to say that this is a matter of the public I regret to say that there is not a Republic of Ireland yet. As a Republic of Erie, Ireland was built by God as one full completed plot. Foreign domination has split a corner away, and it still dominates it. And until we get them out of there, we won't have a Republic of Ireland, but we'll get it someday. In this room, ladies and gentlemen who are here and those who are listening in, I, as mayor of this city, have had the honor to welcome many great men, and on occasion women too, from overseas, from other parts of our hemisphere. In every occasion, there were persons who had distinguished themselves in the fight for the freedom of people. On each and every occasion, there represented groups within their homeland that joined with them to the jaws of death to procure and to preserve human liberty. In no occasion until today, except once, did I have the privilege of welcoming the representative of a people who have kept up, without exception, of one year, over 700 years of continuous fight for liberty at home, and almost as many years in the fight for the liberty of peoples throughout the world. Speaking as an American today, I will be forgiven by freedom-loving peoples everywhere. If I have a great pride in the history of my people in the fight for freedom, and that I have that pride, an opportunity to express that pride here today, in bidding welcome to a youngster who already has served not only liberty in his homeland, but liberty in foreign lands, who has come from a bloodstream on his mother's side and on his father's side, where there was no limit to the distance they went in procuring liberty at home and elsewhere. I have the privilege today, and I feel it keenly, I wish I could rise to the dignity that this occasion requires from me, to give to Sean McBride now, for him and for his people, today and over the 700 years, a welcome that their sacrifices for liberty demand and require. I wish I could say to you, Sean, how happy I am as mayor of this city to welcome you, and to give you on behalf of myself and this city the heartiest welcome that we can give, the highest hopes for your great aspirations, the prayers and the wishes that what your people have fought for, that they will one day gain in whole, that there will be no partition of that native land that so many of us look back to with such sentimental interest and glory. Sean, I hope you do enjoy your visit to the United States of America. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Whale, I cannot express or find adequate words to express the gratitude that I feel for the welcome you have given me today here. I will take this welcome as being a welcome intended to be conveyed to the Irish people. It has been my privilege to be here in the United States when the Republic of Ireland Act came into operation. I felt that there were so many bonds of blood and of friendship between the people of Ireland and the people of the United States that it was only right I should be here on this occasion to tell the people of the United States of the position of our country. Quite apart from the great many ties of blood and friendship that exist between our two nations, probably greater ties than exist between any other two nations in the world, we have a common tradition. That is, the people of the United States and the people of Ireland have a common tradition of fighting for liberty and for justice. We first established a republic in Ireland as far back as 1798. That republic was established then by Presbyterians from Belfast. In our generation, it was again proclaimed in arms in 1916. So that the coming into operation of the Republic of Ireland Act was not in effect for the first time establishing a republic in Ireland. That had been done before. It was merely securing international recognition for the republic. Mr. Mayor has referred very kindly to the fact that we have not yet reached our ultimate goal. Our claim is a very simple one. We assert that the form of government in Ireland is a matter for the Irish people without any outside interference. We claim as much right to select our government and conduct our affairs as any other free nation. That is, a fundamental democratic right. It is the fundamental democratic right upon which most other democratic rights rest, the right to nationals have determined. No country in the world has more clearly defined boundaries, a more distinct national history, or a more homogeneous population than other. And we claim that Britain's interference in our affairs, Britain's occupation of a portion of our country, is a denial of ordinary democratic rights. I hope and I trust that that cannot long survive in the theorem, that in the democratic world, that on this side of the Iron Curtain, at least, it should be recognized by all freedom-loving nations, that the Irish nation and the Irish people are as entitled to the exercise of democratic rights as any other nation. Again, I want to thank you, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Will, and you, ladies and gentlemen, who did me the honor of coming here for the welcome you have given to me. I take that welcome on behalf of the Irish people and the Irish government. I would like to convey, on behalf of the Irish people and the Irish government, our very best wishes to you, Mr. Mayor, and to the citizens of New York. We hope that any of our people who have taken part in the building of this big city, in the building of this great American republic, have been good citizens. We take pride in their achievement here. We have a common heritage between us, and we hope that we will both remain faithful and that the parts of our two great nations will come ever closer together. Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. You have just heard the reply of Sean McBride, Foreign Minister of the Republic of Ireland, and the Mayor of the City of New York. And now Mr. Whelan has an announcement. Mr. Whelan. We will conclude the program with a few numbers by the Police Glee Club. And if the Glee Club knows what they're about today, the Police Glee Club, they'll do it better than they've ever done it before. Because Mayor O'Dwyer will be listening to them more carefully now than he ever listened before, I'm sure. Thank you. Thank you. For princes on many stands But a home is surely there Angels fold their wings and rest In the Eden of the West Beauty's home till I am Friends we play in the honeycomb Glora, glora, glora Glora, glora, glora Glora, glora, glora Glora, glora Glora, glora Glora Come back to where in the morning The morning, the morning, come back again to the land of thy birth. Come back to heaven, the morning, the morning, and its hill army, shouting with our birth. It is a great day tonight for the Irish, for the cause we fought for and died. And the time will soon be, when you'll see the line at three, is the land of our love and pride. We despise and defy our oppressors, and the tyrant laws we will fight. But as fast as we can make them, we cannot leave and break them. Surely Irish have a great day tonight. Surely Irish have a great day tonight. Oh, I woke me up this morning, and I heard a joyful song. From the throats of happy Irishmen, a hundred thousand strong. Sure it was, I heard the infrigade, lining up for the start of the big parade. So I fetched me Sunday fun and a flag I love so well. And I bought myself a shamrock just to wear in my lapel. Don't you know that today, March 17, is the day for the wearing of the green. It's a great day for the Irish, it's a great day for fair. The cyborgs of New York are think with bloody, and sure you'd think New York was old bloody. It's a great day for the shamrock, and the flags in full array. With God's name so inspiring, it's a great, great day. An Irish heart is saying, It's a great, great day. Now, Mr. Whelan. Sergeant and gentlemen of the Police Glee Club, from the approval of the Commander-in-Chief of the Police Department of the great city of New York, I'm sure there will be no transfers of the Glee Club to City Island today. Now, ladies and gentlemen, if you'll remain seated, while the Minister of External Affairs and his Honour, the Mayor, leaves the room. In a wonderful spirit of appropriate camaraderie, the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Ireland, Sean McBride, has been received here today by our own Irishman, William O'Dwyer, born in the ancient land of Ireland, that needs to apologize to no nation for its cultural values or the struggle it has carried on through the centuries for the enthronement of liberty, life, and the pursuit of happiness. And now, smiling happily, benignly happy, the Honourable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, escorts his Irish guests down the aisle of the Council Chamber of City Hall and to the splendid and wonderful music of the Police Glee Club we've had epitomized here for us today in music, the feelings that every New Yorker has had for this great and wonderful day. The Republic of Ireland, just being internationally acknowledged, since as of Easter Sunday, just a few weeks back, finds a quick reflection here in the history of the world in this reception at City Hall. And so it has been in the past and will be in the future. New York City loves to acknowledge accomplishment, especially that that concerns itself with the liberty of all people and the freedom and happiness to pursue life as we see fit for the good of all, for the glorification of all, in the name of God and all the intentions of the spiritual aspects of life itself. And so, from City Hall, we conclude the reception to the Foreign Minister of the Republic of Ireland, the Honourable Shane McBride. And now the Mayor is conducting his guests down to the steps at City Hall, and we'll adjourn now to the City Hall steps, although I believe this concludes the radio broadcast part of the ceremony. We return you now to the studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.