The City College Poetry Hour presents the third mixed series of poetry readings offered for your pleasure by the students and teachers of the City College of New York. The annual competition for the Romer Prize for Excellence in the Oral Reading of Poetry was held at the college this past week. Three students participated in the finals. They are here and will read for you the selections which were their choices for this contest. The listeners in our radio audience are invited to judge these three readers and to send in your decision in care of the station to which you are listening. Reading poetry aloud is an art of speech concerning which each listener has his own idea, his own personal preference and taste as to style and empathy. There are those who favor a monotone in which the words are given their chief power through clear enunciation and careful emphasis. There are those perhaps who lean toward the elocutionary impassioned eloquence of oratorical declamation. But by far the greater number I imagine favor the simple reading which makes its appeal to the mind and the imagination and derived its power to stir the emotions from the impact of the meaning of the words themselves and their natural expression by the voice speaking. Will you tell us what you prefer in judging these three young people who are about to read for you? I think we can all agree that good reading is an appropriate mixture of the following elements. The vitality of flesh and blood. The persuasive charm of human personality. And the intelligence of understanding. If the reader reveals to us in his reading these three things, if he succeeds in communicating his own full appreciation of what he reads, then we can ask for little more. The test is whether he makes the imagined experience real for us, whether he can make it come alive for us in our own imagination. Interest in the oral reading of poetry is increasing. No doubt you've heard of the Oxford recitations in England, in which the poet John Maysfield has taken an active interest for many years. In our own country, several attempts have been made to conduct similar festivals. Usually these have been sponsored by colleges and universities. One of the most notable was the National Poetry Speaking Festival held at Northwestern University in 1930, in which I had the pleasure of being a participant. We who teach in the field of speech believe that students everywhere, and certainly our own students in the City College, should receive further encouragement in their desire to understand, appreciate, and to interpret poetry in its oral form. The Romer Contest is one of the old traditions of City College. The award was first created in 1892, in honor of Professor Romer. Those among our alumni will probably recall Professor John Romer. He was first appointed to the faculty in 1849, and served until 1892, the year of his death. As a memorial to this loved and distinguished member of the faculty, who rose to become Vice President of the College, the fund from which the Romer Prize is made, was set up as a permanent endowment. And students of the College have been competing annually for this prize from that year to this. Other friends of the College, and friends of literature and the spoken art of its interpretation, are invited to set up similar awards to stimulate still further the interest of students of the College in achieving artistic distinction in the arts of speech. This year, in which we are celebrating our 100th anniversary, would be an appropriate time for such a gift. But now for our program. Two of the selections are from plays by Shakespeare, and one from our popular contemporary American poet, Robert Frost. These are not as far apart in genre as may have first seen. Shakespeare wrote in languages familiar to his day, as the colloquial phrase of Robert Frost seems familiar to our ears today. Though the two Shakespearean selections are from plays, reading, as distinguished from an acting performance, has its own independent style. The difference to be noted is probably that of an actor reading his part from the script during the early stages of rehearsal, as contrasted with his full-fledged acting at the time of performance. At any rate, we are now ready to listen to Reuben Gust, who will read from Shakespeare's The Merchant of Venice. Shylock is presenting his case against Antonio in the courtroom in Venice. I have possessed your grace of what I purpose, and by our holy Sabbath have I sworn to have the due and forfeit of my bond. If you deny it, let the danger light upon your charter and your city's freedom. You'll ask me why I rather choose to have a weight of carrion flesh than to receive three thousand ducats? I'll not answer that, but say it is my humor! Is it answered? What if my house be troubled with a rat, and I be pleased to give ten thousand ducats to have it burned? What are you answered yet? Some men there are love not a gaping pig. Some, who are mad if they behold a cat. And others, when the bagpipe sings as a nose, cannot contain their urine. For affection, mistress of passion, sways it to the mood of what it likes or loaves. Now for your answer. As there is no firm reason to be rendered, why he cannot abide a gaping pig? Why he a harmless, necessary cat? Why he a woolen bagpipe, but the force must yield to such inevitable shame as to offend? Himself being offended? So can I give no reason, nor I will not, more than a larger date and a certain loathing I fear, Antonio, that I follow thus a losing suit against him. Are you answered? Thank you, Mr. Gus. And now a long step in time to our own day. Miss Florence Stern will read The Fear by Robert Frost. A lantern light from deeper in the barn shone on a man and woman in the door, and through their lurching shadows on a house nearby, all dark in every glossy window. A horse's poop poured once the hollow floor, and the back of the gig they stood beside moved in a little. The man grasped the wheel. The woman spoke out sharply. So, it's ten-since. I saw it just as plain as a white plate, she said, as the lights on the dashboard ran along the bushes at the roadside. A man's face. You must have seen it too. I didn't see it. Are you sure? Yes, I'm sure. It was a fate. Sure. I'll have to look. I can't go in. I can't. And leave a thing like that unsettled. Doors locked in curtains drawn will make no difference. I always had those strings when we came home to the dark house after so long an absence, and the key rattled loudly and placed into warning someone to be getting out at one door as we entered at another. What if I'm right? Can someone all the time? Don't hold my arm! I say it's someone passing. You speak as if this were a traveled road. You forget where we are. What is beyond this is he going to of coming from such an hour of night? And on foot too? What was he standing still for in the bushes? It's not so very late. It's only dark. There's more in it than you're inclined to say. Did he look like he looked like anyone? I'll never rest tonight unless I know. Give me the lantern. You don't want the lantern. You're not to come, she said. This is my business since the time comes to face it. I'm the one to put it the right way. He'd never dare. Listen. He picked a stone. Hear that? Hear that? He's coming towards us. Joel, go in, please. Ah, I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I don't hear him now. But please go in. In the first place, you can't make me believe it. It is. Or someone else he sent to watch. And now's the time to have it out with him, while we know definitely where he is. Let him get off and he'll be everywhere around us, looking out at trees and bushes, till I shan't dare to sit a foot outdoors. Then I can't stand it. Joel, let me go. But it's nonsense to think he's caring enough. You mean you couldn't understand his caring. Oh, but, you see, he hasn't had enough. Joel, I won't. I won't. That's promise. We mustn't say hard things. You mustn't either. I'll be happy. I won't. I won't. That's promise. I won't. I won't. That's promise. We mustn't say hard things. You mustn't either. I'll be happy. You mustn't. You mustn't either. I'll be the one if anybody goes. But you've given me advantage with this life. What could you do to us standing here? And if to see was what he wanted, why, he had seen all there once to see and gone. He appeared to forget to keep his toes, but advanced with her as she crossed the grass. What do you want? She cried to all the dark. She stretched up tall to overlook the light that's telling him both hands carted into her dirt. There's no one, so you're wrong, he said. There is. What do you want? She cried, and then herself was startled when an answer really came. Nothing. It came from well along the road. She reached the hands of Joel for the corpse. The smell of scorching woolen made her think. What are you doing around this house at night? Nothing. Of course. There seems no more to say. And then the voice again. You seem afraid. I saw by the way you ripped up the horse. I'll just come forward in the lacon light and let you see. Yay. Yay. Doom. Doom. Doom. So, go back. She stood her ground against the noisy steps that came on. But her body rocked over her. You see? The voice said. She looked. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. She looked. And looked. You don't see. I have a child here by the hand. A robber wouldn't have his family with him. What's a child doing this this time of night? Out walking. Out walking. Out walking. Out walking. Every child should have the memory of at least one long act of their time walk. What son? But I should think that you would try to find somewhere to walk. The highway is it happened. We're stopping for the fortnight down at Dean. But if that's all. Joel. You realize. You won't think anything. You understand. You understand that we have to be careful. This is a very, very lonely place. Joel! She spoke to which she couldn't turn. The swinging lantern lengthened to the ground. It touched. It struck. It clattered. It clattered. And went out. And now once more back in time to Shakespeare's Hamlet. Joel Pomerantz. Joel Pomerantz. Joel Pomerantz will read one of the famous Theliloquies. Mr. Pomerantz. Now I'm alone. Oh, what a rogue and peasant slave am I. I'm alone. I'm alone. Is it not monstrous that this player here, but in a fiction, a dream of passion, it forces soul, soul to his own mind, it's not a dream. It's not a dream. It's a dream. It forces soul, soul to his own conceit that, somehow working all his vids warm, tears in his eyes, displeased, and tears in his eyes, and tears in his eyes, and tears in his eyes, it's not a dream of passion, it's not a dream of a dream that this player here, it's not a dream of a dream, it's not a dream of a dream of a dream. But somehow working all his vivers warm, tears in his eyes, distraction in his aspect, a broken voice, and his whole function suiting with form to his conceit. And all for nothing. For Hecuba! What's Hecuba to him or he to Hecuba that he should weep for her? What would he do had he the motive and guilt for passion that I have? He would drown the stage with tears and cleave the general ear with horrid speech, make mad the guilty and appall the free, confound the ignorant and amaze indeed the very faculty of eyes and ears. But if I was dull and nutty, nutty, blasphemy, peep, or gonadry, and pregnant of my old, you can say nothing. No, not for a king upon whose property and most dear life a damned defeat was made! Am I a coward? He calls me villain, breaks my tate across, plucks off my beard and blows it in my face, tweaks me by the nose, and gives me the lie in the throat as deep as to the lungs. Who does me this, huh? I should take it. What a panacea is what I am, hidden lily, and lack gall to make oppression bitter. For if this I should have patted all the region kites! This slaves out! Bloody, bawdy villain! The mossless, treacherous, lecherous, kindless villain! Oh, vengeance! Why, what a nasty man! This is most brave! If I, the son of a dear father murdered, prompted to my revenge by heaven and hell, must like all four, and pack my heart with words, with a curse, with a very drab, a scullion, high upon it, oh, about my brains! I have heard that these of creatures sitting at a play have by the very cunning of the scene been struck so to the soul that presently they have proclaimed their malefaction. For murder, but would have no cunning to speak with me in a lack of appalling. I'll have these players play something like the murder of my father before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks, I'll tension to the quick, if he but blench! I've heard that I will be the devil, and my spirit that I assume may be the devil. But the devil hath power to assume his reason's fate. Yea, and perhaps out of my weakness and melancholy, as he is most potent with such spirit, that he refuses me to damn me. I'll have ground in my world to this. The play's the thing, wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king. Thank you. You have just listened to three students who competed for the Romer Prize at the college this past week. Now to represent the faculty, Mr. Lewis Levy of the Department of Public Speaking at the City College School of Business, himself a former winner of the Romer Prize in the days when he was a student, will read for us now, The Go Down Dead by James Weldon Johnson, Mr. Levy. Weep not. Weep not. Weep not. He is not dead. He's only just gone home. Resting in the bosom of Jesus. Heartbroken husband, weep no more. Grief-stricken son, weep no more. Left lonesome daughter, weep no more. She is not dead. She's only resting. Resting in the bosom of Jesus. Day before yesterday morning, God was looking down from his great high heaven, looking down on all his children, and his eye fell on Sister Caroline, rising in her bed of pain. And God's big heart was touched with pity, with the everlasting pity. And he turned to that tall bright angel standing by his right hand, and he said, Call Death. And that tall bright angel, standing by his right hand, he cried in a voice that broke like a clap of thunder, Call Death. And the echoes sounded down the streets of heaven, Call Death. And until it reached away back to that shadowy place, where Death waits with his pale white horses. And Death, he heard of someone. And he came, and he waited for God's command. And then God said, Go down, Death. Go down to Yammercraw, down in South Carolina, and find me Sister Caroline. She is labored long in my vineyard, and she is tired. She is weary, Death. Go down and bring her to me. And Death, he didn't say a word, but he just loosed the reins on his pale white horse. And out and down he rode, past suns and moons and stars. Straight on down he came. We were all gathered round her bed, when she turned her eyes and she looked away. For she saw what we couldn't see. She saw old Death. She saw old Death coming like a falling star. But Sister Caroline, she wasn't afraid of old Death. She greeted him like a welcome friend. And then she sighed and whispered, I'm going home. I'm going home. And Death, he picked her up like a baby. And she lay in his icy arms, but she didn't feel no chill. And then Death began to riot again. Up beyond the evening star. Out beyond the morning star. Into the glittering light of glory. And there he laid Sister Caroline on the loving breast of Jesus. And Jesus. He brushed the furrows from her face. And he smoothed the wrinkles from her brow. And he took her in his arms and he rocked her and he kept saying, Take your rest. Take your rest. Take your rest. Take your rest. Oh, weep not. Weep not. She is not dead. She's only resting. Resting in the bosom of Jesus. Jesus. Jesus. The City College Poetry Hour has presented the third in its series of poetry readings by students and faculty. Your readers have been Bill Pomerantz, class of 47. Florence Stern, class of 49. Reuben Gus, class of 49. Mr. Lewis Levy, member of the faculty and winner of the Roma prize in 29. Your commentator was Earl Fleischman of the Public Speaking Department faculty. Of the School of Civic and Business Administration. The City College Poetry Hour presents the third in its series of poetry readings, offered for your pleasure by the students and teachers of the College of the City of New York. The annual competition for the Romer Prize for Excellence in the Oral Reading of Poetry was held at the college this past week. Three students participated in the finals. They are here and will read for you the selections which were their choices for this contest. The listeners in our radio audience are invited to judge these three readers and to send in your decision in care of the station to which you are listening. Reading poetry aloud is an art of speech concerning which each listener has his own idea, his own personal preference and taste as to style and emphasis. There are those who favor a monotone in which the words are given their chief power through clear enunciation and careful emphasis. There are those perhaps who lean toward the elocutionary impassioned eloquence of oratorical declamation. But by far the greater number I imagine favor the simple reading which makes its appeal to the mind and the imagination and derives its power to stir the emotions from the impact of the meaning of the words themselves and their natural expression by the voice speaking. Will you tell us which you prefer in judging these three young people who are about to read for you? I think we can all agree that good reading is an appropriate mixture of the following elements. The vitality of flesh and blood. The persuasive charm of human personality. And the intelligence of understanding. If the reader reveals to us in his reading these three things. If he succeeds in communicating his own full appreciation of what he reads. Then we can ask for a little more. The test is whether he makes the imagined experience real for us. Whether he can make it come alive for us in our own imaginations. Interest in the oral reading of poetry is increasing. No doubt you have heard of the Oxford recitations in England. In which the poet John Macefield has taken an active interest for many years. In our own country. Several attempts have been made to conduct similar festivals. Usually these have been sponsored by colleges and universities. One of the most notable was the National Poetry Speaking Festival. Held at Northwestern University in 1930. In which I had the pleasure of being a participant. We who teach in the field of speech. Believe that students everywhere. And certainly our own students in the city college. Should receive further encouragement in their desire to understand. Appreciate and to interpret poetry in its oral form. The Romer contest is one of the old traditions of city college. The award was first created in 1892. In honor of Professor Romer. Those among our alumni will probably recall Professor Jean Romer. He was first appointed to the faculty in 1849. And served until 1892. The year of his death. As a memorial to this loved and distinguished member of the faculty. Who rose to become vice president of the college. The fund from which the Romer prize is made. Was set up as a permanent endowment. And students of the college have been competing annually for this prize. From that year to this. Other friends of the college. And friends of literature. And the spoken art of its interpretation. Are invited to set up similar awards. To stimulate still further the interest of students of the college. In achieving artistic distinction. In the arts of speech. This year in which we are celebrating our 100th anniversary. Would be an appropriate time for such a gift. But now for our program. Two of the selections are from plays by Shakespeare. And one from our popular contemporary American poet. Robert Frost. The difference to be noted is probably that of an actor. The two Shakespearean selections are from plays. Reading as distinguished from an acting performance. Has its own independent style. The difference to be noted is probably that of an actor. The two Shakespearean selections are from plays. As contrasted with his full-fledged style. The difference to be noted is probably that of an actor. Reading his part from the script. During the early stages of rehearsal. As contrasted with his full-fledged style. As contrasted with his full-fledged acting. At the time of performance. At any rate. We are now ready to listen. To listen. Joel Pomerantz. Reading one of the famous soliloquies. Of the two Shakespearean selections. Of the two Shakespearean selections. Are from plays. Reading as distinguished from. An acting performance. As its own independent style. The difference to be noted. Is probably that of an actor. Reading his part from the script. During the early stages of rehearsal. As contrasted with his full-fledged acting. At the time of performance. At any rate. We are now ready to listen. To Joel Pomerantz. Reading one of the famous soliloquies. Of Hamlet. Now I am alone. Oh, what a rogue and peasant slave am I. Is it not monstrous. That this player here. But in a fiction. A dream of passion. Could force his soul. So to his own conceit. That from her working. All his visage. Worn. Tears in his eyes. Distraction in his aspect. A broken voice. And his own voice. In his own voice. To his own voice. To his own voice. To his own voice. To his own voice. To his own voice. To his own voice. To his own voice. To his own voice. And his whole function. Suiting with forms. To his conceit. And all for nothing. For Hecuba. What's Hecuba to him. Or he to Hecuba. That he should weep for her. What would he do. Had he the motive. And cue. For passion. That I have. He would drown the stage. With tears. And cleave the general ear. With horrid speech. Make mad the guilty. And appal the free. Confound the ignorant. And amaze indeed. The very faculties. Of eyes in the ear. And the very faculties. Of eyes in the ear. And I. A dull and muddy metal rascal. Peek. Like John a dream. Unpregnant of my call. And can say nothing. No. Not for a king. Upon whose property. And most dear life. A damned defeat was made. Am I a coward. Who calls me villain. Breaks my pate across. Plucks off my beard. And blows it in my face. Tweaks me by the nose. And gives me the lie in the throat. That's deepest to the lungs. Who does me this. Huh? No. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I should take it. But it canna be. But I am pigeon livin'. Black gall to make oppression bitter. For near this I should have fatted all the region kites. With this slave's awful. Bloody. Bawdy villain. Remorseless. Treacherous. Lecherous. Kindless villain. Oh vengeance. Why. What a mess of a man. This is most brave. That I the son of a dear father murdered. Pumped into my revenge by heaven and hell. Must like a whore. Pack my heart with words. And fall of cursing. Like a very drab. A scullion. High upon it. I am a scullion. Fall. About my brain. I have heard that guilty creatures sitting at a play. Have by the very cunning of the scene been struck so to the soul. That the evil of a man. That the evil of a man. Have had to be a man. That the evil of a man. That the evil of a man. I am a scullion. I am a scullion. But a very drab. A scullion. High upon it. Oh. About my brain. I have heard that guilty creatures sitting at a play. Have by the very cunning of the scene been struck so to the soul. That presently they have proclaimed their malefactions. For murder. Though it have no tongue. Will speak with most miraculous all of them. I'll have these players play something like the murder of my father before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks. I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench. I'll know my course. The spirit that I have seen may be the devil. For the devil hath power to assume a pleasing shape. Yea, and perhaps out of my weakness and melancholy. As he is most potent with such spirit. I will have a spirit. Though it have no tongue. Though it have no tongue. Will speak with most miraculous all of them. I'll have these players play something like the murder of my father before mine uncle. I'll observe his looks. I'll tent him to the quick. If he but blench. I'll know my course. The spirit that I have seen may be the devil. For the devil hath power to assume a pleasing shape. Yea, and perhaps out of my weakness and melancholy. As he is most potent with such spirits. It refuses me to damn it. I'll have grounds more relative than this. The play's the thing. Wherein I'll catch the conscience of the king. Thank you, Mr. Pomerantz. And now a long step in time to our own day. Miss Florence Stern will read The Fear. By Robert Frost. A lantern light from deeper in the barn shone on a man and woman in the door. And through their lurching shadows on a house nearby. All dark in every glossy window. A horse's hoop poured once the hollow floor. And the back of the gig they stood beside moved in a little. The man grasped the wheel. The woman spoke out sharply. Whoa! Stand still! I saw it just as plain as a white plate! She said. As the lights on the dashboard ran along the bushes at the roadside. A man's face! You must have seen it too! I didn't see it. Are you sure? Yes, I'm sure. It was a face. Joel. I'll have to look. I can't go in. I can't. And leave a thing like that unsettled. Doors locked and curtains drawn will make no difference. I always have felt strange when we came home into the dark house after so long an absence. And the key rattles loudly into the play seemed to warn someone to be getting out at one door as we entered at another. What if I'm right? And someone all the time? Don't hold my arm! I say it's someone passing. You speak as if this were a travel road. You forget where we are. What is beyond that he be going to a coming from at such an hour of night and on foot too? What was he standing still for in the bushes? It's not so very late. It's only dark. There's more in it than you're inclined to say. Did he look like? He looked like anyone. I'll never rest the night unless I know. Give me the lantern. You don't want the lantern. He pushed past him and bothered for herself. You're not to come, she said. This is my business. If the time's come to face it, I'm the one to put it the right way. He'd never dare. Listen. He kicked a stone. Hear that? Hear that? He's coming towards us. Joel, go in, please. Oh. I don't hear him now. But please go in. In the first place, you can't make me believe it. It is. But someone else he said to watch. And now's the time to have it out with him. While we know definitely where he is. Let him get off and he'll be everywhere around us. Looking out of trees and bushes. And I can't stand it. Joel, let me go. But it's nonsense to think he care enough. You mean you couldn't understand how he's going to be. And I can't stand it. Joel, let me go. Joel, let me go. But it's nonsense to think he care enough. You mean you couldn't understand his caring. Oh, but you see. He's not a good thing. I can't stand it. Joel, let me go. But it's nonsense to think he care enough. You mean you couldn't understand his caring. Oh, but you see, he hadn't had enough. Joel, I won't. I won't. I promise. We mustn't say hard things. You mustn't either. I won't either. I won't. We won't. Let me go. Joel, I won't. I won't. I won't. I promise. We mustn't say hard things. You mustn't either. I won't. I'll be the one if anybody goes. But you've given the advantage with this life. What could he do to us standing here? And if to see was what he wanted, why he has seen all there was to see and gone. He appeared to forget to keep his hold, but advanced with her as she crossed the grass. What do you want? She cried. She stretched up tall to overlook the light that hung in both hands hot against her skirt. There's no one. See you wrong, he said. There is. What do you want? She cried, and then herself was startled when an answer really came. Nothing. It came from well along the road. She reached a hand to Joel for support. The smell of scorching woolen made her faint. What are you doing round this house at night? Nothing. A pause. There seems no more to say. And then the voice again. You seem afraid. I saw by the way you whipped up the horse. I'll just come forward in the lantern light and let you see. Yes. Yes. Do. Joel. Go back. She stood her ground against the noisy steps that came on, but her body rocked a little. You see? The voice said. Oh. She looked and looked. You don't see. I have a child here by the hand. A robber wouldn't have his family with him. What's a child doing at this time of night? Out walking. Every child should have the memory of at least one time. An old child said, can't you? What's your child doing at this time of night? What's your child doing at this time of night? I'll be walking. night out walking every child should have the memory of at least one long after bedtime walk watch son and i should think that you would try to find somewhere to walk the highways it happens we're stopping for the fortnight down at games but if that's all joe you realize you understand you understand if we have to be careful this is a very very lonely place