From his desk in City Hall, Mayor William O'Dwyer officially reports his decision on the transit fare problem. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mayor of the City of New York. Ladies and gentlemen, the City's financial problems are acute and its need for additional funds is urgent. I talked to you about this last December. By now, all of you are familiar with the facts about the deterioration of the City services, the inadequacy of its facilities, the backlog of deferred construction, the crying need for repairs, replacements, and improvements in every City department, and the overdue pay raises for thousands of City employees struggling against the rising tide of inflation. I explained to you how outmoded state laws imprison the city in a straitjacket that prevents it from solving its own financial problems and subjects it to the domination of the state administration. In a desire to correct this intolerable condition, I submitted to the legislature a constructive and complete program designed to permit the City to carry on its vital current functions and at the same time permitted to make reasonable long-range plans for the future without the necessity of continuous appeals to Albany. My plan was threefold. First, it provided for a more equitable share of the state's unspent revenues, collected primarily from the people of this city. Second, mindful of the continuous rising cost of maintaining the essential services which the City requires, the plan provided for additional funds from real estate, which has not been bearing its fair share of the City's costs. Third, the plan called for a change in the law to adjust the fare on our transit system, up or down, so that the operating costs and the operating costs only would be paid by the users. My plan made it absolutely clear that not a penny of the fares collected was to be applied towards paying the debt service, that is, the interest and principle of bonds issued for the cost of transit system. It was my purpose that this debt service should be and remain the responsibility of real estate, which is the chief beneficiary of cheap transportation, and that nobody but the people themselves should be permitted to raise the fare to a point where the receipts above the operating costs might be used to reduce or pay this debt. I had hoped that my program would take the City's financial problems out of politics. That was a fond but futile hope. State Comptroller Moore appointed a committee to study the real estate phase of my proposals, and the committee came to the following conclusion, quote, real estate in New York City is now bearing less than 50% of the cost of government of the city. The proportion of total receipts derived from real estate fell from a peak of 73.6 in 1931 to 44.3 in 1946. The committee believes real estate should assume a larger share of the operating cost of the city than is permitted under the present constitutional limitation. End of quote. Nevertheless, and in the face of this recommendation, Governor Dewey and the Republican-controlled legislature pounced upon my plan and scuttled it. Apparently, my plan clashed with the Republican Party policy of protecting the big real estate interests. finally, and over my strenuous objections, they amended the transit law so as to empower the Board of Transportation on the mayor's approval to raise the fare to any amount, not merely to cover the operating costs, but to cover the debt services well, thereby giving the big real estate interests the hope that someday the rider may yet be made to pay the purchase price of the city's transit system. The Republicans believe that the little fellow should carry the load. This is what Governor Dewey said when he approved the bill. Quote, objection has been made that the bill would make it possible to increase the fare to such an extent as to relieve real estate of part of its existing tax burden. This is a matter which will be wholly within the control of the Board of Transportation and the mayor where it belongs. End of quote. That matter belongs to the people and should not be taken away from them. Governor Dewey and the Republican legislature should not have made it possible for any mayor or board to unload on the rider the present real estate obligation. This is a dangerous piece of legislation. I opposed its passage and urged the Governor to veto it. I am still opposed to it. The people of this city must not let this law pass unchallenged. However, placing the blame for the city's intolerable situation on the shoulders of the political gentleman at Albany where it belongs does not solve the city's financial problem nor does it alter the city's need for additional revenue. The city employs about 200,000 people. It must deal fairly with them. Excuse me. It must pay them decent wages. We cannot expect good morale, enthusiasm, or efficient service from underpaid and dissatisfied employees. We must not lose sight of inflation and the rise in the cost of living. That hits our city employees in transit and out of transit even as it affects every wage earner and every household in our city. We do not have the money now to meet these needs. Nor have we the money to pay for adequate essential services. Funds must be raised. one of the major factors dislocating our budget is the large transit operating deficit that the city must pay out of its treasury annually. Next year, the city will have to pay $51 million to make good transit operating deficits. It can only continue to do so at the sacrifice or impoverishment of other essential services. This is the problem. Shall we continue to pay transit operating deficits out of the city treasury or shall we raise the fare and make these funds available towards improving the conditions in our hospitals, in our sanitation department, in our health department, in our educational system, in our libraries and in other city services? Shall we continue to pay transit operating deficits and be unable to give deserved and just pay increases to underpaid employees or shall we raise the fare and provide for such increases? We cannot do both, nor can the controller solve the situation by over-optimistic estimates of the general fund revenues. Over-estimates create confusion and cause harmful delays. no conscientious controller would put the city into such a precarious condition. A refusal to adjust the fare to meet the operating costs is merely a refusal to face unpleasant facts or a desire for popular approval at the expense of the city's vital interests. the choice must be made. I asked the Board of Transportation to make a careful study of our transit financial needs and prepare a plan that would adjust the fare to cover operating deficits but at the same time make sure that no part of the revenue will be used or applied towards reducing real estate taxes. I request to the Board to provide for necessary pay increases to transit workers eliminate multiple fares zones and transfer charges on city surface lines and consider all things necessary for the general convenience of the riding public. The Board has completed such a study and has submitted its report. I have given the Board's recommendations very careful and serious consideration. I have come to the unavoidable conclusion that in the interests of the city and as a matter of necessity as well as public duty I should approve the Board's certification of the adjusted fare on the city's transit system which effective as of July 1st next is to be as follows. One on the subway and elevated lines ten cents two on the buses and trolley lines seven cents three for a combined surface and rapid transit ride twelve cents four for children in free elementary schools no charge five for children in free high schools five cents six children under six years of age accompanied by an adult no charge seven Brooklyn Queens and Staten Island fair zones eliminated eight free transfers between BMT IRT and independent systems at designated points nine all existing transfer privileges between surface lines continued and all present two-cent transfer charges eliminated I ask you ladies and gentlemen to consider the new plan in the light of the city's needs and the city's interests I know I can trust your good sense and judgment thank you the mayor of the city of New York has just reported to you his official decision on the transit fare problem mayor O'Dwyer spoke to you from his desk in city hall we return you now to our studios this have come so you have one