Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 18th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks, what is the future of the white-collar worker? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the effects of inflation on the white-collar worker and his prospects in our economy. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Philip R. Clark, Chairman of the Board of the City National Bank and Trust Company in Chicago, Frank S. Endicott, Professor of Education and Director of Placement at Northwestern University, Paul F. Gorby, Manager of the Central Personnel Services with the Marshall Field & Company, and Elmo P. Holman, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. Now, a letter from one of our listeners insists we here on The Reviewing Stand have discussed the problems of just about every group in our society, labor, management, the farmer, youth, and the aged. Just about every group except the white-collar worker, the man with whom we're concerned today. Now, who is this fellow Holman? What groups in our workforce comprise the white-collar worker? Well, we should talk about not the white-collar worker, but many white-collar workers. You've given me a large order there. White-collar workers, as a matter of fact, ramify both vertically and horizontally. Vertically, they go up to foreman and downward, they go to the lowest kind of a routine office worker. Horizontally, we find actors, musicians, clerks, technicians, office workers, salesmen, and so on down the line. Well, does that mean, Holman, that managers and professional people aren't included? I played golf yesterday with three doctors and asked them if they were white-collar workers. They just didn't seem to know whether they were. I should say definitely that they would not be white-collar workers. Professional people, top executive, and managerial workers would be out. It's from that level on down, excluding them. Do you have a comment on this, Clark? Well, I must confess that until I gave the subject some study this past week, I have always visualized the white-collar worker as a member of only the clerical and other office forces of general business, but I soon found that I was wrong. And as Dr. Holman has mentioned, the group goes both up and down and includes many, many professions such as government workers and teachers and musicians and certainly most, if not all, salespeople. Well, how large a group is this anyway, Indica? How many people are we talking about? Well, if we eliminate the professional groups that have just been mentioned, we probably would have in the neighborhood of 15 million people now employed in what we might call, at least for purposes of this discussion, a white-collar field. How many of those are women, do you know? I don't know how many of those are women. I would say, though, a very large percent certainly have. Well, in our business, a retail business, about 70 percent are women, and I suspect that would hold true for most of the distribution trades. Our own proportion is not that large. It's only 54 percent women. What percentage of our total workforce would this 15 million be to which Indica refers? It would be about 25 percent, I should say, of our total force. Well, now, can you, uh, uh, Clark, uh, characterize this group for us? How homogeneous is, uh, is it, anyway? Well, I would be inclined to characterize the group as heterogeneous rather than homogeneous, because it ranges both in income and work from the highly paid entertainer, let's say, to the lowliest clerk, and in education from those who have had little more than elementary schooling to college post-graduates. I assume that, uh, heterogeneity is more, is really more typical of the white-collar group, probably, than any other group we might talk about. Is that, do you think that's the case? I should say so, very definitely. I think you have much greater range of variety in the white-collar group than you do in the production and maintenance workers in the factories. Is the number of this, uh, of this, of these white-collar workers increasing, uh, Clark? Well, all the authorities I've consulted have agreed that the number are increasing, not only in the aggregate, but also in their percentage to the total workforce. The March issue of Fortune has an article that states that in 1900, there were 10 white-collar workers for every 100 production workers, that by 1937, the ratio had climbed to 18, by 1947 to 22, and presently to 25. I think it's interesting in that connection to note, too, that the number, the percentage of skilled workers and unskilled workers in our society is going down. The percentage of professional workers is going up slightly. The percentage of clerical and, uh, sales workers, of whom we're talking primarily, is going up sharply. Well, now, why? Why is this, uh, happening, uh, Clark? Well, I presume a minor explanation, uh, is the increased clerical work that's been forced upon all business during the last two decades by governmental questionnaires and another red tape. Do you have any other reason for this phenomenon? Well, I suppose the basic explanation is the enormous number of labor-saving inventions of recent years. While these inventions have saved labor in the office as well as in the factory and on the farm, they evidently have not done so in anything like the same proportions, with the result that the surplus factory and farm workers thus created have seemingly largely transferred to white-collar employment. Dorby? Well, aren't we, too, uh, a more literate people? We write down our thoughts more and put more on paper and actually, too, uh, as we develop scientific management, we require more figures and more information in which to do a better job, clear across the board. Isn't it due, too, partly to the fact that our engineering and technological developments are showing definite signs of running away from our, uh, social developments and, uh, production is necessarily an engineering job in which we've done pretty well. The job of distributing the goods after we've made them, and that's where our white-collar workers come in primarily, is still much less advanced. And so we've got to spend more and more of our national energy in distribution of goods after we've produced them. What kind of treatment does the white-collar worker get in our economy? Uh, more, uh, specifically, what's, what's been the effect of inflation on, on this, uh, group, Clark? Well, inflation is squeezing everybody, no matter what the size or color of their collar. It was surprising to me, however, to encounter some statistics recently that indicate that the income of white-collar workers is kept better paced with living costs than I believe is generally supposed. These statistics published by the Opinion Research Corporation used the year of 1939 as an index basis of 100. They show that while the cost of living index by 1941 had risen to 106, that of white-collar income had risen to 107, and that while in 1943 the cost of living had further risen to 124, white-collar income had risen to 125, and that by 1949, while the cost of living index had still further mounted to 170, that of white-collar income had reached 178. There the figures end, and the ratio of 1952 may, of course, be less favorable. But at least we all know that the combination of today's staggering taxes and inflated living costs are certainly straining family budgets everywhere. Of course, it's notoriously dangerous to generalize in talking about such a large and varied group, but I think probably a case could be made for saying that the earnings of white-collar workers are less flexible and somewhat more difficult to keep in line with the rising cost of living than of production workers. For instance, in the case of salesmen, there's an obvious difficulty and chance of cutting down on commissions and so on in the depression, and also in an inflationary period, your white-collar worker gets less in the way of overtime, bonuses, incentive plans, and special earnings on top of the ordinary rates. Of course, it's true that the production worker, though, is subject to layoffs even in periods of inflation at this time, and it is very seldom, though, even within the plant where you have a layoff, that the white-collar workers are expected to go out. Frequently, they will continue on to receive their salaries at least. Well, now, the the impression is is abroad, if I may judge by some of the letters we receive in this Northwestern University reviewing stand, that the white-collar worker is falling behind the the blue-collar man in income. Are, let's face it, are bricklayers, machinists, plasters, and other such workers making more money than clerks, salesmen, teachers, and accountants? Maybe they should, I don't know, but are they? What do you think of that, Indicott? Well, I think, obviously, some of them are, and of course, it's very difficult to make general comparisons when you have in the white-collar group such a great variety of people and such a variety and a number of levels of occupational opportunity. I suspect that, generally, the white-collar worker, certainly the white-collar worker in the more routine and the more clerical job is being paid less than another person in a one of the skilled trades. Clark? I would like to supplement that by citing, again, this survey of the Opinion Research Corporation, which indicated that while white-collar income advanced during those 10 years that I cited from 100 to 178, the average income of production workers advanced during the same period from 100 to 214, which, of course, is a greater advance. But I believe that that apparent monetary advantage to the production worker shouldn't be finally accepted without giving full consideration to the factor of steadiness of employment. Such craftsmen as carpenters or plasterers may be paid more for a single day's work than, say, a bank teller. But over an entire year, the bank teller's remuneration could well exceed that of the craftsman because of the much greater day in and day out steadiness of his employment. So the hourly wage of the blue-collar worker may well arouse the envy of his white-collar brother. But with the former so much more subject to layoffs and other interruptions, I believe that an accounting at the end of the year would show that the white-collar worker fares better relatively than he generally supposes. Here again, I think we have to be careful about glib comparisons and possibly superficial comparisons between blue-collar and white-collar workers, because there are a great many concealed elements. For one thing, as Mr. Clark just mentioned, the production worker typically is paid by the hour or the day. The white-collar worker typically is paid by the year, month, or at the shortest, the week. And obviously, it's annual earnings that really count. And when you compare the annual earnings of a plasterer, let's say, or a building tradesman with those of a bank teller, the discrepancy isn't nearly so great as you might suppose when you'd think in hourly terms. Furthermore, there are a great many non-monetary factors involved. I think the white-collar worker has less regimentation. He probably has greater security on the job in addition to more steady annual earnings and a number of other things of that sort which aren't translatable directly into money, but which are important. I think one of the important things, uh, Holman, that, uh, in that, uh, connection is the meaningfulness of a job. I think, generally speaking, that you will find that many of the white-collar jobs are meaningful. Take, for example, a salesperson in our own business. A customer comes in to buy merchandise to that customer. That salesperson is Marshall Field and Company, and the salesperson recognizes that. As a matter of fact, that salesperson knows that whether or not she makes, whether or not Marshall Field and Company profits from that particular transaction depends entirely on her. Now, she doesn't have to go clear to some other plant in some other state to see what her own operation, what relationship it bears to a total final product. Now, you think that's important to her? I think that's very important, and I think that's one reason that you'll find that the salespeople in any connection, whether it's in a department store or whether it's in a, uh, a factory operation where the salesman is distributing the goods, I think that salesperson feels his, his significance. Along the same line, I think there is usually a much closer personal relationship between the average white-collar worker and his or her boss than in a factory. Of course, that might be good and it might be bad. After all, I think it's on the boss. A typist doesn't type the same letter day after day as a punch machine operator punches the same hole in the same strip of steel which goes by. Well, now, you men, you men are suggesting that there are rewards other than, than monetary rewards which are significant to the, the white-collar worker. Uh, you've suggested the, the, the status that accrues to them in some of these, these positions, and I, I think you have a point there. Are there other rewards of any significance, Andy Cotts? Well, uh, for example, there is the general, uh, opportunity that an individual has in an organization to move from one type of job to another, uh, and thereby increase his earnings and to, as we say, move up the ladder. I think that, uh, when we're talking about this, uh, office and white-collar group in general, we have recognized that, uh, those opportunities do exist and that it is possible for a person to begin at a, uh, uh, lower and clerical level in an organization and move onward and upward, at least toward a more responsible position. Of course, it's, it's been said, as you know, that, uh, that, uh, kind of opportunity no longer exists in our economy. That that's, uh, a kind of Horatio Alger story from log cabin to the top, which, uh, which no longer exists. Uh, do those opportunities really exist, do you think, uh, Clark? Oh, I think very definitely that they exist, uh, and furthermore that they're being availed of. That was brought to the of the public relations office of one of the nation's, uh, largest industrial concerns in search of some data for this morning's white-collar discussion. And after gathering together some material for me, the several heads of the department with whom I had been talking said that they knew of no better evidence of those opportunities than the advancements that had taken place in their own office during the 17 years that it had been operating. They brought out a list of the personnel of the office at the time it was started and pointed out the name of one man who had begun as hardly more than an office boy and was now assistant director of personnel for the entire corporation. Then to another who had started in a clerical capacity and was now one of the heads of the statistical department. And to still another who had also started in a clerical position and was now assistant to the president of one of their principal subsidiaries. I would also like to state that, uh, in my own bank, I would estimate that almost half of our officers, uh, began either as messengers or in clerical positions. So that I would think the opportunities were unlimited for the white-collar worker, uh, with aptitude and initiative. Well, I think in our own business, uh, Marshall Field and Company, that, um, it is significant to point out that, uh, of our whole executive supervisory force, 89 percent of them started in the ranks. And, uh, of our top executive group, with only a couple of exceptions, our managers started in the ranks. And also, I think it's worth pointing out that, uh, a great many, uh, business organizations today are making careful studies of their jobs and the job requirements. And they are setting forth, uh, the, uh, qualifications that are needed for this type and this level of job. And those, uh, opportunities then are made available to individuals as they are actually selected frequently by business itself for promotion and further training into higher responsibility. I wonder if there isn't another side of the picture, however, too, which we mustn't overlook. Namely, that getting ahead today, after all, is a matter of degree and probably isn't as easy as it used to be. For one thing, we have more intensive competition amongst a larger group of better trained individuals. We have a tendency towards stratification. And I would say, although Horatio Alger hasn't disappeared from the scene by any means, uh, he doesn't have quite such easy slating as he had 30 or 40 years ago. Well, Holman, in the old days, when a man couldn't get ahead in the business, he went out and started his own business. And it is true that the frontiers, as we've heard so often, have disappeared in part. Because that raises another question, namely that in order to get ahead today, it means in some cases, perhaps in many cases, not only ability and ambition, but capital. And, uh, in many cases, if a white-collar worker wants to go into business for himself, he's up against the problem of capital, which again is more and more difficult to get in the sense that you need more and more capital to start the average business than you did 30 or 40 years ago. Now, I was interested in some of the, the, uh, statistics that Mr. Clark gave us earlier in the discussion, see if I quote these correctly, that we have now some 25 white-collar workers for every 100 blue-collar workers. Is that, uh, that's right? And it represents a very considerable increase over the last few decades? Yes, it represents an increase of 250 percent since 1900. Which, uh, which, uh, suggests, uh, to me, uh, uh, uh, the question whether or not we're, uh, we're getting too many of these, uh, white-collar workers. Are the schools and colleges, uh, Anticott, preparing too many men for these, uh, white-collar jobs? Well, my general answer to that question would be no. In the first place, it's, uh, presumed that they are needed in business and business, uh, is interested in having them and actually employing them and providing opportunities for them. And they play such an important role in the, in the whole, uh, business, uh, cycle in our country today that I, uh, I wouldn't say that we are preparing too many. Aren't, aren't we getting, uh, too many people? I've heard it said, you've heard it said, too many people who are afraid to get their hands dirty, who are afraid to go out and do, uh, uh, an honest day's work. Well, I think that that is a fair criticism. Uh, I think the colleges and the high schools have been partially responsible for not, uh, in the past, possibly, uh, creating a proper understanding of what business requires, that you do have to get your hands dirty, so to speak. Uh, however, it doesn't mean necessarily getting actual dirt under your fingernails, but doing the un, uh, attractive jobs. But I will say this too, that I believe that the universities and, uh, uh, Mr. Endicott here and his associates have done a, a significant job towards starting, towards conditioning these young people to expect less than a big flat top desk when they first get out of school, and, uh, a secretary and a couple of telephones and so forth and so on. Of course, I think this argument may be overdone. I don't feel that the average young American has nearly such a strong allergy to dirty hands as we sometimes suppose. I think what is involved though is the matter of social status and the perfectly normal and on the whole thoroughly desirable ambition of most parents to see that their children get into jobs better than they had. And getting ahead in the world today means, uh, more training, more education, a closer approach to professional work. Now, that raises the question as to whether the average, uh, white-collar worker gets an adequate return to cover the educational costs which he or his parents had to undergo amongst other things. Because by and large, they certainly have more education than, uh, blue-collar workers. Of course, you get, uh, as you know very well, uh, Professor Holman, there are many rewards in education, uh, quite apart from, uh, from earning a living. Uh, and I think all of us around here would, would recognize that. Whether a man wears a white-collar or a blue-collar, in our kind of society, he certainly can profit, uh, from a, uh, from an education, whether it be a high school education or a, a college or, or university education. And I think you would all wish me to go on, on record to, to that effect. But, uh, you, you said a minute ago, uh, Gorby, that, uh, you didn't, it wasn't so much when I referred to the people getting their hands dirty, of, of actually getting, literally getting dirt under their fingernails. I, I think there are people who feel that we're getting too many people who are afraid to get dirt under their fingernails. Uh, people who want, uh, uh, desk jobs. Uh, Well, I happen to believe that, uh, uh, there is something, uh, uh, to use a big word, therapeutic about getting out into, uh, uh, a garden and getting next to earth, the earth. Unfortunately, a lot of our, uh, white-collar workers do not have that opportunity. So that, uh, I'm agreeing that you, it's a desirable thing. But there are people that, uh, are restricted to, uh, doing a, a clerical type of job. And, uh, well, now I've been, I've, I think I've been guilty of skirting the question I really wish to ask. Uh, aren't a lot of these white-collar workers, and this is unkind, but, uh, I'll be forgiven, I'm sure, because I'm one of them. Uh, leeches in our society, living off, uh, the, these, these boys who are really out there producing the vegetables and the wheat and the corn and making the wheels go round. I'd like to jump in on that and say that, uh, the, the people that are making the wheels go round, as you say, in producing the goods would not be able to market those goods if it were not for the white-collar workers. So I think, uh, instead of being a leech, they are just merely playing a different role in our economic society. But I won't accept the, uh, the challenge that they are a leech. Well, I'm glad to hear you say that. No, I wouldn't either. I think both have vital spots in the economic role, and we wouldn't have any economy without one or the other. This is a little bit like trying to solve the problem of which blade of a pair of scissors does the cutting. But I would say that, uh, that the white-collar workers in their role of salesmen and clerical jobs are going to be more important in the future than they've been in the past, because we're going to have to spend more of our time in distributing and selling goods proportionately and less in making them. And that's where your white-collar worker comes in par excellence, of course. There's no question but what, uh, the production process has got itself to a point where it's doing a highly effective job and turning out sometimes more than we need. So we've got to get that salesman in there to distribute the goods. Now several times in this discussion, you've identified the white-collar worker very largely with the process of distribution as distinguished from the process of production. I take it that's a fair identification? Well, uh, yes, I have so, because it's possible my interests uh, lie in that direction. But nevertheless, I still believe that the process of getting the goods out, uh, devolves upon management. And management gets much of its aid from the white-collar worker in the accounting and the banking and finance end of the business. I think we should have emphasized the fact that we're talking about distributive and service trades. You have a lot of white-collar workers in the service trades, which are also becoming more and more important. I think we should also point out that people seem to be demanding more and more of different kinds of services. And so that whole, uh, group of workers has grown because the public seems to demand more services from them. Well, you, you gentlemen seem to be quite optimistic about the, the opportunities, uh, ahead for the, the white-collar worker. Uh, what does he face in the, in the, uh, in the immediate future? If these people are identified as they appear to be with the distributive, uh, processes, there, aren't there a few rumblings in our economy which suggest that, uh, that these, some of these fellows might have trouble? Well, there undoubtedly are some soft spots appearing in some industries, but I believe that the tempo of general business is still sufficiently strong to provide jobs and the white-collar group for all capable candidates. In other words, my answer would be that the opportunities are still favorable. That raises another question as to how far mechanization is tending to cut into the jobs of white-collar workers. Would you say it, Mr. Clark, it's to a smaller degree than in production? I think to, very decidedly, to a smaller degree. Of course, over here in the field of retailing, uh, I suspect that the, uh, machine will replace only in a limited, uh, degree the human element. As a matter of fact, uh, a man tried to start a store not long ago which he called the Caduzal. Pardon me? The Caduzal. It got quite a bit of play in the recent magazines, and the Caduzal was a conveyor belt arrangement whereby the customer just met one human being, uh, only once throughout the process, and the result was... That's when he paid his bill? That's when he paid his bill, and, uh, while I don't know all the reasons for the failure of this Caduzal. Nevertheless, I would suspect it might be because the customer wanted to meet a human live being in the process of going through her shopping. Sounds a little like the, the, uh, automat in the, in the restaurant. Of course, uh, teachers have been told for years that they might be replaced, you know, by, uh, uh, sound record player or a motion picture or something of that sort. I don't think it'll ever happen. Heaven forbid! Um, Clark, I want to ask you, uh, uh, uh, another question of some importance, and, and it's, it's relevant to this discussion we've been having about the identification of the, of the white-collar worker with the, the, uh, the distributive system. Uh, in what ways do you think, uh, that, uh, this class is, is identified with the, the free enterprise system as we know it in America? Well, I believe that they can well be characterized as the very backbone of the free enterprise system. I have been associated with white-collar workers all my business life, and I find that if they're satisfied with their jobs and their opportunities and their environment, they're loyal employees and excellent citizens. Able as most of them are to think constructively and to act upon their own initiative and admiring success, but willing to compete with others in, in attaining it, and above all else, disliking regimentation. They're such an integral part of free enterprise that it's impossible for me to conceive of a healthy and vigorous free enterprise system without them. Would you agree with that, Holman? To the extent that, uh, they probably represent less regimentation and greater opportunity for individual effort than the production worker, yes. I think that's definitely true. Would you agree with that, Gorby? Yes, sir. Well, we've identified the, the white-collar worker here, and we've discovered we have some 15 million of them in our society, closely related to the distributive processes in our society, and as Mr. Clark has just pointed out, uh, contributing importantly to our free enterprise system. I'm sorry, but our time is up. You've been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What is the Future of the White-collar Worker? We want to thank our guests for today. Philip Clark, Chairman of the Board of the City National Bank and Trust Company, Chicago, Frank Endicott, Director of Placement at Northwestern University, Paul Gorby, Manager of Central Personnel Services for Marshall Field and Company, and Elmo Homan, Professor of Economics at Northwestern University. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's discussion, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin, or you may want to subscribe to the reviewing stand at a cost of only one dollar for the next 12 weeks, three dollars for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, returns to tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, What does Soviet territorial expansion mean to us? Our guests will be W. Gordon East, Professor of Political Geography at the University of London, Richard Hartshorn, Professor of Political Geography and Chairman of the Department of Geography at the University of Wisconsin, Chauncey Harris, Professor of Soviet Geography at the University of Chicago, and Malcolm Proudfoot, Professor of European Geography University of Wisconsin, and Professor of Political Geography at Northwestern University. Be sure to be with us next week when we discuss the important question, What does Soviet territorial expansion mean to us? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Koffer. This is the world's largest network, the Mutual Broadcasting System. Director of History of Houston, Minnesota Thompson Live, President Ross Gow