Mr. Mayor, members of the department that we promoted, friends, families of the newly appointed men, a new little grown-up men. This is the first opportunity that the new police commissioner has had to perform a duty that is attractive not only to the members of the department, but brings great pleasure to me personally. Through the goodness and kindness of the mayor and his effort to keep up the morale of the police department and to keep it up to its full strength for efficiency purposes, he has willingly gone along to give us the promotions to keep that state of efficiency that we so desire. It gives me great pleasure at this time, Your Honor, to present to you and commend to you for promotion to the rank of Assistant Chief Inspector in the police department, Deputy Chief Goldstein. Thank you. To the rank of Assistant Chief Inspector, Conrad Rothemges. To the acting Assistant Chief Inspector in the Detective Bureau, Patrick Kenney. The Deputy Chief Inspector, Walter C. Sullivan. The Deputy Chief Inspector, John Dykeman. To the acting Deputy Chief Inspector, Michael Ledden. Mr. Herbert Golden. steadfast dough. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thomas Nielsen. The Deputy Inspector, Thomas Conley. The Deputy Inspector, John E. Flynn. The Deputy Inspector, Thomas E. Dowling. And now an appreciation of the intelligent and honest work, the long years of service, that have been given to the police department by three great members of the department who have earned it, strictly on their merits. It gives me great deal of pleasure to commend to you and to square in at this time, Your Honor, three Deputy Commissioners. The first Deputy Commissioner, a man who I commend to you highly, is one of our most intelligent police officers who has performed great police duty down through the years with an unblemished record, former Assistant Chief Inspector, John J. Martin. Thank you, Mr. Martin. Thank you, Mr. Martin. Do you solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of New York, and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the First Deputy Police Commission and the Police Department of the City of New York, according to the defense of your ability? Yes. And the second Deputy Police Commissioner, former Assistant Chief Inspector John J. Martin. Yes. And the second Deputy Police Commissioner, former Assistant Chief Inspector John J. Martin. Mr. Speaker John J. O'Connor. Do you solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that you will faithfully discharge the verdict of your office, the Second National Police Commission, and the Police Department of the State of New York, according to the best of your ability? I do. Thank you. We find it's very necessary in the performance of the duties of the office and the Fort Deputy Commissioner in taking charge of licenses to get a man with a great experience. I commend to you, Patrick J. Meehan. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Do you solemnly swear that you will support the Constitution of the United States, the Constitution of the State of New York, and that you will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Fort Deputy Police Commissioner and the Police Department of the City of New York according to the best of your ability? I do. As you recognize, this is a happy occasion. It's a happy occasion to reward members of the department who have performed great service. Everybody in the department will recognize these promotions as being promotions strictly on merit. That is the way it is going to be, and that's the way it must be. Anybody that expects promotion in the department must get it by hard, diligent, intelligent work. And when you earn it, I'm sure that it will give me a great deal of pleasure to be able to stand here and recognize what you have done. Now, all of this is possible, of course, as I said before, through the kind-heartedness, the interest of the, uh, mayor of the City of New York to keep the police department up to a high level. A former policeman himself, he recognizes what is necessary in the department. Without further ado, I would like to present to you his honor, the mayor of the City of New York, William O'Dwyer. Commissioner, Reverend Chaplin, Honorary and Deputy Commissioners, Guests, the men who have been promoted, relatives and friends. The promotions are ones that reflect great credit on our new commissioner. And with this type of manpower on top side, we can look for a continuation of the fine administration of Arthur Wallander by Commissioner O'Brien. And that is exactly as it should be. To the two gentlemen whose dine, old friends of mine, very old friends of mine, John Ryan and Jim Sheehy. I ask from everyone, in view of their splendid and long records, during which time they honored their department and their city. A prayer to God who has done so good to them, up to now, will continue to bless them with good health and happiness for many years to come. To the new men who have been promoted here today, there is something that goes with the honor that is more, increased responsibility. To the new men who have been promoted here today, there are many disturbing factors with which heretofore you struggled lower in the ranks. Now, you have undertaken the obligation of direction and supervision to a greater degree. You come in to your new duties at a time when it is evident that the yellow dog funds of corruption in Croker's time are still around. You have to be on your guard. You have to be on your guard. On many fronts. The public must continue to be well served. Honestly and faithfully served. Honestly and faithfully served. By our beloved police department. To each and every one of you, you will have my best wishes. You'll have my unqualified support. All that's needed is to do an honest job and a good job. You can do that and you will do it without any interference from any court. The rest, gentlemen, is up to you. God bless you, everyone. Thank you.