Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This is Seymour M. Siegel speaking to you from the Municipal Building, and that time signal indicates that throughout New York City the polls have just closed, and the Municipal Broadcasting System has made elaborate and careful arrangements to bring to you the returns from the focal points throughout the city. We have installed our microphones by remote control on the lineup floor in police headquarters where Tommy Cowan and Herbert Stone are prepared to bring you the information as the City News Association gathers it. We have our microphone at Times Square, that traditional election night spot where Ted Cott will bring you the returns from the New York Times bulletin board and describe the scene where thousands of people gather annually in Times Square. Our microphones are installed at the Lehman headquarters on East 42nd Street in the Shannon Building, and Tony Marvin and Dick Pack are up there to bring you interviews and statements and reports and returns from all over the country. Likewise, in the Dewey headquarters on West 44th Street, George Ward and Russ Johns are there to bring you like information. Here in our studios in the Municipal Building, we've established a rather elaborate setup. We have a core of tabulators, a crew of statisticians, Mr. David Lazar, Professor Roy Peel of the Department of Government of New York University will analyze the returns from time to time. And now, before we bring you some of the preliminary reports which are already beginning to come in from all over the country, we'll take our little radio tour for a brief description at our remote points. We take you now to police headquarters. Come in, Tommy Callen. Here we are at police headquarters where Commissioner Valentine and the police department and the facilities of the gymnasium here in police headquarters are all wired and keyed up for complete election returns, city, state, and national. Pickups from the headquarters of the three major parties and central police headquarters as well will come to you in the course of the evening. Professor Roy Peel and Mr. David Lazar of New York University will analyze returns and you may be assured of a complete analysis of the entire situation as well as authoritative returns as they are received. The gymnasium here in police headquarters presents a very busy scene indeed as it has on many previous occasions of the same kind. Every facility that technical facilities may offer in the way of wiring and communications is here at the hand and disposal of everybody. Teletype machines, telephones, radio, in fact, telegraph every known means of communication is here to keep you, fellow New Yorkers, fellow citizens, completely informed of everything that will transpire in the course of the evening until the voter's decision in the matter of who is elected comes in the final returns. And now, as the forces here are more or less organizing and there is very little to tell you about as yet, but more particulars later, of course, we take you now to the next remote point, but in the meantime, return you to the municipal building for switching to that point. We're back in the municipal building again, ladies and gentlemen, and we take you up to Times Square. Come in, Teddy Cott. Ladies and gentlemen, our first greeting of the night comes to you from the crossroads of the world at 43rd Street in Times Square. We are now situated at the police information booth facing the north end of the New York Times building. The New York Times, in cooperation with the Western Union, has caused a bulletin board to be erected upon which from time to time will be flashed the various results as they come into a booth directly behind this police booth. At the present time, they are simply testing, flashing pictures of Governor Lehman and his opponent in this very exciting campaign this year, Thomas E. Dewey. There will also be the revolving bulletin board, which at present is giving forth some very few bulletins from the various parts of the state. There have been 14 arrests in New York City for illegal registration. The vote in New York City is heavy, and both sides remain confident. These are bulletins which we have written down as they've been flashed in these last few seconds. The Republican gubernatorial candidate is leading in Kansas in the early returns, and in Massachusetts in the early returns, Curley is losing. The New York Times has also arranged a series of light signals, and in various parts of New York City, you, the people of New York, will be able to see them. And in order that you may understand them better, we now very briefly give you a resume of them. In the election for governor, a ring of white lights will indicate that Lehman has been elected. A ring of red lights will indicate that Dewey has been elected. A white ring above the red ring will indicate that Lehman is leading, and the red ring above the white ring will mean that Dewey is leading. In regard to the Senate election, the steady beam to the south indicates that Wagner is elected. The steady beam to the north, that O'Brien is elected. A steady beam to the east will indicate that Meade is elected, and a steady beam to the west means that Corsi is elected. Well, that's all for the present from the crossroads of the world. This is Ted Cott returning you to our studios atop the municipal building. Back in the municipal building, the first election return reported in New York City was that of the 42nd election district of the 10th assembly district. The result was for Governor Lehman, one vote. For Thomas E. Dewey, none. The single vote was cast by Rabbi Nathan Wolf of the Times Square Synagogue, lone registrant in the election district. It cost the city approximately $500 for Rabbi Wolf to vote as the normal number of election clerks, police, etc. were on duty to record it. And now let's go up to Governor Lehman's headquarters in the Shannon building. Come in, Tony Marvin. Well, good evening, ladies and gentlemen and everybody. We're up here at Governor Lehman's headquarters at Lexington Avenue and 42nd Street in the borough of Manhattan. At the present time, the room we are in is just directly outside of Governor Lehman's private office, in which, of course, we have our microphones. And as soon as the governor makes his appearance there, we will bring him to you via radio. But, of course, there's a long story attached to that. And our special events man, Mr. Richard Pack, will tell you more about that a little later on. In the meantime, let us try to describe to you just where we are situated and how. We're up on the sixth floor of the Shannon building. That's 122 42nd Street. At the present time, more uniformed policemen than there are people in civilian clothes. There are probably about three or four squads of patrolmen here, numbering about 40 men, standing around, looking very natty and spruce in their blue uniforms, and numerous messages and messengers, I should say, and lots of other people running around here looking very, very busy. But at the present time, none of the candidates have made their appearance. We are quite well equipped here to bring you the latest developments as they come through to us here at the Democratic headquarters. And, of course, barring any delays which should not come up, we will bring you exactly what is occurring here as it occurs. And now, Richard Pack, will you come in and tell us about the situation with Governor Lehman? The scene here rather reminds one of a, well, setting a scene for a play. There's going to be a very exciting play put on here tonight, a very exciting drama, rather. And as yet no one knows what's going to be a drama with a happy ending or a sad ending. But meanwhile, everyone's very excited, and not only are the policemen rushing around, but the engineers and announcers from all the radio stations. And I just spoke to some of the campaign committee members of Lehman's committee, and they tell me that the governor's expected here about 9 o'clock this evening. He'll be in this little glass partition office, which we see through from our vantage point here. Governor Lehman will be there with Mrs. Lehman, Peter Lehman, his son, and Mrs. Peter Lehman, and we'll probably be able to try and get them on the air for you when they come. But meanwhile, I think that's about all we have from now from Lehman headquarters, and we'll return you to the municipal building. And now we'll take you for a brief visit to the Dewey headquarters on West 44th Street. Come in, West Johns. Good evening, everyone. This is George Ward speaking. Good evening. Speaking to you from the headquarters of Thomas E. Dewey at 7 East 44th Street. The general story at the present time from the Dewey headquarters, of course, reports have not as yet come in for our information, but the general highlight here at the present time seems to be the air of optimism. Promptly at 6 o'clock sharp, the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey paid our radio room here a visit. All the large network stations are represented, of course, here in this radio room, as well as some of the smaller stations. And the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey made a tour of the building. This building at 7 East 44th Street. We are occupying four floors. When I say we, I mean the headquarters of the Republican candidate, the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey. Mr. Dewey was followed, of course, around the various floors of the building by the many news cameramen present, and there was much going on of flashbulbs and taking of pictures. Mr. Dewey was very busy examining some maps of the state of New York, and got quite a laugh from the audience here, his lieutenants and his campaign aides, as well as the newsmen, the cameramen. When he picked up a map, looked at it, and as they were snapping his picture, said, Gentlemen, we are now looking at Albany County. That received quite a laugh from everybody present. The general report to give you at the present time is the feeling of complete optimism that seems to pervade the entire building here. Everybody working here seems to have a great big smile, and they're all wearing long sleeves, so we don't know what's up anybody's sleeve at the present time. But there's the general feeling of optimism prevailing, and the greatest optimist of all at the present time, seems to be the candidate himself, the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey. Now, I'll just let you have a word from my co-annoncer, Mr. Russ Johns. Thank you, George. I think you've covered that situation pretty thoroughly. You've left nothing for me to say except for the sartorially minded, and for them I'd like to say that Mr. Dewey is wearing a blue-green single-breasted suit, white shirt, maroon-figured tie, and white pocket handkerchief, looking absolutely rested and as relaxed as you could expect anyone to look after the huge time he's had lately, and having great fun with the press back in the press room. And until we have further news to bring to you, we return you to general headquarters in the municipal building. We're back here in the municipal building, and our first returns from the largest city in Missouri, St. Louis. Forty-one precincts of Missouri's 4,432 tonight, gave for United States Senator, Senator Bennett Champ Clark, 4,670, Henry S. Caulfield, the Republican, 2,524. From Medina, Missouri, we see where Champ Clark was running ahead two to one of his Republican rival, former Governor Henry S. Caulfield, in the United States senatorial race. An hour later, Bolton, from Boston, Massachusetts, Leverett Sultanstall, Republican, showed substantial gains, and was leading his Democratic opponent, James M. Curley, in the first five towns reporting this afternoon in the gubernatorial election. The vote was Sultanstall, 966, Curley, 302. More returns, this time from the hometown of the late President Calvin Coolidge, Northampton, Massachusetts. A marked trend toward the Republican state and county tickets, and a decisive defeat for a parimutual betting, were indicated early tonight in an early count of today's vote. Leverett Sultanstall, a Republican, led Curley, the Democrat, 379 to 329 on the first few blocks counted. Parimutual betting on horses was voted down, 311 to 209, while parimutual betting on dogs was opposed, 326 to 161. Trailing with Curley on the early count was the entire Democratic ticket. Democratic leaders asserted, however, that the first few returns could not be considered a definite criterion of the ultimate outcome of the local vote, but they were plainly worried by the preliminary trend, according to a report received from the International News Service. And now the reports are starting to come in from New York City, but while we gather these and get them ready for you on the air, we're going to present some music for you from the Amsterdam String Ensemble, which is located in our studio D here in the Municipal Building. The Anastasia Insemble The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End The End