How do you do, ladies and gentlemen? It's January 1st, 1952. We're talking to you from the council chambers at Historic City Hall. The occasion being the swearing in of some 28 new appointees of office by the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arm Pelletere. The council chamber is jam-packed with relatives and friends of the new appointees. The Mayor has just come into the chamber. Here is the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arm Pelletere. First of all, let me wish you a very happy New Year. May we have complete silence during the swearing in ceremonies. And later on, if the newspaper photographers want to take photographs, we'll all wait around and give them every kind of cooperation. I, Ella Hue Root, Jr. Do solemnly swear That I will support the Constitution of the United States And the Constitution of the State of New York That I will faithfully discharge the duties That I will faithfully discharge the duties Of the office of Of the office of Of the office of Layman member of the Art Commission Layman member of the Art Commission Of the City of New York Of the City of New York According to the best of my ability According to the best of my ability Thank you. Congratulations, Pastor. Mayor Mellon Pelletere has just sworn in Ellie Hue Root, Jr. As a layman member of the Art Commission Of the City of New York In a moment, Mr. Alan Cox Will be sworn in As another member of the Art Commission The Art Commission Determines to a large extent The quality and the quantity of Art Throughout the City These positions are non-salaried But are extremely important Mr. Alan Cox Mr. Alan Cox Steps across the Council Chamber Here in City Hall Steps up to the dais The Mayor is awaiting the opportunity To swear a man Aye Aye Alan Cox Alan Cox Do solemnly swear Do solemnly swear That. I will support the Constitution of the United States That. I will support the Constitution of the United States And the Constitution of the State of New York And the Constitution of the State of New York That. I will faithfully discharge And I will faithfully discharge Duties of the Office Of The duties of the Office Of Painter member of the Art Commission Painter member of the Art Commission Of the City of New York Of the City of New York According to the best of my ability the best of viability. Congratulations. Mr. Cox now steps off the dais. The mayor is about to call Mr. George J. Balbeck Who is to be sworn in as a trustee of the Queensborough Public Library I George J. Balbeck do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of Member of the Board of Trustees Member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library Queensborough Public Library The City of New York The City of New York According to the best of my ability According to the best of my ability Congratulations. Another trustee to the Queensborough Public Library to be sworn in is Mr. J. E. Lawry Mr. Wilhaẩy Thank you forv 망-lリ Thank you. I. I., J. E. Lawry J. E. Lowry Do solemnly swear Do solemnly swear That I will support the Constitution of the United States That I will support the Constitution of the United States And the Constitution of the State of New York And the Constitution of the State of New York And that I will faithfully discharge And I will faithfully discharge The duties of the office of The duties of the office of of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Thank you very much. That was Mr. Lewis Gertz. Mr. Louis Gertz. I, Louis Gertz, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of a member of the Board of Trustees member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library Queensborough Public Library of the City of New York of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Thank you very much. And the next is Mr. Arthur Lovett as a member of the Board of Education. Colonel Arthur Lovett. I, Arthur Lovett, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the duties of the Office of member of the Board of Education member of the Board of Education of the City of New York of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Thank you. Mr. Lovett has been sworn in as a member of the Board of Education. Next, Mr. Charles J. Sterler as a member of the City Planning Commission. Charles J. Sterler. I, Charles J. Sterler, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of member of the City Planning Commission of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Well, that was Charles J. Sterler sworn in as a member of the City Planning Commission and now Joseph F. Mafferra as a commissioner of the Tax Department of the Board of Education. Joseph F. Mafferra. I... I, Joseph Mafferra... do solemnly swear... do solemnly swear... that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of and the duties of the Office of tax commissioner and the City of New York and the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Congratulations. Well, that was Joseph Mafferra and I have been sworn in as tax commissioner of the City of New York and now Judge John V. Downey. John V. Downey. I... I... John V. Downey... John V. Downey... I... do solemnly swear... do solemnly swear... that I will support the Constitution of the United States... that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge... that I will faithfully discharge... the duties of the Office of... the duties of the Office of... the Duties of the Office of... Justice of the Municipal Court... ...Justice of the Municipal Court... and... in the 2nd District Borough of Queens... in the 2nd District Borough of Queens... in the City of New York City of New York... according to the best of my ability... According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. being sworn in as Justice of the Municipal Court. And now, Vincent M. Tremarco, Justice of the Municipal Court of the First District of the Bronx. I, Vincent M. Tremarco, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Justice of the Municipal Court and the First District Borough of the Bronx of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. That was Judge Vincent M. Tremarco. And now, Murray Perlman, Justice of the Municipal Court of the Sixth District of Brooklyn. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I, Murray Perlman, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge and that I will faithfully discharge duties of the Office of the duties of the Office of Justice of the Municipal Court Justice of the Municipal Court in the Sixth District Borough of Brooklyn in the Sixth District Borough of Brooklyn in the Sixth District Borough of Brooklyn in the City of New York of the City of New York according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability. The military has just sworn in Justice Murray Perlman for the Municipal Court Sixth District of Brooklyn. And I will believe the mayor will call some of the city magistrates. I believe Louis A. Panuco. Louis A. Panuco. Louis A. Panuco. I, Louis A. Panuco, Louis A. Panuco, solemnly swear to solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States. that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the duties of the Office of the City Magistrates of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. That was Magistrate Louis A. Panuco. And now, David L. Malvin. Also for the Office of City Magistrate. David L. Malvin. I, David L. Malvin, David L. Malvin, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States. that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and I will faithfully discharge that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the duties of the Office of City Magistrate of the City of New York of City Magistrate of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. I have a AK. Magistrate Abner C. Surplus, I, Abner C. Surplus, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of City Magistrate of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Mayor Impoletari has just sworn in Magistrate Abner C. Surplus to another term as City Magistrate. Luckily, lower. Ludwig G. Glower is now stepping up to the dais. I, Ludwig Glower, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the City Magistrate of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Mayor Impoletari has just sworn in Ludwig G. Glower as City Magistrate. And now Amado Louis Loretano. Amadeo L. Loretano. I, Amadeo L. Loretano, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge discharge the duties of the office of the duties of the office of city magistrate of the city of new york city magistrate of the city of new york according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability congratulations and now has just sworn in a.l lototana and now jack l nickel jack l nickel but nothing but something City Magistrate of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Mayor Pelletieri has just sworn in, Jack L. Mickle, as a City Magistrate. And now, Alexander DelGiorno. Alexander DelGiorno. Aye. Aye. Alexander DelGiorno. Alexander DelGiorno. To solemnly swear. To solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of New York. And the Constitution of the State of New York. That I will faithfully discharge. That I will faithfully discharge. The duties of the Office of. The duties of the Office of. City Magistrate of the City of New York. City Magistrate of the City of New York. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. dos Justy. Alexander DelGiorno has just been sworn in as a City Magistrate and now Corning G. McKinney. Corning G. McKinney. I, Corning G. McKinney, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of City Magistrate, of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. Corning G. McKinney has just been sworn in as the 8th Magistrate and now we believe the Mayor will call Hyman Barche. Hyman Barche. This is for the position of Justice of the Court of Special Sessions. I, Hyman Barche, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, and that I will faithfully discharge and I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the duties of the Office of Associate Justice of the Court of Special Sessions, Associate Justice of the Court of Special Sessions, of the City of New York, of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. The Supreme Court of the Court of the Court of Special Sessions. And now, Ambrose J. Haddock. Ambrose J. Haddock. Ambrose J. Haddock. Ambrose J. Haddock. I, Ambrose J. Haddock, Ambrose J. Haddock, do solemnly swear, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Associate Justice of the Court of Special Sessions, of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. The Supreme Court of the Justice of my Ability. Ambrose J. Haddock, as an Associate Justice of the Court of Special Sessions, and now, Edward Thompson. I, Edward Thompson, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Associate Justice of the Court of Special Sessions of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. Edward Thompson has just been sworn in as a Justice of the Court of Special Sessions. And now, Emilio Nunez. Emilio Nunez. I, Emilio Nunez, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Associate Justice of the Court of Special Sessions of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. That was Emilio Nunez sworn in as Justice of the Court of Special Sessions. The last appointee for the same position is Gerald P. Culkin. Gerald P. Culkin. I, Gerald P. Culkin, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Associate Justice of the Court of Special Sessions of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. That was Gerald P. Culkin sworn in as Justice of the Court of Special Sessions. And now we believe the mayor will swear in a Transportation Commissioner, James Francis Delegant. James Francis Delegant. James Francis Delegant. James Francis Delegant. James Francis Delegant. Do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I shall support the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution of the State of New York. Constitution of the State of New York. That I will faithfully discharge. I will faithfully discharge. That I will faithfully discharge. The duties of the Office of. The duties of the Office of. Member of the Board of Transportation of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. That was James Francis Delegate, and now we believe Sidney H. Bingham, Chairman of the Board of Transportation, is to be sworn in for a new term. Sidney H. Bingham. Aye. Aye. Sidney H. Bingham. Iman do solemnly swear. Do solemnly swear. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. That I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of New York. That I will faithfully discharge. I will faithfully discharge. The duties of the Office of. The duties of the Office of. Chairman of the Board of Transportation. Chairman of the Board of Transportation. Of the City of New York. Of the City of New York. According to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Colonel Sidney H. Bingham has been sworn in to a new term as chairman of the Board of Transportation. And now Philip J. Cruz as chairman of the New York City Housing Authority. I, Philip J. Cruz, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States. And I will support the Constitution of the United States. And the Constitution of the State of New York. And the Constitution of the State of New York. And that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Chairman of the New York City Housing Authority According to the best of my ability. Philip J. Cruz has just been sworn in as the chairman of the New York City Housing Authority Housing Authority and now John C. Mayer as chairman of the Parole Commission. John C. Maher. I, John C. Maher, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States. The Constitution of the State of New York. I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Chairman of the Parole Commission of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. Mayor Impelle Torre has just sworn in John C. Maher as chairman of the Parole Commission, and that is the last of the appointments to be made this morning. We have been talking to you from the council chambers at City Hall, where a capacity crowd has filled the chambers for the purpose of witnessing the New Year's Day swearing-in of some 28 new appointees to public office by the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelle Torre. We take our leave now as the photographers record the swearing-in of many of these new appointees, some in groups and some individually, and as the press swarms up forward. Just keep your seats until the photographers take the pictures that they'd like to take, please. At any event, the ceremonies here, so far as the broadcast portion are concerned, are apparently at an end. We take our leave from the council chambers of City Hall. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Please find a state. I say half year quake. I'm the only fellow that sent you a letter of resignation. All the other folks took the job. They gave mine up. You'll get it on mine. Good luck here. Mr. Mayor, are you going to call these, are you going to call the names out? What do you call them? Any particular order on what you're going? Yeah. Do you want to number them? Yes. Start off at the bottom. Start at the bottom. Root is 1. Knox is 2. Ballback is 3. Lowy is 4. Berks is 5. Leveret is 6. Sherlock is 7. Macbeth is 4. Tommy is 9. Tomaco is 10. Berks is 11. And you go Magistrate. Çefon Ove. 12. Malvern is 13. Surtur's 14. rookie. Mar close I see. Algelost. Elekmi. DE 100. CR إلالكس 23, ok. ע peas BYken تنمي، ‒ practice you 아닐 Purdue, emoc surrounded by library systems które phi curricula TV da pouец montreal i can't tell you agчик Dина MRS. now this class off has been granted in adjustment of the industry makes飛び esses amén you know that's enough for ee 보니까 of course you're notazzi I don't they're gonna they're gonna think they're gonna take the January 1st, 1952, we're talking to you from the council chambers in historic City Hall, the occasion being the swearing-in of some 28 Honorable Vincent Arm-Poletere. I am packed with relatives and friends of the new appointees. The mayor has just come into the chamber. Here is the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent Arm-Poletere. I wish you a very happy New Year. May we have complete silence during the swearing-in ceremonies, and later on if they want to take photographs, we'll all wait around. I, Ella Hugh Root, Jr., do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of of the office of Layman, member of the Art Commission Layman, member of the Art Commission of the City of New York of the City of New York according to the best of my ability according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Mayor Pelletary has just sworn in, Ellie Hugh Root, Jr., as a layman member of the Art Commission of the City of New York. In a moment, Mr. Alan Cox will be sworn in as another member of the Art Commission. The Art Commission determines, to a large extent, the quality and the quantity of art throughout the city. These positions are non-salaried, but are extremely important. Mr. Alan Cox. Mr. Alan Cox steps across the council chamber here in City Hall, steps up to the dais. The mayor is awaiting the opportunity to swear a man. I, Alan Cox, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge, the duties of the office of, Painter, member of the Art Commission, Painter, member of the Art Commission, of the City of New York, of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Mr. Cox now steps off the dais. The mayor is about to call Mr. George J. Baalbeck, who is to be sworn in as a trustee of the Queensborough Public Library. I, George J. Baalbeck, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge, the duties of the office of, member of the Board of Trustees, of the Queensborough Public Library, of the Queensborough Public Library, of the City of New York, of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Congratulations. Congratulations. Another trustee to the Queensborough Public Library to be sworn in, Mr. J. E. Lawry. I, J. E. Lawry, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge, the duties of the office of, the duties of the office of, member of the Board of Trustees, member of the Board of Trustees, of the Queensborough Public Library, of the Queensborough Public Library, of the City of New York, of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Thank you very much. Thank you, sir. That was Mr. Lewis Gertz. Mr. Louis Gertz. I, Louis Gertz, do solemnly swear, do solemnly swear, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, that I will support the Constitution of the United States, and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge, faithfully discharge the duties of the office of member of the Board of Trustees of the Queensborough Public Library of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Thank you very much. And next is Mr. Arthur Lovett as a member of the Board of Education. Colonel Arthur Lovett. I, Arthur Lovett, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of member of the Board of Education of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Thank you. Mr. Lovett has been sworn in as a member of the Board of Education. Next, Mr. Charles J. Sterler is a member of the City Planning Commission. Charles J. Sterler. I, Charles J. Sterler, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the office of member of the City Planning Commission of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Well, that was Charles J. Sterler, sworn in as a member of the City Planning Commission and now Joseph F. Mafferra as a Commissioner of the Tax Department of the Borough of Cleanse. Joseph F. Mafferra. I, Joseph F. Mafferra, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of the duties of the Office of Tax Commissioner Tax Commissioner of the City of New York of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Thanks, sir. Well, that was Joseph Mafferra being sworn in as Tax Commissioner of the City of New York and now Judge John E. Dowley. I, John V. Downing, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Justice of the Municipal Court in the 2nd District Borough of Queens of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. Congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. And now, Vincent M. Tremarco, Justice of the Municipal Court of the 1st District of the Bronx. I, Vincent M. Tremarco, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Justice of the Municipal Court in the 1st District Borough of the Bronx of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. That was Judge Vincent M. Tremarco. And now, Murray Perlman, Justice of the Municipal Court of the 6th District of Brooklyn. Thank you. That's wonderful. Thank you. Thank you. I, Murray Perlman, Murray Perlman, do solemnly swear do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and the Constitution of the State of New York and that I will faithfully discharge and that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of Justice of the Municipal Court in the 6th District Borough of Brooklyn in the 6th District Borough of Brooklyn of the City of New York according to the best of my ability. The military is just sworn in Justice Murray Perlman for the Municipal Court 6th District of Brooklyn. And now we believe the mayor will call some of the, uh, city magistrates. I believe Louis A. Panucco. Louis A. Panucco. I, I, Louis A. Panucco. Louis A. Panucco. Louis A. Panucco. Louis A. Panucco. I'll solemnly swear. I'll solemnly swear I will support the Constitution of the United States. I will support the Constitution of the United States of New York, and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of City Magistrates of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. Congratulations. That was Magistrate Louis A. Ponyuko, and now David L. Malvin, also for the Office of City Magistrate. David L. Malvin. I, David L. Malvin, do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State of New York, that I will faithfully discharge the duties of the Office of City Magistrate of the City of New York, according to the best of my ability. According to the best of my ability. The mayor will call Magistrate Abner C. Surplus. The mayor will call Magistrate Abner C. Surplus. The mayor will call Magistrate Abner C. Surplus.