There's no business like no business like no business I know. Everything about it is appealing. Everything the traffic will allow. So where could you have that happy feeling when you are stealing that extra bow? There's no... We bring you now on stage, music and drama dedicated to the 31st Annual Appeal of New York Catholic Charities and starring Mary Martin, Ray Bolger, and Walter Hampton in highlights from their current Broadway hits. Your host and guide during this transcribed tour of New York's theatrical district is that popular producer and actor of the legitimate stage, Mr. Eddie Dowling. Mr. Dowling. Thank you. It's a great pleasure to present these great stars performing for a great cause. The Annual Fund Appeal of New York Catholic Charities. You know, many people don't feel the real parts of New York beating for its little people. Don't know what New York Catholic Charities does for homeless children and old folks, the sick and destitute. Don't realize that all of you do care about your needy neighbors. And among you, I include those warm-hearted, brilliant stars of show business who give their time and talent that others may look with hope to the future. So I started out to talk over with some of the stars what sort of show we might put on for Catholic Charities. The first person I thought of was Ray Bolger. Ray had done such a swell job for us during the war while I was president of the USO camp shows. I made an appointment to meet him at the St. James Theater where he's packing them in in that great musical comedy hit, Where's Charlie? Hello, Eddie. How are you? What's this all about? Well, Ray, New York Catholic Charities are running their annual appeal show now, and I'm trying to put together a show business radio program for them. Would you be willing to join up for it? Naturally. I mean, I'm indebted to the Catholic Charities for more reasons than one. Number one, I think it's more than a charity. It's a work of love. And secondly, I have been a recipient in my youth of some charity from the Catholic Charities many years ago when my father was sick, had double pneumonia, and my mother was ill, had no money in the house. Along came Christmas time and a big basket of food. Oh, my God. A turkey in Boston. You know. Oh. People don't always have time. Dear old Boston. Dear old turkey on Christmas time. Believe me, it was wonderful. Your show was such a smash hit. See, the audience certainly was with you the night I saw it, Ray. Well, that's a thrill because we have the most wonderful audience in the world. It's a great privilege to play, especially to that very discriminating youth. It's the most exciting thing on Saturday afternoon. to have them whistle and cheer and to know that you've got a show that's clean and pleasant and amusing. And also for the grown-ups, Eddie, we don't have any atom bombs and no spies and no political connotations. Well, the cast doesn't even wear modern clothes. It's to take you out of the world that we're living in today. One of the things that thrilled me when I saw you the other afternoon was the community scene. Oh, you mean, what's in love with Amy? Yeah. All those kids. You know, we started with a kid on the first matinee that we played. One little kid, well, I was singing Once in Love with Amy. He said, No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He did. And I said, Well, if you want to sing, we'll join right in and I gave him the lyrics. You know, the only other time that I ever recall hearing anything like that in a hit show was back in the 20s when Raymond Hitchcock was starring in one of his Hitchy Coo shows. He used to have the audience sing. Old-fashioned guy. Old-fashioned, that's right. Oh, sure. Every performance. Uh-huh. Well, he was a wonderful man, Hitchcock. Well, you know that you're not unlike him, right? There was a cute little number in Hitchy Coo by the name of Ray Dooley. Oh, me too. What? Whatever happened to her? Well, I know that you're just trying to get a gag and yet she's still a cute number. She changed her name from Dooley to Dowling a good many years ago. One of the things that's been a great thrill to me and very heartwarming is your wife. When we were first married, Gwen had a wonderful opportunity. She came here for Ziegfeld and could have gone on far in the theater, but she decided to give up her theatrical career and chose mine as her career. She was responsible for my first big break and she's co-producer of Where's Charlie. She's a remarkable person. Which one of the shows was it, Ray, that you did that sensational dance, Slaughter on 10th Avenue? On Your Toes. That was back in 1936. Mm-hmm. On Your Toes was the first ballet that was done, integrated ballet, in the show. and it was a very exciting thing for me to do because the first show that I'd ever got any real notice in as an individual. The Slaughter on 10th Avenue was a ballet that ran 15 minutes and came at the end of the show. The opening night that I was told that the audience cheered the ballet, but I had passed out. Let's not talk about me anymore, but let's talk about the Catholic Charities. I'd like that very much. My heart is very much in it, Ray. Well, you know, I read something in the newspaper today and said that the Catholic Charity is not a charity as a charity, but a work of love. Say, now, Ray and Amy would make a big hit on the Catholic Charity show. I think what we ought to do is to play Once in Love with Amy and let the audience hear it and then insist upon them giving something to the Catholic Charities. I can say insist in the sense that it's only an appeal, but I insist upon appealing. Boom. I caught you, sir, having a look at her as she went strolling by. Now, didn't your heart go boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, now, didn't you sigh? I warn you, sir, never to dream of her. Just bid such thoughts be gone or it'll be boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. From then on From then on For once in love with Amy Always in love with Amy Ever and ever fascinated by her Set your heart up fire To stay Once you're kissed By Amy Tear up your list It's Amy Ply her with bonbons Poetry and flowers Moon a million hours away You might be quite The fickle-hearted rover So carefree And bold Who loves a girl And later Thinks it over Then just Quit The code I was once In love With Amy Always in love With Amy Ever And ever Sweetly you'll romance her Trouble is The answer will be Ha, ha, ha, ha That Amy'd rather Stay in love With me Ever and ever Fascinated by her Oh, I'm so happy I want everybody to sing with me The next line Once you're kissed by Amy Once you're kissed By Amy Tear up your list It's Amy Tear up your list It's Amy Ply her with bonbons Poetry and flowers Ply her with bonbons Poetry and flowers Moon a million hours away Moon a million hours away Let me say You might be quite The fickle-hearted rover So carefree And bold Who loves a girl And later Thinks it over Then just Quit Cold Everybody sing Once in love with Amy Once in love With Amy Always in love with Amy Always in love with Amy Ever and ever Sweetly you romancer Ever and ever Sweetly you romancer Double is the answer Double is the answer Will be Ha ha ha ha That Amy'd rather Stay in love With me I'm sure that there isn't anybody That's heard us today Who has anything to spare That won't give it to Catholic Charities Because Catholic means Everything Everything That means all Means all And it's for everybody Everybody in need And gosh it's wonderful To have you here today Well thanks for coming over Eddie I walked over to the Golden Theatre Where Walter Hamden and Grace George Are co-starring in The Velvet Glove It was just after the Saturday Man in a performance And I went right into Mr. Hamden's Dressing room just off the stage And there was the grand old man Of the theatre With all of his richness Of spirit, vitality and artistry And that indefinable quality That makes the star And keeps him on top Through generations of theatre goers He was chatting with Naomi Riordan The very talented young actress Who plays the role of Sister Lucy In the play Hello Eddie It's good to see you Do you know Naomi Riordan? We haven't met Walter But of course I've seen your performance Miss Riordan And it's a very good one by the way You should be very proud of it Why thank you Mr. Dowling This is a real thrill for me I've looked forward to meeting you For a long time Now sit down Eddie You don't need an excuse To come to see me you know But I'm sure you have one A good one as usual too It's about New York Catholic Charities Appeal Order I thought perhaps you'd be interested In doing the scene From The Velvet Glove For one of their radio shows Why I'd be glad to Eddie Of course I'm familiar With the wonderful job The Catholic Charities does In New York Particularly their work With families And for the aged So you don't have to sell me On the worthiness of the cause I know that Walter We all remember so well The beautiful performance That you gave some years ago Impersonating the late Cardinal Hayes In one of Catholic Charities Radio dramatic shows Now come to think of it Walter I suppose you've probably created Or recreated The lives of more cardinals Than any other actor In the theatre Well perhaps that's so Eddie Now let me see As you mentioned I played Cardinal Hayes And then the great Wolsey In Henry VIII And of course One of my favourite roles Cardinal Richelieu Nobody could forget that Walter And I doubt if anyone Is going to have the courage To play Richelieu For a long time to come You've created such an exciting And perceptive characterization Of one of the really great figures In the history of the church Do you think you might bring it back? Well hardly Eddie I'm a little too old For management you know And anyway I'm always interested In the new thing You know Walter I've never had the chance To tell you this But I welcome the opportunity now You're responsible For one of the most cherished Experiences that I've ever had In the theatre The memory of what I think Was a performance Unmatched in theatrical history In our time certainly Your Cyrano de Bergerac Is it your favourite Among your many plays? Well Eddie Whatever role I'm playing At the time I guess it's my favourite And as for Cyrano Well I guess the answer Is that everybody likes Cyrano There's no doubt about that It certainly has stood up well Hasn't it all for the years? You're about to celebrate Your golden anniversary As an actor I understand Have you any idea Of the number of performances You've given in that time? Sounds like an awful long time Doesn't it? Golden anniversary Well I suppose I might say To make it a round dozen Twelve thousand Mine Quite a record, Walter Incidentally you're one Of those rarities here Aren't you a native New Yorker I mean? Now Eddie Can any good thing Come out of Brooklyn? That's where I come from Well I lived there too As a kid There's something I'm particularly interested in Do you find any difference Between present day audiences And well say The reactions of theatre Goers twenty years ago? Well that's a very Difficult question Eddie I think that there is a difference Which is due largely Perhaps to a change in method And to change in style Of the play Perhaps in the earlier times We were more interested in The cruder and more violent emotions And that the actors Tended to portray Those fundamentals With a little more strength And perhaps arouse the audience In consequence More than they do today And now with the Easier More modern Naturalistic style And a more intellectual Perhaps stress in the theatre And the content of the plays They become more studies And so on Why the audience Respond But they respond In accordance with the method Of the actor And the style of the play I think you did that very well It was a question I wouldn't have heard No That rings us back Walter The velvet glove You play a monsignor In this one Don't you How does it feel To be demoted Well now that's a joke Around here That's been about For a long time You're about the Fiftieth person To ask me that Eddie Now let me be serious About it For as I see it Cardinals Bishops Monsignori They're all priests There's no demotion possible For instance Have you ever known Any part in a stage play Comparable To the role Played in real life By such a figure As Father Damien Who gave up everything To serve the lepers Of Molokai Father Damien Was a mere priest Yet he became a symbol Of the selfless love Of God for his children No demotion there Eddie No indeed And I see your point Quite well Walter And that's really why we do We do appreciate your help For the small army Of devoted religious Sisters and brothers Who do the work Of Catholic charities here Year in and year out From dawn Walter All through the day And long through the night And that's why It's a pleasure To help out Eddie You know Grace George Who gives such a Superb performance As the Mother Superior In our play Was very anxious To participate in this With us But she felt that None of our scenes together Could be done well As a separate unit Apart from the play So with her usual Graciousness She suggested that Miss Riott and I Do one of our scenes together Suppose we run through it Right now Will you set the stage Eddie? We're privileged to present a scene From Gossary McClintick's Current production The Velvet Glove Which co-stars Miss Grace George And Mr. Walter Hamden In the dramatic scene Which follows Mr. Hamden As Monsignor Burke Comes to call On the Mother Superior And meets the young nun Sister Lucy Who was played by Miss Naomi Riley Well sister This will give me a chance To question you About the state of the nation Oh well I'm afraid I know very little About the nation Monsignor What? You're not interested In politics? Well I have so little time To think of them Monsignor My duties keep me very busy And at recreation Mother likes us To occupy ourselves With serious things The government of the nation Is a very serious thing Sister Oh yes Monsignor We know that Indeed we offer special prayers Every day For the men who bear the burden Of public office They could do with a few prayers When just before election time Each year The entire community Makes a special novena For what candidate sister? We leave that to God Now that's a happy thought It was an idea of mothers A gentleman Who was a great benefactor Of our order Told mother one day Was just before presidential election That the country Was in a most precarious condition And could hardly survive Unless the candidate Whom he was supporting Was elected And he asked mother To urge all the sisters Of the community To vote for that candidate Did she? No She did something even better She commanded them To make a novena To the Holy Ghost To ask for guidance And then to vote As they pleased And how do you vote sister? Well At the end of the novena Oh we begin it On the feast Of the great Saint Teresa I always go to One of the sisters At the college And she's good enough To prepare a list for me Then we must hope That she's been guided By the Holy Ghost Well It can hardly be doubted Monsignor She's very pious Well I'm afraid This evidence That the Holy Ghost Does not invariably Decide elections Really Monsignor? Oh but We can't be sure of it Can we? God's ways Are so mysterious Oh you've noticed that Have you? Even in my own life When I was young I had an ambition I wanted to be a Carmelite Did you indeed? Oh I thought I should die of unhappiness If I weren't allowed To enter that order And I prayed very fervently That I would be accepted But Father O'Neill Oh you know Old Father O'Neill Don't you? I think of him As young Father O'Neill But I know him Well He was our pastor At the time And he told me That he thought I should become A sister of St. Paul To help the sisters Who are educating Our Catholic young women Well he was such A holy man That I knew I ought to obey him So I entered The novitiate here Thinking if you please That I was making The greatest sacrifice That had ever been made Oh and you see How it's turned out I haven't had An unhappy moment Since I crossed The threshold Of the convent I'm sure you haven't It sometimes worries me That you're happy Yes We're told that We must take up Our cross And follow him And I've never had a cross But perhaps I will Don't count on it sister It occasionally pleases God to show the world What felicity Innocence can produce It may be that He has chosen you For that purpose Oh In any case You must accept Your happiness As his will And try not to murmur Against him Oh I don't do that Monsignor That is a relief Sister After that It may be that I don't want to I don't know I don't know I don't know What a brilliant You must trust It may be that You must agree You must recognize人員 That is a relief There may be that Timothy Because I'm a human I don't know There may be that It may be that It may be that Tellys But she's There are four words that automatically come to mind when you think about stars and hits. Mary Martin and South Pacific. Well, I call Mary, told her about the Catholic Charity Show, and arranged to meet her in her dressing room at the Majestic Theatre just after the performance. Come in, Eddie. Excuse me if I seem a little breathless. Mary, don't you ever slow down, although you certainly look as though all this agrees with you. Well, Nellie Forbush is such a natural part to play. I sometimes wonder where Mary Martin begins and Nurse Forbush leaves off. Well, Mary, for a little girl from Little Rock, Nellie certainly is made good in the big city. The audience sure love her. Actually, Eddie, I think it's a matter of identification. There were thousands of girls like Nellie who were sort of thrust into the big wide world for the first time during the war. Nellie is a pretty typical type of all of them. She was a small-town girl, wholly unprepared for the tremendous variety of people and places she experienced during the war. This role is pretty different from the ones you've played to date, isn't it, Mary? Do you find the change of pace difficult? Well, I suppose like any actress or actor, as you very well know, your favorite part is the one you're playing currently. That's really true. And true of all of us. You know, Walter Hamden said almost exactly the same thing. Of course, I'll always remember Leave It To Me with great affection, because that was my first step up. Indeed. My heart belongs to Daddy. We were all certainly singing at that season. But let's get back to South Pacific. And I suppose everyone asks you, Mary, how did that wonderful piece of business develop, the part where you wash your hair right on stage? Well, that was one of those funny turnabout things, Eddie. One day it occurred to me that it would be a perfectly natural thing for Nellie to do, so I suggested it. Everyone liked the idea, and that made Oscar Hammerstein think of a lyric called, I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out of My Hair, and dip the wonderful music, and there we were. That's the wonderful thing about show business. You never know where your hits are coming from, or how they'll develop. About the Catholic Charity Show, Mary, I think that that'd make a perfect spot for it. I have a record here, Eddie. Let's play it and see how it is for time. I'm gonna wash that man right out of my hair. I'm gonna wash that man right out of my hair. I'm gonna wash that man right out of my hair. And send him on his way. I'm gonna wave that man right out of my arms. I'm gonna wave that man right out of my arms. I'm gonna wave that man right out of my arms. And send him on his way. Don't try to patch it up. Tear it up, tear it up. Wash him out, dry him out. Push him out, fly him out. Cancel him and let him go. Yay, sister! I'm gonna wash that man right out of my hair. I'm gonna wash that man right out of my hair. I'm gonna wash that man right out of my hair. And send him on his way. If a man don't understand you. If you fly on separate beams. Waste no time. Make a change. Ride that man right off your range. Drop him out of the rollercoaster. And drum him out of your dreams. Oh-oh! You can't light a fire when the wood's all wet. You can't make a butterfly strong. Ha-ha! You can't fix an egg when it ain't quite good. And you can't fix a man when he's raw. You can't put back a petal when it falls from a flower. Or sweeten up a fella when he starts turning sour. Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! It is like a color fishy. When you look more glimps and believe. Wake no time. Make a switch. Drop him in the nearest ditch. Drop him out of the rollercoaster. And drum him out of your dreams. Oh-oh! Oh-oh! Oh-oh! I went and washed that man right out of my hair. I went and washed that man right out of my hair. I went and washed that man right out of my hair. And set him on his way. Oh-oh! I was going and washed that man right out of my hair. I went and washed that man right out of my hair. I went and washed that man right out of my hair. I sent him on his way. Mary, that's wonderful. Everyone at Catholic Charities will be thrilled that you can be counted in on this. Eddie, it's a real pleasure to do what I can for Catholic Charities. Just the other day, I read a report showing they helped more than 400,000 men, women, and children last year. And as a mother, I'm particularly interested in what they do to help youngsters, those who are sick or handicapped or orphans. It's something we should all love to join in, and I'm happy to ask everyone to support their appeal generously. Thanks, Mary, and God bless you. When I reached the street after leaving, Mary, the neon lights were flashing their gaudy colors against New York's night sky. I felt the pulse of the big town, and I felt the pulse of the people beating along with it, with a real understanding of the other fellow's needs and problems. I thought over what Mary, Ray, and Walter had said about New York Catholic Charities, and I wondered how we'd go about getting the show together. Suddenly, I stopped short. I realized the show was right there, just as it happened. And so, that's just what you heard. We hope you've enjoyed it, and that you take its message to your hearts. You have just heard On Stage, a transcribed tour of New York's theatrical hits, starring Mary Martin, Ray Bolger, Walter Hamlin, and Naomi Riott. The music you've just heard was a portion of the ballet Slaughter on 10th Avenue, which Mr. Ray Bolger spoke of earlier as his first big hit. Your host during this half hour, dedicated to the 31st Annual Appeal of New York Catholic Charities, was Mr. Eddie Dowling, well-known Broadway producer and actor. Songs by Miss Martin and Mr. Bolger were recorded. The program was produced by William Marshall and edited by James Stacy. There she was. I waited for a concert with him in eğisión. For more he took the seven места from 11th Ave, theorpión, en la Voice, and a submissiveین sk weiter. There she was. There she and the Vikings started singing. There she was. There she and her ran away there as an ant fabricant band says, and then singing music 역Att helped her to call him a career saying, and I wasn't asking you, she was audited through there. She had been convinced of her Mmm. She told her that said people would love to meet her Sicher.