Dear Mayor, it was a custom from a long time, the economics of the real estate people was that if the house costs you $1,000 or $2,000 and it is only a five cents fare, that was the greatest slogan in his advertisement, five cents fare, and that's why he sold his house there for more than $1,000, what was it worth? That is wrong for the real estate people. The real estate people don't know the idea. The more taxes they pay, the richer they are. Let them confront me. Tell me this is a wrong statement. When we cut down the taxes, the real estate is in what the heck. And we raise them the taxes, five, 15. Have you imagined that a foot of ground is by that much? Why? Because they pay a big price of taxes and big expenses coming in there. Now, we come to commerce. Macy's the largest stores, every part of the stores was advertising. Boys, I'll give you free fare. I'll give you free fare. I'll give you free fare to come to buy. There you are. They're talking against their own interest. If on a small-cent fare, who's going to come to buy of them? Are you deaf and blind to this interest of your own? The ten-cent fare, sir. No. They were talking. Ten-cent fare is against their interest. Let me, one of them, this house, prove me that is wrong, my statement. Well, doctor, thank you very much. No, one minute more. I want to represent labor. No, thank you. Don't forget, labor is a very big item in our budget. Thank you very much. Just labor one minute, please. Half a minute. Good night, sir, and thank you very much. Labor can pay. It's all right. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the hearing has come to an end. The Board of Estimate has been invited and consented to meet at City Hall here tomorrow at 3 o'clock, where a discussion on the record will take place. And following that, at 7 o'clock, I shall express the majority opinion of the Board of Estimate over the radio at 7 o'clock tomorrow night. Thank you very much. Good night. The microphones of your city station, WNYC, have been located in the Board of Estimate room at City Hall since 10.30 yesterday morning, carrying to you the people of the City of New York the full proceedings in the matter of the public hearings on the rate of fare on the subways and the relation of the rate of fare to the fiscal policy of the City of New York. I don't need to recapitulate the scene because you have listened attentively, no doubt, to the proceedings from the time that the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, wrapped the gavel yesterday and called the public hearings to order here in the City Hall. In 1900, when Mayor Van Wyk and the then Board of Estimate of the City of New York dug the first shovel full of dirt that turned over the project to John B. MacDonald and August Belmont to start the first subway in the City of New York, a great element of progress entered into the life of the City of New York. Previous to the subway, the five boroughs were cloistered in their own immediate vicinities because of the transportation systems that prevailed at that time. Well, we've seen the subways expand, we've seen the problem expand, and we know the situations that the Board of Estimate has had to meet from time to time under various mayors and various boards to reach some kind of a conclusion as emergencies arose in the fiscal policy of the City. Well, when this situation arose out of the letter that was received from Mr. Osborne by the Citizens' Budget Committee, in which he set down as a premise that a ten-cent fare would solve the financial difficulties of the City, the Mayor of the City of New York, realizing fully, as he stated here in the proceedings, that he represented you, the people of the City of New York, it was not up to him to make the decision of your will in the matter. Well, these public hearings have demonstrated your wishes in the matter through the representatives that you have sent here to City Hall, to the Board of Estimate Room, to so express the views that represent your groups, local areas, and so forth of the five boroughs comprising the City. Several speakers today referred to the matter of the Town Meeting of the Year. The Mayor of the City of New York feels that your City Station, WNYC, has made possible the Town Meeting and extended it into all five boroughs through the medium of broadcasting. Well, we'd like to have your reaction to this program. This is not any cheap gesture or any idea of compliment that any member of the staff of your City Station is seeking in any way, shape, or manner. We're trying to clarify the picture to the Mayor in an authoritative statement from you that you want your City Station to carry to you, into your homes, proceedings as they may occur from time to time, before the Board of Estimate, on hearings of this kind that affect your good and welfare in the City. Now, you can help us. We, too, cannot make decisions. We have to know the will of the people of the City of New York since we are an adjunct of the government and radio is one of the most modern means of communication to serve you through its communicating feature. Well, if you'll just drop us a postcard, we don't ask you to write a letter. Some people have been kind enough to send telegrams. That's an expense. We don't even remotely suggest that. We just would like to have a postcard from you, the simplest kind of a statement, so that then we have concrete evidence, such as the Board of Estimate requires in all matters and the Mayor at all times, that you want these proceedings to come to you through the medium of your radio. So just address that card to your City Station. We have a few thank yous before we leave the Board of Estimate room. We want to thank Ms. Hilda Schwartz, the Secretary of the Board, who has been very kind in clarifying names for us and titles of associations and so forth so that we can keep our logs straight for the Federal Communications Commission. We also want to thank two of our very good friends in the Police Department, Patrolman John Albrecht and Patrolman Artie Reichelt, who have been very kind in keeping us supplied with refreshing drinks. Of course, we mean ice water from the cooler. And they have kept people, our speakers, in front of the microphones. And we can always cooperate, at least count on this cooperation, from the splendid members of the Police Department. And they had a very difficult job, but they have fulfilled it smilingly in regulating the crowds that came to City Hall for these public hearings. Borough President Cashmore came in in the course of the afternoon, looking very well tanned and very healthy. And that brings up the question of another Borough President, Borough President Lyons. And we hope that our efforts to bring in the proceedings of the public hearings today had some effect, and that his good health will soon match that of Borough President Cashmore of Brooklyn. And our very best wishes to Borough President of Lyons of the Bronx for a quick recovery. And now, once again, we ask your cooperation in the matter of certifying to the Mayor of the City of New York that your city station performs a civic function in bringing to you the proceedings as they occur at this or any other public hearings that the Mayor may see fit to have called here in the City Hall. And our very, very, very best thanks to everyone who has cooperated in making this radio picture possible and transmitting into words your civics in action from the Board of Estimate Room in City Hall. And now we return you to our studios in the Municipal Building.