It's 6 p.m. and time to listen to Sports for New Yorkers. Hello, sports fans. This is your producer, Marty Bush. Welcome to your transcribed Sports for New Yorkers show, the Park Department program heard each week on Friday night over your city station. We're here to bring you the program of events scheduled to take place in and around New York City's parks and playgrounds. The man to tell you all about it is your sportscaster, Maurice Esche, and with him is Jane Storer, his assistant. And for your entertainment, our vocalist, Wally Webster, accompanied by Mildred Murray. Our three guests for the evening are all swimming champions. They are Florence Schmidt and the Om Sisters, Sylvia and May. We'll hear from these people a little later. Right now, Maurice and Jane with the highlights of the week. Hello, folks. Listen, Maurice, tell us about the New York Mirror Park Department softball tournament. Jane is so subtle about this. This is the second week of the park district elimination for the softball tournaments. With the playground animations out of the way, the better teams are coming to the top. How does that answer your question, Jane? Well, I have one now, Maurice. Any track news? This is not a quiz program, folks, so don't go away. There is another track meet sponsored by the New York Athletic Club. This is the third track meet in their series of five. This time, the park department's Bronx Recreation Department will be hosted at Van Caldlin Park Stadium this Sunday at 2 p.m. And if you haven't already signed up, the closing date is Monday, August 4th for the Park Department New York Mirror Olympic Sports Festival. So, boys and girls, drop around to any park department playground and get a blank there. Or go to the borough office and look on the bulletin boards in your playground for the full program. When does Wally sing? Well, I think right now is as good a time as ever. What's your song for tonight, Wally? I'm going to sing Cynthia. Maurice requested this song for his father. Well, how'd he get into this? Well, for your information, it happens to be my father's birthday. Happy birthday, Pop. Hey, you can't do that to us, Maurice. Well, anyway, Wally sings and Mickey Murray plays Cynthia. And Mr. Esche Sr., we all wish you many, many happy returns of the day. Genevieve Burrell also requested Cynthia. Here's the story of Cynthia, a lady of seventeen. By all that's above, she's fallen in love. And she's walking around in a dream. Cynthia, as flighty as a summer breeze. Her smile is sunlight through the trees. For Cynthia's in love. Every rose is blushing as she passes by. They see the love light in her eyes. For Cynthia's in love. Every night when the stars above come shining through. Cynthia, you will find her in a rendezvous. Starry eyes. Breathing sight. Cynthia. Cynthia. I'm glad your lovely dream came true. For I'm the one who worships you. My Cynthia's in love. My Cynthia's in love. Oh. Oh. Thanks, Wally and Mickey. That was swell. I hope my father enjoyed it as much as we did here in the studio. More music later, folks. This Sunday, August 3rd, find us right in the middle of the citywide Park Depom New York Mirror Golf Team Championship for Men. Why, isn't that Fourth Park Golf Course? You took the words right out of my mouth, Jane. They have some handsome trophies over there, Maurice. I know. I looked at them. Yes, we saw them last year when we had the winners on our program. The men's trophy is the New Bold Morris Cup, and the women's is the Park Association Cup. You know, tonight we have some handsome and charming guests right here. I've often wondered, Maurice, where you pulled some of those guests in. But tonight, you certainly did all right for a change. Is he calling me a wolf? Well, Marty, why don't you introduce the young ladies to our listeners? Folks, we want you to meet the National Long Distance Women's Champion of the United States, the famous Miss Florence Schmidt. Hello, folks. And the famous Arm Sisters of the Bronx, and both are New York Citywide Girls Swimming Champions. Miss Sylvia Arm. Hello there. And her sister, Miss May Arm. Hello, everyone. I saw all three girls swimming two weeks ago at the Flushing Meadow Amby Theater at the girls' finals, and I want to say that they're really tops. But rather than confuse our three listeners, I'm going to speak to one girl at a time. Good idea. Okay. That's good. Let's talk to Florence Schmidt first. Where do you come from? It's a long story. I lived in Richmond Hill, then we moved to Port Washington, and we have a summer place at Waiting River. Do you go to school in Port Washington? I graduated from Port Washington High School last June, and I am starting at Skidmore College this fall. That's at Saratoga Springs. Since you folks can't see this lovely girl, we want you to describe Florence to you. She's 17 years old, measures about 5 foot 8, and quite a nice-looking brunette. How long have you been swimming, Florence? Since I was five years old. I've been swimming for the Women's Swimming Association since 1937. That's when I was seven, and I started in AAU events at the age of 12. Mr. Hanley is our coach. I know they have a lot of good people with that organization. Oh, I know Eddie Orville. He works with the teams, doesn't he? Yes, he does. I know you have a whole string of championships, too, to your name, such as the Metropolitan AAU Indoor for 400-yard freestyle and the 200-yard freestyle. And last Saturday, you won two senior Met AAU championships. First, the 100-meter breaststroke, and then the 300-meter individual medley. Yes, Marty? Well, I just wanted to say, Maurice, that you better take a look at that foam on your mouth. You seem to be drooling. Foam? That's no foam. That's my tie. Say, Florence Schmidt was also chosen for the All-American Team of 1946, and that's quite a record. She's just beginning to knock the big ones off. Well, what distance was the national long-distance race, Florence? It was three miles. I won that event three times in the past four years. In 1944, I broke the record in that event, but it was broken by another girl the following year. How do you like the Flushing Meadow Amphitheater Pool? I think it's a beautiful pool. I've done a lot of swimming in other Park Department pools, both indoor and out, and I've always found them well-kept, but a little crowded. The facilities were always in good condition. Uh, Maurice, you can let go of her arm now. I'm glad you said that, Florence, because it should make the Commissioner and Harold McManus very happy, especially coming from a national champion. It sure was nice of your parents to drive to New York tonight, and thank you for coming down. But don't go away. We're going to visit with the Alm Sisters. That's A-L-M. Okay. May, suppose we talk to you first. How old are you? How tall and all that? I'm 13 years old. My height is 5 feet 2 inches, and I go to PS 14. And she's a blonde. And she's so young to be a swimming champion. Don't let that fool you, Jane. This little lady won the 50-meter freestyle city championship for the girls of 12 and 13, and she did a swell job. Now we come to Sylvia. Suppose you give us something about yourself. I'm 17 years old, and my height is 5'4 1⁄2", and I attend Christopher Columbus High School. And she, too, is a blonde. I'm always interested in blondes, Maurice. Oh, it's a long story. This young lady won the 50-meter backstroke citywide championship for girls of 16 and 17, and came in second in the 50-meter freestyle. I know they both represented the Bronx, and both helped bring the borough championship to the Bronx. What pool do you swim in? We both used to swim in the Katona pool ever since we were little kids. I often watch an Amarie Flan Schmidt swimming and help someday to be as good as she. Thank you, Sylvia. Sylvia, I'm sure you will. I've watched you, too. As a member of the Mutual Backpatter's Association, I'd better take over here. I think you're both good. Well, what do you intend to do after you graduate, Sylvia? I hope to swim my way through college and become a swimming instructor. I'm sure you'll make it, too. May, how about you? What are you going to do? Follow in my sister's footsteps, but Sylvia didn't tell you all the sports she loved. She was captain of the Waterbury Flashes of the Park Department. They were runners-up in the city finals. And she was on ice skating races, too. She has been in ice skating races, and so have I, at the Park Department. Kind of holding out on us, aren't you? Sylvia, any other swimming honors? Yes, last year I placed first in the 50-meter freestyle and first in the 50-meter backstroke. And May came in first in the semifinals. Holding out on each other. I know both of you girls patronize our park pools and do most of your swimming there. What do you think of the Park Department pools? Well, I'll speak for May, too. When I say the pools are very nice and that you learned the swimming campaign that the Park Department conducts each year, it is a wonderful thing. Gee, thanks. These are better than the commercials I've been paying for. But seriously, we want to thank your parents for bringing you up tonight, too. Tell me, what kind of a name is home? Svenska. That's Swedish. Why didn't you say so? Toxamika. Svenska. Maurice, you speak Swedish. Anything to add? Yes. I like Swiss bro. Yes, this Sunday, go to see the All-America, or I should say All-Jamaica, and All-Barbados cricket game at Randall's Island. And every night except Monday, you can go to Elliot Murphy's Aqua Show at Flushing Meadow Amphitheater. And now we come to another musical treat. Mickey Murray will play her own composition, California Moonlight. Mickey? Mickey Murray will play at Phillip's Coconut Preaur. Mickey Murray will play at denken at Griffith'sıyden. Mickey Murray… Mickey Murray… Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I went down the yard and I saw they have plenty of rowboats and things, and they don't charge very much either. Why not drop in there, folks? That's all I have right now. Well, thank you very much, Maurice. Jane Stora, Wally Webster, and Mickey Murray and our guests, Florence Schmidt, May, and Sylvia Ahm. This program was supervised by George Niebling, written by Maurice Esche, and announced by Marty Bush, and tonight transcribed. So until next Friday at 6 p.m., we close another Sports for New Yorkers. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.