Today is Bronx Day at New York's International Airport at Idlewild. The borough president of the Bronx, a distinguished company, have come here to pay their tribute from one great borough to another. We all realize that space is a requirement, and out here in the borough of Queens, that space, one of the greatest spaces in the world, has been developed in the development itself of the New York International Airport at Idlewild. Ever since the inauguration of this field last Saturday, as well as the programs that have gone forth to entertain the huge audiences that have come here, and whose words and descriptions have been carried by the public address system of your own city station, WNYC AM and FM, we're happy indeed that these communication facilities are available to carry the important messages of the borough presidents and the other members of the Board of Estimate City Council, and those who are concerned with the good and welfare and the development of our great and wonder city. New York's International Airport at Idlewild increases to a great extent the commerce and industry of our great city, and will be in a short time the greatest airport in the world. We have the privilege now of presenting a distinguished citizen of New York City from the great borough of the Bronx, when we present at this time, Borough President Lyons, who will introduce his guest. Borough President Lyons. Mr. Chairman, the Bronx flag will be raised by the Secretary of the Borough, John Murray. The Glee Club of the Fire Department will open our ceremonies with the national anthem. The Glee Club of the Fire Department will open our ceremonies with the national anthem. At the twilight's last gleaming, Whose broad stripes and bright stars, Through the perilous fight, O'er the ramparts we watched, Were so gallantly streaming, And the rocket's red glare, The bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night, That our flag was still there, O'er the land of the free, That star-spangled banner yet wave, O'er the land of the free, And the home of the brave. Thank you very much. The chairman of the Bronx Anniversary Committee, Congressman Walter A. Lynch, Has been called to Washington for the special session, And I shall therefore preside at these ceremonies. The Bronx is pleased to participate in the golden anniversary of the city of New York, And to salute the air capital of the world. I think the city of New York and its people, O'er the great debt of gratitude to Grover Whalen, For the magnificent way he has planned and guided this international air exposition, As well as all the other events and functions, In connection with the golden anniversary celebration. Some may have observed that I, As president of the Bronx, Came out here today, In the same official open car, With city flags, Which brought President Truman to this stand last Saturday. I am informed that the president of Queens, And the acting president of Manhattan, Traveled here within the last few days, With the same pomp. I think that if Grover Whalen, Were to be sent to Moscow, He could undoubtedly smooth out Some of the ruffle situations existing there. The Bronx very proudly boasts Of some of its distinctive features from the other boroughs. It is the only borough on the mainland. It is the only borough to which definite article is prefixed. This is not a mere coincidence, But because it is the greatest borough, In the greatest city, In the greatest country in the world. It is the home of the fall of fame, And a perfect locale, In which to pay homage to men and women, Who have made notable contributions to humanity. It is the home of the Yankees, Who have won more pennants in World Series, Than any other city. It is the first meeting place of the Security Council, Of the United Nations, Where Gromyko took his first walkout. Dame rumor has it, That some Queensies, Have also taken walkouts, Very recently. The Bronx Zoo, And the Bronx Botanical Gardens, Surpass all others. The Bronx, Is the greatest melting pot, Comprising peoples of varied racial, And religious strains. It is in the Bronx, Where tolerance is a reality, And not just a vaunted hope. It is the borough of universities, Where more people receive degrees, Of higher education, Than any place of its size, In the world. Notwithstanding these, And many other features, That I might cite, Were it not for modesty, I must frankly admit, That the vision and foresight, Of our early planners, And public officials, Could not foretell, The progress in air travel, Particularly during a period, In which they were engaged, In changing from horse cars, And stagecoaches, To trolley cars. Instead, They provided the Bronx, With such a tremendous area, Of parks and playgrounds, That one fifth of our entire borough, Is devoted to recreation facilities, Leaving no large, Undeveloped land, Suitable for modern airports. The only Bronx site, Suitable for an airport, Was one known as, Curtis Airport, In the North Bronx. At my request, This was considered, For a city or airport, By the previous administration, Prior to construction, Of LaGuardia Field. I understand, That this site, Has now been privately acquired, For a racetrack. This leaves the Bronx, With no suitable area, For airport purposes, Unless, And until, Science, In air travel, Developed for use, Of smaller landing fields. It was therefore, Quite proper, That the city of New York, Should have gone out, To the wide open spaces, Of Queens, And selected this site, For its great, New York, International airport. I join, With our sister boroughs, In congratulating, Borough President Burke, And the people of Queens, Upon the vastness, Of the borough. I can only offer, The borough of Queens, No greater wish, Than that it will always be, As important to aviation, As the Bronx is, To education, And culture. Now my pleasure, To introduce, 50 years, Of the Bronx, In song and story, By the Bronx boomers. All have heard, The Bronx bombers, But today, We are going to hear, From the Bronx boomers. The cavalcade, Of the Bronx. Ladies and gentlemen, In the next few minutes, We will telescope, 50 years of history. The story of an era, That began in 1898, And continues up to, And including, This very day. As a famous, New Yorker said, Let's look at the record, And a proud record it is. For no people, In the city of New York, Have more pride, In their community, Than have the citizens, Of that delightful land, Just the other side, Of the Harlem River, The borough of the Bronx. First, A musical salute, By the Bronx boomers, Four young men, Of that happy county. When you come over, To that land of clover, The Bronx always welcomes you, Go out to the concourse, And visit the zoo, Fordham, Manhattan, And old NYU, No use denying, Jim Lyons is trying, To do everything for you, So when you come over, To that land of clover, The Bronx will sure welcome you, Let's go back 50 years, To 1898. That's when the city of greater New York was formed, Centered around Manhattan, And reaching out to Pelham Bay on the north, The Atlantic Ocean on the south, Deep into Long Island on the east. In those days, A half century ago, The Bronx was known as the borough of farms and breweries. There were miles of open country, Between the various communities that made up the borough, West Farms and Kingsbridge, Morrisania and Throgs Neck, Fordham and Mott Haven, West Farms and Williamsbridge, Young gallants promenaded on Willis Avenue with their ladies, Peg-top trousers and billowing bustles, Were the order of the day. Off in Cuba, The war crowds rumbled and thundered. Off we go, For to fight the war with Spain, You can bet, That we won't forget the main, On Willis Avenue, They'll be cheering you and me, Cause there's a hot tie, In the old Bronx tonight, So long folks, There's a tear in every eye, So long girls, For it's time to say goodbye, And we say so long, Pals, We'll be with you by and by, And there'll be a hot time, In the old Bronx that night. The troops returned. There were triumphal parades and homecomings, And everybody settled down to enjoy life. Ah, in 1898 to 1908, That was a golden decade in America. Bicycles filled the highways, And the first automobiles huffed and puffed their way about. Butter was 25 cents a pound. There were lots of vacant apartments, Flats we called them, And a man couldn't carry home a dollar's worth of groceries. Life was simple, easy, and inexpensive. The good old days of 1908. Don't mind my raven, Got a gal in Mauthaven, She's classy, And she's refined. And others in West Palm, She sure has the best job, And I can't make up my mind. I've got a cutie, A real King's Bridge beauty, I think that my bride she'll be. So you can keep your Long Island, The Bronx, it is my land, It's the home of the Queens to me. The next decade was rich in memories for Bronxites, 1908 to 1918. It was then that New Yorkers first realized The magnificent facilities of the Bronx for outdoor sports. Athletic fields and clubs like the Melrose A.C. Sprouted all over the borough. The building and extension of subways Brought millions to Bronx Park And other open areas Destined to be the lungs of congested Manhattan. In 1917, war came to our shores, And the Bronx gave generously of her sons. They served in the regular army, The 27th Division, The 77th Division, With the Navy and the Marines And our Infant Air Corps. Pelham Bay Park was turned into a gigantic training center For the United States Navy. The Bronx bought heavily of Liberty bonds And gave till it hurt to the Red Cross. Some of the men who came back Brought with them their scars and their wounds. Let us not forget them, The veterans who are with us In Kingsbridge Hospital. And for them we ask, The Bronx boomers to sing, Roses are blooming in Picardy. Roses are blooming in Picardy In the harsh of the silver dew Roses are blooming in Picardy But then there was a rose like you And the roses will die with the summertime And our rose may be far, far apart But there's one rose that dies now In Picardy Tis the rose that I keep in high With the end of the war And the return to peace in 1919, The borough of the Bronx faced a serious situation. There was unemployment, High prices, Lack of housing, So many of the same problems that plague us this very day. But the people of the Bronx were not content to sit around And mourn the good old days. They set to work with a will. The borough saw its greatest building boom up to that time. Whole blocks of homes sprung up overnight Where cows had grazed contentedly only a few short weeks before. Attractive land across the river from the polo grounds Became the gigantic Yankee Stadium. Home of Babe Ruth, Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, And their world champion Yankees baseball teams. It was a time of boom and bust. Hoopla and hooray, Million dollar prize fights and startling murder trials. The speakeasy flourished and everybody danced The Charleston and the Black Bottom. Remember three o'clock in the morning? Three o'clock in the morning, Back to the Bronx we go On the loco to Woodland Been to a Broadway show Three o'clock in the morning She bought the music was fine Got to get up and be in the office Tomorrow at night It all came to an end on that Black Thursday in 1929 When the stock market crashed. The Bronx started its fourth decade As a borough with unemployment, Depression, Empty stores and silent factories. The song of the day was Brother, can you spare a dime? And they weren't kidding. Then along came the Blue Eagle, The WPA and recovery. Things began to look brighter. In 1934, a new administration came in And brought with it a new borough president, Young and energetic Jimmy Lyons, Who promptly christened our community The Borough of Universities. New industries came in, New people, new building, A new spirit, And we all sang Throw out the barrel We'll have a barrel of fun Throw out the barrel We've got the blues on the run Sing, boom, farewell Bring out a song of good cheer Cause now's the time To roll the barrels For the gangs of here That was in 1938 And now we come to the fifth And final decade Of our half century of progress. Nobody here needs to be reminded Of the contribution of the Bronx And its people To the victory in Europe And in the Pacific. Nobody here has to be told That the Bronx needs more homes, More apartments, More commercial buildings, More institutions. And everybody here knows That butter at a dollar a pound And meat at a dollar ten a pound All add up to the highest cost of living In our history. Yet we pause in our problems To celebrate the golden anniversary Of greater New York. For as loyal citizens of the Bronx, We are proud of our city And proudest of our borough. We may not have magnificent airports Like Queens Or skyscrapers like Manhattan Or ocean beaches like Brooklyn Or wooded hills like Staten Island. But we do have uncounted thousands Of happy people In their own homes. And that is the bedrock of America. Next question, Where do we go from here? Where do we go from here, folks? Where do we go from here? The population of the Bronx Increases year by year But there is room for everyone So don't you have a fear? So where do we go from here, folks? Where do we go from here? They talk about a war again And we don't like the signs The enemy has airplanes And factories and mines But they can't do a thing Without a permit from Jim Lyons So where do we go from here, folks? Where do we go from here? The Bronx boomers Who have entertained you This afternoon with song Desire to give you one Farewell verse Of their four-leaf clover special. When you come over That land of clover The Bronx always welcomes you Just cross the river The borough begins You're in the home Of the covens and twins No use denying Jim Lyons is trying To do everything for you So when you come over To that land of clover The Bronx will sure welcome you The Bronx marches forward The 50 years of progress In the Bronx Would not have been possible Were not for the cooperation Of its splendid civic organization We have as the head Of the Bronx Chamber of Commerce An outstanding citizen Who was chosen As Bronx number one citizen Who directs the affairs Of the Bronx Chamber of Commerce I'm going to call on Mr. George Ufman To say a few words For President Lyons Postmaster Goldman Ladies and gentlemen The Bronx is proud To be able to acclaim The opening of this Great international airport In conjunction With the celebration Of the Golden Jubilee Of Greater New York We highly compliment Honorable Grover A. Whalen For arranging this show As part Of the celebration Of the city's anniversary Twenty-five years from now I am certain This airport Will be the thriving center Of many auxiliary airports As now visioned By our good friend Howard Coleman Chairman of the Port of New York Authority Despite the fact That the Bronx airport site Is presently scheduled For some other usage There will come A realization Of that Which we Of the Bronx Chamber of Commerce Have been saying Year in And year out Namely That no community Can keep abreast In the march of progress Without Aviation facilities We have the site And it must be Couped available For its ultimate place In the Metropolitan Airport program As set forth By the Regional Plan Association The city of New York Is fortunate Indeed That the Port of New York Authority Has assumed The responsibility Of completing And operating Idlewild International Airports Are a new industry In the United States Some 5,000 of them Are located Throughout the country Most operating At a loss So I repeat We can acclaim The assurance Of successful operation Of this gigantic enterprise By the Port Authority The borough of Queens Is to be congratulated For being the home Of such a project And because It is our purpose In the Bronx To become better acquainted With our neighbors As president Of the Bronx Chamber of Commerce I'd like You to know something About our borough The Bronx Is proud To tell the whole world That it was part Of New York City As early As 1874 Known officially As the 23rd And 24th Wards Although it is only one Of the great boroughs Of our greater city It is Its assessed valuation Of real estate Is approximately Two billion dollars It has eight Important trunk line Railroad freight terminals And the state Barge canal Timeline It has a network Of 752 miles Of streets Which make it ideal As a crossroads For industrial And passenger Traffic More than one Fifth Of its total area Is devoted To its park system Which includes Such magnificent Places of recreation And beauty As Pelham Bay Park Van Cortland Park Bronx Park And Orchard Beach We have the world's Most famous zoo And the most beautiful Fontanical gardens Our schools And universities Are second to none The Bronx is famous For its hall of fame For the Yankee Statement For the cottage Of Edgar Allan Poe For the New York State Marine Academy And for the Gouverneur Morris Memorial Swine We have some 18,000 retail stores Over 20,000 apartments And about 1,500 factories The Whitestone And Triborough bridges Have made us Neighbors We are dependent One upon the other For our buying And our selling Just as the days Of isolationism In the global picture Are over So are the days Of borough snobbishness We stand together As sister counties In the great family Of greater New York Our future Is linked together As inseparately As our bridges Let's look upon The golden anniversary Not as the ending Of an era But as the beginning Of one The Bronx Joins hands With her sister Burroughs Proud to be a part Of greater New York Thank you Thank you Mr. Mann Now I have the Pleasure of presenting To you A leader In our community One Who is headed A great Organization That has done So much For our community It is indeed A real pleasure To present Mr. Thomas V. Tazi President Of the Bronx Border Trade Mr. President Distinguished guests Ladies and gentlemen On behalf Of the Members of the Bronx Port of Trade It pleases me To be at Idlewild Today To take part In these Bronx Ceremonies This magnificent Spectacle Reflects The tremendous Vision And foresight On the part Of our City planet And also The entiring Efforts Of men In all walks Of life Who contributed Yesterday To this The dream Of tomorrow Our nation's Greatest assets Are men of vision And they And they Have ever Been The guiding Angel Of mankind So today We of the Bronx Board of Trade Extend our Compliments And congratulations To those Geniuses Who conceive This idea And to all Others Who in any Way Contributed To this The greatest Airfield In the history Of mankind We are very Much aware That this Greater Undertaking In aviation Will have A compelling Effect For good On the Business economy Of the city At large As well as Upon the state And the nation We feel That the Operation Of this airport Is in safe Hands And if past Performances As to the Ability Of the port Of new York authority Means anything The operation Of this airport Undoubtedly Will be a Tremendous Success It is our hope That this airport Will serve As the heart Center Through which The pulse Of our nation Will be dispatched Along the airwaves To the four corners Of the world And will also serve To nourish The distressed minds Of the peoples Of the world Of our unselfish Interests In their welfare We hope That as these planes Wing their way Through space They will be our Ambassadors Of goodwill And will carry The message To the anxious Peoples Of the world That during The past 171 years We the people Of the United States Because Of our democratic Way of life Have developed The truest Republic Ever known On the face Of the globe And in developing That republic We have Not only achieved The highest standards Of living For all people But also The greatest tolerance The truest charity The most profound General advancement In material And spiritual things We do not wish The world To look at us In envy But we hope That they will be Guided By our strength And accomplishments For they too May enjoy The same privileges And happiness By contributing Their all To the promotion Of government By laws Rather than Government By men Thank you The Bronx Shares with the city One of its Most distinguished Citizens Who has Been appointed By President Roosevelt Reappointed By President Truman To one of the Most important Officers In the gift Of the federal Government He has Handled that Position With great Distinction A credit To his city A credit To the home Borough Of the Bronx And the Bronx Is very proud Of that outstanding Citizen The Postmaster Of New York Honorable Albert Goldman Mr. Chairman Invited guests Ladies And gentlemen To his honor William O'Dwyer Our mayor And to our chairman Of the mayor's committee The honorable Grover A. Whalen I extend My heartiest Congratulations For having Made This occasion Possible A day For the Bronx In the borough Of Queens And a tip Of my hat To the honorable James J. Lyons Our borough President And leading Exponent Of the beauties Of the borough Above the Harlem The only Mainland Of the greater City The county Of the Bronx The addition Of this great International Airport To the air Facilities That are available At LaGuardia Field Truly make The borough Of Queens The leading Air center Of the world Which places Me In agreement With the honorable James A. Boyk The borough President Of Queens It was indeed A pleasure To be here Last Saturday When the airport Was officially Opened By our President The honorable Harry S. Truman And I am Certain That all Who were In attendance Will agree With me That we Witness The biggest And the greatest Air show On earth The events That started On Saturday July The 31st Will continue To August The 8th Are An important Part Of the Program Celebrating The golden Anniversary Of an event That took Place January The 1st 1898 When five Boroughs Were incorporated Into one Happy Family As the Greater City Of New York As Postmaster Of New York New York My thoughts Are primarily Towards Postal matters And being A resident Of the Bronx I naturally Look back To the Pony Express Days Of that County When it Was wide Open Spaces With plenty Of room For airports However At that Time In the Days When The Honorable Louis Haffron Was our Borough President We were Still To get Our first Subway And our Population Numbered Only 200,000 In those Days The Postal Service Consisted Of seven Post office Stations With a Force Of 18 Clerks 47 Letter Carriers And since The Amalgamation The Population Of the Borough Of the Bronx Has Expanded Beyond One And a Half Million Citizens And today The post Office Department As a Carrier Of news And knowledge Requires More than Three Thousand Employees To serve That multitude Of patrons In 32 Post office Stations Seven Which Are Government Own Buildings The Formation Of the Borough Of the Bronx Was Actually Getting Together Of Friendly Namers From Small Communities Which In turn As one Union Became Part Of our Great City The Small Communities Were Really Out in The Country People Made A Practice Of Going To These Sections For Their Vacation Holidays However Today These Localities Are As Important As Many Large Cities And Are Easily Accessible From All Parts Of Our City By Rapid Transit And Bus Facilities And Their Historical Names Have Been Given To Post Office Stations In Our Borough And Have Thus Been Preserved In The Early Part Of This Century The Morris Park Racetrack Was Used On Several Occasions For Exhibitions And Tests Of Aeroplanes And Balloons I Believe That This Is The Nearest The Bronx Came To Having An Airport We Are However A Borough Of Colleges And Universities Where Many Of The Aviation Technicians Receive Their Fundamental Education It Is Interesting To Know That The Postal Receipts For The Borough Covering The Fiscal Year Exceeded Eight Million Dollars This Includes Receipts For Air Mail Postage And By The Frequent Use Of Air Mail By All Of Our Citizens We Lend Support To The Development Of Our Local Airports I Take Pride In Being A Resident Of The Bronx A Native New Yorker And A Citizen Of This Great Country Of Ours Where Can We Gather As Free Men At This Magnificent Airport Which Was Dedicated To The Peace At Its Inauguration Last Saturday My Congratulations To Our Borough President The Honorable James J. Lyons For Having This Day For We Who Have Gathered Here Today From Our Great Community The Bronx Thank You Mr. Postmaster We Are Very Highly Honored To Have With Us Today That Great Glee Club Of The Fire Department Of The City Of New York Who Will Sing A Selection Of Their Own Choosing Fire Department Glee Club If we're Ready We're On Our Way Military Close Where We Found For Nobody Knows Even Though We Showed A Do We Got A Lot Of Nothing To Wait For We're Ready To Step Where Do We Go Why Do We Care Why Do We Care Gotta Be Off We Don't Care Where Marching Along Together Sharing Every Smile And Tear Marching Along Together Whiskey Till The Skies Are Clear Swing Along The Highway On The Swiring Without You Without A Gum Without A Jink The Jinks Here We Come Happy Hinky Dinks Marching Along Together Life Is Wonderful Side By Side Marching Along Marching Along With A Song Rump The In The Here We Come With A Joyful Song Side By Side Without A Jump My Head To Jinks Away Rump The In The Here We Come Happy Hinky Dinks Watching Along Together Life Is Wonderful Side For I Side It's Now My Pleasure To Present One Of Our Outstanding Citizens Who Has Been Honored By The Realty Interests Of The Bronx Who Have Chosen Him As The President Of The Real Estate Board Of The Bronx One Of Our Distinguished Sons Mr. Frank Mazzetti Who Desires To Give A Salute To This Airport Mr. Borough President Distinguished Guests Ladies And Gentlemen After All That Has Been Said Here And Said So Eloquently By The Distinguished Gentlemen Before Me There Seems Little Need For Further Comment From Me I Know You Are All Anxious To See The Air Show That Is To Follow So I Be Very Grief And To The Point It Is Truly Fitting That Our Great City Should Have The World's Most Magnificent Airport It Makes A Closer Link For All Of Us With The Rest Of The World And Equally True It Makes More Accessible To The Rest Of The World The Bow Of The Bronze Our Fine Building Parts And Great Industrial Area We Of The Real Estate Board Of The Bronx Join With All Our Foul Bronx Sites In Wishing A Most Illustrious History To This Magnificent Airport And Fervently Hope That This Great Airport Will Further Goodwill And Peace On Earth Thank You Thank You Mr. Mazzetti I Want to Thank Those Who Have Weathered This In Clement Weather To Come Out Here To Witness This Bronx Day At This Straight Airport And I Understand That Within A Few Minutes Part Of The Exhibition Will Get On The Way I I I I I I'm Very Grateful To Those Who Came Here And Took Part In These Ceremonies Today And I Extend From The Greatest Borough In The City The Greetings Of The Burrow Of The Bronx To Our Neighbor The Burrow Of Queens And We Will Close Our Ceremonies With The Singing God Bless America By The Bronx Boomers And The Fire Department League Club Thank You God Bless The Miracle Why That I Love Stand Beside The Dead Geyser Through The Night Where The Light Of The Moon From The Mountain To The Berry To The Ocean My Miss Mirdu Thank you very much, gentlemen of the Glee Club and the Bronx Boomers. The Bronx brought the sunlight to Idlewild, and from New York's International Airport today, we've had the privilege of presenting the Borough President of the Bronx, the Honorable James J. Lyons, and the distinguished company who came with him from the great borough of the Bronx to pay their tribute to the golden anniversary of New York City as it is so being celebrated here in the great borough of Queens in the ceremonies and the spectacles that are being staged here at the New York's International Airport of Idlewild. We heard the Borough President of the Bronx who acted as chairman, the Honorable Walter Ray Lynch, Mr. George F. Mann, President of the Bronx Chamber of Commerce, Mr. Thomas V. Totsy, President of the Bronx Board of Trade, the Honorable Albert Goldman, Postmaster of the City of New York, and Mr. Frank Mazzetti, President of the Real Estate Board of the Borough of the Bronx. The Borough of the Bronx today saluted the City of New York and its golden anniversary jubilee in its celebration from New York's International Airport at Idlewild. Come to Idlewild for one of the greatest air spectacles, which will continue for the next three days, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, inclusive. All arrangements are necessary, and your city station keeps you informed as to the location of tickets, facilities for transportation, and so forth. Listen to the announcements of your city station between the scheduled programs as they are presented throughout the day. And for the beautiful Idlewild Airport, New York's International Airport, and the Borough of Queens, we take leave of you at this time. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. New York Times and the주ston and public health and the交 mówi by Project Sanctuary