A new idea in radio programs titled, By the Way, presented by Arthur Cook, writer, editor, musician, and one of radio's pioneer voices. By the Way is dedicated to the proposition that the little things are just as important as the big. Important because they deal with something that's a fundamental of life in these United States. It's a slice of Americana, and here's the Arthur Cook version of it. I won't say howdy, but I will say greetings. I'd also like to say, by way of preface, that I'm a firm believer in the idea that the little things in life are important, too. Consider the news. Big headlines are spectacular, packed with interest, drama, excitement, sometimes grave importance. They soon fade, however, and with them the news they heralded. The same is true of the little things that persistently turn up as stories and fillers dumped on the back pages of the newspapers. When the big headlines disappear, they often pass on into history. But what's history? We never seem to profit by it anyway. With the little things, it's much different. When they disappear from immediate view, they become a part of that great institution known as Americana. And Americana is the record of things that have made this country of ours tick all through the years of its existence. By the Way is dedicated to highlighting the little things in life. The little things about living and learning, about human shortcomings and vagaries. About the unusual things that are happening to just plain Jane and Joe down the avenue. In short, By the Way is intended to be an unhurried interlude in the day's radio fair. So relax with us, won't you? As we bring you Americana in both words and music. Popcorn and peanuts are synonymous, but not popcorn and prestige. A lawsuit up in Minneapolis is unique because it involves popcorn and prestige. A wholesaler filed it against a popcorn purveyor, alleging that the popcorn didn't pop, but that his prestige with several theaters did. The popcorn purveyor practically popped too when he saw the damages being asked. A hundred thousand bucks, said he. That's not peanuts either. The other evening I found an item that's pretty typical of our present day feeling of frustration. Up in a little town in Maine called Westbrook, not Pegler, an overzealous thief broke all but one of 13 windows in trying to burglarize a garage. The one he bypassed was the only window the garage owner had failed to lock. And next to that item from Westbrook, still not Pegler, was another that proves the world with all its crime is a much cleaner place than it was a few hundred years ago. This item said that during the Renaissance, a man was obliged to bathe only three times in his life. When he was born, when he married, and when he was knighted. If the last two events failed to occur, there wasn't even a Pegler to dig into the dirt. To me, it's sometimes frightening how misleading names can be. Take, for instance, the firm of Die and Livemore. They're undertakers down in Alabama. Then there's Gabriel Heater. Until I was better informed, I thought that handle belonged to a new auto accessory made by a company famed for its shock absorbers. The name Chris Cross has always tossed me, too. But if the misleading character of names can be frightening, just consider this little notion. If some of our lawmakers were suddenly transformed into certain kinds of butterflies, their tongues would be six feet in length, compared with what they now have, that is. If that doesn't frighten you, you're really a man of steel. The End Now let's turn to something a little more tangible and pleasant. A discussion of Freddie Martin, an old friend of mine and my favorite saxophonist and bandleader. Our paths don't cross very often, it's true. In fact, I saw him personally for the first time in 21 years when he played on Broadway recently. There may be no significance in the fact that Freddie has become noted for his Americanized versions of old Russian classics, like Tchaikovsky's Concerto in B-flat minor, but then again there might, and here's why. I met Freddie in Cleveland in 1926. He wasn't very good at reading music then, but had developed the distinctive saxophone tone that's now the trademark of his music. Leaders hired him just to play pretty choruses that required no fast note work. In the music business, unless you're a musician's musician, you're likely to run into a little flack. Freddie was no exception. He took as much ribbing as he could, then joined an oompa band from Fairport Harbor, Ohio, for a tour of Finland and Russia. He was home again in time for a job at a Cleveland supper club on New Year's Eve. The band wore costumes, and Freddie's was outstanding for a pair of Kazatsky boots he'd picked up in the old country. All evening, he played with his feet in the air to show off the boots. Otherwise, the party was sedate, formal, and uneventful. Downright dull until a cigarette contacted a gas-filled balloon. The balloon exploded in the middle of one of Freddie's prettier choruses. Pandemonium prevailed. When Freddie headed for a convenient exit, he was met by a good old Soviet Vito. His Russian boots weren't made for fast footwork on a slippery capitalistic dance floor. Freddie's heels inscribed an arc high in the air. Then he settled down flat on his face. It was a knockout in every respect. He later made some cogent comments, but we shan't go into them right now. As I said before, this may be pure coincidence, but Martin's versions of the old Russian classics are played with a peculiar sense of conviction. Personally, if I had a bone to pick with Russia, I wouldn't hesitate to retaliate by picking up a bit of good old capitalistic cash at Yvonne's expense. In fact, if I didn't, I'd feel that I had done a good job of falling by the way. I guess no program about people would be quite complete without an occasional dog yarn, because canines are just about the closest things you'll find to people. Just like humans, some dogs are smart, others smarter. In the latter category falls a pooch named Penny out in St. Joseph, Missouri. One day, Miss Penny strayed from home. Her frantic master advertised her absence in the local gazette. A short while later, Penny trotted into the news press classified office, proving, among other things, that it does pay to advertise. Yes, there are many interesting parallels between dogs and people. And by the way, dogs and trees have a lot in common, too. I shan't go into the more obvious, but I would like to point out that trees like dogs suffer from illnesses, even as you and I. Trees differ from dogs and men, however, in at least one important way. There is no known instance of a tree dying of old age. Experts say they die only when killed. And as proof point to a cypress in Louisiana that's over 2,500 years old. The larger sequoias of California, 3,000 to 4,000 years. And the famous cypress of Tule in Mexico. On this earth for something like 6,000 years. Hmm. Even older than I feel. Speaking of age, there are signs heralding the revival of the over 40 clubs. More and more help-wanted ads are carrying that stipulation so familiar before oldsters were discovered during the war. I'm in no mood to make light of this situation, for reasons that are obvious, to the people who long ago gave up trying to count my gray hairs. I would like to point out, however, that at least a few people have managed to bat down that over 40 bugaboo. They include Claudette Colbert, still doing very well at 41. Irene Dunn, who is far from finished at 43. Humphrey Bogart, tough in a fresh sort of way at 46. Charles Boyer, whose voice is even being changed at 47. And Ronald Coleman, who manages to remain sedate and suave at 55. The Colbert's, Coleman's, Bogart's, Boyer's, and Dunn's are multiplied many-fold here in the USA. If even glamour can live on after 40, who can argue that efficiency can't? You young oldsters who are listening, don't be afraid of losing your jobs. Just bring this to your employer's attention. Kind of looks as though I'm in a needling mood, eh? Okay, then let's consider the sewing machine. When that gadget made its debut, it was called the devil's contraption. No self-respecting female dared admit owning one. Why? Because in those days of Victorian chivalry, it was the male consensus that the machines gave the ladies too many idle moments. And discussing the case of the sewing machine and what it brought out about the relationship between man and woman recalls a little situation in Ireland that while not really Americana is so disturbing, we'd ought to talk about it. Cupid is taking a terrible shellacking over in the Emerald Isle. The land of the Blarney has a higher percentage of bachelors than any other area on the globe. At the rate things are going over there, one out of every four Carleans will go through life without knowing the comforts of wedded bliss. Faith and Bergora, no matter how tough things are, they could be tougher, couldn't they, sis? I rather hate to admit it, but among my various vices was the writing of science articles. I hasten to explain that I was only 17 when it happened, and it was a matter of backstopping for someone else on the paper rather than my own idea. Nevertheless, as things go these days, I suppose even the writing of science articles 24 years ago could still be held against me. When I think of some of the wild-eyed physicists I've known, the atomic bomb, how very little my two kids have to look forward to, et cetera, I honestly shudder at that part of my background. But if I were a worm, I'd hate myself even more. Why, if I were a worm, I couldn't even crawl into my hole and stay there. Some manufacturers employ scientists, and the scientists of one manufacturer finally stooped low enough to consider the worm. What's more, they came up with something, namely the worm. They've developed a worm lure which, when sprinkled on the ground, takes enough oxygen out of the earth to make even the laziest invertebrate come out into the open. How's that for a lurid story? Ah, but we're not worms yet, and I believe I can leave you with a thought that may even give you some hope for tomorrow. I bid you be happy in spite of it all, for as Sidney Smith once said, mankind are happier for having been happy. So that if you make them happy now, you make them happy 20 years hence by memory of it. Of the topics we've covered, not one has been of earth-shaking importance, but I hope all of them have been diverting. From diversion, we derive relief from life's realities. By laughing at the other guy, we lighten our burdens, but by laughing at ourselves, we attain true happiness. There's plenty left to laugh about. Just take an objective look in the mirror, any mirror. Well, so until tomorrow, I'll just say, so long. That was By the Way, featuring Arthur Cook, writer, editor, musician, and one of radio's pioneer voices. This discourse on the things that go to make America tick will be resumed over this station real soon. By the Way was written by Arthur Cook, produced and directed by Basil Loughran, with the musical score arranged and played by Doc Whiffle. John ép Calvary, a by David Loughran,