The City of New York is host today to the 71st Infantry. And here now to honor the occasion is the acting mayor of the City of New York, Vincent R. Impelletere. Colonel, members of the 71st Infantry Regiment, ladies and gentlemen, it's a great pleasure for me as the acting mayor of the great City of New York to greet you, Colonel, and the members of the 71st Infantry Regiment, a regiment that goes way back in the history of the City of New York. I, as a veteran and a very active member of many veteran organizations, am proud of the number of our citizens who, in time of war, have taken up arms in the defense of the country we all love so very much. So that on this occasion, as a fellow veteran and as the mayor of a city of 8 million people, it's my proud privilege, Colonel, to extend to you and the members of your regiment the warm felicitations, the thanks, and the appreciation of all the people of the City of New York that I am happy and privileged to represent on this occasion. And may I, in behalf of the people of the City of New York, issue and deliver to you a proclamation which speaks the sentiments of all the people of our city through me as their mayor. Colonel Lisk's proclamation reads as follows. Whereas the 71st Infantry Regiment, organized in our city 100 years ago, has served gloriously and with distinction in all our country's wars during its existence. And whereas the 71st Infantry Regiment carries many combat streamers, attesting to the devotion and service its valiant members have rendered our country and the honor it has brought to our city. And whereas the 71st Infantry Regiment, which has always carried the designation of the American God, has traditionally been among the first call to duty. And even now, by constant and vigorous training, maintains its historic efficiency and preparedness to serve our country, state, and city in time of crisis, now therefore I, Vincent R. Impelletary, acting mayor of the City of New York, to hereby declare Friday, October 27, 1950, as 71st Infantry Regiment Day in the City of New York, to be observed by all the citizens of the city in grateful appreciation of the sacrifices and heroism of the members of this New York Regiment in the last critical 100 years. And I urge all of our citizens to pray that such sacrifices may never again be required. Yet we are assured that in any future time of peril, the personnel of this regiment will do honor to this glorious and noble record. In witness whereof, I have hereunto set my hand and caused the seal of the City of New York to be affixed this 20th day of October, 1950, Vincent R. Impelletary Acting Mayor by Harry D. Kingsbury Executive Assistant. Colonel, it's my proud privilege to present to you this official proclamation. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. May I extend to you, sir, the sincere thanks of the 71st Infantry. And may I further pledge to you, sir, that during the next 100 years of our existence, we will serve our city, state, and nation in the same faithful manner as we have since 1850. And so we bring to a close the ceremonies here at City Hall. Ok, over again. Come on. Well, as long as I know, what world plan is for me to be at a close war... No, I have not really seen theadirea face. Make sure I do not have any conditions. Thank you for your difficulty. I'm sorry. And so we bring to a close the ceremonies here at City Hall honoring the 100th anniversary of the 71st Infantry Regiment. Heard in these brief ceremonies were Colonel Alfred D. Reutershahn of the 71st Infantry and the acting mayor of the city of New York, Vincent R. Impeletere. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.