Have you the time? No, no, no, don't look at your watches, that's not what I mean. Have you the time to save your life? If you can hear these words, this sound, you probably have. For it means that you're among the living. The story we're about to tell may show you how to save your life someday. I'll tell you the moral of it even before we begin. Time is the only hope for the living. For the living with Edward G. Robinson. Might have happened to you. Let's imagine that it did. Let's imagine that you're a grandmother enjoying the full, rich autumn of your life. You live with your son and his wife and your little granddaughter in that nice little white house down the block. Peggy, your grandchild, is the apple of your eye. You never knew there could be so much quiet joy in growing old, in watching a little girl grow up. The best part of the day for you is when you sit on the front porch in your old rocking chair in the late afternoons and wait for Peggy to come home from school. The day it all began was not much different from all the rest. We saw Peggy walking down the street, turning in the gate. Hi, Nanny. Hello, dear. You've lost another hair ribbon. Oh, my. I had your scouts this afternoon. That must have been when. Is Daddy home? Yes, dear. Your mother will have dinner ready in a few minutes. Got a kiss for me? Uh-huh. Gee, Nanny, aren't you wearing your teeth yet? Hush, child. It's not nice to remind older folks that they... I'm sorry, Nanny, but you've only been wearing them at meals for weeks now. You look funny. Are your gums still so sore? Oh, now that's enough. But why don't you go to see that doctor or the dentist? That's enough, dear. Tell me, what did you learn in school today? Oh, it was swell. Well, Dr. Safford talked to us in assembly, and he told us all about a terrible disease. It's just terrible. And he told us how people should watch out for it. And since I'm going to be a nurse, I have... Oh, my goodness. Now, let's not start that again. Why? Right now, you might be suffering from... Golly, suppose you did have it and didn't know it. Hey, Dee. Mother, is he out there? Is she home, Louise? Your father's carving the meat here. Go wash your hands and face. We've lost another hair ribbon. I'm sorry, Mommy. Mother, haven't you told Harvey to fix that rocking chair, yet it squeaks something awful. It'll fall apart any minute. I don't want to bother him, Louise. I'll put a little oil on it myself someday. Run along, Peg. All right, Mommy. It's not good to put things off like that, Mother. If that chair broke, you could hurt yourself. It's lasted all these years. What did you say, Mommy? I said it's not good to put things off. Wash your hands. Oh. Oh. And so when I told Jameson that and the old guy smiled, I knew I had him. Lou, I'll bet I get my first order from him next week. Oh, that's wonderful, Harvey. Oh, Mother, you haven't eaten much for dinner. Have some more of this custard. That shouldn't bother you. Oh, did you? Seems to me we're having a lot of custard lately, Lou. Well, now, Harvey, you know it's just about the one thing Mother enjoys eating, the way her teeth are bothered. Oh, that's right, I keep forgetting. How's it going, Mom? Oh, that better, son. Oh, good. Oh, now about Jameson. But, Daddy, you shouldn't keep forgetting. Dr. Saffer was telling us in school today that... Peggy. Oh, let her get it out of her system. She's been sitting on the edge of her chair all through dinner. I know. She hasn't eaten a thing. All right. Now, what is it, Peggy? Well, Dr. Saffer told us all about this terrible disease in assembly, and since I'm going to be a nurse, I got... Peggy. I got to think... Peggy, stop right there. I'm not going to have you upsetting this family with more of your imagination. But, Daddy... We're not going to say anything more about it. Mommy! Mommy! Mommy! What is it, dear? Mommy, come here! Peggy, it's five o'clock in the morning. Go back to sleep. Mommy! I don't feel good. I got a pain, a terrible pain! Just a minute, Harvey. Mommy! It's coming, darling. It hurts terrible. Oh, what is it, dear? What's the matter? Mommy, I don't feel good. Harvey! Where does it hurt, dear? Right here. I haven't slept much. It's been getting worse all night. Oh, five o'clock in the morning. What's the matter? Mommy, her forehead's burning up. She says her stomach hurts. Well, she didn't eat anything last night for dinner. She's probably hungry or so. But it might be her appendix. You know, Dr. Lloyd's... All right, all right. What's going on down here? Peggy has a pain, mother. We're afraid it might be appendix. It hurts, Grandma. Dr. Lloyd's in his office at eight in the morning. Call him and... Daddy, I think I better go see him. What? Peggy, if you're making this up... Honest, I'm not. I'm scared, Daddy. And Dr. Lloyd said last time that I... All right, all right. He's not far away. Louise, take her over there, will you? I want Nanny to go, too. Now, listen. What? She's just frightened, Harvey. Oh, personally, I think she's making the whole thing up. But if you want to cater to her whims, go ahead. I'm going back to bed. And you're sure it doesn't hurt when I press here? No, Dr. Lloyd. Or here? Uh-uh. It doesn't hurt at all anymore, Dr. Lloyd. Mrs. Spencer, I don't find a thing. On a superficial examination, her blood count seems all right. She has no pain. Peggy, you made this whole thing up. Oh, I'm sorry, Dr. Lloyd. When your father hears about this, Peggy... Oh, Louise. But I did have a pain, honest. Mommy, I did. You deserve a good spanking, and when I get you home... But, Mommy... Excuse me, Mrs. Spencer, but I think there must be more here than meets the eye. Peggy, now suppose you tell me all about it. I was worried about Nanny. About me, dear. Yes, I tried and tried to tell you about what Dr. Stafford said at assembly. Nobody would listen. And I know your teeth bother you because your gums have been so sore for so many weeks. And Grandmother, is this true? Oh, well, yes. But it's nothing. I have a lower plate. I don't wear much now. Now, suppose we have a look right over here. Let me turn on this light. But I'm sure my gums just been irritated by the teeth. Open your mouth, please. Now, this way. Just a moment. Yes, I see it. Uh, Mrs. Spencer, I want to take a bit of that material and examine it under the microscope. It won't hurt a bit. Dr. Lloyd, do you really think there's anything wrong? I don't know, but I'll find out. I happen to know what Dr. Stafford talked to the children about. And although I don't believe Peggy understood everything he said, she was wiser than she knew in bringing you to me. I'll have a report on this tomorrow morning. Cancer? Cancer? Yes, Mr. Spencer, microscopic examination of the tissue proves that your mother has cancer of the gums. It probably developed as a result of irritation by her dental plate. Cancer? Oh, Harvey. What does it mean? What's going to happen? There's no cause for undue alarm, Mr. Spencer. But cancer, people die of cancer, Doctor. Yes, people die of cancer, Mr. Spencer, thousands of them every year. Thousands of them needlessly. You mean they don't have to die? Let me explain it to you as simply as possible. A cancer cell is a normal cell of the body gone wild. For some reason we cannot yet explain, it begins to grow and multiply completely apart from its normal role as a part of the body. After a certain length of time, it invades the normal cells, gets into the bloodstream, the lymphatic glands, spreads to other parts of the body and begins to grow there. But can't you do anything about it, Dr. Lloyd? The tragedy of cancer is that once these wild cells have spread through the body or had time to grow into the vital organs of the body, it is too late for us to do anything about it. The hope of cancer is that we can stop it, if we find it early enough. Stop it then with three great weapons. Surgery, radium, and x-ray. But none of them is effective unless used in time. Time. My mother, Dr. Lloyd, have you... Thanks to Peggy, Mr. Spencer. I'm sure we've found the growth while it is still localized. And we're going to treat it immediately with x-ray. I think we can stop this cancer in its tracks. Oh, thank goodness for that. Thank Peggy for that. That kid of mine is... Well, it's up to you whether you tell your mother what she has or not. But at any rate, I'd like her in the hospital at four o'clock this afternoon for her first treatment. And this won't require hospitalization. Oh, we'll have her there, doctor. She'll be there. Now, Mrs. Spencer, just lie quietly in this position on the table. Is it going to hurt, Dr. Lloyd? Oh, no. Not a bit. This x-ray machine may look pretty frightening, but you're not going to feel anything at all. I'll have it set in a moment. But I've heard of x-ray burns. Oh, don't worry about them. The skin of your cheek may become reddened after a few treatments, but it'll disappear. Will I perfectly still, please? We're making progress, Mrs. Spencer. Has the soreness you mentioned after the first three treatments subsided any? It's still sore, Dr. Lloyd. I still can't wear my teeth. It'll be a little time after we're through with the x-ray before your gums heal up completely. Oh, thanks. Now, just follow the diet I've given you, and we'll keep your strength up. Am I perfectly still, please? Yes. Yes, I'm pretty positive, Mr. Spencer. None of my tests show any cancer cells remaining in that area. But if they've spread, Dr. Lloyd, can you... Remember, you told us... Nothing I can find indicates that they have. I believe we've stopped this cancer in its tracks before it had a chance to get beyond us. Thank God for that. But let me check up on her at least once a month for a while. It's too bad your mother doesn't know how much she owes to her granddaughter. But I think Peggy understands. Doctor, I think Peggy understands a lot more than we... I've ever given her credit for. I'm going to remember that in the future. Hi, Nanny. Hello, dear. Come here and let me tie your hair ribbon. Have a good time at the Girl Scouts this afternoon? Sure, Nanny. It was super. Is supper ready? I think so, dear. Your father's home. Got a kiss for me? Uh-huh. Well, and you've got your new teeth in. Yes, dear. And your mother's cooked a wonderful dinner just for me in honor of the occasion. Golly, that's swell. I'll bet it's just... Nanny, get your hands a face wash, dear. It's time for dinner. Hello, Mom. How are you feeling? Great occasion, huh? Doesn't you look wonderful with the new teeth, Daddy? It's silly how such little things can mean... Oh, look! Nanny's chair! Here, let me help you. Are you all right? Are you hurt? No, no, I'm all right. Louise told me that chair was going to break if we didn't do something to fix it a long time ago. I'll try and fix it, Mother, but it looks pretty far gone now. No, no, don't try and fix it, Harvey. I think we ought to leave it around as a sort of reminder. Reminder, Mom? That little things can lead to big things if they're not taken care of when they first start. Yeah, I see what you mean, Mother. Gee, that reminds me, Nanny. The public health nurse was talking to us all about accidents in the home and first aid today. Now, Peggy, don't go upsetting us with any more of these... Harvey, let her tell us about it. Is there anything Peggy can tell us that can frighten any of us now? Let's imagine it was you this happened to. Would you have had the knowledge you needed? The knowledge of the way cancer works and how it can be beaten? The knowledge that could save your life? You have that knowledge now. Store it away in your mind against the day when you may need it for yourself or your family. Remember what cancer is. Remember that our men of medicine can cure it often with their three-grade weapons, surgery, radium, and X-ray. But remember, too, that only you can give them the chance to use these weapons effectively. Your own vigilance is your greatest protection against the destroying power of cancer, the one great hope for the living. For the living, starring Edward G. Robinson, was written and produced by Hugh Chain, with music by Castle Nuovo Tedesco, conducted by Lynn Murray, and was brought to you in the interest of saving your life by the American Cancer Society. Your local cancer committee can give you more information to help you recognize cancer, more facts that may someday mean the difference between life and death for you. Learn to know cancer and live. Ecological Questions The End There are lives to be saved. There are battles to be won. Not the battles of man against man, but the warfare of man against the forces of life that would kill him. And strangely enough, where yesterday we won a war with an atom bomb by destroying life, today the power of the atom is being used to prolong life. This is one small facet of a big story. A story for the living. For the living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Sam Jaffe. I want you to listen for a moment to this. That was Hiroshima and its people not so long ago, feeling the frightful power of the atom. The power of a bomb that strains the limits of man's imagination. It would be terrible to believe that man's greatest basic achievement to date was only a weapon for the destruction of human life. Yesterday it was. Today, the byproducts of this achievement are beginning to promise ways of saving life. At the airport in Nashville, Tennessee, a commercial airliner awaits the arrival of important cargo before it takes off. A small truck drives onto the field and stops directly under the nose of the ship. Here she is, Fred. Okay, get her to board and let's get out of here. Hey, what happened to you? Well, the chief insisted we had to have a new box for this stuff, so we had to have a new box. I had done 131, right? Yeah. You know how to handle it? Sure. Fred's carried it up north before. Okay. Sign here and take over. Sure. Oh, my. For a little box, she's sure heavy. And the small wooden box is transferred to the plane's cargo compartment. Heavy because within the wooden box is one of lead. And within the lead box and three ounces is three ounces of distilled water is a colorless liquid substance. It is iodine, but with a difference. Radioactive iodine. Radioactivated in the atomic energy ovens being shipped north to a great hospital now to help save a human life. Several hours flying distance to the north, a woman lies in a hospital bed. She might be you. Or you. Or you. But we'll call her Mrs. Carey. A woman of 50, perhaps, with the gray, drawn face of the very ill. She hasn't been here very long, but she should have come sooner. But she has cancer. Cancer of the thyroid. A tiny gland in the neck just below the Adam's apple. When she came to the hospital a few days ago, she told Dr. Patton this story. Told it with difficulty. It was just this lump in my neck. Here where the big lump is now. Small and hard, but it grew. And how long ago did you notice it, Mrs. Carey? Oh, long time ago. Don't know how long. Got used to it. No pain. Now my throat seems closed up. Can't swallow very well. You should have come to her sooner, Mrs. Carey. Much sooner. I didn't know. What do I have, Doctor? What is it? Is it bad? Very bad? It'll give you something to help you swallow, Mrs. Carey. Make you more comfortable. Then we'll make some tests to find out what's wrong. We'll begin at once. Dr. Patton could have guessed at what was wrong. But he wanted proof. Laboratory proof. He got it by performing at once a surgical biopsy on Mrs. Carey's neck. Taking a bit of the tumor. Sending it to the pathologist in the hospital who examined it through his microscope and reported to Dr. Patton. Recognizable out of no carcinoma of the thyroid. I see, Doctor. It was pretty obvious. But the one thing I want you to tell me. The type of thyroid cancer? Well, I'd say it very definitely follows the follicular pattern of the original thyroid tissue. Then even at this late date, she might have a chance. But bone x-rays show that metastasis has occurred. I think this calls for radioactive iodine 131. Metastasis. Adenocarcinoma. What do these things mean? Suppose we ask Dr. Patton to explain to us in terms we can understand. The tiny thyroid gland at the base of the neck might well be called the governor of the body. Just as in other cancers of the human body, sometimes cells of the thyroid go wild. They get to grow without relation to that job. Well, these carcinomas are of two types. Sometimes they have very few of the characteristics of the gland they're growing in. Other times they're much like the original thyroid tissue. Both types can be treated by surgery in their early stages and cured very often. But when they have metastasized, when the cells have gotten into the jugular vein and spread in the bloodstream to the rest of the body, the situation is hopeless most of the time. Well, then you think that Mrs. Carey... In her case, she has one chance. Iodine 131. Yes, but why iodine? Why radioactive iodine? The thyroid gland attracts all the iodine which enters the body normally. Uses it in its functions. Well, then you hope that the radioactive iodine will be absorbed by the cancerous thyroid cells, and that the radioactivity will kill the cells. Is that it? Essentially, that is what we hope will happen. But let me make one thing very clear. Yes? Radioactive iodine is not effective in all types of thyroid cancer. Experience has shown us that in only about 15% of the cases will cancer cells absorb the iodine. In another 30% of the cases, we can force the thyroid cancer cells which have spread through the body to absorb radioactive iodine by surgically removing the thyroid gland. We have so removed Mrs. Carey's thyroid gland and given her radioactive iodine orally. We hope that the cancer cells which have spread throughout her body have taken the radioactive iodine and thus will destroy themselves. Oh, that's amazing. That's... I'm going to make some tests on Mrs. Carey right now. Why not come along? Ah, Mrs. Carey, you look very well this morning. Much better. How do you feel? I feel much better, Doctor. I can talk better. Since my operation and since I took that medicine, Dr. Black here... Now, if we've gotten anywhere with the metastasis problem... Well, the guy you're kind of should tell us that, Doctor. It's here, ready. If we have any luck, I'd like to chart our results. Go ahead. I'll check the heart. What are you going to do to me, Dr. Patton? Is it going to hurt? Oh, not at all, Mrs. Carey. It's rather like a kind of hocus-pocus. Dr. Black, our radiologist, is going to pass this little machine over your body. And we hope it's going to tell us some interesting things. All right, Doctor. Now, just lie still, please, Mrs. Carey. All right. First, we'll hold the counter over the side of the thyroid gland itself. There. It works, Doctor. Now, lower neck left. Lower neck right. Now, we'll move on down... And there's Dr. Patton and Dr. Black work. One of the marvels of our scientific age becomes apparent. Each click of the Geiger counter reveals cancerous thyroid cells, which have broken off from the original thyroid cancer in the neck and spread to other parts of the body. Reveals that the scientific trap for them has worked. Yes, but remember, Mrs. Carey happens to be one of a fortunate 15% on whom radioactive iodine seems to be affected. When the two doctors are finished, they examine the chart in the hall. I make it nine locations, Dr. Black. Mm-hmm. And every one of them secondary cancers, which in time could be death warrants. Do you think 131 is going to take care of them, Dr. Black? Well, you will remember the Anson case and the Burke case. Yes, we haven't got a five-year cure record yet, but at this point their cancer seemed restrained. I know. And all we can do now is wait. So they wait and watch and hope, but they're not sure. They've had seeming success before, but they're dealing with a force that kills. If they can harness the skilling force to save lives. You have more questions for Dr. Patton. Oh, uh, Dr. Patton, this radioactive iodine you've given Mrs. Carey, if she's going to be radioactive the rest of her life... No, no, fortunately. And that's the reason 131 must be flown to us for every individual case. Half the radiation dissipates itself within eight days. Half of what remains in another eight days. And so on, until it's entirely gone. Hmm. But in time, we hope it's done its job. Today, several research men are attempting also to form antibodies against the various types of human cancer. Antibodies? Biting agents developed by the blood. Oh. They hope to combine these antibodies with isotopes of different kinds. Thus, when the antibodies are injected into the body, they will find their way to attack the cancer and take their radioactive fighting forces with them. I see. A kind of a guided missile against cancer. Exactly. And if it works, we'll really have something. You might compare cancer to weeds in the garden. Surgery corresponds to pulling the weeds out. And today, we can cure cancer by surgery in many cases, if we find it soon enough. X-ray and radium and other radiation is like burning out the weeds. And this we can do today, too. Now, if we can combine radioactive isotopes with antibodies which in some way immunize against cancer while beginning cancer cells are killed, it's like altering the soil so that weeds cannot draw in it. We hope that the byproducts of the atom bomb may help us achieve that end. So now you know. The purely scientific reasoning is clear. Yes, but what about Mrs. Carey? We know about those other two cases, but will it work this time? We have our answer in a case many days later as we listen to Dr. Patton talk to her. Well, Mrs. Carey, how would you like to go home tomorrow? Home? Oh, doctor, you think I'm well enough. From every test I've made, I think you're in fine shape. Don't you feel well? I never felt better. Well, then go on home. But come back at regular intervals, say every six months, to let us have a look at you. Just to be sure there's no recurrence. There won't be. And to think when I came in here, I thought I'd never go home again. I thought I was going to die. Die? A nonsense. Oh, you can't fool me, Dr. Patton. I know you've saved my life. But doctor, I'm frightened. Frightened? Yes. Since I've felt well enough to read and to think, oh, there's so much trouble in the world. And with men building more and more terrible weapons to destroy each other. Why, here in the newspaper, doctor. Yes? After all your struggle to save my life, it would be kind of ironic if I lived to see another war. And the horror of one of those awful weapons, like, say, an atom bomb. And there's the paradox. Hope that man's most terrible weapon of war may be turned to the task of saving human life. Man's use of the byproducts of the atom may well be another great step on the road toward the eventual conquering of another killer of men, cancer. But right now, you and I as individuals have a responsibility in the job of beating cancer. Without the great discoveries that are sure to come in the future, even today, we need not despair. Cancer can be cured if it is brought to our men of medicine early enough. A regular examination for cancer symptoms is our personal part in the battle. Research and experiment are tomorrow's great hope. But remember that our own personal vigilance is today's real hope for the living. For the living, starring Edward G. Robinson and Sam Jaffe, written and produced by Hugh Chain, with music by Dave Filippi, conducted by Lynn Murray, is presented by the American Cancer Society. For further information about this disease, cancer, consult your local cancer committee. The American Cancer Society
