Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. A very hearty greeting to the radio listeners of station WNYC. This evening we continue our series in the psychology of emotional growth. It is, to be exact, the second meeting in the series. And our discussion tonight, prenatal problems. If any of you should happen to notice a genetic approach in this program, and by some of the speakers, please do not think it is an accident. Our speaker this evening, Dr. France J. Kallman, is one of the leading medical geneticists in this country. Dr. Kallman is associate research scientist, New York State Psychiatric Institute, assistant clinical professor of psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University. fellow of the Academy of Medicine, and member of many scientific and medical associations. I could go on and make quite a discussion of just the number of societies Dr. Kallman belongs to. Dr. Kallman, he has consented to break up his very busy week in numerous hospitals and colleges to come down and speak to us on prenatal problems. Dr. France J. Kallman. Dr. Kallman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, I have no intention to deny that the arrangement extending this lecture series on the psychology of emotional growth to a discussion of the prenatal problems of human personality development is a matter of considerable satisfaction to me. Apart from affording me the welcome opportunity to take an active part in your forum, this arrangement lends itself to being interpreted as an indication of a gradually changing trend in the modern sciences. While it may have long been customary to include prenatal factors in an analysis of psychological phenomena essential in personality development, a notable change may be seen in the decision to entrust the discussion of this still rather controversial topic to a geneticist. It is quite obvious that the science of the contribution which can be made by genetic workers to the knowledge of early emotional growth necessarily varies according to whether one is dealing with problems of normal or abnormal personality development. In the last analysis, the relative value of this contribution is up to depend on the kind of definitions accepted for complex and somehow intangible phenomena such as those of growth, emotion and personality. As you know, very few of us hesitate to speak of individual behavior or of types of personality as if it could be assumed that people possess more or less stable and enduring traits in terms of which they may be described and on the basis of which they can be easily distinguished from one another. This common sense concept of personality is based on the theory of the structure of personality which in psychology is known as the theory of traits or the theory of generality because it sees of the specificity rather than specificity as predominating in the organization of personality. By contrast, proponents of the specificity or mass theory of personality have gone have gone so far toward the other extreme in redefining the concept of traits that they are inclined to deny any consistency or generality of human behavior. it is evident therefore that anyone interested in the study of emotional growth should adopt some uniform set of definitions before he starts to cross the traditional boundaries between the sciences in searching for facts about the behavior of whole individuals. from a genetic standpoint the structural basis of personality rests upon the developmental actions of specific gene elements and plainly provides the patterns for both specificity and generality of human behavior. The traits or factors of personality range from the most specific to the most general although the difference between them appears to be merely a relative one. Generality of behavior necessarily precedes the development of specific emotional responses. Any differentiation of behavior if uncontrolled would result in complete disorder and biological chaos. In this gene-controlled process of structural personality formation the primary purpose of fetal life before birth is that of developing physical and mental potentiality. growth and on the maturation of those neural sensory and motor functions which form the basis for the learning capacity of the child. Since the unborn child is thoroughly protected by nature alike against the possible demands of other persons and the vicissitudes of the external environment there is nothing during the prenatal life of the child that can properly be called learning or socialization. disregarding strictly speculative theories such as the one comparing the fetal position with an electric field and explaining the generation of libido on the skin surface of the fetus by the rhythmic interaction between the fetal and the maternal body fetal life offers little opportunity for habit formation and none for rewards or punishment by other persons. Fetal conduct can neither be controlled culturally nor evaluated ethically and there is no relationship between what an unborn child does and what happens to him. In other words prenatal life is crucial in determining whether a person will be normal or grossly abnormal but it obligates the need for independent adjustment until the physical connection between child and mother is severed forever at birth. of course the protection provided by the mother for the first nine months of life cannot be expected to be complete. It is well known that the child's development before birth may be seriously interfered with by injury by a thyroid disorder of the mother or by exposure to maternal infections such as syphilis smallpox or measles. It is no longer believed however that an important part in individual development is played by external damage to the germ class due to poisons such as alcohol by a frightened state of the mother during pregnancy or by paternal age. In fact in the absence of severe physical injury arising from strangulation fractures or hemorrhages not even the birth act itself appears to have any lasting detrimental effect upon the emotional life of the infant. It may safely be stated therefore that prenatal development consists mainly of physical growth and that the essential phenomena of personality formation during this period are genetic in nature that is determined by the elements of organic inheritance provided that there is no outside interference with the normal processes of fertilization and maturation. It is a curious commentary on certain imperfections of our human world that such a plain genetic theory when applied to our own species is likely to be subjected to an amazing variety of biased distortions. This particular peculiar attitude toward important biological principles bearing upon the welfare of present and future generations evidently has conscious as well as unconscious motivations. As a rule the unpopularity of heredity in man is either traceable to the old misconception that inheritance of a physical or mental disorder precludes its curability or it reflects deep-seated general preconceptions and rationalizations formed in response to what may be collectively called congenital frustrations. One of my objectives tonight will be therefore to convey to you at least the general idea that human status in the evolutionary development of man's mental equipment and cultural setting has not been attained through emancipation from the bondage of organic inheritance. humans. In order to appraise the intricate interaction of heredity and environment in relation to both normal and abnormal personality development, we may proceed from the premise that no two human individuals are exactly alike. variability is as much of a characteristic of present human generations as it is of all other species and has been of living beings throughout evolutionary history. Although no two persons are exactly alike, all human beings possess certain traits in common, which means that they are apt to show certain similarities. similarities. The similarities and differences observable and measurable among people are the results of the intricate interaction of genetic and environmental influences. Every individual is a product of two essentially inseparable forces, heredity and environment. Although it is to be expected that the relative contributions of these interacting forces, will vary from trait to trait and from person to person. The social and biological implications of this basic doctrine cannot even be obscured by elevating the age-old nature-nurture controversy from the level of the individual to the level of societies of individuals. human beings are most similar in those characters that set them off from other animals. They differ from each other more and more as they get farther from these basic deep-seated traits and into the more superficial characters. types. We are core dates and we all have at an early stage in development a quarter the manner in which these units build more of their kind. life. It is beyond question, however, that our present genes are minute protein particles which are carried on the chronochromosomes and just as real as atoms or molecules. they are able to duplicate themselves and account for the almost infinite variety of persons in the world. They are the only carriers of organic inheritance if heredity is defined correctly as a transmission of potential physical and mental properties from parents to children through genes. According to this definition there is no inheritance of fully developed traits or disorders but only a transmission of predispositions that is of specific potential responses to the environment. What is transmitted in man is the capacity for developing certain man-specific properties rather than the properties themselves. The actual development of which depends on the variable interaction of the forces of heredity and environment. A given faculty transmitted by the parents may remain below the level of expression in any of the offspring but it should always be remembered that each predispositional faculty of this bond must be related to the action of a certain gene or gene combination. genes are large molecules and in view of the genes constitute the basic pattern molecules from which specific proteins and possibly other molecules of comparable size and complexity are copied and it is justified to assume that the genes themselves are large molecules probably proteins with high degrees of specificity. While chromosomes the microscopically visible carriers of genes have been isolated and analyzed chemically and have been found to consist largely of nucleoproteins it has been much more difficult of course to obtain direct experimental evidence as to the chemical constitution of genes. Nucleoproteins are high molecular weight substances made up of proteins and nucleic acids and they are known to have chemical and physical properties which account for their high degree of specificity. On the basis of evidence provided by the ultraviolet action spectrum of gene mutation as well as by a comparative structural analysis of viruses it has been suggested that genes are nucleoproteins or contain nucleic acid combined with proteins in the form of nucleoproteins. It is most likely that the specific properties of genes reside in either the protein or the nucleic acid components or perhaps in both. In any case genes are integral parts of all living systems because because they appear to be the synthesized products of chemical reactions which they themselves direct. They control those many biochemical reactions on which the structural integration of the organism depends and they must function as a unit if the integrative power of the system is to be maintained. In other words genes not only determine the great number of normal functions identified with the maintenance of life but they may also be responsible for severe biochemical deficiencies incompatible with life. In order to understand the manner in which variations in human individuality may be produced by the results of gene action and gene mutation one must bear in mind that a reasonable estimate of the minimum number of pairs of genes on a pair of human chromosomes would be 500. With 24 pairs of chromosomes it is justified to assume a minimum of 12,000 pairs of genes in men. Given a mutational change at each of only 200 of their respective chromosome locations the number of possible visibly different combinations of appearance would be 2 to the 200th power or approximately 1 followed by 60 zeros. If dominance should not be complete so that the individual carrying only one member of a pair of genes were clearly recognizable or if more than one mutation would have occurred at each position resulting in multiple pairs of genes the number of distinct appearances produced by different combinations of genes at 200 chromosome locations might well exceed the staggering total of 3 to the 200th power or about 1 followed by 143 zeros. Either of these totals far surpasses the number of human individuals who have ever lived on this earth and mutations are now known in man at far more than 200 chromosome positions. Of course since certain mutant genes are up to be far less frequent than the original genes many combinations of mutant genes are likely to be very rare. However all the various combinations are genetically within the bounds of possibility and many of them will occur with reasonable frequency. The distribution and genetic specificity of the blood groups may serve to illustrate this principle. 25 years ago only 4 blood groups were known and their inheritance was explained by a single set of 3 mutant pairs of genes. Today the existence of over a million blood groups has been ascertained and is ascribed to at least 10 different sets of pairs of genes. If you would permit me to take a drop of blood from everyone in your group and we had tested with the proper antiserums it would be possible to classify each of you in one or another of the known blood groups. At any time in the future all of you could be identified by a blood sample since it would almost be a miracle if any two of you fell into the same group. Another approach to the genetic identification of human individuality rests upon the biochemical specificity of enzymes and certain enzyme systems. Biochemically it is now well known that metabolism proceeds by a series of chemical steps each of which is activated by a specific enzyme. As a rule all of these enzymes are produced by a normal individual. Whenever a person fails to form a particular enzyme his metabolism will be interfered with at that point and thereby will become the cause of some distinct pathological changes. The inability to produce certain enzymes has been shown to be the result of a single gene substitution. Recent studies have led to the theory of a one-to-one correspondence between gene and enzyme and this one-to-one correspondence may very well apply to gene and antigen and to gene and hormone. Although many difficulties have delayed the complete identification of chemical gene actions, genes, it seems certain at this point that each individual inherits a unique metabolic pattern which can be specified and measured. It is not too much to hope that much intensive studies of metabolic disturbances produced by mutant genes will make it possible someday to identify significant differences in human individuality in terms of measurable variations in the normal metabolic properties and activities of men. The procurement of adequate evidence for the genetic origin of many of the minor and more severe behavior disorders had to await the development of specialized genetic methods. In fact, all modern studies of human behavior depended on the elaboration of new effective procedures. With respect to the investigation of gene controlled variability, the newly developed methods center around two main avenues of approach, the gene frequency analysis and the twin study method. The gene frequency procedures are used in the analysis of those traits in which genetic diversity provides the effective variable and environmental diversity seems to produce relatively little effect. The various modifications of the twin study method are employed especially in the investigation of those variations in normal and abnormal personality development in which the complexity of interaction between genetic and environmental influences calls for analysis under experiment-like but mankind-specific conditions. At the present state of our knowledge, the study of statistically representative samples of twin pairs and their SIPS called twin family method provides the broadest possible scope for analyzing the relative effects of genetic and non-genetic factors in relation to any particular human trait. The main advantages of this method are that it can be applied to the study of both genetically and environmentally determined variations of human traits and that the effect of heredity can be studied irrespective of whether a condition is strictly pathologic and produced by single specific inheritance factors or classifiable as normal or at least as potentially norm-directed and produced by the multifactor type of inheritance. inheritance. In the latter type of inheritance one is usually dealing with traits which are part of the normal equipment of man and therefore depend on the additive effects of a great number of gene units each of which produces only a small variation in the appearance of the trait. These characters are called graded because they display a continuous range of variations which characterize the species. They are described either quantitatively like the shade of a color or the density of hair or by a figure of measurement such as those for height, weight and intelligence. Each grade of the measurable character is due to the effect of a varying combination of many genes which are transmitted in accordance with the basic medelian mechanisms of segregation and independent assortment in the same manner as is true for the inheritance of single factor traits. From the standpoint of both genetics and medicine it is very important of course to distinguish between a certain degree of functional deficiency resulting as an extreme minus variant in the normal distribution curve of a multigenically determined trait and a specific pathological condition developed only in the presence of one particular pair of genes.