I recognize Commissioner Robert Moses. Mr. Mayor, I would like to refer very briefly to my personal experience with this. Ron Allen Mallet, perhaps by way of qualifying as a witness. I was working on the Great Crossing Elimination Program for Governor Smith as far back as 1923. I studied for him and subsequent governors the great eliminations. In the state, Rockaway probably being the second in importance after Atlantic Avenue. I helped draft the first constitutional amendment, 23, and subsequent one, 25. I was chairman of the Committee on Highways, Parkways, and Great Crossings in the Constitutional Convention of 1938, which drafted the amendment adopted in the fall of that year under which we now operate. Subsequently, I had charge, among other things, of the Atlantic Avenue, Rockaway, and the related aqueduct eliminations. I had charge of the Rockaway improvement, the building of two bridges, the only bridges there are over Jamaica Bay. was the sole member of the country, the only one that was the sole member of the authority, subsequently combined with the Triborough. I had charge of the beaches and parks on Rockaway since 1933. He was a member of the Governor's Commission on the Long Island Railroad, and subsequently chairman of the Mayor's Committee. Now, as to this particular question, in the report of the Governor's Commission earlier this year, the Commission of which Judge Patterson, Judge Lockwood, and I were members, of the General Assembly, and the General Assembly. Some branches of the railroad, meaning the Long Island, are only rapid transit lines. One of these is the Rockaway branch. Mayor Vincent Impeleteri has already appointed a special commission to confer with the court on the acquisition of this branch, together with whatever connections and extensions, would make a desirable part of the city's rapid transit system. Now, that commission, committee, if you please, appointed by the mayor, including the Corporation Council and Chairman of the Board of Transportation, made a report on the 15th day of May after discussing the matter with the staff, members of the Governor's Commission, reviewing all the history, and, as you'll recall, recommended that the Board of Estimate authorize negotiations with the court and the trustee this railroad, of course, you understand, is in the process of reorganization. We're not dealing with the Pennsylvania Railroad or with the nonexistent trustees or directors of Long Island, dealing with Judge Kennedy, federal court. We asked for an authorization to discuss with him an offer of $7 million as a starting point for negotiations leading to the purchase of the Rockaway branch. We carried on those discussions. As the mayor knows, there was a conference with the judge at which he was present. There were numerous other conferences and talks with the trustee. They took the view that the Rockaway branch was worth a great deal more than $7 million. Now, I want to inject here something that's of the utmost importance if you're going to have any understanding of this problem. The city anticipating that the Rockaway branch would eventually be part of the rapid transit system way back 1933 made an agreement officially or reached a conclusion with the then railroad to purchase this branch at a certain figure. Now, why was that done? It was done in the first place because there was a realization even then that eventually that branch would have to be part of the rapid transit system just as the Governor's Commission reiterated some years later. The Attorney General had ruled that State Great Crossing funds were available only for eliminations on private roads. You have precisely the same situation as President Hall can tell you on Staten Island as to the Staten Island Railroad at the present time. Anticipating the liberalizing of the Great Crossing Amendment to the Constitution the Second Amendment as I said was liberalized in 1938 when I say liberalized city share was eliminated and the greater part of the cost was taken over by the state the formula governing the railroad share which was to be between 5 and 15 percent. most important thing that 1938 amendment did which had not been done previously by the Constitution was to permit the state Great Crossing funds to be used for incidental improvements. In the case of Rockaway it was a tremendously important thing because it involved not only elevating the road but elevating it in such a way as to create a road a highway underneath it and many other improvements. In any event back in 1933 the city decided to negotiate and did negotiate for the purchase of that road because it wanted the plans to be made in such a way that the Great Elimination could be used by Rapid Transit Rolling Stock. What year was that Commissioner? 33. I need hardly point out that it was some years afterward before that elimination was carried out both on Rockaway and at Aqueduct which was a part of it. Oh, you have the figure that the city reached back in 33 before and enormously expensive and exceedingly valuable Great Elimination was brought about by the state. I'll come to those figures in a minute. Now, one of the things that Corporation Council can tell you much better than I can when he gets to his part of this story that we had in mind that puzzled the Governor's Commission, puzzled the Railroad Commissions in Syracuse and Buffalo many years ago, it was a question of just what an elimination of that kind is worth after it's made. Well, there can't be any doubt as to what the elimination of Rockaway was worth. There can be no doubt that it doesn't belong to the state. There's no doubt that it belongs to the railroad and when the railroad gets into court it belongs to the judges, the only man who can dispose of it. Well, we made our offer a tentative offer. That's all we were authorized to do. Seven million dollars as a starting point. The judge came in with appraisals and figures which had been made for him and the trustee to which I'll come back in a moment. Injected in this problem was another related problem. It was a question of what the Public Service Commission would finally decide was the railroad share of the Great Crossing eliminations. There have been no such determination. No formal proceedings have even been started. no function of mine to criticize the Public Service Commission for delay. They've had plenty of other things to do but anyway it's a long time since the eliminations were made and they haven't reached any conclusion and therefore we don't know what their conclusions will be. we do however know this that we know how much the eliminations cost. We know that under the formula in the Constitution the railroad share now the responsibility of the judge can't be less than 5% nor more than 15%. It might be anywhere in between. Now previous to 1938 any determination of the railroad share is something that you can't quarrel with under the law. After 1938 these matters under the amendment and the interpretations of it can be compromised. In other words the state might in the end conceivably take less than the railroad share as determined by the Public Service Commission. That the Corporation Council will point out to you is a very important factor in this decision. When the smoke cleared and after discussing this thing with the judge and any criticisms directed at this committee must be directed with at least equal force at the federal judge. We reached the conclusion that we ought to come a little closer to the judges figures and the trustees and we recommended the offer now before you of eight and a half million dollars with the question of railroads cities judges share of the great crossing elimination to be decided later on but to be carried by the city. In other words whatever the city whatever was decided there would be the city's responsibility over and above the eight and a half million dollars but subject to compromise and agreement with the state. I might point out in that connection that the Long Island Railroad Authority established by the legislature of which the trustee General Draper is chairman obviously is going to ask the state to compromise a lot of things that the authority set up. It's the only way of getting the railroad on its feet. At that time the question of back real estate taxes will also be in the picture and the Corporation Council can tell you that story. Now I just want to give you a few figures. There are 50,930 year-round residents of the Rockaways virtually cut off from any effective railroad connections except connections by way of Valley Stream. There are 135,000 summer residents but I want to give you our park figures which are accurate as to the beaches. On a good Sunday we have 500,000 people on the Rockaways, 500,000 on Coney Island as against 125,000 at Jones Beach and 100,000 at Orchard Beach. I know of no such usage on any beaches anywhere in the United States or anywhere else in the world. A great many of those people can only get with any comfort to Rockaways by way of a railroad and the railroad is non-existent at the moment. I want to give you some figures that were quoted to us by the judge and the trustee. The assessed valuation of the Rockaway branch is $13,500,000 in round figures. City's offer in 33,000, bear in mind, just keep in mind that that did not include the value of the great elimination, $10,300,000. The engineers appraised value, $11,700,000, not including the burnt-out trestle, and not including the value of the great elimination. Same engineers estimated reproduction cost, again minus those two elements, $15,150,000. The engineer in that case, Mr. R.E. Doherty, former first vice president of the New York Central Railroad, now its leading consultant, the president of the American Society of Civil Engineers. the original offer of the city, as we brought into the discussion with these figures given us by the judge, $7,000,000, subsequently raised to $8,500,000, with the city bearing whatever turns out ultimately to be the railroad share of the great elimination. We think it's a very good bargain. Now I want to give you the railroad great elimination figures. These are actual figures. Rockaway, $11,600,000. Aqueduct, part of it, $1,500,000. Total, $13,100,000. In any condemnation proceedings, which would necessarily be greatly prolonged, those figures would have a very important bearing on the ultimate award. Now one of the reasons why the judge and the trustee were anxious to reach a conclusion was because they need money to pay for safety devices. $6,000,000,000, of this $8,500,000,000, is going into safety devices and nothing else. May I interrupt you just for a moment? You mentioned condemnation. So as to get the record clear, was the matter of condemnation ever discussed by you and members of the Board of Estimates and the Trustee and the Federal Judge? Yes, it was discussed originally by the Governor's Commission and by our committee, then for the committee by the Corporation Council, and the Board of Estimates, the Mayor and Board took the view that it was an exceedingly risky thing to get into. Long-winded and exceedingly risky, especially in view of this great crossing, the value of the great crossing elimination. Let's get this straight, but while the trestle over the bay has been burned out, there's considerable mileage to the north of it that's used every day in the year, and there's the entire elimination that's in use on the Rockaways. I want to make it clear again that the purchase price offered by the city, in the main, the greater part of it is to be used to pay for safety devices. One of the obstacles in the way of the acquisition of the paying for those safety devices, out of any cash the railroad has today, as the corporation council can point out, or the judge, or the trustee, is that among other things, not only the city, which has agreed to do so, but the federal government, which has not agreed to do so as yet, must subordinate its claims. That's the reason why the railroad wants cash and wants to reach a settlement. another reason is that they'll save a very substantial amount of interest if they can use this cash to pay for those safety devices. As to the conversion restoration of the railroad, white pot on down, that will cost about $40 million. That money can be made available out of the capital budget without reference to the $500 million exemption pending in the debt amendment this fall, to be voted on this fall. I should point out in that connection that for all practical purposes, Colonel Bingham is here, and I'm sure he'll be glad to answer more detailed questions on that subject. For all practical purposes, this is a separate line connected with the rapid transit system so you can walk from one end to the other, which we propose shall be operated on a self-supporting basis in the sense that the fare would be sufficient. to pay for an entire upkeep in operation. Now, to give you the contrast between that and the present very unsatisfactory condition, the present commutation fare by way of Valley Stream is $0.40 to Manhattan. Single trip fare, $0.80. proposed fare under this new system is $0.20. Although, from the point of view of the people of the Rockaways, they're getting a first-class road down there. It's going to cost them less to travel than it does today by the very roundabout Valley Stream device. And I may say in passing as an observer and a critic of the Long Island Railroad for many years, but I hate to think of continuing to operate a round Valley Stream with all the additional trains in summer. It's just a matter of time before you have another accident or a series of them. You're overloading that line. Well, there it is. By voting for this agreement, you buy the road. Colonel Bingham finishes the plans. We started out some years ago toward the end of the LaGuardia administration anticipating just this by making preliminary plans for two lift bridges on the trestle. Very shortly, be possible to pump in sand and actually begin work to get a first-class road down there. We don't know any other way of getting it. This isn't a question of doing favors for a railroad. This is a question of reaching an agreement with a judge who has charge of this railroad who may be presumed to be just as conscientious as anyone else around. I suggest that you're now here from the Corporation Council. Mr. McGrath. I think perhaps it might be in the interest of conserving time the commission. I think perhaps it's something that's going to be if I find my remarks very briefly at the moment and reserve any further comment for a specific answer to any criticism or question that might arise with respect to this transaction. I would like to say this. I will endeavor to not to cover the same ground that Commissioner Moses has covered but perhaps supplement what he has had to say in one or two respects. Your Honor appointed this three-man committee in November of 1950. We awaited the result of the studies and deliberations of the State Long Island Railroad Commission appointed by Governor Dewey of which Mr. Moses was also a member. upon the incoming of their report the chairman was former Secretary of War and former Circuit Court of Appeals Judge Robert P. Patterson former Supreme Court Justice Charles C. Lockwood and the City Construction Coordinator Robert Motons. In May of 1951 your committee made a written report and I would just like to read three or four sentences from that report so that it will be clear that the activities of this committee were on the record in May of 1951 and everybody knew what we were doing openly and everyone knew what our thinking was and what our objective was. We said in that report the committee recommends that the Corporation Council be authorized to proceed immediately with negotiations with the railroad for the purchase of the Rockaway branch between Far Rockaway and Rockaway Park and the connecting line over the Jamaica Bay trestle as far north as White Park. We said it is the opinion of this committee that the price should be based on that agreed to by the railroad in 1933 and formally submitted to the Board of Estimate adjusted downward to reflect the deteriorated status of the line today. And when we speak of the deteriorated status we mean and we then meant the fact that the trestle had been burned out by a fire and the fact that the line was not in operation. Then we went into the figures and we said the 1933 offer set the price at $10,300,000 plus the railroad share of the cost of great crossing eliminations estimated then at about $4,500,000 but now estimated at $1,500,000 making a total of $11,800,000 for the entire trackage which is the subject of this proposed acquisition so that the cost in 1933 had the deal gone through would have been $11,800,000 The properties to be acquired have substantially depreciated since 1933 The trestle across Jamaica Bay has been burned out and must be rebuilt It has no actual present value The committee recommends in view of these changed circumstances that a price of $7,000,000 be offered as a basis for purchase Now we were not so unrealistic as to believe that that offer would be accepted forthwith and I don't think any member of this board felt that that $7,000,000 was a firm figure which could not be adjusted in the event that a deal could be made and that's the reason why we recommended that one of the committee be authorized to negotiate Now we envisioned the possibility that a deal could not be made by negotiation and so continuing in the report we suggested that recognition must be made of the plight of the people living on the Rockaway Peninsula and we had a duty to be aggressive in attempting the restoration of service for those people and so that if our negotiations failed it was our suggestion that we take action by petition to the Interstate Commerce Commission to compel the operating trustee of the Long Island Railroad to restore service but we did not envision any speedy relief to the people by that course of procedure and we then proceeded to the third alternative namely condemnation and we said if the purchase offer and the request for the resumption of service should both fail the only alternative the city has is to condemn the facilities needed in this event the value and cost to the city would be determined by the court to do this legislative authorization would be necessary which might include both state and federal enactments it may be argued that awards might be high this is a possibility to be faced in every condemnation and reliance must be placed upon the courts to make a just and realistic award the assessed valuation in this case is about $11,500,000 which however includes publicly financed railroad improvements not paid for by the railroad and then we proceeded with a recommendation that if negotiation failed the corporation council be authorized to prepare legislation for submission to the state and to the congress for authorization to condemn now that report that you talk about is dated what date May 15 1951 so let's get the record clear that report was then issued to the public was it not on May 16 the following day yes sir it was presented for the consideration of this board this board accepted adopted the recommendations of the report and authorized the corporation council to engage in negotiations which negotiations then went forward and as a result this offer of $8,500,000 under the terms contained in the offer which is now before the board was developed now condemnation involves a judicial determination of the value of this role and one of the theories of value which the court would be entitled to consider would be what it would cost to recreate as of today at these prices at prevailing prices the improvements that now exist on these properties the court would have the right to consider that land which was valued in 1933 over which this right of way runs in 1933 at $5,000,000 and some odd thousand dollars might have appreciated substantially in value and the difference in population along this line and in this area in the intervening years could be urged as a valid basis for considering that the land value had appreciated and while I submit that the figures presented by Commissioner Moses demonstrate that the figure being recommended for this acquisition is not excessive we must view those figures as containing 1933 land valuation and no attempt has been made to make a current valuation of that land but in a condemnation proceeding such an attempt would be made and a court would be at liberty to find that the land today is worth more money than it was then now this railroad is in reorganization this money being offered will have a twofold purpose it will enable the city to embark upon the program of integrating the Rockaway branch of the Long Island Railroad into its rapid transit system and thereby restore transportation service and facilities to the people in Rockaway but it will also provide the trustee of this bankrupt railroad with the money to install safety devices which the wrecks in the last year or so amply demonstrated were so flagrantly necessary and it will enable the railroad and the trustee to use this cash without borrowing and creating liens which will take a position of precedence over our tax claims now I don't know what this entire railroad system is worth but in considering whether anybody but the people of Rockaway and the people of Brooklyn and Manhattan who want to go to Rockaway to the beaches is going to benefit by this we should recognize that the state has claims against this railroad amounting to approximately 14 million dollars that the city has claims for back taxes amounting to somewhere in the neighborhood of 9 million dollars and that the Long Island communities have tax claims in excess of another million 200 thousand dollars so that we have in the neighborhood of 24 million dollars which must be realized from the sale of these railroad properties in the reorganization proceeding before any other creditor except these public taxing authorities gets a penny and my information is that there are bonds outstanding in the amount of something in excess of 40 million dollars all held by the Pennsylvania Railroad which then intervened before any ordinary creditor of the railroad gets a penny so that you would have to add the 24 million dollars of tax claims and the approximately 40 million dollar bond issue before you have anybody in this picture except the taxing authorities and the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and I think that in the report of the Long Island Railroad Commission those men who had expert appraisal and engineering advice didn't think that it would take any that much money namely 64 million dollars to acquire the railroad and operate it by an authority now so far as the details of the offer are concerned they're set forth at length in the printed offer which is before the board and I would be glad to go into any phase of it that requires further elucidation if anybody raises a question mr. quill mr. mayor and members of the board of estimate I want to thank you for this opportunity of appearing here all for 14 years before you took office mr. mayor I had to almost fight my way in here to get a few minutes but now I am invited and I think it is very gracious of you to give me this invitation so as that I can present my point of view in this controversy in order to make it easy for me to present the facts to support my claim of a steel in this deal of acquiring the burnt out trestle that now exists leading to Rockaway I think I will need a little help from you when I came in here I came in with a large map and over there there was a wooden horse or a Trojan horse or some kind of a horse holding a map and suddenly the horse faded away in the hands of three policemen since I have such a map I wonder could you accommodate me and my point of view by asking the police to return the horse sir will you please make the horse available to Mr. Quill thank you thank you very much thank you thank you Mr. Moses I come from a part of the world where the breed the horse is big so I would like the big horse now at Lake Placid pardon me Mr. Quill we're presenting a factual situation here we don't need applause on either side let's keep this discussion as it is and I will join you on that request Mr. Mayor at Lake Placid last week I made a statement that the buying of the burnt out spur of the Long Island Railroad was a huge steel that's a statement that any citizen cannot make lightly and believe me sir I was not pointing the finger of suspicion at you as mayor or at any member of this board of estimate or at anybody in this room but this is such a terrific undertaking that somewhere along the road some confidence men or experts in banks or real estate must have gotten into the act and when a man mentions the word steel it's important so I looked up the meaning of steel and it says to steal to rob swingle cheat defraud pilfer plunder privateer hijack perline filch pinch misappropriation seize sack loot hold up stick up pirate strip it's a big word from all the information I can gather Mr. Mayor before one wheel will roll and one passenger will move out of Rockaway around the burnt out trestle this city will have to fork out 70 million dollars and I predict that on top of 70 million dollars within a very short period of time the subway fare for all subway riders in this city will be 20 cents for a straight ride and I will proceed to prove what I am talking about I think the board of estimate would make a serious mistake in going through with this proposition without a full investigation and up at Lake Placid I said that I was anxious that the Attorney General of the State of New York would enter this picture and give you gentlemen and the judges who certainly are just as innocent as you are in this whole deal the information so badly needed but now I find out that there is a second boss in the picture and that Governor Dewey is up to his neck in this proposal and since as Mr. Moses have pointed out the Long Island Railroad comes under interstate commerce I now make the request that the Attorney General of the United States enter the picture and investigate this deal since whatever I have to say gentlemen I am prepared to say under oath and I state now that by relieving Governor Dewey of his problems by helping out the multi-billion dollar Pennsylvania Railroad and by bailing out the Long Island Railroad you would be making a foolish deal just as foolish as paying a barrel of perils and diamonds for a cancerous white elephant I am making no charges against the members of the Board of Estimate I do not believe that any of you gentlemen are parties to this deal and I am confident that when all the facts are brought to your attention you will vote promptly to disapprove it I am here today to give facts and figures in support of my charges and I am prepared to testify to their accuracy under oath commissioner commissioner robert moses one of the architects of this deal stated in a report to this very board that the rockaway branch was quote abandoned deteriorated and defunct end quote now it is this abandoned deteriorated and defunct line for which you are asked to pay the huge sum of the taxpayers money we are told it is eight million five hundred thousand dollars but it is actually as I will prove seventy million dollars which must be paid at the expense of schools hospitals wage increases for city employees and at the expense of the taxpayers the eight million five hundred thousand in itself would be a steal of tremendous proportions but it is only a down payment not only are you asked to pay eight million five hundred thousand dollars for an abandoned deteriorated and defunct line but you are also asked to assume the burden of paying the state for great crossing charges against the Rockaway Beach branch this has been estimated to be at least an additional one million five hundred thousand dollars raising the cost of this abandoned line to ten million dollars but this is not all at this very moment the Long Island Railroad owes the city of New York nine million dollars in back taxes you would think that before the city paid eight million five hundred thousand dollars for an abandoned line that it would do something about trying to collect the money which it is owed and if the city doesn't get the money now it will have to take its turn with the rest of the creditors fighting to establish its rights to a priority in bankruptcy so we find that this deal would not cost eight hundred eight million five hundred thousand dollars for this abandoned line but one million five hundred million which brings the bill up already to twenty million dollars but this also is the next installment what will the city have after it has shelled out all this money exactly what Bob Moses said it would have a burnt out trestle an abandoned line and it is at that point that the city will have to start to really pay first of all the trestle across four and a half miles of Marshi swamp will have to be rebuilt it has been estimated that this will cost another twenty five million dollars to build the burned out trestle before such money is spent we should investigate who the arsonist was that burned out the trestle and for why did he burn it out and did the long island railroad gain a lot of money by its burning out so the cost is now up to forty five million dollars at the cost to the city employees and to the taxpayers but this again is only a down payment to put the abandoned deteriorated and defunct line into use the city will have to pay over another ten million dollars for new rolling stock since the long island railroad under the proposed deal is keeping its rolling stock so now we find that the bill is fifty five million dollars but even that is not all mr. moses says there will be an additional cost of two million five hundred thousand dollars for engineering and design and at this point I would ask mr. mayor was there any impartial set of outside engineers asked to study this picture people who have no allegiance directly either to the state government or to the city government or to the banks or to the real estate adding up the two million five we come to sixty million dollars of the taxpayers money to be spent and this I predict before the abandoned Rockaway Beach branch can be put into operation the cost will go higher and higher in personnel and other equipment and items that are not included in the present figures the cost will go to seventy million dollars and it is at this point that I say that this slick deal if it ever should be put through or if the wool should ever be pulled over the eyes of you gentlemen who are an authority it will mean for the riding public in the city of New York a fare of twenty cents and what will this city have this money spent for it will have a spur line to service a total permanent riding population and here I will ask Bob Moses to help me out of less than twenty thousand riders for nine and a half months of the year and I'm sure he will not disagree with me in these figures less than twenty thousand riders for nine and a half months of the year into the Rockaway peninsula to build a rapid transit system over this burdened trestle would be just as foolish as building a rapid transit system into welfare island or Rikers island or some other island while rapid transit is sorely needed in the congested areas before the city undertakes to spend seventy million dollars for a spur line to the Rockaways it certainly should first take care of the pressing needs of its one hundred and ninety thousand underpaid city employees but if after meeting these obligations the city still can find seventy million dollars there is certainly a better way to spend that money and still provide the people of the Rockaway peninsula with rapid transit facilities better than by buying the long island properties across a four and a half mile marshland and it is at this point I want to go to the wooden horse if you will indulge with me Mr. Mayor the Mr. Mayor and gentlemen theCause of the? transfer? Avenue line Flatbush Avenue Right through Canarsie and the flatlands is a huge area with a population of some 250,000 people, an area unlike the Rockaway Peninsula that can be built up. A rapid transit line can be brought across here along Flight Bennett Field and over into Jacob Rees Park and right down to the Rockaways. By bringing it across Canarsie and the flatlands, you will be doing what was done when they built the Broadway line to Van Cortland Park and the Pallum Bay line and the Flushing lines and the other lines. You will have a huge area where a great concentration of people can use rapid transit in and out of the city, an area that can be built up. To come across the Bodden Crestle would be a serious mistake. And if the city had this money to spare, I propose and we can prove that this is the way to do it. And the people will have some benefit of it. Mr. Quill, just a little bit of a minute. I might say that's not an original idea. I made the same suggestion to the committee because it seemed to me, I think Commissioner Bingham and the committee can answer you on the matter of cost. I thought the thing was just as feasible as you're trying to describe it now. The distance and everything else that looked to me as if it was something they could tunnel the bay there and come over just along the route you. But it was something that was considered and I think they can answer you on that. I'm glad you made that proposal, Mr. Lines. Now I have covered the area of the flatlands, the Kenassie area and the area that you point out, what are precedent lines. I just want to say before we put on some facts that the Long Island Railroad is the responsibility of the governor of the state of New York. It was his public service commission which failed to require adequate safety devices which would have avoided the tragic accidents that have highlighted the history of the Long Island Railroad in the past. It was he who forced the court to appoint a trustee of his personal political choice. And it was his committee of which Robert Moses was chairman which recommended that the state of New York establish an authority to take over the Long Island Railroad and abandon the Rockaway Beach branch. Now Bob Moses can't be Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, he can't be at both ends of the stick at one time. He cannot very well serve the state in Albany and serve City Hall. I do not know whether the state of New York should take over the Long Island Railroad or whether the Pennsylvania Railroad which owned the Long Island Railroad and is making millions of dollars in revenue from all other lines throughout the country should be forced to rehabilitate this outworn, ravaged property. But I do know that it is not the responsibility of the people of the city of New York who have problems of their own. Yet, the scheme of those behind this deal is clear. For an abandoned, deteriorated and defunct line, the city of New York is asked to pay $8,500,000 and to assume an additional $1,500,000 for grade-classing operations. It is asked to forget about the tax lien of $9,000,000. If the smallest homeowner in the city of New York forgot about their taxes, the city would be after them to make them pay up. I do not see why we should not make the state, the Long Island Railroad or the Pennsylvania Railroad, shell out and we should not hold the bag. And then, it is asked to spend an additional $50 million to put this abandoned line into shape. In that way, the city of New York will bail out Governor Dewey and the Pennsylvania Railroad. And you know, Mr. Mayor, better than anybody in the city of New York the trouble that you have had in the past and your predecessors have had in getting some relief from the state capitol in Albany. Bear this in mind, this is the same governor who has repeatedly refused to give back to the people of New York in state aid a decent share of the taxes which it pays. Not only does the governor deprive you gentlemen of the state aid funds you should be receiving, but in connivance with the architect, he would saddle the people of the city of New York with the responsibility for which he is solely responsible himself. For these reasons, I say that this is the biggest deal since Boss Tweed. But what I am about to tell you caps the climax. In the manner of the robber barons of sixty years ago, this contract which you are asked to offer to the Long Island Railroad provides that the railroad shall, and I quote, cause the vacation from the Rockaway branch of all its employees. They have a new word now for layoff and fire and furlough. They have a new one for the car, and they have a new one for the car, and they have a new one for the car, and they have a new one for the car. And so to enable the board of transportation by employees of its own choosing, complete possession, and operation of the line. Mr. Mayor, I don't speak for the employees of the Rockaway branch that don't belong to our union. But as a labor man, I wouldn't be worthy of carrying a union book and wearing a union button if I didn't fight against this layoff and depriving these workers of their rights. I have some material here besides talking in general terms. I have some material here that I want to submit to you that I think that you and the other members of this board should have. I say to you again before we present these facts that we come here with clean hands and with all honesty. We are anxious to help to prevent the city of paying out $70 million when the city says it don't have it for city employees. We are anxious to block what will certainly come to the riding public of this city, a $0.20 fare. And now in order to present some further facts that can be used, I am asking our General Counsel, John O'Donnell, to present the facts and we will answer any questions that you would like to ask. Thank you a lot, sir. Tell John O'Donnell you are. You said on the boring trestle was burned down an abandoned railroad. Do you know about eight miles of that railroad is now being used? I do. You do. Well, it's not abandoned then, is it? Well, the trestle is abandoned. Just the trestle. The trestle is... About eight miles of the road is in use. For your information, sir, I have news for you. I worked there for a whole year and a half in both branches, both around the horn and through the trestle. Well, then there isn't any truth in it about abandoning the whole railroad. Well, the trestle is abandoned. It's just the trestle. Now, you also passed a remark about 20,000 people down there. Do you know that this railroad will serve the south side, would include about a half a million people? I think that my plan and Jim Lyons' plan come in the end. And Jim Lyons' plan come in the end. Jim? And Jim Lyons' plan come in the end. And you thought you would. One fact, then, that I should first bring to your attention is that it was not Mr. Quill who said that this line was abandoned, deteriorated, and defunct. But those are the words of your Corporation Counsel McGrath, of your Commissioner Moses, and of the Chairman of the Board of Transportation, Sidney Bingham. Because on page three of the report to the City of New York, from which Mr. Quill read, he quoted what Moses, McGrath, and Bingham said. And if you have any doubt, sir, about the truth of that language, then you'd better direct your questions to the men who made the statement. I have more to say on that. But I have prepared, in order to make it as brief as possible, a coherent statement to give these facts in a coherent logical order. And I intend to follow it. But if you gentlemen feel that you want to interrupt me at any time, I won't mind it. The proposal upon which you gentlemen are being asked to vote today will, as Mr. Quill has stated, and as I will prove, and as he has already shown you, ...recommends that this heavy expenditure be met in what way? They recommend in their report that that be taken out of the money available for schools, hospitals, and health centers for the next three years. And they tell you in that report that there are no schools, hospitals, or health centers necessary to the extent of the money that they're going to take out of it. Not only ... these are not conclusions. These are the facts, as I'll point them out bit by bit as I go along. Now, not only ... the next point I was going to make had to do with the amount of the fare. And let me make it clear now ... and there has been no discussion of it here by the other gentlemen ... the report of the Corporation Council and of the Chairman of this Board and of the Chairman of the Board of Transportation states ... and this is the report you're acting on ... that for a part of the regular rapid transit operations of the City of New York ... ... there will be a 20 cent fare and a 10 cent transfer charge. Now, let the public know that ... that you're moving to the 20 cent fare on at least one part of the operations of the rapid transit lines. And then, as Mr. Quill points out, the cost of operating a rapid transit facility over four and a half to five miles of marshland to reach a population that, according to Mr. Moses' figure, has dropped ... has dropped by 20% in three or four months. And I'm not talking about summer residents out there. Because he came in today with an exhibit which was on the horse until ... no, he didn't come in, it was here before he came. But when he came in, it disappeared quick. And on that exhibit, on that horse was the statement that the year-round population of the Rockaways was, as I remember it, 50,000. 50,930. Although, in the report of the Corporation Council and of Mr. Bingham and of Mr. Moses, only in May last, they said that the year-round population ... ... I'll tell you where it is ... ... it's on page one of the report. ... ... in May last, when the survey was made. And I have no reason to suspect that they weren't accurate in their figures at that time. There was then a year-round population of 63,000 people. But now, in September, they have revised it down to 51,000. Is this a declining area? Or did somebody fall on his face when he was trying to devise some report? Now, this then has a population, nine and a half months of the year, maximum population of 50,900 people. And the records of the J.G. White Corporation, four volumes of their survey in the Montague Library in Brooklyn, will show to you that not 10,000 of those people commute in and out to the city of New York every day. When you deduct the children, and the elderly people, and the wives who don't come in, and those who work in the Rockaways, you have a very small number of people using that facility the year-round. But, in order to give them year-round transportation to 10,000 people, you propose to build from scratch a rapid transit facility across five miles of waste and marsh. And done solely, as I will show, to bail out the state of New York from a tremendous losing proposition, and they're going to saddle it on the city. Now, the telegram that Mr. Moses sent to Mr. Quill was read into the record by Your Honor the other day. And it contains what I hope are grievous misstatements of fact. Because, if true, the statements Mr. Moses made in the telegram mean either one of two things. Either that the Patterson, Lockwood, Moses committees' recommendations were determined in advance of their appointment, or else that this Board of Estimate give Governor Dewey a blank check. Why? Because, in his telegram, Mr. Moses says the following, and it's read into the record of this proceeding. A committee was appointed by the mayor to carry on the negotiations recommended by the Governor's Commission. Now, that is not so. The mayor appointed his committee before ever the Governor appointed a committee. So it wasn't appointed to carry on the negotiations recommended by the Governor's Commission. I don't suppose for one minute that the mayor would appoint a committee to carry on negotiations on the basis of recommendations which have not yet been arranged. And I have enough confidence in Judge Patterson and Judge Lockwood to know that they didn't come in with any set of predetermined recommendations. Now, if, however, the mayor did, as Mr. Moses says, appoint a committee to carry on the negotiations recommended by the Governor's Commission, if it wasn't then known, and remember, this appointment was made before the Governor appointed Patterson and Lockwood and Moses, if the appointment was made before the appointment was made before the appointment was appointed, and if, as Moses said, he, McGrath and Bingham were appointed for the purpose of carrying on the negotiations recommended by the Governor's Commission, there's only one other alternative to believe, and that is that they were told, look, no matter what the Governor's Commission recommends, your authority is, as Moses says, to carry on the negotiations recommended by the Governor's Committee. Now, I don't believe that for a minute. I don't believe that that statement in the Moses telegram approximately even represents the truth. I prefer to believe the statement in the report of the McGrath-Moses Bingham Committee itself to this Board when it said, you appointed the understand to investigate and make recommendations and not to carry on any negotiations on the basis of anything. And if they have carried on negotiations, they made no report of their negotiations in the public document which it has been said was available on May 15th last. I challenge you to find one word in this report of whether they ever entered into negotiations with anybody. They didn't have the authority to negotiate. They weren't appointed to negotiate. They were appointed to investigate and recommend. And any statement to the effect that they did leads one to believe that there may have been negotiations that haven't been reported to you. Now, another thing he says in this telegram. The fact is that the original recommendation for acquisition was made by Governor Dewey's Long Island Railroad Commission, of which Judge Robert P. Patterson, Judge Charles C. Lockwood and I were members. That is not the fact. That is not the fact. Because the fact is that the Governor's Commission made no such recommendation. And I have the report of that commission here. And that commission did not recommend that this city purchase or and acquire in any way the Rockaway Beach branch of the Long Island Railroad. So the original thought, the original recommendation for acquisition was not made by the State Committee. And even if they hadn't made such a recommendation, it wouldn't have been original because the Long Island Railroad agreed to sell this property when it was a going concern and when there was a threshold up there, they agreed to sell it for $11,800,000. Now, let us aid out an abandoned, deteriorated, and defunct piece of property in the language of Messrs. Moses, McGrath, and Bingham that it will cost $25 million to put in shape. They proposed to involve this city in expenses of up to $70 million. Now, one other point in the Moses telegram to which reference has been made here today, deliberately to mislead because I am sure these gentlemen know better. In the telegram that Moses sent and that was read into the record by the Mayor, it stated, I am sure Judge Kennedy, no, the steel you refer to would have to be sanctioned by the Court. Now, the Corporation Council knows, as well as you do, Mr. Mayor, that the function of the judge in the bankruptcy or reorganization court is to conserve the assets of the estate, of the bankrupt estate. Judge Kennedy's duty is to see to it that the assets of the bankrupt Long Island Railroad are not dissipated. To see to it that the offer is sufficient, I would like to have a citation where any judge in a bankruptcy court appointed to conserve the assets of the bankrupt said that some offer was excessive. Any implication in this telegram that Judge Kennedy has a function to deny or set aside any offer on the ground that it is excessive as something new in the law of bankruptcy, and the implication in that statement, implying to the public that the city can't lose anything in this thing because the court has to approve it. The court has no concern with the assets of the city of New York, only with the assets of the bankrupt estate. Yes. Is it not a fact that the statement in that telegram to which you refer was speaking about a steal? That's correct. If there is a steal involved here, is it not a fair inference that everybody who had anything to do with it is a participant in the steal? Not necessarily knowingly. Are you, in your criticism of the statement contained in the telegram, addressing yourself to the word steal? Yes. The steal that you, the steal you refer to, the steal that Mr. Quill referred to was the payment of eight million and a half dollars for the Long Island Railroad. For this spur of the Long Island Railroad. When anybody connected with this proposal has leveled at him the charge of steal, and no expression is contained in that charge, excluding anyone connected with the proposal from responsibility for it? Isn't everybody under suspicion until the atmosphere is cleared, and until some specification of what is meant by the use of that word is made by the accuser? No, I wouldn't say that everybody is under suspicion at all. The guilty may feel that way, but I wouldn't feel that way if I were connected with it and my hands were clean. Well, we now find that nobody is accused of a steal. Oh, yes they are. ...of this proposal. Oh, yes they are. Somebody is trying to put something over on somebody here. And again, let me make it clear that the steal charged here is not a steal from the Long Island or the Pennsylvania, but it's a steal from the people of the City of New York to benefit the bondholders and other people interested in the Long Island Railroad, to benefit certain people who have bought a property, we understand, in the area about to be improved. That's where the steal is, and there's no concern of Judge Kennedy's, and there's no point in any member of that committee trying to take refuge behind Judge Kennedy's robes. Mr. Mayor? Yes, Mr. Mayor? Yes, Mr. Mayor? Yes, Mr. Mayor? I ask you to ask these characters here who the, where that property is. Where is this property? What? Can you answer that question, please? I would like to have the question directed to me, sir, and I'll answer any questions that are intelligently directed to me. The questions in the Board of Estimate are directed through the presiding officer. You must know that much. The question is, where is this property being acquired along the road that we're talking about that you say is involved in this steal? Mr. Mayor, we have facts and figures here which will amply justify the unanimous turning down of this proposal, and it can only be justified. It can only be understood, and the efforts of some people to squeeze it through can only be understood in terms of their connections. Now, it is unfortunate that some men have connections that makes them suspect. Now, I have no personal information here at the moment of the names of those who have brought up some interest in the properties in the Rockaways and the Rockaways. And along the Trestle. But we have had three days to get this. And if your Department of Investigation can't make a thorough investigation of it and dig it up, we'll dig it up for you. And we'll dig it up for Commissioner Moser. Mr. Mayor, as Chief Magistrate, you can swear in one of these fellows. We're not characters anymore, I understand. Why don't you swear in one of them? Swear in Quill and make him tell you where this property is. Mr. Mayor, I'd be glad to be sworn in if you'll swear in one of them. He's sworn in if you'll swear in Bob, too. Let me go on to the facts. I don't want to spend too much. Now, I think that Commissioner Moser has asked a very fair question. You made an accusation just a moment before. You're the one who brought it up. He didn't. You said and you made the statement here publicly. You're a lawyer. You understand what the word steel means. And you made the bald accusation just on your feet two minutes ago that people involved in this steel were acquiring real property along that line. Now, when you made that statement... No, sir. No, sir. No, sir. You made that statement just a minute ago and that's what prompted the Commissioner's question. No, sir. No, sir. You certainly... Mr. Mayor, can we have the record read? Yes, I'd like to have that part of Mr. O'Donnell's statement read. And certainly, if you made that statement, you should have had facts ready to support it. Will you read back that part of his statement? He said exactly that. Just before Commissioner Moser's question. It would appear in the record within the one or two or three paragraphs before Commissioner Moser's interrupt. Where he was talking about Judge Kennedy and shifting the responsibility and so forth. What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? No, wait. Just a minute. Read it to yourself first until you get the correct place. Right shortly before Commissioner Moser's interrupted. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Again? Yes, sir. All right, Mr. McDowell. Mr. McDowell. Mr. McDowell. Listen to this, please. Somebody is trying to put something over on somebody here. And again, let me make it clear that the steel charged here is not a steel from the Long Island or the people, but it is a steel from the people of the city of New York to benefit the bondholders and other people interested in the Long Island Railroad to benefit certain people of the people of the people of the city of New York to benefit the bondholders who are interested in the people interested in the Long Island Railroad to benefit certain people who have bought up property, we understand, and the area about to be improved. That is where the steel is. All right. Now, you see, sir, the charge is not that the gentleman who is a steel charge is not the steel charge is not the steel charge. It is not the steel charge. It is the steel charge. mooing the steel charge is not that the gentleman who is a steel charge is not the steel charge The gentleman who drew up this report or who made this recommendation have bought up this property along the area in Rockaway. But we have information. All right. Now, that's what we want to know. That's what we want to know. Who is it? Pardon? That's what we want to know. You want to know from me? Who is buying up the property? It's very simple. No, I don't have the information here. I'm not your Department of Investigation. But you're making the charge. There's no use trying to push over an hour or so. The job of investigating this deal. But were you proposed to build a subway across five miles of Western Marsh, there is entitled to be a complete public investigation of every aspect of it and of every real estate deal in the Rockaways since this committee was formed. You owe that duty to have that thorough investigation because no one under God in history to come will ever understand how a city administration built the subway across five miles of Western to serve 50,000 people. You're not an engineer, are you, Mr. O'Donnell? No, sir. Let me ask you just a few questions. Getting back to Mr. Quill's telegram. Uh... The mayor is a member of the Board of Estimates. The comptroller is a member of the Board of Estimates. The president of the council is a member of the Board of Estimates. The president of, uh... The borough of... The mayor is a member of the Board of Estimates. The president of the borough of Manhattan. The president of the borough of Manhattan. What about, Marks? What about... By this... I don't think that any one of them profited personally. Oh. They have associations that I'm not familiar with. But I say this to you, sir, as a citizen. I cannot understand how a deal of this sort can be justified unless some pressure was brought on somebody, unless some wrong information was given to them. The steel, sir, in this case, in my opinion, amounts to this, and I'll tell you flatly what I have in mind, that the governor of the state of New York has a duty to take over and operate now this Long Island Railroad. He has recognized that. Commissioner Moses, Judge Patterson, and Judge Lockwood told him so. But when Moses Patterson and Lockwood made the report to the governor and told him, you've got to take this over, they drew up a map, and they left a good part of this thing off it. They ignored this Rockaway Beach branch. They never said it should be sold and counting up the value of the property. They never said it was worth anything. Now, all the reports show that this piece of property has been the most losing piece of property the Long Island has had. They have tried to get rid of it for years. Judge, the records in the federal court show that the trustee has applied for permission to abandon this piece of property, to abandon and give it up. And now, the whole Rockaway Beach branch of the Long Island Railroad. Now, he wants to get rid of it. It's a dead loss. We're familiar with that. Pardon? We're familiar with that. Now, I'll show you from the figures that the whole 400 miles of Long Island operation, a lot of which is profitable, is only worth $40 million. But 15 miles of it. I think before he goes to the field, I'll tell you a little bit more about the property that he says to the choir. Now, when there's a robbery, there must be a fee. And he did make it for the Secretary Redbear. I think he ought to tell something about it. He don't... A man don't... A man don't say there's a steal unless he knows something about it. Now, do you just talk loose? I don't even know where the biggest part of this is. No, you talked about property. Do you know of any property that was sold? Well, I can't give you the locked and locked number. Now I just can't. Well, what did you do? Just pick it out of thin air? Although we have had a lot of phone calls, we have had a lot of information. Well, and I... I have not had the opportunity. What are they? I have not had the opportunity to investigate them. I am not the Department of Investigation, or neither is Mr. Quill. But when you propose it, he of the sort, you should investigate every possible angle to it, because you are undertaking something that commits you today to a 20-cent fare, and that commits you to a 20-cent fare on your whole Board of Transportation. Have you given us a bill of particulars now? No, I'm going to... I'm just coming to the bill of particulars. I'll get you in the background. No, I... What the Board of Estimate is interested in, and that's the reason the telegram... I have given you my bill of particulars after that. You've given... And you were... You're speaking for Mr. Quill. I'm his witness here. And you're his... I have worked up these facts. And you're his attorney. That's right. All right. Mr. Mayor, let me ask Mr. O'Donnell to tell us the information he has. He says he has information. Let him tell us, regardless of the source, what is the information. Yes, that's a fair question. I have notations of phone calls down in the office. Yes. But I don't... I don't... Well, let that... No, are they not... Let's not get into a wrangle of this. Are they... No, do you... I am not doing the factual problem. Oh, well, that's very important. That's the crux of the whole thing, Mr. O'Donnell. Don't get away from it. Oh, no. You're a smart lawyer, but don't get away from it. I am not going to give you the facts. Oh, you had some notation. Will you give us the notation? I have come to an honest conclusion of Governor Dewey as governor of this state on behalf of the state, and Nassau and Suffolk isn't helping a fan into the pockets of the people of New York City. Are you letting them do this? Mr. Mayor, you didn't ask Mr. O'Donnell whether he accused Governor Dewey of the steal. I think you ought to add him to the risk. I have made that for the record, and I tell you now that in the interest of Nassau and Suffolk and upstate New York, Governor Dewey, by this combined plan, Moses was on both. You see, he was working out of the right-hand pocket and the left-hand pocket. Because of the state aid situation, the interests of the state of New York and the city of New York are adverse, and no responsible person can serve on a committee where the interests are, on two committees where the interests are adverse, as they were here. Now, I say to you that this deal will result in taking from the Long Island operation, the entire operation, the greatest single loss producer, and saddle it on the people of the city of New York. And as Governor Dewey has put his hand into the pockets of the people of this city by refusing to give this city sufficient state aid, he is now going a step further, and he is putting his hand into the pockets of the people of this city on the question of the Long Island Railroad. He is selling them 15 miles of the least, of the abandoned, deteriorated, and defunct property, one-twenty-fifth of the entire operation, the least valuable for one-eighth of its value, or one-sixth of its value. Well, we've heard all about that. Now, have you... I'll go on from this. No, but what... Is he accusing Governor Dewey of being the one committed the steal? Is that it? Will you make that deafened statement? Is that your statement? You imply it. I have said this about as clearly as I could say it. You said there was a steal. That's right. You haven't named the burglar. This is the nearest thing you've come to it. Now, am I... I have named the burglar. The biggest burglar in this situation is the Dewey administration. Have you heard that city must be a little bit of a burglar? Well, you had the word administration. You were a little closer. You made the individual before. Well, I don't know what the... I don't think we are. Now, in any event, I hope I have made this clear so that every one of you gentlemen will know the relationship between this piece of property and the entire Long Island operation. Now, do you gentlemen have any doubts when I say that the value... I don't want to go into these figures, but I'll go into them. I don't want to take the time, but I'll prove it from the state report. So, at the value of the whole Long Island Railroad, the whole shebang is not more than $60 million. And it's very easy. I'll summarize it. The state report lists all the debts of the Long Island and shows them at $78 million. In addition, there are unliquidated claims for damages, a maximum of $12 million. That's more than a reasonable estimate of the total cost of the damage claims. So that the total indebtedness of the Long Island is approximately $90 million. Now, Patterson and Lockwood Committee say that the stock of the Pennsylvania Railroad is worthless. Therefore, at least the Long Island isn't worth any more than $90 million. But they go one step further. They say the bonds, the $40 million worth of bonds have little, if any, value. And now we're down to take $40 million from $90 million. And on the words of Patterson and Lockwood, to my respect, we have a total property, a 400 miles of operation, worth $50 million. Now, the piece, the 15 miles out of the whole 500 that they're selling you as the least valuable, the greatest loss producer, they want $8,500,000 for you. I'll just go now very patiently. And I didn't want to get into the discussion. The first thing Mr. Quill did when he arose to address this, it was very nice on his part to say that there are no implications, directly or indirectly, leveled at any member of the Board of Estimates or to the committee that the mayor appointed. When you read the telegram, or when you read the quotation of Mr. Quill's speech, was it in Lake Placid? Yes. Lake Placid. The ordinary average citizen implies from the word steal since the days of Boast Tweed. That means that anybody that had any connection with the proposed offer and purchase of this road, whether it's paying more or less as immaterial for the time being, meant that we were all involved in a scheme to defraud the city of New York by stealing. Mr. Quill read a definition from the dictionary. I don't know whether it was the abridged or unabridged edition, which he called a steal, a hijacking, hold up, filch, and so forth and so on. And he said that absolutely no insinuation is to be drawn from his speech that any member of the Board of the Committee is guilty of attempting or trying to steal anything. It would have come with greater grace when this speech was made to have incorporated in his speech in Lake Placid, instead of waiting for this late date, to have said at that time, I do not intend to convey the impression that any man on the Board of Estimators or this Committee is guilty in any sense of the word of trying to aid or abet a steal which was the worst since the days of Boss Tweed. Now, he made that point clear when he got up without any accusation. I mean, he said that he doesn't reflect, intend to reflect on anybody. But the ordinary individual reading the paper must of necessity come to a conclusion that somebody on this Board or somebody in this Committee is a downright thief and a crook because the language of the speech said it was the worst steal since the days of Boss Tweed. I have no objection and welcome any citizen, whether it's Mr. Quill or you or anybody else, the humblest citizen coming here on any matter in saying that the City of New York is spending more money than it should for a capital project or they shouldn't go into the project. But in this particular case, instead of getting down to the meat of the thing, we started off with the bold and bold accusation that somebody here is a crook. Now, Mr. Quill honestly said when he got up that he didn't intend to convey that impression now aside from the Board of Estimate and aside from this Committee and aside from Judge Kennedy, I am very anxious to know outside of the Long Island who you say might profit by this deal. All right. I'd like to know any individual or group of individuals who you say are going to profit by reason of this steal, which is not done with the sanction of this Board of Estimate or the Committee. Now, you say you haven't got the information and we should send it to Commissioner Investigation. Is that correct? No, just a minute. Let's get this correct. There are two ways people are going to benefit from this proposal. It's going to be a tremendous windfall for the people who own this strip of land out here in Rockaway. Tremendous windfall for them. That's why the Rockaway Chamber of Commerce... Windfall how? Windfall how? By building a rapid transit service over four and a half miles of marsh and swamp to bring 10,000 of them to the city every day. Which will improve their property? Oh, yes. Well, my dear Mr. O'Donnell, that's done in the city of New York every day. When we go into capital projects, some people suffer and some will have their property enhanced. You know that as well as I do. You have been in the city of New York longer than I have, but I am sure that you don't remember and that nobody here remembers and that you'll never uncover a deal that provided for the building every rapid transit line across five miles of swamp land to service a year-round population of 50,000... I am not an engineer and don't profess to have any knowledge of engineering. I've got to leave that to the engineers and those men in the Board of Transportation who I understand and assume know their job. What I'm trying to find out, if by reason of building a certain branch of the land across that, some people might have their property enhanced, to me that's not a steal unless... unless they knew in advance of what's going to happen and went in there deliberately to buy swamp land. Now, if the city takes the land over for the building, then they do it by condemnation and Judge Ugueta, whoever's in charge, have always taken in consideration the amount which those people paid for those properties. Now, it may be you have a perfect right to argue that the city shouldn't go into this proposition. That's your right, your absolute privilege, whether you're in the city of New York a day or been living here all your life. That's your right and privilege. But I think the atmosphere ought to be cleared. Mr. Quill did it today. Unfortunately, he should have done it when he made the speech that there was no reflection. And I think if he had the foresight instead of the hindsight, I think Mr. Quill would have at least at that time said there was no reflection either on the committee or any member of the Board of Estrella. Now, going back to... Oh, I don't know. I don't want to ask him that. That's none of my business because he said today what was what. Now, you referred to a report that these three schemers in quotation marks made. Characters that Mr. Moses said. And I've had many a disagreement with Bob Moses. And we've had, and McGrath and I as the Corporation Counselor, we have had many disagreements about matters in the office. Without any personal reflection, we've discussed city matters time and time again. Settlements of cases, settlements of claims, certiorari, litigation, every kind of thing that you could think of. We weren't yes men. He stated his point and I stated mine. Very often, practically every instance, we ironed out our differences after going over the facts. But what do these three men say here? They're trying to bring the value of this thing down. They didn't build it up. They said it was deteriorated and abandoned and so forth. And listen to me, Mr. O'Donnell. Now, wait a minute. I've been practicing law long before you have. Here's what he says. There was a report made by Madigan and Highland to show that the present inadequate rockaway operation by way of Valley Stream is a revenue producing operation. And they poo-pooed that proposition because they were trying to keep the price down in negotiations. Now, wait a minute. I'm only telling... This is the operation they're talking about. Coming around the horn. Now, wait a minute. Don't propose to buy. Now, wait a minute. No, no, no. You're wrong. You're wrong. You're wrong. He says this particular roadbed is a source of revenue. Now, this isn't abandoned. The people of Rockaway... Now, wait a minute. Read it. Read it again, Mr. Joseph. I want to make sure you say... Wait a minute. Will you please wait a minute? You can have your say. Don't get away from Madigan Highland's report. He says that the present inadequate rockaway operation by way of Valley Stream... Yeah, the present around the horn, around by Nassau. Madigan and Highland were employed by the railroad. And Moses and McGrath and Bingham paid... What? By the trustee. I don't care. It doesn't make any difference. They said that you're wrong. We pay no attention to that. Now, you may argue and say perhaps it isn't necessary. We shouldn't spend that kind of money to accommodate 50,000 people that you say use it all year, 120,000 in the summertime, and 500,000 people that want to use the beaches on a Sunday. That's your argument. We must listen to it and determine whether there's sufficient strength in your argument for us to vote this down. But what I don't like is these accusations bold, bold accusations about the implication that any man on this board or any man on the committee had anything to do with trying to enrich somebody. When we're charged with a steal, that means that we're deliberately, dishonestly, trying to enrich either an individual or a group of individuals. Now getting down to brass tacks on this, I heard you say about spending money for hospitals. I heard you say about underpaid employees. I challenge you, Mr. O'Donnell, or anybody else, to show any administration, and mind you, I admit that a lot of employees in the city of New York ought to get more money. I admit that, especially in view of the high cost of living. I challenge you to show one administration that has ever gone to the length that this administration did from January 1st, 1946, when we took office up to the present time, of having done for the municipal employees what we've done since the time we're in office. I certainly agree with you that once Mayor O'Dwyer took office, and right down through the O'Dwyer administration, and right through into Mayor Impalateri's administration, that wonderful things were accomplished for the employees. But today, we seem to be up against some obstacle we can't put our fingers on. But the city employees are not getting anywhere today. And you're proposing to spend $75 million out here. Let me tell you about that. I know Mr. Quill knows, and you know, and I know that Moe Youshevich, for whom I have a great regard, knows, that you cannot use any capital money for the expense budget of the city of New York. If we go ahead with this project, the entire cost of that project is paid by... No, sir. No. On every way it's been said by this Board of Estimate of an increased fare since I have been on it in the past year. Yes, sir. But you and every member of the Board of Estimate is aware that if this goes through on the rapid transit operation of the city of New York, there will, for the first time, be a 20-cent fare with a 10-cent charge. Now, that's one man's opinion, Mr. O'Donnell. That isn't the opinion of this Board of Estimate. Oh, it isn't. Clearly understood for the record. Well, that's the opinion of your Corporation Council, of the Chairman of the Board of Transportation, and the Chairman of your Committee. On that particular line, on the peninsula. Yes. On this light, you will also have a subway operation in the borough of Queen, from Regal Park to Hamilton Beach, competing with your 10-cent subway line, and on that subway line you'll have a 20-cent fare, according to Moses, McGrath, and Bingham. Is that so, Commissioner? Mr. Mayor, the answer is simple. Yes or no? Is it so? Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Another thing I'd like to clear up. These people deal not in facts, but in implications. That's where they seem to live. As to this right-of-way business, I want to point out two things. First of all, that if any time there has been, in the past, any enhancement in values on the Rockaways, it was due to the Great Crossing elimination paid for by the state. It was finished some years ago. Finished, it's there. Nothing being added to it, nothing being changed by this plan. The other thing which is even more important is when these fellows refer to five miles across the bay, I call your attention to the fact that that's entirely, exclusively, city-owned land. There's nothing to acquire. Whatever the city didn't own, we cleaned up and turned over to the city by getting the state and other lands underwater by foreclosure and other proceedings some years ago. Though there is no land whatsoever in this trestle, or whatever you want to call it, over the bay to be acquired by condemnation that could result in profit to anybody. Mr. Sharkey, you were good enough to ask a question, whether or not the proposal of Moses McGrath and Bingham would require a 20-cent fare on the part of the rapid transit system of the city of New York in the borough of Queens exclusive of Rockaway. And you didn't get the answer, but I'll give it to you again. Yes, sir, that requires a 20-cent fare from Regal Park to Hamilton Beach. May I read from the report? Yes. The report says it is recommended that a separate fare be charged on this line each way. On the basis of present costs of operation, we recommend 20 cents. Ten cents additional would be required at the transfer point. This would be substantially lower than present railroad rates which average 35 to 42 cents per trip on a monthly commutation basis, assuming 50 to 60 trips, and 80 cents on a single trip basis between Manhattan and the Rockaways. As to summer visitors, the present 80-cent one-way fare is certainly a major deterrent to widespread use of these unexcelled beach and recreation facilities, and effectively drives more low-income families to Coney Island which is badly overcrowded. At the point where this shuttle service from Rockaway Beach comes into the New York City subway system, the 10-cent fare is charged on the system, but for the privilege of riding to or from the peninsula, an additional 20 cents is charged. That's the recommendation. There, sir, is the area of the 20-cent fare wholly within the borough of the Queen, outside of the Rockaway. But that's not the children. You know... Mr. O'Donnell, is that our entire system would go on a 20-cent basis. That I want to clear up. Yes. Now, Mr. Arnold, you have made that choice because I assure you, sir, that the gentleman from Queen isn't long going to be satisfied when the people out on his neck are worth paying 20 cents when the people out on the ground all the way from the center of the city pay 10. And I assure you that apart from that political angle to have some people paying 20 and other people paying 10, that the cost of operating this line nine and a half months of the year with 10,000 riders over four and a half miles of Scotland will necessitate a 20-cent fare of the entire operation. And if you have any doubts about it, gentlemen, I suggest and all is sincere before you vote in this first step to the 20-cent fare that you have a thorough financial investigation and see if it's not absolutely sound that this is the first step to an irrevocable 20-cent fare all over the entire transit system. Mr. O'Donnell, to the contrary, I'm fearful of the fact that I've got it from experience. I summer in the Rockaways in the store the other night. The storekeeper said, why can't we have the fare reduced to 10 cents so we can go, people come down to Rockaway same as they go to Coney Island? So there will be a movement after this is built and after the people in Rockaway are all satisfied that they've got service, they'll come in for a reduction, not for an increase. Mr. O'Donnell, may I... I don't think you want to imply that I'm not my need. I think I understand your tip. But I don't think you ought to give the impression that there's going to be a 20-cent fare throughout the city. We read in the paper the other day after one of the meetings of the board where there wasn't a word raised by anybody on the question of fare, a story in many of the papers that the fare was going to be increased. Let's not tell anybody. It must have come from yours, for us. I don't know. And then when I found it out that it was fighting the Perth Queen from Regal Park to Hamilton Beach, that it was then that Mr. Sharkey turned to Mr. Moses and said, is that so? And Mr. Moses never answered the question. Mr. O'Donnell, may I ask a question of Colonel Bingham that might throw sunlight on this trestle just for a moment. Colonel Bingham, what type of structure do you propose over this to replace the trestle? Do you propose a viaduct structure or a cut or an embankment? And that would be an embankment type of structure. Well, I doubt very much, Mr. O'Donnell, on an embankment type structure would not enhance really the values of that swamp land. I don't think. We own the entire Bay Bottom, Mr. President. Yes, I know it. The entire acreage of the Bay Bottom except in the colony that live at Big Oak Marsh and they're living on city land. We own all of it. Did you get the point? Yes, sir. Mr. Gentleman, all of them have 400 miles of operation. Here you have 15 miles and five miles that doesn't exist. There are five here and there are four and a half in Rockham. I respectfully submit that if you just add up the figures and divide and a whole long amount of valuation that you couldn't possibly come out of this million five. Now look, from Regal Park to here, half of the distance over Moisland, you can give the people of Rockaway the same service over a half a mile of open water where there's a bridge, the Marine Park with bridge, and at the same time service the people of Knarsha and Flatland from Flatbush Avenue right out of Flatbush Avenue to Marine Park and Floyd Bennett Field. You can service them 200,000 people. Do you want to answer that, Mr. Moisland? Yes. Would you answer it, please? Yes. The Marine Park bridge couldn't accommodate a single train. In order to get the weight down within the money that we had available when we built it, we even had to put mesh on the bridge. That's pretty just a minute. Shut up there, Mr. You've made that point two or three times. Now let Mr. Moses answer. I'm glad I'm not the one that's being rude here because people are showing the true colors now. There. Absolutely impossible to run any trains over that route. Absolutely impossible. Commissioner, I think you have to answer a little bit more than that. I raised the question and I don't think it meant to use the bridge. I think he meant more to tunnel. What tunnel? Not to use that bridge. Not to use that bridge. The point he makes, and I think that's what you ought to answer, whether there couldn't be a connection with the Flatbush Avenue station over into Reese Park and serving the Rockways and serving that community and what it would cost to compare to this. the subway runs out there now to Flatbush Avenue. That's his point. He was talking about getting across the bay and he mentioned the bridge. Well, is there any other way of getting across? No, there isn't any other way. But sir, the bay there is a half a mile wide and where he wants to go across it's four and a half miles wide. That's the answer. It's futile for us to discuss engineering with these fellows. There's many other people to be heard, Mr. O'Donnell. Yes, sir. I'm very much on the opportunity of finishing. I only have about four or five minutes talking to you. And I have spent most of my time answering questions. Well, you invited that. You said when you got... Well, then you shouldn't object to it. I mean, when you got up you said that if there were any questions you'd be very happy to answer them. Absolutely. Well, there's nothing wrong with that. I only hope, however, that the time I spend answering questions isn't being charged against me. No. Now, on the question of the taxes. And here, gentlemen, you better study the report of the McGrath Committee, the McGrath-Moses Committee, and the report of the State Committee. And having in mind that at the time the Corporation Council gave the opinion that is quoted in the Moses-McGrath report, and at the time they signed that report, they already knew what the Governor's Committee had recommended. Now, on the problem of the $9 million in back taxes, here is how it's met in the Moses-McGrath report. The gentlemen put the responsibility on the Corporation Council. They said, the Corporation Council reported that the city's tax claim would, in his opinion, be realized in full on any reorganization or liquidation of the railroad. Now, the state report of which Commissioner Moses was a member says quite definitely that the state plan envisages the adjustment downward of all the tax claims and, in many instances, the wiping out of them. Now, why in the report to you people wasn't that mentioned? It's easy to take a legal position and say, gentlemen, the city has a legal right to the money. And as the law stands, now they'll get it. without saying, without going on and giving the whole story, that there's legislation pending in Albany to change the law and the establishment of the new authority. Why don't, why wasn't that whole fact put before you and that you may not recover one penny of that nine million dollars so that you're not paying just eight five, eight five plus one and a half for the grid crossing elimination and plus nine in the back taxes that you're not going to collect? Now, where is this money going, this eight million five hundred thousand? This is the most colossal thing of all to tell the people of the city of New York why you should pay this eight million five now and maybe you'll get it back out of back taxes. What do they say? The money paid by the city may be used by the trustee of the Long Island and he doesn't propose to have anything to do with this. He has applied for permission to abandon it. But they say it would be a very good idea to give him this eight million five hundred thousand dollars. He whom they also say should be taken into court and compared to result to resume operation. They're going to give him eight and a half million dollars. To be used for equipment and urgently needed safety devices to avoid railroad borrowings for this purpose with priority granted by the court. If you don't pay this money gentlemen Nassau and Suffolk County will have to kick in this money for their safety devices out there. But what you are being asked to do forgo the taxes give them eight and a half million dollars maybe you'll get it back. In the meantime the trustee is going to use it for safety devices and that's a very good idea. But they didn't tell you when he said safety devices that the trustee has applied to abandon applied to the court on July 11th of this year to abandon this property and not spend one penny of that in the city of New York for the spending in Nassau and Suffolk County. And you tell the people of the city of New York if you're going to put up money with state aid the way it is to finance safety devices in Nassau and Suffolk and that that couldn't be fairly called a steal from the people of the city of New York then I don't know the people of the city of New York. Now another point let me talk about the valuation of this land. There are two things to remember there gentlemen. First of all in 1933 when it was a going concern and when there was a pressure across there the planes would run off it was worth eleven million eight hundred thousand dollars. Eleven million eight hundred thousand dollars. Since then the committee says even though Mr. Moses here tried to indicate that it might have increased in value because of some great crossing eliminations let no one kid you that Moses McGrath Bingham report says that this property has deteriorated substantially has substantially depreciated since 1933. We know if you look up the studies you find out that most of this property even where it's being operated is not in proper shape and Sidney Bingham will tell you that part of the twenty five million dollars would have to be spent to rehabilitate the property but it was worth eleven million eight when the trestle was there and when the whole thing was a going concern and now with the middle one third of it burned out and twenty five million dollars necessary to put it back in operation you take twenty five million dollars from eleven million eight hundred thousand and see what our expectation is going to come up with eight and a half million dollars of the money of the people of the city of New York that's not the only thing there's one other point about the assessed valuation and there's some and the board and this committee by the way when they say seven million dollars just as they passed the book to the corporation council about the law and they're collecting the back taxes on the evaluation on the seven million this committee washed his hands and said the board of transportation worked that out don't believe it page three of the report after they say about the seven million dollars then they say the board of transportation reached this conclusion by valuations of land and railroad finance betterment now you cannot consider a public utility section by section segment by segment a public utility as a unified whole you know as well as I know that any railroad company has losing losing lines losing roads as well as profitable ones are we establishing a precedent here where utility has a losing proposition that's going to dump that on the people and retain the piece that they're making money on but that's the whole that's the idea here they say now the corporation council the committee has recommended that you go into court to compel them to resume operations on this division their failure to furnish the people's service on that division is a damageable failure they are not living up to their franchise obligation and yet and they claim they can't do it they don't have the money that's the reason why it's just it isn't worth rebuilding and they propose to hand it to you well if you got it for nothing and was required to build a tressel across Jamaica Bay I still think it would be a terribly bad deal if they gave it to you for nothing on the provision to build that tressel across there but to require you to give them eight and a half million dollars for a gentleman is unconscionable now as far as the value of real estate is concerned it may have the value of seven or eight million dollars but charge against that value the gentleman the failure of the long island to supply those people in Rockaway that you're so concerned about charge them with the failure to supply the transportation that they agreed to supply why let them get away with the profitable parts of the operation and shove over on your shoulders the unprofitable parts they'll be bad enough you see the state is going to take this whole thing over Governor Dewey's authority is going to take this whole thing over and before he takes it over he's going to get rid of the real lemon and not only is he going to get rid of the real lemon and if he gave it to you for nothing you'd still have a lemon but he's going to get you to pay for it now that's the fact of the matter and there is no good in bringing in questions of real estate valuation whatever the long island owns by way of real estate it owes much more to the city of New York through its failure to live up to its contract obligation to the people in this area to supply them with service and there is no justification of paying them for the real estate as long as they fail to give the service now step committee I would give you to respect as I say to Judge Patterson and Judge Loughlin and they were honest they said to the legislative gentlemen and they assumed they could go to the lemon mine and they were going to keep the rest of the operation they said gentlemen let's be honest we're going to have to raise the commutation fare by 20% now your committee says we're going to take over the lemon and we're going to cut the fare in half and who's going to pay the price every subway rider every bus rider in the city of New York is going to be saddled with the expense of this deal to take the real lemon out of the Long Island Transit Authority to that Governor Dewey's operation they'll crow about it for years how did the city lose money on what it took over from the Long Island well we're doing all right out in Long Island and you people are walking right into that problem you're taking over the lemon and you're paying for it and you'll never be able to operate it at anywhere well it'll be such a lot that there is no question if you gentlemen have the study made which the facts in this situation cry out for you to make otherwise you'll never you'll never absolve yourself from the responsibility of the 20 cent fare if you have the study made that you ought to make you will find that you cannot build that trestle that you cannot run rapid transit across five miles of marshland without making it necessary for a 20 cent fare all throughout the city people in the university already pay 15 cents 5 cents on the bus and 10 cents on the subway my heavens we're back on that 20 cent fare and I'm asking this question because I don't know the answer you have a portion of that map marked 20 cents that's right all right now let's see you can go from Brooklyn right to Hamilton Beach for 10 cents that's my understanding of this thing you can go from Queens Boulevard right to Hamilton Beach at the present time for 10 cents now wait a minute yes you can now if you get on the train at any place marked in that 20 cent area and go to Rockaway it will be 20 cents that's right to Rockaway but at the present time you can go from Brooklyn right to that final point there at the marshes for 10 cents the point that you have marked 20 cents yes on the transit system on the system that is at present time finishing that area that's my other point there is already a lot of times of facility right through that area providing a 10 cent fair for 10 the committee proposes for all Iron Rail in this section to charge the 20 cents no that is my understanding to Rockaway for 20 cents why don't you strike us out on that you ought to tell us to I believe the rapid transit service you referred to the bus service is that correct no I didn't Mr. Sharkey said there was rapid transit service at 10 cents in that area there's any other rapid transit other than bus service will you tell them to Hamilton Beach where the last subway stopped city owned subway city owned subway Newlach Avenue Blackboard Avenue and Euclid Avenue none of you want to go to Howard Beach or those other places you take a bus that's correct and I'd love to let myself down Mr. Smith is a big a little bit for a little bit of a bus but there are a few subway lines going right through this area here on Liberty Avenue and Jamaica Avenue and there was a 10 10th fair on the subway line but gentlemen don't you understand that the city proposed to reaffilitate the Long Island Rail up through the same area and charge somebody's down from it door down to gebracht to the owner of the Lamb the South St analyse for direito to lift the  to work with the 51 first ament one and one one one one two another one another two ament ament And here is a separate one from the Smith Avenue line, too. And there's another, there's another lap of something that's sitting there. So if you then go right through that area, and they intend to crisscross it for the 20-cent operation. Now, gentlemen, it's astounding that this Board of Estimates, which was ready to vote on this thing last Monday, didn't have this thing thoroughly explained before. I'm astounded that these questions are on, have to be asked of me. All right. All right. We've had, there's many other people in this chamber. We convene this meeting at 2.30. I think it's only fair that other people in this chamber be given an opportunity to be heard. All right. Mr. Shapiro. I would like to conclude, sir. Well, Mr. O'Donnell, you said at 4.30 that you had five more minutes. Yes, and I had spoke for about 30 seconds when I was asking... No, you've been speaking for 95% of that time. Now, you told me then you had not more than four or five minutes. Mr. Mayor. Well, yes, all right. Could you hear me briefly on... I will not hear you until I'm ready to hear you. Mr. Mayor, I think... All right, sir. I will finish with my factual presentation. All right. I have not covered the situation of the employee. And I'd like to only say one thing. That the State Committee... The State Committee recommended to the Republican Administration that the employees of the Long Island be retained on the job and that they be covered over under the civil service. But it was the proposal drawn up by the Board of Transportation that proposed that the employees on this branch of the Rockway Division of the Long Island Railroad be put on a permanent vacation. And, gentlemen, that's in the proposition for you to vote on today. That's paragraph H. And I would like to know whether or not you gentlemen were prepared to vote last Monday, yes, on this proposal and lay off those employees. Mr. Mayor, I want to thank you for the opportunity. I think you were very patient. We have presented as much as we want to present at this time. And I again renew my plea that the whole case be given into the hands of the U.S. Attorney General before you act. And I would like you to give an opportunity for a moment to our final speaker, the representative of the CIO Council, Morris Jushevitz. I'll recognize Mr. Shapiro first. Mr. Mayor, gentlemen of the Board of Estimates. If there's a subway or a rapid transit system in Hamilton Beach, as Mr. O'Donnell purported to point out on that map, it must have been built within the past half hour. I've lived in Rockaway for over 25 years. And there isn't any rapid transit facility in Hamilton Beach at all. The nearest you can get to Hamilton Beach by any rapid transit system is the one that goes to Ozone Park. And you've got to get off the elevated structure there and then take a bus to Hamilton Beach. Now, I listened with a great deal of attention to Mr. Quill and Mr. O'Donnell. And after being in the District Attorney's Office for 19 years, frankly, I've discovered a new definition of the word steel. Apparently, the word steel now means a mere difference of opinion. They don't agree that the price of $8,500,000 should be paid for the acquisition of the Far Rockaway and Rockaway Beach branches of the Long Island Railroad. And so, in their view, it becomes a steel. And some members of the board, including you, Mr. Mayor, have tried to find out who the participants were, who the engineers were, and the advocates of the steel. You haven't been able to, but I think I have discovered who they were. On May 17th, I read this in the New York Times. For a variety of reasons, the recommendation that the city buy the Rockaway branch from the Long Island Railroad and add it to the rapid transit system is the only solution that makes sense. So the New York Times is apparently a party to this gigantic steel. And on May 19th, the World Telegram said in its editorial, the important thing, however, is to get something started now. Already, the Rockaways have had to go through the summer season deprived of their formal rail service. Under the most favorable circumstances, there must be a couple of more summers before cross-bay transit can be restored. As we said, and this is important, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, when the line was abandoned a year ago, Rockaway residents cannot be written off just because they are on the end of a peninsula in a remote corner of the city. They have been commendably patient during the intervening months and should be rewarded with quick action now that a definite program has been presented. Now, I've listened to a lot of nonsense here this afternoon from the two previous speakers about this burnt-out trestle and the city paying $8,500,000 for the burnt-out trestle. I wonder if Mr. Quill or Mr. O'Donnell ever came to the Rockaway Peninsula and saw the structure that runs from far Rockaway to Rockaway Point, a new and modern structure built within the past decade. The part that's burnt-out of the Long Island Railroad, for their information, is 1,800 feet over Jamaica Bay and nothing more than that. And when they talk about giving service to 60,000 people and quibble whether it's 51,900 or 50,900, they forget that this is service to 40 million people that come to the Rockaways in the course of a summer. This isn't service merely for the all-year-round residents of the Rockaways who God knows are entitled to it as part of the city of New York. It's a service to all of the people of the city of New York. 40 million people use that facility through the summertime. It's God's gift to nature and there's no reason why it should be denied to them. Now, 53% of all of the seven beaches in the city of New York, the Rockaways get 53% of the patronage. And they have to get it through this roundabout way, through Nassau County. Now, there's no reason under God's green earth why the people of the city of New York should have to go outside the city of New York, through Nassau County, to get into the borough of Queens, which is an integral part of the city of New York. Now, Commissioner Moses said, and I think there's a great deal of truth in what he said, that sooner or later, unless something is done, if the Rockaway accommodations have to be given to the people of the Rockaways in the summertime by way of service through Valley Stream, with the overburdening that that causes on the Long Island Railroad, you're going to have a terrific fatality or fatalities. I witnessed the last one, and I know I don't want to see another one. They're using double service there now, on a road that was accommodated merely to go one way, and they're giving the people of the Rockaways around the Horn service, using those tracks for double purposes. Now, when you think of a steel, you think of something that's put over in the dark, surreptitiously, overnight, that nobody has any notice of. This thing started in 1932. In 1932, the Board of Transportation of the city of New York recommended the acquisition of the Far Rockaway and Rockaway Beach divisions of the Long Island Railroad for $10,300,000, plus the cost of acquisition, plus the cost of elimination, great elimination, which at that time was figured at $5 million. So at that time, the Board of Transportation recommended a purchase price of some $15,300,000. And in December of 1933, the Board of Estimates passed and approved that, and an actual contract in printed form was drawn up. And when it came before Mayor O'Brien to sign, he said in view of the fact that he was the outgoing mayor, he was going to leave it to the incoming mayor, Mayor LaGuardia, to sign. And that there would only be a short delay. That short delay from 1933, gentlemen of this Board, has now been, if my mathematics are correct, 18 years. I think it's high time that this Board gave to the people of the Rockaways and the other people of the city of New York who have a right to come to the Rockaway Seashores rapid transit facilities. And so far as the fair is concerned, we're not concerned with fair now. We're concerned with rapid transit facilities to the Rockaways. And all this bugger bear that's being thrown out about a 20-cent fair. In 1935, the state legislature passed a special bill to cover that situation. Because at that time, they were limited in the amount that they could charge in the city of New York. And the late Morris Fitzgerald, to whom I want to say a word of tribute now, it's too bad he couldn't live to be here today to see the action that I apprehend this Board will take favorably upon this proposal. Because he was one of the prime movers when he served in the legislature and then here. He introduced a bill which became law that any rapid transit system which ran over a bay that could be a charge of 20 cents. And that was in 1935. I don't know where Mr. O'Donnell was then, but it's on the law books of the state of New York. And there's been nothing surreptitious about that. So the proposal that's made today for the acquisition, not of a burnt-out tracer, but of a railroad which is in operation around the law, around the long way, and up to Hamilton Beach the short way, for eight million dollars or eight and a half million dollars, plus the whatever may be determined to be the cost of great elimination, I think is most salutary and fair. I want to conclude by just saying this, Mr. Mayor, and I mean this most sincerely. I've been in the public service for 19 years now. And I've often wondered why more people don't get into the public service. And when I see the stigma and the accusations, and the mud that's thrown upon a man like Bob Moses, through whose hands millions if not billions of dollars have passed, without any question, I can understand why decent people don't want to get into public service. Mr. Shapiro, let me ask you a question. I lived at the Rockaways a couple of summers. Now with the trestle down, supposing I lived at 131st Street, I want to come downtown, right down to the municipal building, how would I go? Mr. Well, you'd have to take the train at Rockaway Park, and instead of going over Jamaica Bay the way it formally went, I would have to go around through Nassau County, in by way of Jamaica, to Penn Station, which would take you about an hour and ten minutes, to Penn Station. Mr. Or through Atlantic Avenue. Mr. Or through Atlantic Avenue, which might take you seven minutes. Mr. Now supposing I want to go the other way, through Marine... If you wanted to go through Marine Park Bridge from there, you'd have to take the green bus lines and take that across... Mr. I'd have to go from 138th Street to Marine Park by bus. Mr. That's right. Mr. Then take another bus? Mr. No, there's a bus that goes right across to Flatbush Avenue. Mr. Now where does that take me? Mr. That takes you to the Flatbush Avenue subway station. Mr. And then I'd have to go from Flatbush Avenue down here by the subway. Mr. That's right. Mr. And there is no way of people going directly from the Rockaways to the heart of Manhattan, except either through that hornway, that long way, or through Brooklyn. Is that right? Mr. Absolutely not, unless Mr. O'Donnell has created a subway system in the last half hour. Mr. I thought I knew that section, but I wanted to be sure of what was set here. Thank you very much. Anything else to be heard? Yes, sir. I saw the former president of the Council... Mr. My name is MacDougall, representing the Queen's Chamber of Commerce. In the Chamber we have studied the transit needs of Queen's over a period of years, and I'd like to make three very brief points. One, we think the city is making a wonderful deal here today. Over a period of years, and watching the Commissioner Moses operate, Colonel Bingham, our only fear is just the reverse of what has been expressed here today. They may have made too tough a bargain, but in any event, if you get it for this price, we think you've done a grand job. Secondly, if the line is converted to rapid transit, their cost is going to follow great improvements. So the talk about the present population of Rockaway is really idle. It goes through a very important part of the borough of Queens, and increased structures will add millions of dollars to the tax rolls of the City of New York. Finally, we hope that this thing will be approved today. Thank you very much. Mr. Brunner. Mr. Brunner. Mr. Brunner. Mr. Brunner. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have had understood the WRBRD of the 2014- onk Chirce and quelqu'z. Mr. Brunner. Mr. Brunner,onie Gads whom this was taken over an arrived, but is a session one comerci . Mr. Brunner, Mr. Brunner, Mr. Brunner, The money that he talks about, even if it costs $70 million ultimately, would come back in taxes. In addition to that, as Bob Moses has told you, that wasteland that he talks about, that all the real estate fellows bought up and are going to make such big profits out of, must have been bought from the city of New York. And Bill Ellis is sitting there. Maybe he can tell you whether he's had any proposals. This is the greatest thing that ever happened to the city of New York. And I think you gentlemen are doing your duty when you authorize the proposal. Thank you. Mr. Brunner, here are the other real estate. I have pretty much money to what goes on. Do you know of any property being acquired lately because of the proposed... No, I have a pretty good-sized real estate office, as you know, and we have nobody breaking the doors down to buy any real estate. Mr. Brunner, may I ask a question? Has there been a noticeable loss in income to the businessmen of Rockaway due to the discontinuance of this? There's been a great loss, certainly. And let me also say that the population of Rockaway has not decreased. Wherever they got that from, I don't know. They've built hundreds and hundreds of homes down there, and the oilier population has increased at least 25%. Mr. Brunner, all that land belongs to the city of New York. Don't you agree with Mr. Moser that all that land belongs to the city of New York? Well, there's no question about it. We've got a hell of a lot. Get the $70 million back if you sold it. Mr. Mayor, my name is Louis C. Moser, and I represent the North Queen Homeowner Civic Association. I'd like to ask a question. After so many hours waiting, I'm tired. Where is that $40 million coming from? Has it anything to do with the $500 million bond issue? It has nothing to do with it. Nothing whatsoever? And I'll stay off the subject. Anybody else to be heard? Mr. Mayor and members of the Board of Estimates, as one member of the Queen's Transit Committee, and some time ago it's my recollection that we put the Rockaway situation so far as increased transit concern at the top of the list, and I'm here to express my full measure of confidence in your committee headed by Mr. Moses, Mr. Bingham, Mr. McGrath, and the full members of the Board and you, Mr. Mayor, and I hope that quick and speedy action will come to the people in Rockaway and speaking as one from the North Shore, and we are fully in accord with the vote, I hope and expect, of our President, Mr. Mayor. Mr. Geist? Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, there's hardly anything more that I could add, but I do like to clear up the record about some items here that have been mentioned on the part of the opposition, namely that the liens that are owned by the City of New York, while they may amount to $9 million, cover all of the property of the Long Island Railroad operating in the County of Queen's and perhaps elsewhere. But those $9 million do not cover the Rockaway divisions. I believe the amount of those liens is somewhat less than $3 million. That's number one. And number two, I do like to emphasize the important fact that the people of the City of New York will gain largely and perhaps more than any other people that will be serviced by this railroad or by the new rapid transit facilities. That is to say, we have been talking about 40 or 50 or 60 million people living down there permanently in the Rockaways, but it's the millions and millions of people that go down there to the Rockaway beaches in the summertime that like to get there but can't get there at a rate of fare on a one-round trip of $1.62. $1.62 from Manhattan, from Pennsylvania Railroad. And this will be reduced to about $0.30 a trip. Anybody else to be heard? Mr. Mayor and gentlemen, my name is Dan Russo. I'm the president of the United Civic Council of Queens County, some affiliated 30 organizations. And I'd like to bring to your attention the fact that we are fully in accord with the proposition of the City, assuming the Long Island Railroad's track into the Rockaways. We feel that this here improvement into the city administration as to its transportation facilities has long been shortcoming. We should have received it a long time ago, and it will not only benefit the people in Queens County, but it will benefit, as has been previously stated, the entire city of New York. We urge you, therefore, Mr. Mayor and gentlemen of the Board of Estimate, to approve this here request and to grant us the facilities which we find it necessary that we shall have in order to conduct our business and way of life in a proper, good old New York manner. Thank you very much. Anybody else to be heard? Mr. McGrath? Mr. McGrath? I think it should be stated. First of all, that there is no legislation pending in Albany now. The legislature is not in session. No bills will be introduced until it does open its session in 1952. the presently existing legislation on the subject does not extinguish or cancel any taxes owing to the City of New York. We have expressed the opinion, which we now reiterate, that unless and until the City of New York, of its own volition, cancels or compromises those back taxes, the City of New York is entitled to receive payment in full of those taxes on which interest and penalties are now running currently as a part of any reorganization plan or as a part of any liquidation of the railroad if reorganization becomes impossible. It will be only if the City and this Board, in the exercise of its good judgment, decides that the broad considerations of public interest indicate that those taxes should be compromised or adjusted, that such compromise or adjustment can come about. That is the law as I understand it, as it now exists, and I doubt very much that there can be any legislative enactment which can deprive the City of New York of tax liens which have already accrued. I see General Draper here in the chamber, trustee of the Long Island Railroad. Is there anything that you wish to say, General Draper? No, sir. I would like to assure the Board if they intend to make this offer that we will give every consideration and I'll make the matter of the district and the process. Is there anything further you wish to add, Commissioner Moses, before we close the hearing? Anybody else to be heard? The hearing is closed and we'll take a five-minute recess of the Board. A. And a. Thank you. And a. A. n the ground move.
