Listen to this important message by Mayor Vincent R. Impelletari. I have designated the week of September 23rd as Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases Week to focus attention on the magnitude of chronic diseases which affect many thousands of New Yorkers. Because facilities for the care and treatment of the chronic sick do not meet the need, we must support existing institutions which are helping those afflicted with chronic diseases. The Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases in Brooklyn is one of the largest voluntary non-sectarian hospitals of its kind in America. I appeal to the people of New York to observe this week and thus help their fellow citizens who are victims of chronic conditions. Please send your contribution today to the Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases. 86 East 49th Street, Brooklyn. Thank you. This is Harry Hirschfield speaking. Mayor Vincent Impelletari has, by special proclamation, designated the week of September 23rd to September 30th as Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases Week. More than 26 million men, women and children in America are afflicted by chronic diseases which include cancer, arthritis, diabetes, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, and rheumatic fever among others. The Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases is one of the largest hospitals for the care of the chronic sick in this country. Patients are admitted without regard to race, color, creed, or age, or ability to pay. Naturally, funds are needed for research and for rehabilitation of those afflicted with these and many other chronic conditions. Help fight chronic diseases. Send your contribution today to the Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases, Brooklyn III, New York. Thank you. This is Bert Lars speaking for the Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases, one of America's largest hospitals for the care of men, women, and children afflicted with such conditions as cancer, arthritis, diabetes, cerebral palsy, and rheumatic fever. Patients are admitted here without regard to race, creed, color, or ability to pay. Mayor Vincent Impelle Terry has proclaimed September 23rd to September 30th as Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases Week, as a tribute to this outstanding hospital, and to focus attention on chronic diseases which afflict more than 26 million Americans and claim millions of lives annually. Help carry on essential research and rehabilitation of those afflicted with chronic conditions. Please send your contributions today to the Jewish Sanitarium and Hospital for Chronic Diseases, Brooklyn III, New York. Thank you.