The poet wrote, when winter comes, can spring be far behind? Well, winter has come and gone, and now there's every sign of spring. The birds are back. There's that old familiar sound, the lawnmower. Hey, Fred. And the next-door neighbor leading over the back fence, inviting you to stop work and exchange a little news. Fred, don't work so hard. Gosh, you see there's shoveling snow or mowing lawns, isn't it? I'll take the lawnmower any day. I don't like anything about winter and blustery weather. Snow drifts, furnaces to fire. Well, I'll tell you one thing about next winter. What's that? I'm going to make it easier on myself and my wife and the budget. I really learned something this year, Frank. And by the time winter rolls around again, you'll find us with a new smokeless furnace. Smokeless furnace? You mean a mechanical stove? No, no. I mean a furnace that'll burn soft coal without any moving parts. And with no soot or smoke around the house. Sounds too good to be true. How about letting me in on the secret? Indeed, we will. We'll let everyone in on it. Soft coal can be burned without smoke. In a new smokeless furnace developed at the University of Illinois. A part of our story of the research work done at the University. In the public interest, we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. Yes, spring is here. And we'll soon forget winter fires and smoke. But next fall, it'll be the same story all over again. In many cities throughout our nation, the smoke caused by the burning of soft coal poses a real problem. Not only is it a hazard to public safety and health, but it has other disadvantages as well. Of course, we can get rid of smoke by burning smokeless fuel, oil, gas, hard coal, or by using a mechanical stoker. But all these are, in most places, more expensive than burning soft coal in a non-mechanical furnace or boiler. And so, the great majority of people still burn soft coal, hand-fired. In fact, since big plants use mechanical stokers, and railroads are doing their best to stop smoke, half to three-quarters of the smoke in our cities comes from home. Yes, and it's a real shame. That's what it is. I hang my clothes out at 9 o'clock, and by 9.30, they look as if they've never seen a wash tub. All sooty. And this smoke is a real hazard, too. Boy, it's a menace to safety. Sometimes you think it was fogged so bad. And just think what you breathe when you live with that stuff all the time. Why, it isn't healthy. Your body can hardly keep a house clean with that soot drifting down 24 hours a day. Why, it gets right inside my house, too. My curtains have to be washed almost as soon as I get them up. Well, what bothers me is when I put on a clean white shirt and then find that it's covered with a little flecks of soot. Burning soft coal brings many problems such as these. But what can be done about it? Is there some solution? For many years, there was no real remedy to the situation. And then, one day, a Monday morning, a certain housewife decided to do her washing. Her husband had gone off to work as usual, and mid-morning found him seated at his office desk, going over some papers. When the phone rang, he picked up the receiver and said, Hello. From the other end of the line came... Now, just a minute, dear. Wait just a minute. Whatever it was, it was hard to understand. Now, now, tell me again. What's happened? That in the movement of that time in the air, there is nothing that keeps the delay. He can't have to keep him from his mind and soul. You say the house is full of smoke? The basement's a mess and the washing is ruined? Well, what... Yes. Yes, I understand. But... But what happened here? Well, it's yours. We're thinking about... Our future. Hey, all this... I'm using... Oh, the furnace choked up with soot and puffed back. All right. Yes. Yes, all right. I'll be home to help you clean it up and see what I can do to fix it. Oh, boy. Have I got a job on my own. No one would look forward to a job like that. Not even a professor of mechanical engineering. But this professor went home to tackle the problem with all the thoroughness of an engineer. And one experience of this kind was enough for him. As a result, Professor Julian Fellows of the University of Illinois Department of Mechanical Engineering developed a better method of firing furnaces. It was called the nut and slack method. And what does it have to do with you? Professor Fellows' method meant that homeowners using hand-fired furnaces could save up to 20% on their fuel bill. And here's why. As much as one-fifth of the coal mined gets chipped and broken while being transported from the mines to the coal yards to your home. By using this coal to cap furnace fires, householders can get more even heat, avoid overheating their homes, and burn most of the furnace smoke. And here's something else. If this method were universally adopted, it would save 15 million tons of fuel a year. Figuring soft coal conservatively at $7 a ton would amount to an annual saving of something like $100 million. But Professor Fellows did more than this. Why... Why wouldn't it be possible to develop a furnace that doesn't smoke? One that can burn soft coal and keep the advantage of economy. But a furnace that unlike a stoker that wouldn't have any moving parts. So you wouldn't have to have electricity. Hmm. Why couldn't it be done? And so Professor Fellows worked out an entirely new idea. The downdraft coking principle. He designed a piece of equipment that could be installed in any soft coal furnace and would prevent smoke. And he also worked out an entirely new furnace with the smokeless principle built right in it. This furnace costs little more than other types of hand-fired furnaces and is today commercially available. Consequently, people can save on their fuel bills and at the same time save on house cleaning, have a healthier, cleaner community. That's why Fred's neighbor was so interested when he heard Fred say... Yes, sir. By the time winter rolls around again, you'll find us with a new smokeless furnace. But man, this is spring. Put such gloomy thoughts out of your mind. Well, now's the time to think about it, though. Well, it doesn't look to me as if you two were working very hard. I beg. Come out to help me mow the lawn, did you? No, thanks. That's your job. Haven't you got your wife trained better than that, Fred? Afraid not. What are you two plotting out here? Must be pretty important to take you away from your work. Oh, I was just telling Frank about that new smokeless furnace we saw. Oh, you saw one? Yeah, when we went to the university last weekend, we ran into an old buddy of mine. He's a heating engineer now. You know, Illinois is a national center for home heating research, and he was there doing some work. So he took us around through some of the departments. Going to see some of the research homes. So that's what's got you so hepped up about furnaces. Yes, we're all for this new system. Well, what's there so extra special about this new furnace that makes it smokeless? Well, we got the whole story behind it from Art. That's my buddy. First of all, Frank, do you know what actually makes soft coal furnaces smoke? Why, no. Well, it's the unburned gases in the soot going up your chimney. That doesn't sound very efficient. And it isn't, because you're really throwing away all that heat energy that your furnace could utilize. Well, then, is that what this Professor Fellows has done, found a way to burn that smoke? Well, that's right. Exactly. And as a result, you get less soot and more heat. You know, it's sort of amazing when you stop to think that this development is the first major improvement in any type of hand-fired fuel burning since the days of Benjamin Franklin. You mean we're that far behind the time? Just about. You see, here's the way it works. Instead of heating all of a fresh charge of coal quickly and sending a black cloud of gas and soot up the chimney, this new system first reduces the coal to coke, driving off the gases slowly. Now, these gases, what you call smoke, are caught in a downdraft, which provides the necessary air to make them burn. Well, now, look. What actually causes the gas? Isn't that something wrong with the operation of your furnace? No, no, the gases are in the soft coal, utilizing them, getting the best value out of them. That's an engineering problem. Well, tell me more about that. Well, it's like this. Smoke results when gases are driven off coal by heating quickly, without giving the gases enough air or getting the air-gas mixture hot enough to burn. And this new system does that? That's right. It slows down the rate at which a fresh charge of coal is heated, thereby controls the release of the gases. Hmm, controlled burning. No, not quite, Frank. Controlled coking. Actually, the coal is changed to coke by removing the gases. These gases are caught in the downdraft, are mixed with sufficient additional air to burn, and forced through the glowing fuel bed to be heated to this burning point. Then they are ignited, and they burn. The result? More heat and no smoke. Well, now that I get the full picture, it sounds practical. Well, they've called it the smokeless furnace. Any soft coal can be burned in inefficiently, and both the community and the householder benefit. You not only save because soft coal is a cheap fuel, but think how much easier it would be to keep your house clean. Just as an example, Art was telling us a few figures. Professor Fellow's smokeless furnace burns soft coal with less than 1% smoke, and with as much as 25% more heat from the fuel, both through burning the smoke and through better control of the fire. See, now that is quite a saving. But here's an even bigger saving. Now take, for example, Frank, a city here in the Midwest. Let's say St. Louis. At the present, an anti-smoke ordinance now bans southern Illinois coal. You know, soft coal, in other words. Yeah, I heard about that. Because of the smoke and soot it caught now. But if they would permit their householders to burn soft coal in those smokeless furnaces, it would mean reopening the soft coal market in that city. And that's worth $5 million to southern Illinois coal mines. At the same time, St. Louis householders would retain the benefits of a smoke-free city. And they'd save, now listen to this, they'd save $3 million by using cheaper fuel. That's quite a bit of money. Well, now look, how come the University of Illinois has done all this work? I told you, it's a national center for home heating research. They've done lots of work on things of this type. They've carried on research in mining since 1903. And in 1937, the University pointed out how a million dollars a year could be saved by recovery of waste from Illinois mines, recovery of coal and pyrite and other valuable products. And they developed a furnace control called the barometric damper to save fuel and reduce fire hazard. Wait a minute, you're making me dizzy with all these things. Projects in mine ventilation, studies in saving coal, furnace controls, smokeless furnaces, methods of firing furnaces. They've certainly done a lot of work in heating. But that isn't all. Here's one you'll really appreciate. What's that? It's called the extended plenum. What does that mean? It eliminates the octopus of pipework in the basement. Which means fewer pipes to bump your head on or dodge. But what is it? Well, the top of the furnace used in a forced air system which connects with your various heating pipes is called the plenum. Ordinarily, there are many pipes running from this part of the furnace to various parts of the house. Yeah, I understand that. But with this new system, Frank, there's only one long pipe from the plenum which may run the entire length of your house. Then the various pipes are taken off that and send the heat for the house. Yes, and instead of running through a maze of pipes in your basement, you only have one large one. Makes the place safer and a lot neater. You know, I didn't realize that the university had done so much work. Well, but they have. Work which means dollars in your pocket as a homeowner and dollars to the mining industry. Not to mention the fact that they're helping making communities cleaner and healthier, that's right. Now, are you convinced we aren't just talking through our hats? Yes, you've convinced me. And let me know when you get that front if you've got me interested, too. We will. Now, sir, could I persuade you to finish mowing the lawn? Yes, madame. I reckon you could. Well, so long, Fred, and thanks for the trip. These are only a few of the ways that the people of our state, the communities, and industry have benefited from the research work carried on at the University of Illinois. Through the laboratories, men are working to make your life more comfortable, to save you money, to increase the efficiency of present-day machinery, and to design new machines for new jobs. Additional milestones of progress in the unending research which goes beyond teaching. Disabilities,reatening into buildings, and these to mg è my clock, to have a plus degree of personal fliers to bred rock. Change new jobs for new jobsocaust. One of the buildings is gonna be a secret agency for new jobs. The homes village has been through theyr mining industry. wondongo room for new jobs. Let's take travel some jobs there for the mothers and analysts to help? Let's take travel some jobs. Here, hillside business hosts come… . Where originally spell new jobs was called The adversity, disney dagger! Awです! feigned and hal Safe and barber Juliannes is worth making that His family have ever seenders in me and sold them, Thank you.