The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Is a united church possible now? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today by transcription, the Reviewing Stand considers the possibility of unity among the world's Christian churches. Our unrehearsed discussion will center around the status of the economical movement and the barriers to complete church unity. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. As we look at the organization of the Christian church today, two facts stand out. First, Christian unity is still an accepted part of the Christian ideal. Second, the church is divided into over 250 denominations. This paradox puzzles the ordinary churchgoer and plagues the theologians sincerely interested in a more influential church. To discuss the possibility of church unity now, the Reviewing Stand welcomes Canon Bernard Ittings Bell, consultant on education to the Episcopal Bishop of Chicago, Georgia Harkness, Professor of Applied Theology from Garrett Biblical Institute, Paul Macy, Charles Henry Brent Lecturer on Church Unity, Theodore Thalassinos, Preacher in the Eastern Orthodox Church from Athens, Greece, and Henry P. Van Dusen, President of Union Theological Seminary. To begin today's discussion, we hear first by transcription from Dr. Van Dusen. Our century has its sad features, but there is one feature in its history which is not sad. That is the gathering tide of Christian union. These words, quoted from the distinguished British political scientist, Sir Ernest Barker of Cambridge University, might well serve as a text for this discussion. They summarize a fact of which most people are only dimly aware. Of course, the ideal of Christian unity is as old as Christianity itself. Ever since the Apostle Paul likened the Church to a body, with many members differing in character but functioning in organic interdependence, Christians have spoken of the Church as the body of Christ, and have believed that it should be one. But in fact, the life of the Christian churches has been marked by a steady succession of schisms and divisions, until they have produced the present shocking total of over 250 denominations in the United States alone. In brief, for nearly 1900 years, the practice of Christians in this matter of Christian unity almost precisely contradicted their profession. Then, about 150 years ago, a reverse tendency began quietly to set in. Sir Ernest Barker's figure of the tides is well chosen. It has been as though powerful surface currents, which had been separating Christians for 18 centuries into ever more numerous and mutually antagonistic churches, had given place to deep under-surface tides, which all through the past century and a half have been drawing these same churches, except the Church of Rome, closer and closer together. Today, the greater part of the leadership of non-Roman Catholic Christendom is more fully united in understanding and mutual trust in fellowship and organization for common action than has been true of Christianity at any previous time in its history. This title movement of Christian unity has been advancing in two complementary directions at the same time. On the one hand, through actual unions of churches, not only local congregations, but great national church bodies. and on the other hand, through the creation of councils and federations, in which different denominations join forces in united work. two pairs of contrasts may convey some impression of how unprecedented both these developments have been. The first eighteen centuries of Christian history witnessed at least one new major permanent schism in the Church in each century, since the Reformation scores in each century. those centuries achieved exactly one instance of church union, a reunion of two separated branches of the Catholic Church. The past hundred and fifty years have seen some new denominations come to birth, but much more significant. They have been marked by hundreds of unions of individual congregations, and also nearly a hundred full and permanent mergers of national denominations. Some of these, like the United Churches of Canada, China, South and North India, the Philippines, Japan, have joined communions which had been separated from each other since the Reformation. In the first eighteen hundred years, one church union. In the last one hundred and fifty years, scores. That is the first contrast. The second contrast is this. Up to almost eighteen hundred, there was, so far as we know, not a single organization in a local community or in a nation, let alone on a world scale, which united Christians of different denominations across denominational lines for common action, or even for fellowship. Today, there are thousands of interdenominational bodies, all the way from over seven hundred and fifty local councils of churches in the United States, through state and national councils of churches in two dozen lands, and uncounted other interdenominational bodies, up to the copestone of this intricate structure of Christian cooperation, the World Council of Churches, which now embraces one hundred and fifty national church bodies from fifty countries, and which was brought into existence at Amsterdam a year ago last summer. In the year eighteen hundred, hardly one. In nineteen fifty, thousands. This is some measure of the actual achievements of Christian unity in the recent past. These are some of the facts which led William Temple, the late Archbishop of Canterbury, to describe this worldwide Christian fellowship, this modern ecumenical movement, as the great new fact of our era, one great ground of hope for the coming days. These are among the facts which furnish a background for a discussion of the question, Is a United Church possible now? Ms. Harkness, do you have anything to add to Dr. Van Dusen's statement? I think that Pitt Van Dusen, who by the way is chairman of the study department of the World Council of Churches, has given us an excellent background for this discussion. Perhaps I should like to point up a little more specifically a matter he alluded to, namely the difference between church union, which means organic mergers, and Christian unity. Church union comes slowly. It's a painful process at times. Christian unity, we can have at once. In the words of a leader of early congregationalism, we can have now a treatise of reformation without tarrying for any. Van Dusen talked about various church groups. I wonder what groups support the movement? Well, he mentioned 150 denominations in the world, 50 countries. It's interesting to know that 19 of those would be called Catholic churches, but as he said, it does not include the Roman Catholic. And then there are 13 Anglican, 11 Lutheran, and so on. In the United States, for example, there are 22 Protestant and 4 Eastern Orthodox groups that support the national working together in the Federal Council. But it includes 12 out of the 15 largest denominations in the country. What groups oppose the movement, Macy? Well, in general there are three. Not all those, you understand, that are outside, I would reckon as opposing it. For example, I wouldn't say that the Roman church is opposing the movement. It just is not in it by virtue of its very self and its genius. But there are three groups that seem to be giving some active opposition. One, I would say, they are the economic conservatives who are misinformed and who confuse the church's rightful concern for social welfare with the so-called ideologies of socialism and communism. Then there's a group of extreme fundamentalists that feel they can't go along and they rather side in sometimes with this attack on the Council by virtue of thinking that it is a little left. But those are quite negated in a sense by the third group that opposes, which are communist sympathizers, who say, well, this movement is just a movement allied with economic imperialism. We spoke there of the Roman Catholic position. Does church unity actually mean Protestant unity then? Not to my mind. I'm not interested in just Protestant unity. In fact, I'm always a little bit irritated when they just talk about this being a Protestant movement because it's something much wider than that. And you think that unity might include unity with the Roman Catholic beliefs? Well, I have to, since I believe that God wills unity, I have to believe that sometime it includes, if we ever get it, if we ever get real unity, it will include the Roman Catholic Church. I don't see the way in which it can. Where do the Episcopalians stand on this, Cannon Bell? Well, before I answer that, I want to say that I think that the Roman Catholics, and the relation of the Roman Catholics to this great movement is not nearly as closed as you might think. Because the ecumenical movement has always held open the door. And there can be no doubt, there is no doubt, need be no doubt, that there is great, careful observation of what goes on in this movement on the part of all the leading Roman Catholic theologians and authorities in the world. They are concerned in it. They can't cooperate with it. Now, maybe they can never cooperate with it. But at any rate, there is not opposition. Well, now in regard to the Episcopal Church, the Anglican Communion, this movement largely started under the leadership of the Anglican Communion. It started with a Chicago quadrilateral adopted here in Chicago by the Episcopal Church way back in the seventies, I think it was, of the last century. And among the chief early leaders of the movement were Bishop Brent of the Philippine Islands, later Bishop of Western New York, and Archbishop William Temple. I suppose those two, with Archbishop Sertibrom of the Swedish Church, constitute really the three great leaders of the movement. They brought it into being by their sheer faith and inspiration they gave to other people to follow and believe, so that the Anglican Communion certainly is right in on the thing. Then there are some very real bases for church unity. There are real bases for church unity, of course there are. But the thing is to find out what the bases are. Mr. Thalassinus, what is the position of the Greek Orthodox Church? It seems to me that both church unity and the unity of the Christendom are one of the most modern desires of the Eastern Orthodox Church. There is no religious service in each ritual without a specific prayer for the unity of all. Nothing damages more the life of the church than division and schism. And nothing manifests more clearly the bankruptcy of us Christians than the forgetfulness of Christian love. The author of church does not oppose the idea of the cooperation of the Christian churches, on the other hand, throughout the world. It is the Ecumenical Patriarchate which already in 1920 proposed the creation of a worldwide society of the Christian churches equivalent to the society of nations of that time. No attention was paid at that time to the initiative of the Greek church. But the subsequent history justifies the expectations of the Ecumenical Patriarchate. You all seem to agree that there are certain very real advantages to church unity. I move to ask are there any disadvantages in having a unified church? Ms. Harkness? Well, I don't think there could possibly be any ultimate disadvantages. There are some barriers along the way in tradition and in conservatism. There are sometimes factors in which, as it has been put, inter is extra because as we seek to cooperate, it may be that we have less time and energy for the work of one's own church. But all those are inconsequential compared with the great advantages of our ultimate objective. And along the way, as I was saying a moment ago, we can have Christian unity in fellowship, in worship, in cooperative action. If you remember correctly, Van Dusen spoke in glowing language of church unity. And I have heard Ms. Harkness just now talk about certain barriers. Cannon Bell, are you as optimistic as Van Dusen on this business of church unity? I must confess that I don't think I am. Perhaps I misunderstand Dr. Van Dusen, but he seems to think that this is a great tidal wave that nothing can stop. I think that it may be eventually a tidal wave, but it isn't a tidal wave yet. And that for the reason that while the people at the top of the movement understand perfectly its significance, the great rank and file of church people that belong to the various churches up and down the country do not understand it at all. And because they don't understand, they're inclined to think either that church unity is impossible, or else that it's too easy. And either one of those two is a bad idea. The, uh, we must avoid, it seems to me, an over-optimism and an over-selling of our case. We have, we have, uh, the greatest, one of the greatest benefits to give to humanity, uh, that can come in the 20th century. We must be very careful that we make ourselves understood and make it plain what we mean by church unity, what we mean by cooperation and all that sort of thing. Well, what do we mean, uh, Ms. Harkness? What do we mean by church unity then? Well, um, church unity in the most effective practical next step sense means the ability to worship together and to work together. It means a sense of being one in Christ Jesus. It means the ability to, um, stick by thy old dictum in essentials unity, in non-essentials liberty, in all things charity. I, I agree with that thoroughly, except that I think we're apt perhaps not to see where the ordinary man thinks the essentials begin and the non-essentials stop. You see, as a matter of fact, there are great varieties, uh, of belief in the various churches. And they're about very essential things. Uh, they're about who God is and what God is and who and what Christ is and about the nature of man. Is he a sinner by fallen nature? Uh, does he need redemption or can he save himself without divine intervention? Has God intervened in history? Is Christ who is the Christian intervention? Is he of the essence of God? Is he God? Or was he just a good man? Or, or, or what was he? And are the sacraments means whereby, uh, a present Christ gives divine help to Christians? Or are they just pretty ceremonies? It's about such things that Christians, the rank and file of Christians, disagree. And we have them divided into all sorts of groups on the basis of what they deem real loyalties and real beliefs. And not only Catholics and Protestants that have to be reconciled either, sir, but there, there are many varieties of Protestants. For, of course, you know the Protestants are not all alike. I, as an admiral in the Navy once said to me when I went to be a chaplain, he says, don't make the mistake of supposing that Protestants are all alike. A Mormon's not the same thing as a Presbyterian and his beliefs and practices. An Episcopalian's not the same thing as a Seventh-day Adventist. A New England Congregationalist radically differs in kind from a Southern Baptist and a Jehovah's Witness and a, and a Missouri Synod Lutheran aren't even theologically distant cousins. Well, uh, Canon Bell, of course, I would, I would agree with that, that's absolutely true. But the thing that impresses me very much is that in these, uh, great, uh, ecumenical movements, such as represented by the World Council of Churches, that the difficulties do not seem to be so much in basic belief as to God, as to Christ, as to the Holy Spirit. Uh, in fact, uh, it's Dr. Van Dusen himself, I believe, that suggests that in the last analysis, it's what ministers, preachers, clergymen, priests, think about themselves. Well, I deny that utterly, sir. I think the thing really is what the laity think or don't think. Uh, it isn't so much the clergy mislead them. Well, but I meant the theologians, uh, and the ones who say that. And the ones who set doctrine and so forth. About the nature of the church, you mean? Yes, about the nature of the church and the ministry. That we're separated more about the ministry. The authority of the ministry. The authority of the ministry than almost any other thing, aren't we? Well, I don't know. I think we are disturbed a bit by the question of whether we agree with one another about who God is, and what he is, and why he is, and why Christ is, and that sort of thing. I think those things really do matter. At any rate, they do divide us into groups. Now, some of us believe in the ecumenical movement and the World Council of Churches with all our heart and soul, but not because it's likely to bring about a speedy church unity. Uh, because the leaders of this movement do understand what the difficulties are. It's the people out in the field that don't always understand, and it's well, very well that we should cooperate in good works, and it's very well that we should come to know and understand our likenesses and our differences, but organic unity. That's a long way off, and the movement must be very careful that it doesn't lead people to think that it's right around the corner. No unity of the Church is ever conceivable, it seems to me, without the unity of faith. Love is the corollary of faith, as the Christian life as a whole derives from faith. To seek after love at the cost of faith is equivalent to undermine the very foundations of love. Right, I agree with that heartily, sir. That's the whole point. And the leaders of the movement understand that and always have understood it from Bishop Brent's day down and Bishop Sertibrem's day down. But the great rank and file of people out in the local districts are inclined to think that the movement will bring about a unity, without a unity of faith, and that of course cannot be. Yes, well there, of course, we do need to emphasize the fact that the ecumenical movement really has these two great arms. Uh, it's built upon the principle that is, where we agree, let's act together in practical deeds of Christian love. Do you agree with that? Do you agree with that? But where we disagree, where we disagree, we just resolve to continue to love and try to understand one another. What we're after is unity without uniformity, is it not? That's right. And there is a great central cornerstone of unity in the doctrine of the incarnation, to which the World Council of Churches is decidedly committed. Well, how far can church unity go in solving the world's very real problems, social problems, economic problems? Do you think that that's the church's first problem today, the problem of getting together and unifying for common action? Mr. Macy? Well, I think back immediately, of course, to what was written of the Christians in the second century. There they were in a pagan totalitarian empire, and it was said that they were like the soul and the body, holding the world together. Now, I appreciate they weren't perfectly doing it, but they were tending to be a coordinating, a cohesive force. And therefore, if we could get some kind of Christian unity today, it would be, in my judgment, a cohesive force. I think we have empirical evidence that in the last war, the churches, in a sense, did hold the world together. They were the one great unifying agency in a world that was torn asunder. I may say that I think that if we look at the problem of church unity merely from asking ourselves the question, is this going to enable us to stave off the debacle, that we may as well admit that that's not at all certain. Suppose the Christian churches were united and stood for the things that Christ stands for. All of those forces in the world which are against the things that Christ stands for, and they are tremendously powerful in every land and every culture, would turn on the united church and persecute it within an inch of its life. But isn't that the church's great battle, the battle against the evil in the world? The battle against the evil not only in the world, but an evil that's beyond the world. The real problem, it seems to me, is neither the economical problem nor the problem of church unity as such, but the problem of evil itself. Separation is the result of our sin, and in order to fight division, we should first of all fight against sin which provokes separation. There is no doubt at all that all mankind will meet at a common point, and this is the point of the defeat of human sin and the victory of the kingdom of God. And you believe a unity of church will give you an advantage in a worldwide fight against sin? Evil has to be defeated first. And not church unity first? Because the separation of the church is the result of our sin. Or you would like to... Of Christian sin. Of Christian sin. Of Christian sin. Well, that, uh, Mr. Boren, that is one thing, of course, which was emphasized at the great gathering, that we'd not have unity without a reborn church. That is, without, without Christians who really... And we cannot have a reborn church until we have reborn Christians, because the church is made up of them. Exactly. The old question of which came first, the chicken or the egg. But it's also true, is it not, that it is only as the churches unite in fighting, not sin in general, but sins in particular, as the Christian forces unite to put down vindictiveness and hate, and to further reconciliation and justice in the world. Well, what the... Only so can we either defeat the evil in the world, or the church be reborn. And you think church unity is a very, very real, real problem in doing this. Is that right? I think it's a very real possibility in, in, uh, functional activity. Well, Ms. Harkness, what practical steps should be taken, then, to achieve church unity? Well, first of all, we must learn to worship together. There are problems, of course, in reference to the sacraments. We needn't be too discouraged if we don't, right, straight away, have complete intercommunion. But we can, certainly, worship together, um, humbling ourselves before the one God of us all, and pledging our allegiance to the one Lord, Jesus Christ. Uh, we can have fellowship and understanding with one another. We can do a great deal in the field of cooperative action, religious education, missions, uh, youth work, the social procedures we were speaking of a moment ago. And, um, basically, perhaps, we can learn to understand our faith, so that we know both its differences and its truly great agreements. I wonder if I could interject right there a thing that appeals to me. One thing that we need in this whole business is the kind of spirit that's manifested by some of our great ecumenical leaders. I think of Bishop Felbu of Norway, when he was over here, used to say to groups, he said, Now, I think that the most beautiful instrument in the symphony orchestra is the cello. He said, And I'm quite sure that in the orchestra of God the Lutherans are going to play the cello. But he said, But I am just as sure that the cello can't play a symphony. And in the orchestra of God some churches just going to play the drums. And that's important. I should like to suggest that one thing we can do about this, which I don't think we've quite suggested, although I'm sure it's in all our minds, is that we'd better do some praying about it. For the will of God and the power of God released through prayer can break down the barriers of division and hate between Christians and lack of cooperation, where mere discussion will never get anywhere. And if people pray together or pray separately for the common end, they are united with God and with one another in a way that nothing else can do. Even in this era of hope, I can't help but feeling a bit pessimistic about the church's chances of conquering evil in this world. When you look at disputes between labor and management, and when you look at housing and food conditions the world over, and especially when you look at the H-bomb, I don't think there's much room for optimism and hope and prayer in some of these things. There isn't any room certainly for a superficial optimism, although I don't think by any means we're defeated yet, and the worst thing we could do would be to surrender to despair. But suppose the hydrogen bomb did destroy human earth upon this planet. Still, God would not be defeated. It's the heart of the Easter message, is it not, that God has an eternal kingdom beyond this world. It is indeed, and this is also true, that it's the heart of God's message for the individual. For as the Bishop of Chicago once said to some of us not long ago, after all, why are we so afraid of hydrogen bombs? Merely because they're going to kill us, because we're going to die. We all know we're going to die. Individually or collectively, what's the difference? It's whether we have a faith that transcends death that will enable us to face hydrogen bombs. By evaluating the progress of the movement for a unified church, it seems to me that you people have dealt with one of the most practical problems faced by Christianity today. In our informative discussion, you have presented the advantages and disadvantages of church unity. You have revealed the obstacles faced by those who fight today for a unified Christianity. You have set forth, it seems to me, a practical plan by which church unity might be achieved. Thank you. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, Is a United Church Possible Now? Why not send now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were the eminent theologians, Bernard Ittings Bell, Georgia Harkness, Paul Macy, Theodore Thalassinos, and Henry P. Van Dusen, discussing the possibility of a united church now. Next week, the reviewing stand takes great pride in presenting two former fact-finding board members, and a critic of that method of solving labor management disputes. They will discuss the question, Does the fact-finding board have a place in settling labor disputes? Our guests next Sunday will be William Capels, manager of industrial relations of the Inland Steel Company, Carol Doherty, professor of business economics from Northwestern University, and W. Willard Wirtz, professor of law in the School of Law at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for a debate on the usefulness of the fact-finding board as a tool in solving labor management disputes. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Today's program has been transcribed. Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. TheIR students and the instruments interesting technology
