Pals of the PAL. This program is one of the many activities of the Police Athletic League, an organization dedicated to the promotion of a friendly relationship between the youth of New York City and the police department. The PAL encourages respect and appreciation for good citizenship. The Police Athletic League is supported primarily by private funds derived from associate memberships, donations, and the proceeds of an annual benefit show. All the young people participating in this program are members of the Police Athletic League. I wonder why the director told me to put on this cowboy suit anyway. I don't know, but it certainly is a seedy-looking outfit. Oh, hello, Suzanne Newman. Seedy-looking is right. I look as though I'm about to sprout cactus any minute. Well, if you're going to fool around with cactus, it's better to have it with you than against you. That's no lie, Suzanne. As the optimist hollered when he sat down on it, you can say what you like about cactus, but it has its points. No kidding. I wonder what is cooking. I don't know, but imagine a well-dressed chap like me wearing a pair of moth-eaten chaps like these. What in the world do I look like anyway? Like a well-dressed chappy looking very, very sappy. You said it. And look at these run-down high-heeled boots. I'm teetering around like a slap-happy chappy who wouldn't know his mammy from his pappy. If he likes it so much, why didn't you tell the director to wear the outfit himself? That's what I should have done. On him, it'd look good. Didn't he give you any hint at all about why you're wearing it? Oh, he says something about meeting him at Madison Square Garden this coming Monday night. At Madison Square Garden Monday night? I know, Mr. Child. PAL is putting on a big show up there Monday night. Maybe it's a rodeo show. No, no, no, no, Suzanne. The director said there was something in the script about that, but I'm sure it's not a rodeo show. Well, why don't you look at the script and find out? Say, maybe that's an idea. In the meantime, suppose you welcome the people so we can start the show going. Okay. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen, to this week's edition of our PAL Radio Variety Show. as Jacob Kutovitz opens the program with Charter. Mr. Child, still... Sorry. Well, I'm still. Go ahead. Let's hear the Charter. Yeah. Charter's right. Thank you. ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ lullaby. Lights aglow o'er the snow from each fireside Every year brings good cheer Just at Christmas time Can't you hear The angels sing A Christmas lullaby Sleigh bells ring What joys they bring As Santa passes by Let's gather round the fireplace To sing That sweet refrain That lullaby Will soon Bring back Bond memories Again Children play While mothers Pray That goodwill Will not die And from Above God Sends With love A Christmas La La La Bye Bye Hello, partner. How come you limping around like that? Oh, hello, Alice de L'Oge. How come I'm limping around like that? Because my feet hurt. That's how come. I wasn't sure. I thought you might be rehearsing for Be Kind to Your Dog's Week. It's on account of these riding boots. Boy, what sore feet. Now I know why cowboys ride broncos. How do you mean? It gives them something else to think about besides sore feet. Ha ha. You're right, Mr. Child. And if you don't watch out, you'll wind up down at St. Auburn's Naval Hospital with Jack Boris and the other boys in Ward 18. Well, if Jack's listening in, I wish he'd try to get me a reservation for bed and board in any old ward. Okay, Mr. Child. Now just sit down and rest those tormented tootsies while I tell the folks that Suzanne Newman is about to sing Somewhere in the Night. Get a new needle for that. Yeah, she got shoulder, huh? Somewhere in the night There must be someone for me Somewhere in the night Who knows where Somewhere may be Across the way Or maybe Way beyond The distant star How I wish I knew Just where and who you are Somewhere in a dream I find him I find him Here by my side Then when I awake My love drifts out with the tide My lonely heart Keeps saying to me No, this doesn't seem right There must be someone Somewhere in the night How are you making out with the script, Mr. Child? You know, I've just gotten a hint It says here The announcer tired And the cowboy's hute Now sings a few bars Of a cowboy western song A cowboy western song? Well, now we're getting somewhere Get along, little doggie Get along, little doggie Get along Now, now, now, now, now Wait a minute In these high-heeled boots Sister, I'm lucky to have gotten along this far Well, how about the cowboy western song The director wants you to sing? What's it going to be? Oh, I suppose I could sing Every night along about evening As I ride the Navajo trail No, Mr. Child I'd say that was more of an Indian song Well, how about She be coming round the mountain When she comes She be coming round the mountain When she comes She be coming round the mountain No, that won't do either I'm dizzy, I'm dizzy, huh? That won't do either That's more of a hillbilly song Well, how about Give me the land Lots of land And the starry skies above You want free me to sing? Don't fence me in How's that? Well, that's better But somehow I don't think it will suit the director Suit the director The only thing that'll suit the director Is this cowboy outfit On him, it'd still look good Well, Mr. Child Suppose you think about it a little longer While Merrill Ware sings Strange Love All right, it must be My love Is surely a strange love But strangely I don't want to change My love Though your heart Was always denied me I'm happy When you were beside me My arms Are strangers In your arms And my lips Are pleading in vain again But someday But someday You'll love me In some way So rather A strange love Still there My arms My arms Are strangers In your arms And my lips Are pleading in vain again But someday But someday You'll love me In some way So rather A strange love Till then Hello, Junior Did you think of that Western song yet? Oh, hello Jerry Jimmy Durante Sandler No, I didn't And the more I look At this phony cowboy suit The more I feel like Saying Fui The whole proposition The more you feel like Saying what? Fui, fui That's what Fui Why don't you sing that? That's a Western song What's a Western song? On the Etchison Topeka and the Santa Fui Ha, ha, ha I got a million of them Folks I got a million of them So don't fence me in Okay, Jerry We won't But tell me What else is on your mind? Well, Junior One of those other songs You wanted to sing Reminds me of my schnoz One of the other songs I wanted to sing Reminds me of your schnoz Or your of your schnoz Schnoz, schnoz, schnoz Go ahead My left eye winks at my right eye And says When are you coming to see me? And my right eye says I'll be coming around that mountain I'll be coming around that mountain I'll be coming around that mountain Wait a minute Wait a minute I see You mean Mount schnoz The tallest peak in the world No, Junior I mean Mount schnoz The tallest peak in the world Okay, Jerry And now before we decide on That western song Let's listen to one of our Two radio rookies of the week Yes, folks Appearing for the first time today On Tals of the PAL We have Thomas Wanzer And Dan Stabile The first is At the microphone So right now The Police Society League Has the pleasure of presenting Eleven-year-old Thomas Wanzer From Queens Who's all set to sing If you were the only girl in the world But since I'm not the only girl in the world So let him sing If you were the only girl in the world And I was the only boy Nothing else would matter in the world today We could go on loving in the same old way A garden of Eden Just made for two With nothing to mar or joy I would say such wonderful things to you There would be such wonderful things to do If you were the only girl in the world And I was the only boy Say, Mr. Child Don't you think it's about time you told us about that script? How do you mean, Merle? Well, instead of wearing that five-gallon hat And teetering around in those riding boots Why don't you, well, give us the lowdown on those high heels? I suppose I could, Merle girl But couldn't you be a bit more specific instead of Atlantic? Well, what song did the director want you to sing anyway? He wanted me to sing The Last Roundup Because of the P.A.L. show The Last Roundup Because of the P.A.L. show? Yep You see, I'm supposed to be a Brooklyn cowboy Headed for the Last Roundup I don't get it, Mr. Child I always thought the Last Roundup Met the Last Roundup of cattle What does P.A.L. care about that? Oh, they care about cattle Because I belong to that You tell, uh, uh You tell a Marvin Wallman While I sit down and rest these tootsies again Okay, Bert Well, Merle, the P.A.L. doesn't exactly care about the Last Roundup But it does care about a roundup that's going to occur on the ninth day of the last month of the year Namely, next Monday night, December 9th And it isn't a roundup of cattle But a roundup of all the stars of stage, screen, radio, opera, and sports Who are going to be on hand that night to appear in the Police Athletic League's monster benefit show Stars shine for P.A.L. Yes, definite commitments with outstanding actors, singers, instrumentalists, dancers, bands, and athletic champions have been made And this gala all-star benefit show on next Monday evening, December 9th At Madison Square Garden will probably be the greatest gathering of headliners ever assembled under one roof Tickets four stars shine for P.A.L. are priced from $1.25 up And may be purchased at all police stations, at Madison Square Garden, or by writing to the Police Athletic League 240 Center Street, New York 13, New York Tástico Tástico Tástico The End That was Jacob Kutowicz playing the flight of the bimble bum, the bimble do, the bus. It's a flea. It looks as though I might have written that script underwater. Or do you think maybe I filled the pen with water and wrote it under ink? Under ink is right. And now for the second of our Radio Rookies of the Week. You remember we said his name was Dan Stabile. He's appearing on Pals of the PAL for the first time today, and the name of his selection is The Whole World is Singing My Song. The whole world is singing my song, but I sing it only to you. The whole world is humming along. I love you. I love you. I love you. I do. You put my dreams to music. I learned how a song could start. I gave the world the music. But I gave you my heart. The whole world is singing my song. But I'll always sing it to you. You put my dreams to music. You put my dreams to music. I learned how a song could start. I gave the world the music. I gave the world the music. But I gave you my heart. The whole world is singing my song. But I'll always sing it to you. And now we have Irving Jerome, the heat wave from Arizona. He comes in like a tornado and goes out like a zephyr. That should be the flame, but go ahead. He's all burned out. Well, let me have the prisoner of love. Prisoner of love. Alone from night to night you'll find me Too weak to break the chains that bind me I need no shackles to remind me I'm just a prisoner of love For one command I stand and wait now For one who's master of my fate now I can't escape for it's too late now I'm just a prisoner of love What's the good of my caring If someone is sharing those arms with me Although she may love another Although she may love another I can't love another For I'm not free She's in my dreams awake or sleeping Upon my knees to her I'm creeping My very life is in her keeping I'm just a prisoner of love The recreational facilities of the police athletic league are available to all children of New York City Music is under the direction of Arthur Ford and today's piano accompanist was Pete Anthony And this is the Municipal Broadcasting System Thank you Thank you Thank you