Mr. Carisi, Mrs. Roosevelt, Mrs. Good, distinguished ladies and gentlemen on the platform, ladies and gentlemen and fellow Democrats. I appear before you today as the mayor of the greatest city of our nation. And in that capacity, speaking on behalf of a vast segment of American citizens whose problems are substantially similar to those of the other great urban centers of our country. I therefore welcome this opportunity to speak out at a forum where the objectives are consonant with the best interests of the people of the city of New York. I can assure you in so doing, I am responding, first of all, to the strong rather personal conviction that the economic health and general welfare of New York City's 8 million residents is seriously endangered by the absence of conclusive congressional action for the continuance of Price Control Authority, which expires on Saturday midnight. The health and welfare of the citizens within the mayor's jurisdiction is my primary concern. History has proven that one of the great strengths of our form of government has been time and time again, the ability of our lawmakers to rise above partisan interests where the public welfare was truly concerned. Certainly, the subject under discussion today falls within that category. Price control is a vital concern to every person, and particularly to every family unit, which unquestionably suffers the greatest disruption from inflationary trends. And one does not have to be an expert to recognize the disastrous effects of skyrocketing prices, especially on wage earners in the lower income brackets. It is a program which must be dealt with courageously. I appeal to Congress not to permit this program to be undermined by the pressures of partisan politics. I appeal to Congress not to yield to the organized influence of special interests. For in the final analysis, it is the people of our city and of our nation, the ultimate consumer, who will feel the total impact of what is done or not done in Congress. And when I say the people, I refer to the overwhelming number of Americans in the average income brackets who constitute the great bulk of our population. Recent post-war World War II history has demonstrated the fallacy of relinquishing economic control during a time of national and international readjustments. Today the picture is even more complex. We are deeply and tragically concerned right now with a fighting war. And we are at the very same time still on the threshold of a tremendous program, both of mobilization and defense spending. Surely, in these circumstances, the threat of inflation is not at all imaginary. As for New York City, I see, and my opinion is shared by many, a serious threat to the municipal economy in any relaxation whatever of economic controls at the present time. Certainly, it seems apparent that any salary gains that have been made by city employees or the vast numbers of other salaried workers in our metropolis would be virtually nullified by spiraling prices. We cannot again take the chance of having a further inflationary trend wreck the already harassed budgets of every salaried man and woman in our city. There are other elements of the Defense Production Act perhaps even more fundamental than direct price control in this battle to curb inflation. Time does not permit me to discuss them separately. It is the overall objective which does concern us today. And that is to ensure the enactment of strong defense production laws. Without such legislation in Washington, or with the acceptance of feeble substitutes, we are headed for serious trouble. We are here today to focus public attention on the gravity of the situation. That is exactly my purpose. And I call upon the people of New York City to participate actively and individually in the deliberations of their congressmen and senators in Washington. It is our own personal standard of living which is at stake. Our future ability to meet personal and family obligations, our future ability to meet community needs, our future ability to meet our needs, our needs now rests in our ability or willingness to have our voices heard on the floors of Congress. Public apathy has been the graveyard of much legislation in the public interest. But even beyond that, it has proved provided a fertile field for special interests. And those organized special interests have been working feverishly in overtime to sabotage the price-controlled program. I cannot be too emphatic in warning of the powerful influences of organized lobbies for special interests. An outstanding evidence of this power was demonstrated recently in the matter of federal public housing. Despite the tremendous need for continuance of a large-scale public housing program, and although the President recommended a low-rent housing program of 75,000 units, lobbyists representing special interests were successful in cutting this figure in the House of Representatives to a paltry 5,000 units. That would have meant, for instance, for the City of New York, that only one federally-aided project could have gone up within the City of New York in the next year. You can all realize that that would not have been even scratching the service for our needs here in the City of New York. And this cutback quite naturally provoked a storm of indignation on the part of all of those who are truly interested in the welfare of our people. As for New York City, I called a public housing meeting at City Hall in vigorous protest, and designed just as is this meeting today, to carry the voice of the people of the City of New York to Washington. It was an enthusiastic and forceful expression of public opinion. And I have every reason to believe its effect was felt strongly in Washington. I am now reliably informed that the public housing program has been salvaged in the Senate, and that the number of housing units will be raised to 50,000. Indications are that the cut will be restored in the House of Representatives as well. I cite this merely as an example of what can be accomplished through an aroused public opinion. Therefore, I urge every citizen of this city to give serious attention to this vital matter of price control immediately. There is still time. Meanwhile, may I thank the sponsors of this forum for inviting my participation. You have given impetus to a program that has the enthusiastic endorsement of the Mayor of the City of New York, because it represents a very vital interest for every citizen of our city. Thank you very much. Thank you.