The mayor's reception room now. Will you tell us when you're getting your signal so we can go ahead? Because the mayor is very anxious to start in. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10. 1, 2, 3, testing, testing for the mayor's reception room. Are you picking up our signal yet? Will someone let us know so we can notify the mayor to proceed with the reception? We made this quick change. We want to know what's happening. Will someone inform us what is happening? Alright. We'll start recording in just about 30 seconds. The mayor's reception room in City Hall. The mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, will pay the honors and respects to this great and wonderful city of New York to the right honorable Herbert Devere Ivat, LLD, and many other titles and honors from his great nation, who is President of the United Nations General Assembly. On this day, Friday, May the 13th in City Hall, a selected invited company has come together to honor the Honorable Herbert Devere Ivat. In the long line of reception room in the city, none possibly has met with more approval and pleasure than the tribute to the great continent of Australia, because it is a continent indeed. The Department of Sanitation Band, John M. Celebre conducting, has been the musical background and saluted the distinguished guest as he arrived in front of City Hall, and then the members of the Police Glee Club, that musical organization that does so much to build up the integrity of these situations musically and pay the compliment to the visiting guests. Even singing the anthem as patrolman Smith does, in the language of the guest, whoever it may be, proving that the police department is ready no matter what the emergency or prodigal may call for. In this way, we have a very consistent picture at all times in this beautiful colonial building, City Hall. Mr. Clark Eichelberger will preside. Mr. Eichelberger is head of the Mayor's reception committee for today's festivity. The National Anthem of Australia will be sung by the Police Glee Club, Sergeant Dillon conducting. The Star Spangled Banner will be addressed by the Mayor of the City of New York, and we will hear the reply by the Honorable Dr. Herbert Eichelberger, and then the Leigh Club, and then the Mayor of the City of New York. Dr. Eichelberger and the official party go to City Hall for the official picture that is one of the traditional factors in these receptions at City Hall. And we do know that the greater the world have come to this wonderful building, which has served the City of New York since 1811, started in 1803, and as a gem of architecture in itself. We're quite fortunate indeed that we have a consistently beautiful building, shaping as it does, the proportions and the greatness of the founding fathers in its colonial atmosphere, to create a happy and pleasant environment when a visitor comes to this city to be greeted by the Mayor, the Board of Estimates, the City Council, and the distinguished citizens who formulate the Mayor's committee for all of these receptions. Mr. Eichelberger was very chummy with Mayor O'Dwyer, and we adjourned to the Mayor's private office for a few moments for a few personal words before the formalities of the entertainment will take place here in the Mayor's reception room. In the meantime, we're just waiting now until such time as the Mayor of the City of New York, Mr. Eichelberger, and the distinguished committee convey Dr. Evatt to the Mayor's reception room here on the first floor. You might be very interested to know that the portrait of President Monroe is over the mantelpiece here in the reception room, and the Monroe Doctrine was in its time one of the implementing factors of the peace and integrity of this Western continent, in fact, the two Western continents of North and South America. And President Monroe's pictures over the mantelpiece consistent with the room in which these celebrations are held. And now Mr. Eichelberger is conducting his guests, the Mayor of the City of New York, Dr. Yisrat, and others to the Mayor's reception room. In just a moment, we'll hear the voice of Mr. Eichelberger taking over as chairman and presenting the regular order of program. Now may we present Mr. Clark Eichelberger. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Eichelberger, the guests, and ladies and gentlemen. It's a great pleasure, indeed, to have just a moment's participation in this program. I should like very much to introduce the Police and Glee Club for the National Anthem of Australia and the Star-Spangled Banner. For the National Anthem of Israel we're speaking for came to be or the blamed programs in the writing process. Jacqueline Moran, under and child's principles of American history, The conflict and history of Massachusetts, the Republic of Michigan, Glory is aFC Library, making clear of from the classical other doctrines of Mexico, God saves us King Ah Oh, say can you see By the long merry light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Moon-drops, bright man, bright stars Through the peril of fight Oh, the rampart we watched What so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare Of unperging in air Take proof through the night That our flag was still there Oh, say does that the flag No fan are yet wave For the land of the free And the home of the brave Those of us who Took our part in the planning for the United Nations And at San Francisco You realize how important the location of the United Nations would be You know I think Above almost anyone else The part that the mayor of this city played In the location of the United Nations in this great city His concern with the site His concern with housing His patience and attention to any infinite detail And that was required The knowledge of the difficulty of locating people of many countries In a great international institution in this city Indeed I think that For all years to come The Record of the mayor of this city In the United Nations Will be an honor to it As one who has had something to do with the United Nations I would like to pay tribute to the great party player To the location of the United Nations in this city Not only its location But the magnificent way In which the plans for the headquarters are working out I take great pleasure Introducing the mayor of the city of New York Honorable William Popeye Mr. President of the United Nations, Dr. Abbott Today, ladies and gentlemen We have gathered here at City Hall To pay tribute to a distinguished citizen of the world Who has devoted many years of his life For the cause of peace and freedom Dr. Herbert B. Abbott Dr. Herbert B. Abbott Deputy Prime Minister And Minister of State for External Affairs of Australia And President of the General Assembly of the United Nations Dr. Abbott is departing for his native land tomorrow To take up his official duties there And will return to assume his post at the United Nations in September We in this nation Have known Dr. Abbott since the days early in 1942 When he arrived as a special envoy to the United States To confer with our leaders On the immediate peril facing Australia As a result of the outbreak of war in the Pacific Subsequently, he participated in the organization of the United Nations in San Francisco in 1945 And has ever since been a staunch advocate of the objectives of the Charter of the United Nations Recognized throughout the world as a stalwart of a lasting peace Based on the principles of right and justice to all nations and all men And admired for the great leadership he has given the United Nations Since his election to the Presidency of the General Assembly in 1948 Dr. Abbott fully merits this citation for distinguished citizenship Which I am most happy to award to him today On behalf of the people of the City of New York We hope and pray that he has a safe and a pleasant journey To the great Commonwealth of Australia And look forward to a reunion with him upon his return in September I have the pleasure to present a citation I have the honor to present a citation To Dr. Evans Which reads as follows Know all men by these presents That I, William McGuire, Mayor of the City of New York Do hereby cite for distinguished and exceptional public service The Right Honorable Herbert B. Evatt, KC MP President, United Nations General Assembly As a stalwart champion of lasting peace Based on the principles of right and justice for all men The people of the City of New York also honor him For his brilliant leadership as President of the General Assembly of the United Nations And as a great friend of the United States of America I give you with honor I give you Dr. Evans Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Mr. Mayor Ladies and gentlemen in accepting this honor This very great honor From you sir On behalf of the people of New York I desire To Say On behalf of All the nations The 59 nations Members of the United Nations That we are deeply indebted To the city And the citizens of New York For what they have done to help us In our great task And I Pay special tribute On behalf of All of us On behalf of the Secretary General Mr. Trigby Lee For the Magnificent work Performed By Mayor O'Dwyer Of New York At the establishment Of the United Nations In this city Mr. Mayor The pioneer work involved Created many difficulties And the United Nations could not have achieved its task at all in this city Had it not been for the active And unselfish And consistent cooperation Of the city Of all its officials And especially Of you sir as Mayor That is the view Of all of us And I am happy here To pay tribute to what has been done Let me say one word more New York New York Is the centre Of the United Nations The United Nations Is a world organisation Standing For simple things The things that Are desired by every man and woman And every child We want peace We struggle for peace We struggle for a reign of justice Throughout the world We struggle for liberty For freedom From all forms of tyranny And what could be better Than to make our efforts In the United Nations Centred at a city Like the city of New York One of the foremost cities In the struggle For freedom In the struggle For justice In the struggle For democratic forms And democratic methods I can't express The depth of my feeling At the great honour Done to me by you sir On behalf of New York I believe the United Nations After great difficulties And we've had great difficulties In international affairs Especially in the last 12 months Is gradually passing Into calmer waters That we're getting through The turbulence That we shall achieve our mission But much remains to be done And this I know That if we have the support Of the citizens of this city Led by Led by persons Like Mr. O'Dowire We shall not fail in our task And I ask you to give To the United Nations Our citizens To continue to give In the words of President Truman himself Unfaltering support To the United Nations Let us go on with our mission Let us struggle towards A peace Based on justice Upon The economic advancement Of all men In all the lands I thank you Mr. Mayor For the great honour You've done Police League Club Police League Club Selection Please The American Pronunciation Guide To the United Nations To the United Nations To the United Nations The American Pronunciation Guide To the United Nations To the United Nations Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mayor of the City of New York, tendered the honors of this great and wonderful city to the Right Honorable Harbert Ver Ivat, President of the United Nations General Assembly. Mr. Clark Eichelberger presided as Chairman of the Mayor's Reception Committee. The Glee Club presented the National Anthem of Australia along with our own Star Spangled Banner. We heard the formal address by the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, and the presentation of the scroll of the City of New York to the Honorable Guest, which we'll take with him to Europe tonight, and then finally the reply by the Honorable Herbert Everett, who is the President of the United Nations General Assembly, the full information of which sessions are carried on your own city station in their entirety for every session which the United Nations has held since these debates on the factors that will lead to the peace and general welfare of the world are demonstrated through the medium of radio and brought to your homes through the medium of your municipal station. And now the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, has conveyed his guest, the President of the United Nations General Assembly, the Right Honorable Herbert Ver Evatt, and they are posing in that historic spot where the accomplishes of the world have stood to be photographed on the steps of City Hall, New York, in this classical building where so much has been acknowledged by those who do so much to earn the respect and gratitude of the world. We thank you from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. The Administrative Council Member Sardom, because he has already chosen on the משommes, withrdcklandishவ REME, becameention of。」 The Seg情況 Data<|en|>