During the past several days, Colgate University has sponsored its second annual foreign policy conference. Your city station has brought you many on-the-spot broadcasts of the conference proceedings here at Hamilton, New York. A good deal of attention has been focused upon the Far Eastern situation in the light of recent developments in Korea. As part of the conference agenda, Colgate University has invited the first secretary of the Korean Embassy to address the delegates in attendance. It is this statement which you are about to hear. Our distinguished visitor will be introduced in just a moment by Mr. Clayton Lane of the American Institute of Pacific Relations. Mr. Lane. Ladies and gentlemen of the conference and of the radio audience, we have a very special privilege and opportunity tonight. As you know, the ordinary program here consists of three speakers. We've had very full fare tonight. But because of the special opportunity made available through the foresight and diligence of the managers of this conference, we have brought to it a special message from the Korean Embassy in Washington. And the first secretary of that embassy, Mr. P. W. Han, will shortly present it. Before he does so, I should like to identify him in a word. And it comes very near to Colgate when I do it. He missed Colgate by no great distance. He was a graduate born in Korea, I'm sure. He was a graduate of the Korean Christian University. And by some strange fluke, which Professor Cressy, of course, will understand, and others present will quite sympathize with. He went to Syracuse University. Then to Harvard University. And then, subsequently, has become a member of the Korean Commission in Washington, and is now first secretary of the Korean Embassy. And I have very special pleasure in presenting to you Mr. P. W. Han with a very particularly topical message from his embassy, Mr. Han. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, present place, and ladies and gentlemen. Under happier circumstances, it would be a special pleasure for me to be here on this beautiful campus to attend and speak to this Colgate University Conference on American Foreign Palaces. It would be a happier day for us, who are here, and a happier time, too, for my people back in Korea, and for all peoples everywhere in the world, if the acts of irresponsible armed aggression could somehow be forever away. For all of us, these are the anxious days and anxious hours. In Korea, a conflict is waiting that strikes at the very roots of the freedom, the belief, and the sanctity of individualism upon which our republic was founded. Your brave boys are fighting side by side with our fighting men in defense of the basic right to live in security and in peace. The future is hidden from our eyes by the make-smoke of the battlefield. All we know for certain today is that the forces of totalitarianism have thrown a naked challenge into the face of the free world, and the free world has responded with a solemn resolve to defend its freedom. What price may have to be paid, we cannot know. The decision lies not with the free world, but with the dozen men who are masters of the communist empire. Of one thing, however, there can never be any doubt among people who are dedicated to freedom. The price of liberty is never too high. Whenever a godless dictatorship rises to fasten its shackles upon free men and women, that dictatorship must be repelled. For those who love liberty, resistance to totalitarian dictatorship is not a choice, but a necessity. To surrender our freedom of speech, our freedom of religion, our freedom of action, and our freedom of thought would be to surrender to those very elements which give value to life. To make this surrender would be to resign ourselves and our children to a living death. To make this decision, our freedom of action is not a choice, but a living death. This we never can do. Neither we Koreans nor you Americans nor any of the 47 free nations that have joined together to tell this communist aggression. Speaking to you today, it seems to me that there are two questions which you might particularly like to have me discuss. The first of these is, what happened in Korea? And the second is, why did it happen? Concerning the first question, there can be no reasonable doubt. The man in the Kremlin decided to test the resistance of the free world. It is useless to try to describe what is happening in Korea as a civil war. Much as we all desire to prevent the threat of the conflict, it cannot be minimized by a refusal to face plain facts. Northern Korea is, and ever since August 1945, has been a captive area. For three years, it was occupied by Soviet troops. For the past two years, it has been not so much a satellite as a puppet ship. What it does is what Moscow tells it to do. To miss that fact, or to fail to face its full meaning, is simply to misunderstand the situation which we confront. A brief excursion into history might be useful in making the picture clear. Korea for 4,000 years has been what you of the West call a buffer state. Our small peninsula occupies the heart of the strategic triangle of North Asia. Through all history, while Korea was free and independent, North Asia was at peace. When Mongol hordes overran Korea in the 12th century, China was occupied in Japan's fashion. In the 16th century, Japan tried to seize Korea as the first step for the conquest of the entire army, but we were able then to keep them back. As the 20th century opened, Russia and Japan spared for possession of Korea. On several occasions, they tried to make a secret agreement to divide Korea between themselves, at either the 38th or the 39th character. In 1904 and 1905, they fought a war over Korea and Japan won. As a direct result of Japan's seizure of my country, Japan was able to march on to conquer first Manchuria and then much of China. From that vantage point, we struck at Pearl Harbor in 1941. Russia never forgot the strategic value of Korea. One of her carefully calculated aims in World War II was to plant her army on the Korean Peninsula. In this aim, she was partially successful, though the United States held the Southern half, thus the 38th parallel division of my country to play. After the defeat of Japan in 1945, the Soviet Union moved into Korea safely with its plan to capture the land. The communist expatriate Koreans were brought back, and with them as a nucleus, a communist free state was set up in North Korea. Over two million loyal and patriotic Koreans from North Korea refused to knock on under to this totalitarian regime and escaped across the border into South Korea. This exodus was one of the great mass movements of history. Children left their parents. Brothers and sisters were separated. Families left their homes for a day and their forbearers, and lived for countless generations, all to escape the communist Europe. the Soviet Union was forced into the world. Upon those who remained, the police state was ruthlessly imposed. The tightest iron curtain in the world was dropped down along the 38th parallel. No newsletters, no emotions were permitted inside from the free world. An unceasing and persistent propaganda of lies was steadily dimmed in the ears of the people. Soviet flags and pictures of Soviet leaders confronted them on every side. Freedom of speech and freedom of thought were ruthlessly oppressed. Under these conditions, the Korean people of the North were forced into the last step of fraternitarianism. Their young men were impressed into the army. Those who refused to conform were forced into labor battalions and sent to work the mines on the Shattlin Islands or became chain gang laborers to build military laws and bridges in North Korea. The army of North Korea was equipped with tanks and planes and artillery of Russian men. This is the regime and this is the army that at dawn on a peaceful Sunday, June 26, stuck without warning in the South Koreans. That day, June 26, would be well marked by historians of our time. It was a day that resolved the doubts to threaten the free world and resolved the issues of our time. It clarified the minds of men as nothing has done since the defeat of the Axis Coward in World War II. A brutal and unprovoked fact of that day brought sharply into a focus the danger which the free world must face and overcome. This is a brief summary of the background of what has happened in Korea. But the foreground also needs to be filled in. Some sharp-voiced critics have blamed the soldiers of our republic for retreating before the communist attacks. These critics have spoken of the low morale and lack of fighting spirit of our troops. However, once again, our opinion must be too fast. If there is one lesson that was impressed upon us all over and over again through World War II, it was the impossibility of stopping tanks and artillery and planes with courage alone. The mechanized drive of the German army in Poland and through Western Europe could not be stopped in 1939 and in 1941. The Nazis pushed the deeply and rapidly into Russia in 1941 and 42. The initial success of the Japanese in Malaya and the Philippines and the other islands of the Southeast Pacific in early 1942 are lessons they have not started. When heavy armor is smashed against their flesh, a living war of under-armed men must fall back, whether in Korea or anywhere else in the world. That is simply the fact. I could remind you of many courageous acts on the Korean battlefield. I could tell you of the Korean soldier boys who tied dynamite around their waist and hurled themselves from the stretch of their northern tanks destroying some of them. I could describe the story of Korean troops fighting until their last battles were extended, and of other groups that are still fighting on put off in isolated pockets far behind the enemy lines. But to a convention of fighting men, these facts need not be recalled. American troops and Korean troops are now bearing their terrible brunt of battle side by side. Your boys are dying as well as ours. Dying on Korean soil to deserve the liberties of my people, of your people, and of all the free world. What is needed now is quantities of tanks and artilleries to provide the ground power strong enough to stop the great columns of Russian tanks with which the Communist army is supplied. Guns must be met by guns, tanks by tanks, to buy yet more steel. This is the answer that the only, and the only answer which the Communist invaders will hear. The policy line of the Communist propaganda presents a different story of what has happened in Korea. It asserts that Southern troops attacked the North, that the Communist North responded instantly with overwhelming and conveniently mobilized force, that the people of South Korea rose and marched the great Greek, their Communist liberators, that the United denounced the wrong aggressors, and that the Wall Street bankers sent in American soldiers to hold Koreans captive against their will. This is the Communist Party line, which is being paddled by press and radio. What is required in order to believe this Communist line? It is first of all necessary to believe that North Korea is as free as Denmark or Ireland, free to hurl its forces at the risk of World War, across the boundary line at its own free will. It is necessary to believe that the North Korean army, as well as the North Korean army, as well as American soldiers, which reported the fighting to the south of the 38 parents. It is necessary to believe that the Southern Koreans attempted an attack without mobilization, without heavy arms and without separation, whereas the Northern Communist by accident just happened to have huge quantities of tanks, artillery, and planes mashed at the border ready to throw into the attack. The extent of the Communist lives is so great that they can be interpreted only as a gigantic alibi offered to their own people and to help to whoever else might believe them that the Communist Empire is just guiltless of the appeal to arms which has taken place. We Koreans have a proverb. We Koreans have a proverb. He would think the water should first consider the sources from which it comes. In this case, the source is run on. And besides, we can all see with our own eyes that the water is far too dirty to drop. There remains to be considered one other aspect of the question of what has happened in Korea. This is the fact, regardless of the present course of fighting, the Communist attempt in Korea has already faced. Beyond any reasonable question, what the Communist were aiming for was a quick victory, a success so sudden and so complete that neither the United Nations nor the United States would have any time in which to intervene. This sinister attempt to present the sea world with an accomplished attack has dismally failed. It failed primarily because of the courageous and clear-sighted firmness with which the American government and the United Nations Security Council reacted to the challenge. Within twenty hours of the time the first attack was launched, the Security Council was in session, the members had already received their instructions from their home government, the acts of aggression was plainly labeled and denounced, and the United States government had military supplies on the way to Korea. In all the history of the free world, there is no other example of a united action rendered so promptly on behalf of freedom and security. The United Nations as a world organization and the United States as a great power bearing heaviest responsibilities in Korea and the Far East did not hesitate for an instant when an open aggression was unleashed. To say that the government and the people of Korea are deeply and inexpressible for this support is a weak statement indeed of the feelings in our hearts. These days of agony since June 25th have been lightened and made bearable for us because of the warm-hearted and unanimous response of the American people and of the 47 other nations that have pledged their support. Within twenty-four hours of that attack, the telephone in the Korean Embassy in Washington began to ring and the telegram began to flow in, bringing not only messages of sympathy and understanding, but bringing as well the pleas of young American fighting men to be permitted to leave their homes and fly to the battlefield, many at their own extent, many at their own extent, to take part in the fighting at our side. These outpourings of the American people, the brave and firm words of President Truman, and the instant and unanimous accord of leaders of both of your great political parties and from course of your great nationwide organizations, have demonstrated a unity of purpose and a clear-sighted understanding of the issues which are all and more than my leading people might have hoped. So much then for what has happened, the communist aggressor has struck and has been met by the united resistance of the free world. Let us turn now to the question of why the mad attack was launched. The briefest answer, and perhaps the best one, is comprised in a phrase used by Paul Hoffman, director of the ECA more than a year ago, when he called the Republic of Korea a bastion of democracy in Asia. The continued existence of the Republic of Korea could not be tolerated by the communists for the plain and simple reason that it was too much of a democratic success. The map and the recent history of North Asia are fresh in your mind. You recall how the net of communism was dropped, first over Mongolia, then over North Korea, and finally over China. You recall how the communist tentacles have been reaching out toward all the rest of Southeast Asia. They are in the midst of that great land mass comprising half of the world's area and over half of its population. They are in the midst of the lands already conquered by communism and marked for communist subversion. They are through the tiny Republic of Korea. The Republic of Korea was the only part of North Asian continent that was not in communist hands. More important, the Republic of Korea was the beacon light of hope to the peoples of Asia shining forth its brave message that the democratic faith in that part of the world had not yet been destroyed. So long as the Republic of Korea continues to exist, the peoples of Asia know that the United States and the rest of the free world renounced the inevitability of the communist advance. The Republic of Korea has long been the test of the nation's intentions and the prospect of democratic freedom in all the far east. If that light could be extinguished, if that light could be extinguished, faith in American support against the communist aggression would be lost. That is one reason why the communist attack was launched. Another reason is equally important. The totalitarianism does not look very attractive when it is placed side by side with democratic freedom. The contrast is too great. There in the Republic of Korea, the peoples of North Asia could see a government laboring for the welfare of its own people. There could see the progressive development of economic and political well-being. And they could see the flights of over two million refugees escaping from the communist-held North Korea down into the democratic sanctuary of the Republic. The continued existence of this contrast was a constant danger to the communist program of subversion. And that is another reason for the attack. In the Republic of Korea, the democratic system was put to the axis test. In few places where democracy has been tried were the conditions so difficult. Our nation was roughly and without rhyme or reason cut squarely in two with our mines, hydroelectric power and heavy industries in the North under communist control, and our agriculture and light industries left the Republic in the South. With our mining and manufacturing resources snatched away, we had to find means not only of supporting our own population, but also of caring for some poor millions of repatriates, including the refugees from the North and an additional two million returned to their homeland from China and Japan. In addition to this grave problem, we were divided politically with no firm structure or democratic political traditions and no developed political party systems. In all these respects, we had to start our new national life under heavy handicaps, economic, political and social. And while we were struggling to overcome these problems, we had also to defend our very lives and the life of our nation against the constant threat of attacks from outside, and the constant efforts of the communists to stir up revolt among our people. Thinking about the Republic of Korea, I could tell you of the progress being made. I could tell you how the threat of inflation was met by a reduction of the one in circulation from 75 million to 58 billion. 75 billion to 58 billion. I could tell you of our government's educational problems, which had already reduced illiteracy to a remarkable degree, with continuous progress being made steadily. I could tell you of the great revolutionary movement by which farm tenancy was almost eliminated, of how the Korean National Assembly voted to enforce the sale of all tenant farms to their present occupants for the small price of one-fifth of the annual crop over a period of five years. I could tell you of how our overall factory and mining productivity had been increased by over 50% in the past year, with increases of as much as 800% in some vital products. There are other witnesses, however, who cannot be considered as biased as I certainly am in speaking of my own people. To our witness stand, we could bring the United Nations Commission on Korea, which has certified that our two elections held in 1948 and in May of this year were both fair and free, with more than four-fifths of all eligible voters going to the polls. We could cite the associate threats, which in its various surveys of worldwide conditions of threat censorship, has given the Republic of Korea a treasured rating among the half-dozen nations around the world that grants to newsmen full and free access to the news, with equal freedom in reporting it. With deep gratitude in my heart, I wish also to cite the words of a great American, John Foster Dulles, who visited Korea just a week before the Communist bloc was struck. In explaining to the American people why he thought the attack was made, Mr. Dulles said, the Communist struck with force because, I quote, the society was so wholesome that it could not be overthrown from within. Speaking in Washington on the 4th of July, Mr. Dulles said, I was in Korea only two weeks ago and saw with my own eyes that the Republic was the land of freedom. The people had just had their second general election. Eighty percent of the eligible voters had gone to the polls. The majority of the representatives elected were independent of the party which controlled the election machinery and the police force. That is proof of a real political liberty. To this testimony by Mr. Dulles, little need be added. It must be clear to all that the Communist struck by force in Korea because the Republic was a bastion of democracy which had to be destroyed if their aim of subverting all Asia was to have a chance to succeed. Without question, the Communist also sought to test the will and the power of the United States and the United Nations to react to a show of force. Well, they have had their answer. Korea has become a battleground on which the peace and security of the world may be determined. The free world has done everything in its power to avoid this test of force. The United Nations are still doing all in their power to end the fighting in such a way that force will neither spread nor soon again be invoked. The aim of the fighting in Korea may be easily and simply expressed. To reestablish security and to restore peace. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I have rarely... Just a moment, please. From the campus of Colgate University, this has been a special transcription of an address by Dr. Pio Okan, First Secretary of the Korean Embassy. Mr. Han made his statement to delegates attending the second annual foreign policy conference at Colgate University. Stay tuned to your city station for other important broadcasts directly from the conference area. Ladies and gentlemen, I have rarely in my life...