The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Are we neglecting the exceptional child? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses the exceptional child, who he is, what society is doing to educate him, and what our responsibility is in fitting him for his place in our world. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. The Reviewing Stand is happy to cooperate with the International Council for Exceptional Children in presenting today's broadcast. Seated before our Mutual Microphone are four persons who have devoted their lives to studying and teaching the exceptional child. They are Mary Courtney, assistant superintendent in charge of special education in the Chicago Public Schools. Arthur Hill, president of the International Council for Exceptional Children. Jane Shover, director of the Cerebral Palsy Division of the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults. And Harold Westlake, director of the Speech and Hearing Clinic at Northwestern University. As you know, on last Sunday's broadcast, the Reviewing Stand discussed the normal child. This week, in a second in a series of programs devoted to child problems, we turn our attention to the exceptional child. Hill, as president of the International Council for Exceptional Children, you should be able to speak for that group. Specifically, what children would your organization classify as exceptional? Or to rephrase the question a bit, just who is the exceptional child? Inasmuch as our organization is composed of professional educators, we think of the exceptional child in terms of school adjustments. The exceptional child is the child who needs special services to make an adequate school adjustment. For instance, some of them are physically handicapped. What do you mean, physically handicapped? The physically handicapped children include the blind, the deaf, epileptic, and orthopedics. Now, you've lost me again there. What do you mean by orthopedic? Orthopedics are the crippled, and they include the cerebral palsy children. Then, too, some children are exceptional because they have serious speech disorders. Others are intellectually exceptional. And in that group, you are including both the mentally retarded and the gifted child, I take it, Mr. Hill. That would be right. And also, we mustn't forget that a large number of children are emotionally and socially maladjusted. It is encouraging, is it not, to notice that these children are coming more and more into the foreground of our attention, and that our whole philosophy is changing with regard to their treatment, so that we no longer look upon them as those to be punished, but rather to be studied, to be cared for, and hopefully to be returned to useful citizenship. You've talked here about various classes of exceptional children. I'm wondering, how many exceptional children do we have in the United States? Well, as to the number needing special education provisions, I think that we might accept the number of more than 4 million children. And I think it's rather interesting to note that out of the 4 million children who need special education, that only 450,000 children are receiving special education. So out of the 11% who are receiving it, still we have only 10% who are in need of it. So it points out this fact that there's a great unmet need and a great lack of children who need special education who aren't receiving it, Mr. Bourne. I think you've told us who the exceptional child is. It seems to me, however, that even though in many cases it's clear that the child is exceptional, there are other cases where the distinction you make between the so-called normal and the exceptional child is a rather arbitrary one. That's a very important point because one can raise the question, who is exceptional? Now there is a group of individuals who can be differentiated, and we're apt to think of them. But when we think of exceptional individuals or individuals with problems, we ought not to think only of a small group, including the lame and the halt and the blind. There might be some youngsters who have difficulty learning to read at all or learning to do arithmetic at all. But then you have another large number of individuals who are possibly doing B work or who are reading and doing quite well. But if their problems were sorted out and if they were given special help, their efficiency might be improved, so they would be exceptional students or A students. In other words, Westlake, you're concerned with the normal and the exceptional child in this discussion. Well, the philosophy and techniques that apply to exceptional children apply to all children. And it's a problem of human engineering, of bringing up the performance of all people, rather, and we're talking about the children of all parents who are listening, rather than the lame or the halt and the blind alone. And in some respect, I think you would agree, Dr. Westlake, that every one of us is exceptional, so that we make the most of the gifts and we also help to make up for the deficiencies in our philosophy. That's right. It's true, however, that you have to make the distinction for very practical purposes here. You have to make the distinction so that you can group students, so that you can do a better job of educating them. Isn't that right? Quite true, because many of these cannot fit into the regular school program or its pattern. I'm going to be rather cruel and practical at this point in the discussion. We all know that it takes a lot of money to educate the exceptional child. Can you show me any results of training by any of the groups who are involved in training that make me say, well, fine, the money I spend for special education in taxes and voluntarily has been well spent? I'd like to speak to that point here, realizing the fact that the Office of Vocational Rehabilitation has given us the figure that we can depend on, that for every dollar the federal government has spent on rehabilitation for handicapped persons, that those handicapped persons will pay $10 in federal income taxes. And I think that's a figure that every citizen in this country should know about and be concerned with. Especially very near March 15th, wouldn't you say, Ms. Schover? I would say very definitely so. And when they consider the cost of education, as some people are apt to do, feeling that it costs, shall we say, a little more than two times as much to educate a child who may have a vision problem, or sometimes as much as three times to educate a child who has a severe crippling condition, then again we must remember this figure, that it pays 10 to 1. I'd like to get this discussion away from some of these statistical considerations and get it on a personal plane. I don't suppose that we often think of the contributions that handicapped and exceptional children can make to society. I'm thinking now of a series of vocational aptitude tests that we have been giving to our severely mentally retarded children in our high school groups. Is this on Des Moines Hill? Yes, that is in Des Moines. We find that there are practically none of these severely retarded children who in some respect do not match or surpass the average high school pupil. Now that may be in music, it may be in art, or in some other characteristic. I can think of one boy, for instance, who will exceed at least 19 out of 20 high school pupils on his musical abilities. But he's handicapped in some other areas, is that true? Yes, he probably reads at third or fourth grade level. You recall one of the programs in our recent convention, Mr. Hill, with that story. Perhaps you remember the severely handicapped young woman, a graduate of the Spalding High School, who spoke out of the depths of her wheelchair and offered eloquent evidence to this same fact. She told how a piece of private property, which had been used as a cherished campsite for these crippled youngsters, was offered for sale. And in their distress at the thought of losing it, by their own initiative and their own efforts, they managed to raise the funds to purchase that piece of property, then mortgaged it because of the necessity of a costly rehabilitation program, have cleared the mortgage, and have now made that splendid possibility available to their group. Well, I'd like to bring out to our listening audience that we've had many illustrious contributions, as I see it in the past, to the field of art, music, and science. We must not forget about Beethoven, Thomas Edison, Franklin Delano Roosevelt, our late president, Pasteur, and many other people like Steinmetz, who have brought rich things to our culture and to our science so that we might have a better life. They were handicapped. But, Ms. Shover, I think you will disagree, or you will agree, rather, that these are outstanding examples to prove a point. But the most encouraging thing for us in this work is the large number of people who are brought into social and constructive living. Now, we're accustomed in a speech clinic, for instance, to know individuals who were going to quit school because they had a cleft palate problem. But with the cosmetic rehabilitation that came through surgery and dentistry, through psychological treatment, and through speech training, those individuals were able to continue into school and to be highly successful. And likewise, it's true with those persons who are handicapped with hearing problems. They can be taught to read lips. They can be taught to speak. Very often they can be fitted with hearing aids. And those individuals take their part in society, and they do contribute to the total living. Well, then you would feel, Dr. Westlake, I'm sure, that this was, we might bring our statement back to the audience to remind them again that on this study by vocational rehabilitation, that it was well put that for every dollar we expended, ten dollars was returned in income taxes. And certainly you would both agree, I think, that every potential delinquent whom we conserve and return to society as a good, useful, productive citizen is certainly an asset and not a debit in our budget of education. These are very encouraging examples you present here. I assume that there are many groups responsible for the remarkable achievements you've been presenting before our microphone. There are many groups, but I think that we might point out particular groups that have been outstanding. Now, one group, which has certainly distinguished itself, is the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults, the group that Ms. Shover works with so effectively. That group is an amazing group. Through its state organizations, it has spread throughout the country and is doing a tremendous job in helping exceptional children and in helping exceptional adults. Their cerebral palsy program has been especially good, and we ought to remember that right at this point, because they are now engaged in their Easter Seal drive. It's an organization worth backing, and we should support that drive. I'd like to add to that also, Dr. Westlake, that colleges and universities have been a real part of the team in bringing about achievements and accomplishments for our children with handicaps who are in need of special education programs. These administrators and faculty members have been very receptive to all of us when we have approached them about the development of training and special courses, special summer workshops, so that we can do something about bringing more people into the field of special education, while we all realize that the shortage of personnel is one of our greatest obstacles. And certainly among the public in general, there are many civic groups deeply interested in the exceptional child who have given fine support to our program. The Kiwanians, the Rotarians, the Lions, businessmen's groups, and especially the PTA, who I think have been extremely important in quickening both the public consciousness of the problem and its conscience in the earnest efforts to solve that problem. You know, while you people are passing out the bouquets, I would like to put a plug in here for the public schools. For a good many years, the public schools have been developing programs of special education. In many cities, these have been developed, maintained at local expense, and at rather tremendous expense. At the present time, as I remember it, there are 41 states that have laws that require or permit special education facilities at the local school level. And most of these states provide for state subsidy for special education. Now I think, Art, we're starting to fan up the constituents at home. Why can't I put in a plug for my local sponsors of Alpha Chi Omega, who are working with cerebral palsy, cooperating with the National Society? Before we pass out too many bouquets here, I would like to get back to this item of expense. What does it cost to educate the exceptional child? Ms. Shover? Well, the figures that we have on education of exceptional children has to cost run along this line. About a little over two times as much. If a children has a vision or a hearing loss, it might go to almost three times as much. If you had a crippled child who needed a great many services and the crippling condition was quite serious, it might be a little more than three times as much. And I think what we need to realize is that what the costs are for these children depend a great deal on what they need and the type of handicap that they have because there is a great deal of variation. One thing we ought to keep in mind is that although certain rather small minorities of these exceptional children require very expensive training and education, a large bulk of them require special training only for a time. Now, we are accustomed, as you know, to taking certain groups of these children, rehabilitating them, and putting them back in with the normal children. Some of them carrying no handicaps with them, some of them carrying handicaps, but knowing how to manage them. This is not always a long-term investment in special education. And then there are many areas of special education where the investment is really very small in comparison with other costs of education. I'd like to bring a new idea in here. I'm wondering if we should think in terms of costs of special education as those costs being separated and pointed out from the regular school expenditures. After all, special education is only a part of the total school program. Now, it costs more to maintain a class in physics and chemistry than it does in English or social studies. Yet, we wouldn't segregate out the cost of maintaining a physics class. You'd agree, however, Hill, that there is some danger of neglecting the normal child so that we do an exceptional job with educating the exceptional child, wouldn't you? Is there any danger of that at all? I don't think there is a danger of that. I think we get back to the point again of who is exceptional. Now, you take a child with a speech problem, for instance. That child is essentially a normal child who has a handicap that is probably only temporary. And if we help that child and return him, we're not neglecting normal children. We're making a normal child or training a normal child. We are, again, I'd like to repeat, in human engineering. And the children who are so-called normal are profiting just as much. Now, in special education, we're interested in prevention, for instance. Now, when you get in and try to prevent hearing problems, you try to prevent visual problems, you try to prevent emotional disturbance and social maladjustment. You try to prevent speech problems. You are getting in and doing something that's improving the instructional program for all children. I'd like to repeat again that we're not thinking of a minority group of the lame and the halt and the blind. We're thinking of all children. I'd like to bring up some discussion on that point here, and that is, are we not all agreed that what we do for all children also helps children who have handicaps and who are in need of special education? It's important that we have good educational programs for our normal children. For with improved building facilities, for better lighting conditions, and improved standards for faculty and teachers, we will also benefit our children with handicaps. I think I agree with you entirely, and inasmuch as every school system maintains and promotes a sound health program, really we are only a part of the health program, making special provisions when they are needed. I'd like to turn this question around a little. I'm much more concerned that in developing school facilities for the normal child, we may crowd out these special services for the handicapped and exceptional. As you know, at the present time, the schools are facing a tremendous crisis. We have overcrowded classes. We have needs for school buildings. And in many cities, the special education program may be literally crowded out because of lack of facilities. Do you think, Mr. Hill, that we might be able to do something effectively about that if we did a better work in our public educational program as to the needs of education for all children, including our children with handicaps? And may we add quickly there, educating them to the achievements which are possible, the achievements which pay rich dividend in useful and happy living. I'm sure that we have got to educate our public, and we have got to show that this program pays, or else we are going to go down in this crisis. You're saying then, Hill, that we should educate both the exceptional and the normal, and the results of educating both groups will be mutually beneficial. Is that what you're saying? Yes. I'm wondering now, you've been talking about poor conditions and overcrowding. Are those just two of the circumstances which are obstacles in your achieving the most efficient special education for the exceptional child? Oh, by no means. There are many others. Of course, the budget always presents a hurdle that confronts us with a great deal of difficulty. But aside from that, I think we definitely need a wide program in recruiting trained and personable personnel, people who will accept the challenge that special education offers with enthusiasm. I'd like to put more emphasis on Ms. Courtney's point right there. For according to the Office of Education, we are 80,000 teachers short. We have a need for 100,000 teachers and only 20,000 available. How do we expect to educate anywhere near all of our children with handicaps if we only have 20% of the personnel needed to man these programs? So I would like to say that we should have a very effective and aggressive campaign on recruitment so that every person in the community would think, here is an opportunity of a challenging career to serve the handicapped. Why is it you don't have more persons going into educating the handicapped as a career? I think we have real need of more training, more centers of training in these many highly specialized fields. You mean there's a lack of training facilities here? Yes, there are not enough training programs available. And then I think in the second place, we need to remember that many of these special fields are not glamorous to the teacher. He or she looks upon them as rather dead-end streets. When the superintendent is thinking of promotions, he's likely to overlook those aspects of education. I think we have another thing to think of also. We're recruiting practically all of our special teachers and our personnel from normal groups. And many normal children, so-called normal, go through public schools and they don't realize that there is such a field as this. They are hardly aware of the presence of handicapped people. They all hear of doctors and lawyers and music teachers and other kinds of teachers, but they just have no contact or no way of becoming interested in this field. I'd like to bring up the point here for this discussion that I believe we could do more on career days in colleges and in high schools to present to them this picture of the opportunity of working with a handicapped child in the educational field. And I think we need to be a little more selective, perhaps, in the kind of person that enters this field, someone who has optimum physical and mental health and real stability so that we can, in turn, give more to our children. Maybe that's the reason there aren't many people entering into the field, because you require a great deal of emotional and physical stability. Are your requirements too rigid here? I don't believe so, Boren. Boren, I am very much convinced that a good teacher who loves children and who has somewhat of a missionary zeal can become a good teacher in special education. What happens to all of these girls who go into this kind of work and find that they do not want to follow it, at least as a career? Well, I'd like to mention that perhaps the worst enemy we have in the whole field of obtaining personnel is one that I don't know how to combat. Maybe you, sir, would be able to tell us, and that's Cupid. We lose each year in some areas a number of young women who are very much interested in continuing their work, and we have made an effort in many cities and states to maintain their interests and to keep them at least on a part-time basis in the classroom or in special projects. We might be giving the wrong idea here in some ways. Now, we're finding a tremendous upsurge in our enrollment in the areas of people interested in speech and hearing problems. But even with our greatly increased enrollment, we're finding that there are about ten jobs for every graduate, so that we are getting more people, but we are keeping up with the demand. Doesn't that bear evidence to the fact that as the general enrollment in public schools is increasing, so is there an increase in the field of special education? That is true. I would just like to add, in relation to Ms. Shover's statement, and in the hopes that some of the listening audience may be interested in special education, that as a school administrator, I have found that Cupid visits much more frequently among special education teachers. Throughout the discussion here, several questions have come to my mind, and I would like to pose the first for this group. You seem to be emphasizing the need for making everyone normal. I wonder, is that a legitimate objective? Do you really want to make everyone normal? Hill? Well, I think we would be very silly if we were trying to make everybody normal. I heard it discussed last night, and the point was brought out that we can't make everyone normal, and it would be just too bad if everybody was a normal person. There are some handicaps which one can do very little about. You can enable a person to live with this handicap and to build upon his strengths, and I think that is usually the objective in special education. Would you say, then, Mr. Hill, that one of our objectives might be to make the handicap person a part of society rather than apart from it, so that they can make whatever contribution they are capable of doing? I disagree a little bit there, just on an academic level. I would like very much to see a person made into a normal individual to see what he would look like. What is a normal individual? Is there a person alive who is not exceptional in some way? Now, what we're doing by the rehabilitation and special education efforts is just minimizing the handicap that the person has, teaching him to live with it, improving his assets, so that he fits into society and gets along well. And he is exceptional in one way or another, but so is everyone else. I would like to see you create this normal person, and I think we all ought to have a look at him and study him. I think the radio stations and the newspapers in this country would certainly have a good time with this normal person. Wouldn't you agree, Wesley? I think they would, all right. I think perhaps he might be a very dull individual. In summary, do you persons involved daily with the exceptional child have any final important recommendations to make in respect to this very, very important problem? How about that, Ms. Cortland? Well, I plead above all else for a recruitment of qualified trained teachers. I would like to ask that we have a more effective public education program so that those people who live in rural areas as well as metropolitan units will know how important it is, how essential it is to have provisions for special education. I would make a plea for research. If we want to find out what makes people tick, we get our biggest dividends by exploring exceptional groups, and the results of research in this area are going to recruit to all people. And in connection with that, I would like to emphasize the need for setting up possibilities for research, and one way that that can be done is by strengthening that particular division in the Office of Education that has to do with the education of the exceptional child. It seems to me that the members of this panel, as experienced authorities in special education, have told us a good deal about the exceptional child. You have told us that he is either gifted or handicapped. You have described his problem of adjusting to our society. You have indicated that the task of training him is an expensive but important job. You have revealed to us that the progress you have made in developing teaching methods in this area has been rapid. You have grappled, I think, with some of the ethical problems you find in pursuing your work as you work day to day. And most important, I think, you have suggested that we, as laymen, can do a great deal to help the exceptional child develop as a useful citizen in our society. Thank you. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Are We Neglecting the Exceptional Child? This program is the second in a series devoted to child problems. Last week, the Reviewing Stand discussed the question, Should Children Be Spanked? You can secure a copy of either of these broadcasts by sending 10 cents in coin to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Just send 20 cents for both discussions. You can subscribe to the Reviewing Stand for $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Mary Courtney, Assistant Superintendent in Charge of Special Education in the Chicago Public Schools. Arthur S. Hill, President of the International Council for Exceptional Children. Jane Shover, Director of the Cerebral Palsy Division of the National Society for Crippled Children and Adults. And Harold Westlake, Director of the Speech and Hearing Clinic at Northwestern University. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand considers the question, Should gambling be legalized? Here to discuss this problem, which is so closely related to America's increasing crime rate, will be E. W. Cragen, Mayor of Las Vegas, Nevada. Francis Smith, Mayor of Reno, Nevada. William F. Byron, Professor of Sociology from Northwestern University. And Virgil W. Peterson, Operating Director of the Chicago Crime Commission. We invite you to listen next week for a frank discussion of the question, Should gambling be legalized? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.