A fitting occasion on which American citizens who have ever been devoted to the ways of peace may direct their attention to the human losses resulting from the ravages of war. We speak to you now across the Potomac from the nation's capital, the scene today of the annual Memorial Day ceremonies. The program will feature an address by the President of the United States. To introduce the presiding officer is Lee R. Pennington, past Department Commander of the American Legion. Mr. Pennington. Mr. President and honored guests, from 1868 to 1928, the Grand Army of the Republic annually held Memorial Day services on May the 30th. As time took its toll, these veterans of the war between the states were no longer able to close ranks and carry on without assistance. recruited as comrades in arms to continue the program were the United Spanish War Veterans, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the American Legion, and the disabled American veterans. Mr. James G. Yadin, President of the GAR Memorial Day Corporation for the past 19 years, and one of its first directors is a Spanish war veteran. His service to the corporation for 20 years has been enthusiastic and outstanding. Mr. Yadin. Thank you, Commander Pennington. I'll ask the audience to please arise for the invocation by Major General Luther D. Miller. Let us pray. Lord God of hosts, we remember the heroism of our military comrades in time of trial and death. Those who endured with valor, those who suffered with patience, those who gave their lives for a better day. Help us never to hold cheaply what has cost so much, never to fritter away lives needed in the place of others gone, never to fail in loyal service for the high hopes of humankind on behalf of which our comrades gave their all. We stand subdued, chastened, in the shadow of their sacrifice. Bless those whose eyes are dim by the thought of far-off graves and all who in any wise share their cup of sorrow. May we all serve our country loyally by unceasing devotion to that righteousness which alone exalteth a nation. With great might, O God, establish thy kingdom throughout the world. We ask it in thy name. Amen. Amen. That was the invocation by Major General Luther D. Miller, Chief of Chaplains, Department of the Army. You will next be privileged to listen to the Star-Spangled Banner, sung by James L. Bailey, a concert soloist, accompanied by the United States Marine Corps Band. Thank you. I will see you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, say, can you see By the dawn's early light What so proudly we hailed At the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare the bombs bursting in air gave proof through the night that our flag was still there O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave Thank you, Mr. Bailey. Now, if you'll just remain standing. Now, complying with the joint resolution of the Congress and the proclamation of the President calling upon the nation to join in a moment of prayer for peace, we ask that all people join at this time with General Luther D. Miller, the Chief of Chaplains of the United States Army, in this prayer. General Miller. Let us pray. O Lord, Father of all men, we come to thee in humble supplication. Thou knowest we have strayed much from thy laws, yet, O God, thou hast blessed us abundantly. Thankful for these blessings and hopeful in the promise of thy forgiveness, we now beseech thy special guidance and care. In this world of mortal men, wars and threats of wars beset us. Jealousies and rivalries of nations plague us. Fears are all about us. So we turn to thee, O God, to ask that in thy good time peace may be restored to all nations of men. We ask that men may live together in understanding and respect. We ask that governments may rule in thy wisdom. We ask that intolerance, bigotry and greed as between nations and men and races may be overcome by the forces of thy will. We ask that this United States and its people may be guided by thee and that its mothers may be spared the sorrows and its sons and its sons and its sons the sacrifices of further war. Bless our leaders with wisdom. Show us the way to a better understanding one with another among our own people. To that end, we seek thy benediction and light, confident in faith that thy will be done and thy good purpose will triumph. This we ask in thy name. Amen. You may be seated, please. Mr. James J. Bailey, the concert soloist of the day, will now bring us There Is No Death. Mr. Bailey. I tell you they have not died They live and breathe with you They walk now here at your side They tell you things are true I dream of harbots odd when you can feel their breath when flood and soul and flood knows there is no death I tell you they have not died their hands clasped yours and mine They are now glorified They have become divine They live they know they see they shout with every breath They live they know they see they shout with every breath they live there is there is no death ุงฮฏ You will now hear Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, a recitation by past Department Commander Harlan Wood of the American Legion. Mr. Wood. Four score and seven years ago, our fathers brought forth on this continent a new nation. Conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created equal. Now we are engaged in a great civil war, testing whether that nation or any nation so conceived and so dedicated can long endure. We are met on a great battlefield of that war. We have come to dedicate a portion of that field as the final resting place for those who here gave their lives that that nation might live. It is altogether fitting and proper that we should do this. But in a larger sense, we cannot dedicate, we cannot consecrate, we cannot hallow this ground. The brave men living and dead who struggled here have consecrated it far above our poor power to add or detract. The world will not yet. The world will little note nor long remember what we say here, but we can never forget what they did here. It is for us, it is for us the living rather to be here dedicated to the unfinished work which they who struggled here have thus far so nobly advanced. It is for us the living to be here dedicated to the unfinished task which reigns before us, that we here highly resolve that these honored dead shall not have died in vain, but that this nation under God shall have a new birth of freedom, and that government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the earth. Major, I'm afraid I can't get it in now. All right. I can't get it in now. I'll get it later. All right. Go ahead then. Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead. The End