. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Hello? Right. All will be ready in a few minutes, two or three minutes. I'm delighted to be able to tell you people who have a poor view of the screen that the first 40 to 45 minutes you will not need to see the screen. That will probably relieve you considerably. I would just mention that one week from tonight, Dr. Louise Despair will speak on some psychological problems of the preschool years. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening, gentlemen. Welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. And a very special good evening to the WNYC radio audience. And I am very happy tonight to be able to present a Viennese-born speaker, Dr. Rene Spitz, of the faculty of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, visiting professor, graduate faculty for psychology, the College of the City of New York, a gentleman that is noted for his work with infants and children. And Dr. Spitz has made some very excellent and very famous movies of children, which he will show at the conclusion of his opening remarks and talk. It is a pleasure to present Dr. Rene Spitz. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, our subject, the subject of this whole series of lectures is, as you have seen, the psychology of emotional growth. And you might ask me, what have I got to contribute in regard to the problem of emotions at this stage of the game, when emotions probably are the most frequently mentioned topic in psychiatry since quite a number of years? Nevertheless, I have an idea that my subject will be in some ways new to you. Because my subject regards the development, and I mean by this the earliest development of emotions. Now, what do I mean by this? You will question me, earliest development of emotions are not emotions our birthright? Do not we get our emotions from our ancestors? Do we not inherit them? Well, we would have discovered an answer to this question since a very long time, if we were capable of being really objective to the things which we can observe around us. You see, we are extremely unobjective in many respects, in those places where we cannot discuss the question we are investigating with the subject whom we are investigating. So, as a result of this, we have the tendency of doing something which in psychiatry has been called, with the $64 word, projection. Now, what is projection? Projection is simply that we endow something or somebody else with our feelings, with our tendencies, wishes or desires. The very simplest example of this is something which you have all seen in children. A child runs its head into the corner of the table and then begins kicking it and says it's a bad table. Now, I am afraid that among us, we will find quite a number of grown-ups still, and I do not exclude myself who, on barking their shin really badly against the table, will indulge in a kick towards that table. So, we seem to have kept a little bit of that projection, at least, in the most strenuous situation, if not in all. Now, the examples for such projection in our science are very numerous. In the last century, they were particularly numerous, for instance, in animal psychology. In animal psychology, in the last century, and in the centuries before, of course, the animals acted as if they were human beings. You found animals speaking at one time like senators and at the other time like gangsters. Sometimes they were giving forth the wisdom of ages and at other times they behaved like morals. And at times they were as moralistic as Park Avenue dowagers and at other times, again, they were as abandoned as a psychopath. Now, all this, of course, is completely untoward. Animals do not feel that way. Animals do not really behave that way. That way, animals are so different from us in their thinking, if any, that we cannot begin imagining their thoughts. Now, how have these ideas prevailed in regard to animals and often in regard to objects? For a very simple reason. Animals lack speech to communicate themselves. That is, animals cannot tell us what they feel and what they think. The consequence of this lack of speech is an unconscionable amount of cruelty which has been let loose on animals. But that, of course, is something which belongs to the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals. But for us, it is very important to know that in our midst there is a similar group which lacks speech also. And which, accordingly, is judged in an analogy to the grown-up. And that group is the baby. The baby in what is called, again, with a beautiful psychiatric word, the baby in the pre-verbal stage. The baby before it has learned to speak. Now, it is only rather recently that psychology and psychiatry have begun to investigate the baby in this pre-verbal stage. And these investigations are in the act of changing fundamentally all our views on infancy and what goes on there. Let me give you a little example which is current to all of you. You are familiar with newborns. Some of you, at least, probably are. You have seen them. And if I tell you that mothers maintain often with an iron and unshakable conviction that their child recognizes them after two weeks. Or some mothers even earlier, after one week. After birth, it has smiled at its mother sometimes. Well, there you have one of those examples of our misinterpretations. I need hardly tell you that it is not so. I will go on and say it is not so in any case. The newborn does not have any such knowledge or any emotions which would be commensurate with this kind of knowledge. The newborn possesses one single emotion which is demonstrable. And that is, surprising though it may sound, displeasure. The newborn is unhappy. For many good reasons. I can't go into them now. Maybe in the discussion we can speak about it. But you will not find any kind of stimulation, any kind of present you could offer that newborn, which could elicit in the newborn an expression which could be called pleasure. The newborn cries, it squirms, it kicks when it feels needs in itself, not in reaction to the outside world. And when the need is satisfied, then it becomes quiescent. It sleeps. So that in the newborn you have two kinds of emotions, if you can call the second one an emotion, if you can call quiescence an emotion. Actually, it's being rid of any kind of emotion. Now it sleeps 22 hours out of the 24. And its reaction to any kind of stimulus is either that it stays in its quiescence, that is, that the stimulation, what you may have offered the child, has not reached it. But if anything which you offer the child does reach it, then it can react to that either with displeasure, or it can react to it with diffuse, unspecific movements like squirming or whatnot. Therefore, we are presented with the following problem in investigating emotions. What is it which takes place in the course of the first year to evolve that whole gamut of emotions from this little unconscious organism that is the newborn? How will the newborn acquire such emotions like love, affection, sympathy, interest, or fear, anxiety, apprehension, or rage, anger, hate, jealousy? And I could go on in this manner. This was the subject of our research. And what I want to tell you today is the results of this research, however briefly, and then show you a few motion pictures, which will elucidate that what I have said, or rather give you examples of what it looks like. Now, when we started from this statement that at birth a poverty of emotions is the most striking phenomenon, and displeasure and quiescence was its counterpart, we gave you the starting point from which in the first two months something will develop which is more specific. Because in the first two months, progressively, something will be established, differentiated, if you like, within this rather diffuse emotion. That is, displeasure becomes more specific. After two months, a good mother will be able to tell why her child is crying, whether it's hungry or whether because it's wet or because it's alone, or just because it needs the exercise of crying. And secondly, out of quiescence, a new behavior has developed by the end of the second month, namely turning towards something which has proved pleasurable to the infant. Now, what are the reasons for this? Pleasurable stimuli are being offered to the infant all the time because, after all, any stimulus, anything which you offer the infant which assuages its needs, will be experienced as pleasurable in contrast to the displeasure which is caused, let us say, by the feeling of hunger or thirst or pain or cold or what have you. Now, these pleasurable stimuli are all, without exception, offered by the mother or her substitute. And when I say the mother, and I will only use the term mother in my further lecture, I mean any person who behaves to the child like its mother would. And I do not exclude from this the other sex, namely the father or any male. Now, the first such behavior can be seen after about one to two weeks' time. And that is that when the infant is put into the so-called feeding situation that is held like this, it will turn its head towards the breast. And there again, I can only say, I don't know whether on this motion picture it is shown in that manner, it doesn't matter whether that breast is its mother's breast or a man's breast. It will turn towards it. And in connection with this, we discover that after about one month, the human face becomes the most outstanding object which interests the infant. At this time, the child is incapable of fixating, of looking steadily at any kind of object except the human face. But at the human face, the child at the age of one month will stare, one to two months, let us say, will stare unwaveringly. Towards two months, it begins to follow the human face. That is so true that a friend of mine who happened to be the ophthalmologist for one of the greatest psychiatric institutions in the world, and who had to establish their so-called visual fields for infants, which was a new beginning, tried out everything to attract the newborn's attention. The only thing we could find which would safely and reliably attract the newborn's attention was the human face. By newborn here, I am speaking now actually of the first to second months. Now, this fact begins, so to say, a development which in the third months becomes really impressive. Because beginning with the third months, the newborn, or rather the child by this time, the baby, will follow the grown-up and the grown-up's movement with its eyes and head at a distance, even at 10 to 15 and 20 feet. And a new emotion appears, a real emotion appears, the infant will smile at the grown-up's face. Of course, you might object that all of you know that babies smile before they are three months old. Of course they do. The earliest smile of the baby which we have filmed in our work is, I believe, at six days or four days of life. But that is a very different affair from the smile which the baby gives at three months to the grown-up. Because when the baby is younger, when it's four days or ten days or 15 or 20 days old even, it smiles in reaction to something which goes on inside it. And it smiles doesn't mean smiling. Our grandmothers, or pardon me, my grandmother, used to say, you see that goes back a little bit further than yours. My grandmother used to say that when such babies smiled, they've got a bellyache. It was not 100% true, but a bellyache might just as well elicit that smile as a pleasurable experience. And accordingly, that smile has the same significance in the first months or two as when the baby kicks its leg or squirms or frowns or shakes its head or any of these movements which you can observe in a completely uncoordinated and disorderly fashion in the baby. But the smile at the end of the second month is a totally different affair. Because at the end of the second month, the baby smiles in response and always in response to a grown-up's face. That is the stimulus which will provoke at that time the normal baby's smile. Now, why does that take place? Because, you see, the sum total of the baby's experience in the first three months is offered to it by another human being and we can say right away by its mother. All need gratification, whether they be food or drink or warmth or fondling or loving attention when unhappy. You can invent anything in any situation. The baby will see its mother's or the mother person's face straight on before its eyes. Thus, every need gratification, every satisfaction of its needs is tendered by its mother. And the mother's face becomes connected, the human face becomes connected with pleasure if by pleasure we understand, amongst other things, the removal of discomfort as well as the tendering of actual pleasure. We are justified, therefore, in saying that since the baby chooses the human face as the first stimulus for its smile, we can accept the smile of the baby as a sign for a pleasurable expectation. And here you have the first signal of the emotion of pleasure. That emotion of pleasure which in the normal baby appears at that time and which is, so to say, its first contact with society, its first social response. The smile appears not only when the actual pleasure is experienced but also when the pleasure is expected. The further on the baby develops, the more frequently the smile appears before the pleasure. And the smile connected with the mother already, of course, is an anticipation of pleasure. Thus, the human face which was introduced to the baby by the mother has become a signal of mother or other human being. Now, as a signal, which a signal has to be understood just like you understand the street signals, that is, when there is a red light, you have the discomfort of stopping, and when there's a green light, you can go ahead. For the baby, the human face becomes a signal in the sense of a green light. Now, that signal is not as clearly distinguished as many people believe at this age. The popular opinion is that babies smile at their mothers and only at their mothers, and if they happen to smile at a stranger, then that stranger is extremely admired because that stranger must love children since they respond with a smile to it. That is a fallacy at this age. I could show you that any child between three and six which you show me will smile at me, though I need not love that child at all. You will, by the way, see in the film a few quite striking things in this respect because the film will show that the child smiles at any stranger who offers his or her face in certain circumstances, that is, in a certain position and under certain conditions. The circumstances and conditions are the same as those in which the mother offers her face to the baby. That is, the face must be straight on and the face must be in movement. That is obvious. In approaching the baby, the mother always has her face straight on, otherwise she wouldn't see it and she's got to see what she's doing there. And she moves her face because she approaches it, anyhow. And she moves it also because a mother usually cannot resist speaking or smiling at her baby. How much she cannot resist it, some psychologists have discovered. But of that we can speak later. Now, as to this, the face being straight on, you can make an experiment. Approach a baby which is three to six months old. Smile and nod at the baby. You needn't talk. And the baby will respond with a smile. And at that moment, slowly turn your face into profile and continue smiling and nodding. And you will discover that the child immediately stops smiling and looks bewildered at your profile. The child does not recognize it anymore. But the baby's lack of discernment at this age is much greater even because between three and six months, it reacts in the same manner, not only to any person who offers him that smile offering, white or colored, because curiously enough, discrimination does not exist at that age. It doesn't seem to be inborn, however surprising that may sound. But it reacts also in the same way to a Halloween's mask, if we nod that Halloween's mask. And that isn't because it finds the Halloween's mask funny, because you see you can turn the Halloween's mask into profile and it will stop smiling, and the Halloween's mask in profile is not less funny than straight up. Now, there the mask also has stepped into this role of signals which inform the baby of the mother's approach and of a pleasurable gratification connected with it. Now, we have investigated here the first great stream of emotions, the pleasurable emotions, and their development up to the six months. At the end of the six months, the second main stream of emotions begins to make itself felt, and that is the stream of displeasurable emotions. At that point, after six months, displeasure emotions begin to become differentiated and distinguishable from each other. I told you already that before that, the mother can tell when the baby is hungry, when the baby is disappointed. What I haven't stressed to you is something which I should have, and that is that the emotion of pleasure in the first six months plays the role of a trail breaker for all the rest of the development. That is, the emotion of pleasurable recognition of the mother is earlier than any kind of recognition of anything else. The child, before the age of six months, and I'm giving you here a figure which is a quite general figure, and which you shouldn't take as the holy writ. It can be four months, and it can be eight months. I'm giving it to you, as all the figures which I give you, as a sort of general signpost around which age to expect these things. The child, at the age when it smiles at its mother, is incapable to recognize any other object, not even that object which it sees most frequently in its life, namely the food. It is incapable of recognizing its bottle. That comes somewhere after five months. Now, this leading role in the development of the baby's emotional reaction, this earliest trail breaker in the perceptive performance of the baby is also visible in the negative emotions. Because in the negative emotions you will find that if you play with a four months old baby, and then leave it suddenly, the baby will express displeasure. But it's only two months later that that selfsame baby will cry when you take its toy away. If it starts at four months, then it won't mind it. And this is the first beginning of the differentiation of displeasure feelings. Till the end of the six months, the baby does not distinguish human individuals from each other. After six months, the baby begins suddenly to show a change of mood when it is approached by strangers. This change of mood of the baby at the approach of strangers was observed by child psychologists and was described, as a change of mood of the baby, or as anxiety by others. The picture of this behavior of the baby is a stranger comes in, the baby shows a bewildered expression. Another baby will hide its face in the blankets or avert its head. A third baby may begin to scream. Any baby will turn towards a protective person. And the expression of the babies goes somewhere from bewilderment and apprehension to anxiety. If the stranger knows his or her way around with babies, the baby will very soon accept the stranger, and this acceptation of the stranger will find its most vivid expression in the baby finally itself approaching the stranger actively. Now probably this withdrawal, which changes into an active approach, caused the idea of coyness in the psychologist's mind. And we prefer to speak of anxiety in this case for certain reasons which I will not go into. It is most pronounced around the eight months, and therefore we have called it the eight months anxiety. Now this new behavior shouldn't be considered as something which could be viewed with alarm. It is important. It is significant. It is necessary because it is a step forward in the development of the emotions. Up to now, that development had been slow. And the reason for this slowness is the child's helplessness in the first six months. It is simply a passive object for the environment. It can only tolerate what the environment does to it. The environment on the whole is benevolent. On the whole. As far as it understands the baby's needs, it tries to protect the child from danger, and it relieves it from suffering. It ministrates to its needs. That many of these ministrations may be inappropriate is regrettable. But as the receptiveness of the child at this age is relatively low, it is comparatively difficult to do too much harm to the baby in the first six months. After six months, the child ceases to submit passively to the adult. It's bodily coordination enables it now not only to make movements of withdrawal from unpleasant experiences, but also to make movements of approach to pleasant experiences. And simultaneously, you have this increase in discrimination. And while previously, every human face was a signal for pleasurable anticipation, the child distinguishes between the mother and other faces, and its anxiety in front of strangers is a sign of its progress in discrimination and emotion. Since up to this age, no difference was made between approaching persons within certain very gross limits of behaviors. These persons were all interchangeable with each other. Now the interchangeability of persons is completely incompatible with the idea of love, and with the idea of its derivates like affection, sympathy, and interest. It is necessary that the baby become capable of singling out individuals in a crowd, that it become capable of attaching to one individual emotions, if we are at all to speak of the baby having love and attachment. Now with the achievement of this discrimination, a host of other emotions is developed. The baby at this age shows already somewhere around eight months, an attachment to inanimate objects. It will prefer a favorite toy. It will develop for the first time the rudiment of what we could call a possessive emotion. The infant will cling to such a toy with extraordinary tenacity. Many of you may have observed that. These toys which the baby selects for its possessive emotions somewhere around its eight tenths months will take on the emotional value of living persons and will accompany the infant through many years of childhood. It should not be deprived of them. A little later, a counterpart of this discrimination develops in the same field. And that is that the baby around nine or ten months begins to show quite often signs of jealousy. If at this age you visit a ward on which you find several babies, and if you play with one of them, you will, after a while, suddenly find that a little hand grasps your coat and tugs at it, and that is the child from the next bed. And if you go on ignoring that hand, the ten months old will appeal to your attention by screams which have all the characters of rage, anger, and jealousy. Now this behavior is a direct development of the behavior the baby showed at four months when it had showed a displeasure when you left it, when you interrupted your play with it, and of the displeasure of the baby at six months when you took its toys away. We are here now in a stage of infancy which shows a very wide gamut of emotions which came from the previous meagre ones. Now the child becomes capable not only of showing displeasure, but its subordinate qualities. I spoke to you of anxiety. I spoke to you of disappointment, of anger, of jealousy. And on the other side of the balance, we spoke of pleasure, we spoke of its shadings, namely love for one person, sympathy to other persons, the enjoyment of toys, a sense of property, and the devotion to one privileged object. The further development is rapid, varied, and complicated. It occurs after the first year of life, and is outside the scope of today's talk. And therefore I will end the description of the research we made into the emotional development, but I want to give you a few words about the practical applications of what we have said here in a very theoretical manner. What can we do with the insight we have gained from understanding this sequential development of emotions manifested in the first year? Well, one practical consequence is that if we recognize that certain emotions are not only age-adequate, but that they are to be expected at certain given ages, our approach to the child is facilitated. And there will be little excuse if an experienced and trained person is unable to make contact with a normal child. I underscore normal. You have simply to remember, if you approach a child within the first six months, you have to offer your face smiling, nodding, speaking. And you have to offer it straight off. The child is yours. You have to offer your face smiling, nodding, speaking. You have to offer your face smiling, nodding, speaking. What is still more important to remember, and what I usually preach when I speak of pediatrics without tears, is that in the third quarter of the first year, there exists a developmental necessity of apprehensiveness at seeing a stranger. And therefore, when we deal with children of this age, we will approach them with caution. We will not begin by chucking them under the chin and saying to them, Baby, how do you do today? Because there upon the baby will have a rather sour reaction in very many cases. The best thing you can do with a child after the six months is to turn your back on them. And I say this literally. Because if you turn your back on this child, which when you stepped into the room, made a face as if it were going to cry, and if you wait, in most cases the wait is not more than ten seconds. In few cases it will go to a few minutes. The shyest child will tug at your hand or your coat, and if then you are reasonably slow in your movements towards the child, the child is yours. Of course, there are exceptions to this as there are to anything else. These exceptions are to be found in the emotionally deprived children who in the first trimester may refuse, in the first quarter, may refuse to smile. Then there are the children with extreme emotional starvation, such as one finds in certain so-called charitable institutions. There, the smiling at the stranger may persevere not only after the third quarter, but far beyond, into the second year. And instead of an eight months anxiety, you may find, for instance, a terrible crying and screaming, a panic, which cannot be overcome by the method which I have mentioned to you. It's useless to turn your back on those children. They will not reach for you. The crying will go on, the screaming will go on for hours. Yes, I have tried this. These unhappy children simply cannot be approached. It takes all the wiles of a psychologist experienced with children to be able to make any contact with such children who are in what we could call a form of depression, who reject not only the stranger but the world at large. And these children, if the separation, if the deprivation lasts long enough, will be the prey of a progressive process, which if it is not interrupted, will lead to a progressive deterioration, a loss of contact with the outer world, and a lasting deformation of personality. Now, with this, I want to end my discussion of the emotional development in the first twelve months. You realize, I think from what I have told you, that the emotional development is of incredibly great importance. It cannot be overrated how important it is, as it leads the way for the rest of the personality development, and therefore, if it does not take place, the rest of the personality does not develop. And you realize also that the prerequisite of a normal emotional development is adequate emotional interchanges, adequate emotional relations with the people around it. And the lesson to be derived from this is that the most important single factor in the child's life at the age from birth to the end of the first year are its relations to its mother or the mother substitute. No amount of toys, no wealth of material comfort, no pampering with food or hygiene can replace what we have come to call love of the mother. And that is something which has been said in the long distant past. Two thousand years ago, you will find it in the New Testament, that love is the greatest of them all. And in our materialistic age, it cannot be strongly stressed, sufficiently strongly stressed, that things are still the same. Thank you. Thank you very much, Dr. Spitz. Thank you very much.