Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the social problems of the aged. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the needs of the aged and ways of meeting these problems. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Dr. Fred W. Fitz, Assistant Professor of Internal Medicine in the Northwestern University Medical School. Robert J. Havinghurst, Chairman of the Committee on Human Development at the University of Chicago. Mrs. Rhoda Layton, Director of the King Bouvard House, retirement home in Hinsdale, Illinois. And Robert Peterson, Assistant to the Director of the Business Management Service at the University of Illinois. Now in discussing problems of the aged, I think we should begin havinghurst by identifying this aged group. How many people are we talking about? What percentage of the total population? The problem of the aged is important partly because of sheer numbers, because the number of us who are over 65 is increasing so rapidly. For example, there are twice as many people now over 65 in this country as just 20 years ago. Or to put it another way, one in 12 of our population is over 65 now, whereas only one in 25 was over 65 in 1900, and one in eight will be over 65 in 1980. It's also, I think, an important problem, not only because of numbers, but because of our interest in America and the happiness of the individual. Mr. Havighurst, I'd like to bring out here, and I don't think we can stress it too much, the fact that it's everyone's problem. And it's not a problem just when you're 65, it's a problem beginning when you're 25, because everyone at 25 certainly hopes to reach the retirement age of 65 and should begin planning at that age and not when he's 64. Well, now, Dr. Fitz, what are some of the more important problems these people face, problems that they should begin planning for, as Mrs. Leighton has just suggested? Looking at this problem as a physician, it simmers itself down into about three or four major zones or areas. Number one, as the person approaches the advanced years, he wants security. Secondly, he wishes to continue to enjoy the good health of him and vigor that was characteristic of the 20s and 30s and 40s. Lastly, I think the third problem has to do that he should continue to have, enjoy certain rights and privileges and most certainly exercise certain responsibilities that he did when he was less than 65. Now, let's explore this analysis that the doctor suggests just a bit, if we may. What are the effects on the economic security of this older group, Peterson? Well, we know that a great many older people do not have funds. We know that a rather substantial number of our older people have no funds whatsoever and they must rely on their families, their friends, and charity for support. And, Dr. Fitz, when you mentioned security, I was wondering, were you thinking principally of financial security? Apparently economic security. Well, certainly this is one of the major problems of old age. And I think it's unfortunate that so many older people reach the age of 65 or 70 with just a limited capital. Peterson, I'm not as well-oriented as you are in the field of economics. And perhaps I oversimplify this, but the impression I have gotten from a study of the older people, which we have just finished in a small Midwestern city, is that we can divide people into three groups in terms of their economic security. The top one-third are quite able to take care of themselves economically and have no worry at all. Then there's the bottom one-third who are marginal. Most of them are on old age assistance. And they would be helpless if they were not receiving some kind of help, either from the society, through the government, or from their families. Then there is a middle group, which is a very interesting one to us, I think. The middle third, who, if the dollar had a stable purchasing power, would be fairly well off, because these are people who manage to save throughout their lives. Most of them own their own small home, and they thought that, well, maybe $100 a month was about right, and they planned for an income of $100 a month. That group seems to me to be in rather severe danger now of economic insecurity. Well, I think the classification you have given is an excellent one, because I believe older people do fall into those three economic classes. And as you say, it's indeed true that many people, 30 years or 40 years ago, did plan their finances in such a way as to have, when they reached 65, perhaps $80 or $90 or $100 a month for themselves and their spouse. And if there had been no inflationary trend, they would be quite able to support themselves today. But because of inflation, of course, older people today with an income of $80, $90 or $100 a month find themselves in severe economic straits. I suspect it's the group we're discussing that's been hit hardest by inflation, relying as they do on a relatively fixed income, and finding that it won't go around as far as they had hoped that it would. Now, how about these health problems faced by the agent? That was the second point in your analysis, doctor. Well, this health problem falls into, breaks itself down into two major areas. Number one, that having to do with their mental health, and secondly, that having to do with their physical health. It's difficult to differentiate these two things because frequently they overlap. But the same token, their health is often a measure of at least a projection in some quantity of their security and also of their rights, privileges, and responsibilities. But in the by and large, the health problems, the physical health problems of the agent fall into just two categories. Number one, the more commonly talked about disease entity called cancer or malignant disease. This enjoys, at the moment, much newspaper publicity and much discussion. However, it doesn't take an occupied position in that rather sordid book called Vital Statistics. It enjoys nowhere near the distinction that the so-called degenerative diseases occupy that of blood vessel and heart disease. And it's of those two things that, those two problems, which are the major problems in older people. Well, Dr. Fitz, are we all, must we all expect to die a long, lingering death, either from cancer or from heart disease? No. No. The long, lingering aspect of it, no. If we live long enough, most of us will die either of heart disease or cancer. But the lingering aspect, no. If we fall into the category of having vascular disease, and know this, that of those of us who reach 50 years of age, 50% of us will die of some form of vascular disease. That disease, it affects the heart or the blood vessels. And of those diseases that affect the heart and blood vessels, by far and away, the great majority of them die rather rapidly once they have developed a full-blown situation. Dr. Fitz, I've noticed that so many older people seem particularly concerned about their mental health in later years. Do you have an observation about the trend with reference to mental health among older people? Dr. Fitz, I think, does not occur any more frequently in older people than it does in younger people. In fact, some of the primary diseases of the central nervous system are more common among younger age groups. I rather feel that the mental disease of the aged falls into two categories. That's secondary to a hardening of the arteries of the brain, and that's secondary to fear, occasioned by financial or economic insecurity, or fear brought out by lack of having a family, of having certain rights and privileges and responsibilities that they enjoyed as younger members of society. Well, then perhaps only about 2% of our older people need fear getting one of these mental difficulties or diseases in their later years. Dr. Fitz, what is the field of medicine doing, if anything, to prevent the so-called degenerative diseases? At the present time, I believe that there are perhaps more physicians, research people, lay people, interested in preventing the diseases of old age than in any other aspect of medicine today. We're tremendously interested in cancer. We're interested in infection. We're interested in childhood diseases. But with nowhere near the interest that old age occupies in this so-called role or stage of the causes of death. Dr., you have referred two or three times to the rights, privileges, and satisfactions of the aged. What are you talking about there? Well, what are these rights and privileges? It's been my observation that many industries, many employers, by virtue of their experience and other influences that are somewhat unclear to me, have laid down an edict that when a man reaches the age of 65, and this not only has to do with industries such as those that make automobile tires, but it has to do with great universities. Lay down an edict that when a man or a woman has reached the age of 65, he must retire. To me, it seems a little absurd that at the age of 64 years, 11 months, and 29 days, he could do all of these things. But on the following day, he must lay aside his tools and say to his confreres, gentlemen, I must now step aside for someone else to take on this responsibility. Well, Doc Fisk, then you're suggesting the principle, I suppose, that everybody should have the same rights and privileges regardless of his age, at least once he's an adult. That is, for example, he should have the same right and privilege to become the president of a church organization or of his lodge or of a club, and he should have the same right to employment and so on as a person of any other age, provided he can come through, provided he can produce or operate effectively in this role. I believe that he should have those rights and privileges, and so long as he can be economically, can make a worthwhile economic contribution to what he has, to the job that he has been at, working at these many, many years, he should be allowed to continue in that particular type of employment. Above all, I feel that the age of population should not be shelled or placed in a situation that's materially different from that which has gone before. I don't think that 65 needs to be an ending. I think it could possibly be a beginning, even though one retires from one job. I think there should be some activity which is a carryover and which is equally productive, possibly in another field. Mrs. Layton, I'm glad you brought that up, because it's been my feeling for a number of years now that older people ought certainly never be shelved. They ought to continue making a worthwhile contribution to their communities and to the economic life of their country. And I feel one way in which we can secure this end is for persons in their middle years not to allocate all of their interests toward one occupation or one career, but rather to develop a secondary career or a secondary occupation which will permit them to have two interests so that when they have to retire from one type of work, they can go right on merrily performing this secondary occupation. And incidentally, I feel this secondary occupation should be one which will bring them in some remuneration because older people find that if they can make some money from an occupation, I think that they regard it with much more significance than they do otherwise. Well, we've been in the process here of analyzing this problem, and I take it we've pretty much accepted Dr. Fitz's analysis that these problems range from security through health to what he has labeled the rights, privileges, and responsibilities of the agent. I think it's important that we offer some pretty specific suggestions here, and we're in the process of doing it in terms of retirement. Let's pursue that question a bit, if we may. Now, are we realistic in saying that people shouldn't retire at 65? That looked at from the standpoint of the universities to which you referred and all sources of employment. People do reach time, doctor, when they can't make the kind of contributions they were accustomed to make. What do you expect business and industry to do? I don't know exactly what they will do. I think this, however, that has, as Dr. Havinghurst pointed out originally, there are certain folk who at 60 are old. There are certain other folk who at 70 are still youthful. Most certainly, those people who are 70 and who still make a very worthwhile contribution should be allowed to continue on. So what I think it needs, rather, is an individual treatment of the problem rather than an edict or a law or a message or, what is it, the city councils pass? Ordinance. Ordinance. Saying that you have reached now the time where you must lay down your tools, put on your hat, and saunter into that zone called retirement. Well, Dr. Fitz, that's, of course, exactly what those of us who have much control over our retirement do. You take the doctors, people in your profession, the lawyers, the small businessmen, the farmers. We find that these men retire first gradually and second at the time when they think they're ready. And it is for that reason that, what is it, something like 48% of our men over 65 are employed. But it is in certain occupations where you have a large employer of many people, such as a government or a university or a state school system and certain corporations where a certain set age is set up for retirement. Our problems, I see it. I mean, the problem of all of us who are interested in this problem of making a more flexible kind of retirement provision is to work out procedures whereby the productivity of a man can be measured objectively so that he can prove to people, himself and other people, that he's ready and able to go on working after a certain age. And where, where, Mrs. Layton, are these older people to live? I know from limited personal experience that you, that many of them face an enormous problem there. Well, all... Even if they have some economic resources. Although I shall never deny that the ideal situation is for the individual to go on living the same type of life he has before, there is a tremendous factor that an older person needs the companionship of those in his own age group in congenial surroundings where he can live life at the speed best adapted to his physical capabilities. And for that reason, as a director of a home, I strongly recommend a retirement home of one kind or another. Now, there are many kinds that exist, and there is a need for several other types, because all people don't fit into the same type of home. Just because they have the common denominator of age doesn't mean that they can fit into a master plan. So, one person will enjoy one type of place, whereas he would not fit into another at all. Mrs. Layton, you've mentioned homes for older people, and I recognize that homes for older people are very necessary in our society. But on the other hand, don't you think we ought to emphasize the fact that younger people do indeed have a responsibility for their older parents? I agree with you, Mr. Peterson, completely. I think each one of us, if he's a responsible citizen at all, realizes that his own family comes first, not only his children, but also his parents. However, you would be very surprised at the number of women who come to me who do not wish to live with their children, not because it's uncongenial, but because they feel that the son or daughter has worked hard to establish and maintain a home, and that they might be a burden, and that they find they are far happier with people of their own age in a retirement home. Now, there are so many different kinds, and it's hard to recommend what is needed, but I think perhaps if I could tell you a little bit about the different types that are in existence, you would see why many people are in homes and prefer to be. What are these types, Mrs. Layton? Well, there are first, for that third of the population which has an adequate income, there is the home where a large membership or entrance fee is required, and you purchase a certain type of facilities and life care. Then there are endowed homes, such as the one I represent, supported either by a church or paternal organization or an endowment, for those who lack financial security, but whose backgrounds would not permit them to be classed as charity cases. What are you going to do about these older people who are seriously ill? There we have a very distinct need. There are nursing homes operated mainly for profit. However, they are far out of reach financially for many people, and those that need them most apparently cannot afford them. Now, what we need is some type of home for the really aged and ill who need care on a hospital basis, but who cannot afford it. Mrs. Layton, does the government now provide any such homes which do not have a social stigma attached to them? Mrs. Layton, I'm afraid not, and if it is provided in certain areas, it is not adequate at all. Now, I'm thinking mainly of the county homes, and people go there only as a last resort and a sacrifice of their self-respect. In Illinois, I've been interested, though, in the great improvement in the quality of the county homes, which are now often called infirmaries, aren't they, under the new Illinois law, that provides for much better standards and much better regime in such homes? There again, it depends on the county, whether or not it's an industrial or rural area. Some are much better than others, undoubtedly, but I don't suppose there is one person in 10,000 that would go there willingly. Well, in any discussion of housing for older people, I think mention should be made of the very excellent plan that they have in Sweden, where a part of each tax dollar goes into the erection of homes for older people, and these homes are held in an allocation specifically for older people, so that when people become 67, they are then eligible to use these housing units for a very low rent, usually around $8 a month. Well, Sweden may have shown the way, but I noticed that the public housing commissioner of the state of New York announced the other day that from now on, all new New York state public housing projects will have 5% of the dwelling units designed specifically for older people. I wonder if the rent figure, though, will be within reach of many of these older people. Well, it's state public housing, and it's supposed to be for people with low incomes. Well, of course, I'm mainly interested, though, in those who do not have very large incomes, and I'm thinking particularly of those who are living on Social Security, and most certainly the payments are not large. Now, you mentioned Sweden. We have one instance in this country where a similar project is being maintained, and that is in one county in New Jersey, where a cottage colony of small county homes is maintained. They are rented, complete with utilities, to couples or individuals, I believe, at about $8 a month. Now, in the colony, they have, I believe, an infirmary, a store, and public dining and kitchen facilities. Now, the question has arisen, what are they going to do with those people who become old and need care, those who cannot get to the public dining room, those who cannot take care of themselves? Well, it hasn't arisen there yet, but there should be, in that type of a colony, always a hospital or infirmary of some kind. There should be recreation maintained within it. It should be a self-supporting community, so to speak. Is this having hers primarily a responsibility of the state, the provision of the homes of the sort that Mrs. Layton is talking about, or is it a function of free enterprise? Well, it seems to me that if we're going to limit the number of people in homes for older people to as few as 3 or 4%, which is what we have now, that is 3 or 4% of the people over 65 are in homes for the ages. And the rest of them are living in their own homes or their children? The rest of them are taking care of themselves somehow, one way or another. That is, it is the individual's responsibility. I certainly, I'm sure we all favor a program in which the individual shall be responsible for his own housing and making his own choice of housing as long as he can. But Mrs. Layton is pointing out that when you get up over the age of 75 or 80, you get an increasing number of people who must have some kind of housing provided for them, even though they can afford to pay for it. And I would say there, we need all kinds of individual and social experimentation with various kinds of housing. Well, I should like to comment on the fact that I feel that American education is missing the boat with reference to teaching students to plan for their later years. In no course or no curricula that I know of in grade schools, high schools, or colleges, is there any emphasis placed on the importance of the younger person making specific plans for his economic problems that he will inevitably face as he grows older? And I should like to see education place more emphasis on this. Well, Peterson, would you start this at 16? 16-year-olds preparing for 16? I'd start it at the age of 12. Well, I would say this is, I'm not an expert in the field of adult education, but I would argue that perhaps around the age of 45 or 50 is the time to start taking seriously the problem of preparing both economically and emotionally for old age. And about the same time, I think, is an excellent time to start taking inventories from the health point of view to ascertain for the patient to go to his family doctor and say, Doctor, I'm 45. In another 20 years, I'm going to be 65. I'll probably have some disease entity at that time or even before, which, if corrected now, recognized now and corrected now, will allow me to enjoy those years between 55 and 65 and on up to 75 until some circumstance takes me off of this work. From the standpoint of the psychological well-being of the older person, I think we ought to mention, too, that since loneliness is an inevitable concomitant of the later years, we ought to emphasize to people of younger years the fact that if they want to live a happy, emotional life in their later years, it's important that they develop their friendship-making machinery in their earlier years and that they develop interests and friendships that they can carry over into their later years. I think perhaps what we have concluded as much as anything is the fact that the later years need not be years to fear but to enjoy if we plan for them now while we are young. Well, I'd want to put that a little differently. Now, Peterson has just told us that we should urge younger people to develop their friendship-making skills so that they can be better off when they're old. I think younger people should develop their friendship-making skills so they'd be better off when they're young. And so I would put it this way, that to a large extent, a person who is meeting the situation of life where he is now at 20 or 30 or 40, well, is making good preparation for his later years. But I would agree with Dr. Fitz that somewhere around the age of 50, at that point, one does need to look ahead 20 or 30 years. I would argue that before the age of 50, it isn't very desirable to try to look ahead very much. Well, with reference to the economics of old age, though, I would say it was because, for example, if you start saving the small sum of 67 cents a day at the age of 25, you'll have your $100 a month by the time you're 65. But if you don't, if you start a savings plan at the age of 50, I think you're going to wind up on old age assistance. Yeah, I yield on the economic point. I think there a longer period of planning is desirable. Of course, I continue to be concerned about the limited facilities for the really aged and infirm. I know, as I said earlier, from limited personal experience that even where these people have modest means, there is enormous difficulty in finding a place to live and to continue. How is that kind of a problem going to be? Well, I'm sorry, Mrs. Layton and gentlemen, but our time is up. You have been listening to a Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, The Social Problems of the Aged. We want to thank our guests for today, Dr. Fred W. Fitz, Assistant Professor of Medicine in the Northwestern University Medical School, Robert J. Havighurst, Professor of Education and Chairman of the Committee on Human Development at the University of Chicago, Mrs. Rhoda Layton, Director of King Brewerd House in Hinsdale, Illinois, and Robert Peterson, Assistant to the Director of Business Management Service in the College of Commerce at the University of Illinois. We invite you to send for a printed copy of today's transcribed broadcast, complete with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Or you may want to subscribe to The Reviewing Stand at a cost of only $1 for the next 12 weeks, $3 for an entire year. Write to The Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, The Reviewing Stand asks, Private or Public Ownership of Electric Power. Our guests will be Richard B. Heppelbauer, Chairman of the Department of Economics at Northwestern University, Richard Searles, Undersecretary of the U.S. Department of the Interior of Washington, and Edwin W. Venard, Vice President of Middle West Service Corporation Chicago. We hope you'll join us next week as we ask, Private or Public Ownership of Electric Power. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer, Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. class-at- leyenda自己son- about music became içinde