Your city, state and federal officials have had a very busy day today in touring the various boroughs in a day that will go down in history as one of the greatest for traffic and the union of traffic arteries through the various connections that have been made today in the formal openings that have taken place with the governor of the state of New York, the mayor of the city of New York and the borough presidents. And now we come to the second ceremony of the day, having previously opened the Bronx River Parkway, and now we present your own borough president, borough president Fitzgerald, who will preside somewhere in the rear cars, we hope it's Commissioner Moses. Oh, is he? Is he here? Well, we wait for Commissioner Moses then. It was quite a long cortege. The inspection has taken place from the Bronx. They went over through Rosedale for the highway there that runs to Laurelton, and then the bridge, and so forth from Atlantic Beach into Nassau. And now the national anthem. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And now your chairman, the Honorable Robert Moses, City Construction Coordinator. Commissioner Moses. Governor Dewey, Mayor Impilitary, Borough President Fitzgerald, ladies and gentlemen. This is one of the great new mixed traffic arteries, which are being built by the state, with state and federal funds, with a city participating, of course, as to the layout and paying part of the cost of the rights of way. In the past, we've got people accustomed to parkways, which, as you know, are restricted to passenger vehicles. The parkways have certainly served their purpose. They're narrow, shoestring parks, landscape. They have no lights, no traffic lights. And they're lined with parks and playgrounds, which can be used by people who don't have cars. But we haven't done anything up to now. We're beginning in a big way to take care of other than passenger vehicles. That is, trucks and buses. They need their express arteries just as much as the passenger vehicles do. Some respects more. We've got to separate those vehicles that are on through business from the ordinary street traffic, where they're a hazard to people on foot, where they choke up traffic, and where they have to be cleared out of the way if we're going to avoid the congestion that we're getting into. This represents, as has been said earlier in the day, the cooperation, the close cooperation of the federal, state, and city governments, with the state government letting the actual contracts. Now, in all these matters, there's a very close relationship to local improvements. Because we disturb utilities, we have to move people, and we're running into all sorts of charter provisions that involve the borough government. We've been very fortunate in this particular case in having, as borough president, a man who has been commissioner of borough works, who is an assemblyman, and knows Albany, and who has been enormously cooperative throughout this entire enterprise. I take pleasure, therefore, in presenting to you now borough president Fitzgerald. Commissioner, Governor Dewey, Mayor Impoliteri, ladies and gentlemen, I want to first welcome to Queens, His Excellency the Governor, His Honor the Mayor. Commissioner, I believe that this beautiful, sunshiny day is an auspicious beginning for this great highway. Commissioner Moses described for you briefly the functions of the highway. The state has constructed the highway. The city and the borough cooperated in its design. These are not the things that I propose to speak about. Something new has been added here. For the entire life of this great city, and of other cities throughout the state and nation, when the time came for the municipality or the state or the government to step in and say, we want this land for a public improvement, that was all that was to it. They stepped in, seized the land, the owners of the land or of the homes that stood upon it went into the courts, and in the course of time, frequently in the course of a long time, they received an award to compensate them for their loss, and no compensation for the waiting period. When the time came, traffic requirements in this borough made necessary the construction of a superhighway such as this. I raised the question, as a resident of the community, of the neighborhood, as to what we would do with the people who lived along the right of way, and I protested that we just couldn't run in, particularly in times of a housing shortage, and say to the people, we want your land, out you go. The improvement would have to wait the relocation of the people, just reversing the previous arrangements. Secondly, in the course of time, the people would collect their awards, sometimes a long time, six months, a year, two years, and as we go further back into history, three and four years after the improvement had been completed, the former owners received their cash awards. I insisted that that would have to be reversed. We'd have to find a new procedure. I insisted that the old system of taking the building, selling it off at public auction to the most speculatively inclined person who was willing to offer the highest price, had brought about, in the matter of the Idlewild improvement, in its first stages, a situation where the speculator bought the house, moved it to a new site, and because of the housing shortage, the former owner or the former occupant, be he tenant or owner, frequently found it necessary, or at least sometimes found it necessary, to go back and repurchase his old house from the speculator. I insisted that this would have to be stopped. And in that, I had the staunch support of my then chief and our former capable borough president, Jim Burke. We brought it to the attention of Commissioner Moses, who said instantly and without reservation, you're absolutely right, I'm for that. We then jointly brought it to the attention of Judge Charles Lockwood, who also agreed with us. We brought it to the attention of the Comptroller of the City of New York, the then Comptroller, Comptroller McGoldrick. And we got an agreement on the part of all of these people that if we could get the necessary legislation adopted at Albany that would permit the resale of these buildings to the former owner or occupant, or to the former occupant, be he owner or tenant, so that the housing of the individual could still be taken care of, so that we could eliminate the speculator that we'd do the right thing. Those bills were sent to Albany, introduced in the legislature, and to the everlasting credit of the legislature, unanimously adopted in both houses and signed by the governor. Became the law the first time in over 300 years that something new had been added to the construction of public works. A most important change, a change in procedure in which the governmental agencies recognized that first came the humanities, and then came the construction. I'm very happy and proud of the part I had to play in this. I'd like to extend officially the compliments of the people of our borough to all of those who took part in that change in procedure. I can't take up too much of your time. I'd like to talk more about this highway, but I know that the governor has a very long day ahead of him, and the hours are getting shorter. It would be unfair if I were to trespass too much on his time. Suffice it to say that I hope that God will bless this undertaking and all the people who use it and all of those who live by it. Thank you very much. Thank you. I now present Mayor Impilateri. Commissioner Moses, Governor Dewey, Borough President Fitzgerald, ladies and gentlemen, the governor is very late in adhering to his schedule and has several appointments or commitments to go upstate tonight, so I don't want to take any of your time. I was glad to be a member of the Board of Estimates in going along with the recommendations on the construction of this expressway sponsored by your then Borough President, Jim Burke, followed through by the then Commissioner of Public Works and your present Borough President, Maurice Fitzgerald, and initiated in large measure by Commissioner Robert Moses. I'm glad that this is an illustration of how three governmental agencies, the government, the state, and the city can get together in the interest of promoting the common welfare and this expressway was something that was vitally needed. I'm glad that we're now seeing the culmination of a much-needed improvement and today as the acting mayor of the city of New York, I want to extend my congratulations to every governmental, every state, and every city agency that participated in this program. Thank you very much. I now present Governor Dewey. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Borough President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the culmination of a long dream, a dream of fast, safe, swift transportation from the heart of New York to the outlying sections of New York. It's a dream of reducing the cost of living. It's a dream that saves lives. Incidentally, it makes the new international airport possible. Without this Van Wyk Expressway, the wonderful development at Idlewild, which will make New York the capital, the air capital of the entire world, would never have been possible because it is too far from the center of New York. That is the reason that we have pressed the acquisition of the funds. Of the $28 million that this highway costs, the state of New York has put up approximately one-half. The city of New York, half of the cost of land, the federal government, half of the cost of construction, but the poor old state is in on half both ways. I am very proud that the policy, the new concept of help by the state to the metropolitan area and other cities in solving the dreadful traffic problems which threatened to choke them to death, was inaugurated during my administration, and I am also very proud to have signed twice the bill of which Borough President Fitzgerald speaks, putting the homes of the people along the path of the new developments first and the humanities first and the stone and concrete second. It is a very great privilege to me to have a chance to see this vision brought to reality. if anybody should ask you what happened to the New York State Capital Fund or you should read any advertisements saying they want to know where it is, bring them out here and rub their noses in it. Here is a very large piece of it. This is one of just three today and is a stinging rebuke in terms of better living, better transportation, lower cost of living and saving lives. It is a stinging rebuke to all those who question the desirability of progress in the state of New York and of our accepting great responsibilities in the state government for the welfare of all the people. And now with your permission we will go out and cut the ribbon. now the governor of the state of New York the Honorable Thomas E. Dewey the mayor of the city of New York the Honorable Vincent Impeletere Borough President Fitzgerald Commissioner Moses and the group are down here on the Van Wyk Express Highway ready to cut the ribbon and go from here to Meeker Avenue for the Brooklyn Queens Expressway the third venture of its kind today that will keep traffic circulating in the cross traffic and through traffic facilities of your great and wonder city. And now this very big pair of shears is being wielded by the governor and the mayor and the borough president and a few moments the ribbon will be cut and Van Wyk Highway will be cut through into service. The borough president is calling for Commissioner Moses. Now in just a moment the ribbon will be cut and Van Wyk Highway will be part of the great traffic arteries of your city. Those big shears are with us again the ones that Miss Darcy used up there in the Bronx early this morning. when the Bronx River Parkway was cut through. The cameramen as usual are having their innings but that's essential because we want a good picture it's a great event and in just a few moments this triple cutting of the ribbon by the city state and nation will cut through this great highway. They're still poised and now the scissors will be snapping in just a moment. The cameramen are still issuing orders and it's a good thing they do. We need there's the ribbon and there is the highway cut through for the traffic and facility of your great city. The band of the Department of Sanitation bandmaster Celebré furnished the musical program and Nikki Schneider entertained with the vocal groups here at the highway crossing. And now we go from here to Meeker Avenue for the third and last ceremony of the day when the Brooklyn Queens Highway will be cut through and the same group of participants will take part in that broadcast and ceremony as well. And now we're hurrying to complete a schedule so we're into cars and off to Meeker Avenue for the Brooklyn Queens Express Highway. Thank you from the borough of Queens. This is the municipal broadcasting system. And now may we present your city construction coordinator Commissioner Moses. Governor Dewey Mayor and Pelletieri ladies and gentlemen today we've really had a wonderful trip of inspiration. We started off in Bronx County early this morning to watch a demonstration of what it means for the city the state and the federal government to get together and following through on a plan of highway achievement which has as its basic purpose expressways parkways but principally today expressways in making traffic facilities throughout the city of New York happy moments for the people of the city who want to get away from traffic involvement. Up in Bronx County we witnessed a dramatic demonstration of exactly what that cooperation has meant to our people. From there we went all the way out to Nassau County from Nassau County we came into Queens County where we saw another demonstration of the effect of that cooperation. From Nassau County into Queens County and right here to this newest link in the connections between various parts of the city took us I think going at about 30 miles an hour exactly about 20 minutes. That's exactly what we have been striving for for a long period of time. We're trying to eliminate traffic congestion throughout our city and this is the best way in the world to accomplish it. On this occasion I want to extend the congratulations of the city to Commissioner Moses who had in large measure the planning the original planning for these projects to Borough President Cashmore who took care of the Brooklyn end of it and to Governor Dewey and his staff who have cooperated so splendidly with your city administration and with your federal government officials in helping us formulate finance and see these projects through. Thank you very much. I want to thank our friends from the band for being here again. They do a great deal for us on these occasions. And now is the Glee Club here? Right down there. GW long day is true. I'll be walking with Maisie on Flatbush Avenue. Just give me the moon overproclaimed when the old, old world is right. I'll be dancing with Maisie on the island every night. I've seen the moon at Valley Valley and the moon over Waikiki. I give it all for just one ball game and Maisie to see it with me. Just give me the moon over Brooklyn. Let me add a dream or clue for ambulating with Maisie on Flatbush Avenue. Marching along in the heart there's a song. Marching along in the heart there's a song. Dippity hip hooray, uppity up, yay. We're marching along together. Sharing every smile and tear. Marching along to the world. Marching along to the world. Dippity hip hooray, we're marching along together. Sharing every smile and tear. Marching along together. Wishing till the skies are clear. Swinging along the highway. Over the road, that's why. Without a bill, without a drum, we mean to chase the jinx. So rumty diddly, here we come. We're happy hinky dink. We're marching along together. Life is wonderful side by side. Here we go. Hip hip hooray, we're on our way in second-handed clothes. Where are we bound for? Nobody knows. Ah, even though we're short of dough. We've got a lot of pep. Nothing to wait for. We're ready to step. Hip! Where do we go? Where do we go? Where do we care? Where do we care? We'll be colder when we're there. When we're there. We're marching along together. Sharing every smile and tears. Roop! Marching along together. Whistling till the skies are clear. Roop! Swinging along the highway. All that fun. Without a bugle, without a drum, we mean to chase the jinx away. Rumpty diddly, here we come. We're happy hinky dink. Hooray! Life is wonderful side by side. Hip! Hooray! Life is wonderful side by side. Hip! Hooray! Life is wonderful side by side. My side! My side! Thank you. In these undertakings that involve the city and the boroughs and the state and the federal government, we depend a great deal on the cooperation of the borough president. In this case, the case of Brooklyn, the borough president has gone way beyond ordinary cooperation. He's picked up a whole section of this expressway for which we didn't have enough funds and has carried out the work on that section as a city project. I take great pleasure in introducing borough president Cashmore. Thank you, Commissioner Moses, Governor Dewey, Mayor and Pelletieri, and neighbors and friends. It is a great honor for me to welcome you, Governor, to what we call the greater city's greatest borough, the borough of Brooklyn. We're happy to have you with us today to participate in this great celebration. I know you're anxious to make many other stops, and I feel it would be an imposition on my part to take long. But I do want to say this. This is the pride and the pet of Brooklyn. It has had the full cooperation of my engineers and had the full cooperation of that great city planner, the greatest of all times, Bob Moses. We have an investment here of $40 million. We certainly appreciate the state's contribution. And I say this to you, sir, we will match that double to complete this job with city funds. So on behalf of the three million people, Governor, I say this to you. We appreciate what you've done, and we're going right ahead with our part of the job. Good luck to you, sir. I now present Governor Dewey. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Commissioner Moses, Mayor Impelitari, Mayor President Cashmore, distinguished guests, the finest band, the finest glee club, and citizens of Brooklyn. Nobody could fail to be thrilled by the wonderful interest of the people of Brooklyn in this one of the greatest city arterial routes ever launched. I am very proud and happy that the state's participation in making these routes possible came about during my administration. I am glad we were able to save the money to make our contribution. I am delighted to hear the progressive, forward-looking words of Borough President Cashmore. And Mayor Impelitari and I will try to scrape up the money so the rest of the job can be done. I am delighted to the guard, by the tire, of the providing the professional lizards, and the and in order to reduce the cost of living, these highways are essential. In order to make possible trips out of the city by the people who want to get away for weekends, these highways are essential. In order to make commuting traffic, which keeps the city growing and great, these highways are essential. They have taken the hard work of many men, of your borough president and his staff, of Commissioner Moses and his staff, of Superintendent Ptolemy and of the state of New York and his staff, and of the federal government which has cooperated. It's been a grand cooperative, one-for-all, all-for-one job. I am delighted to salute it, and I hope it makes a magnificent contribution to life in Brooklyn. Thank you much. Before we have the ribbon cutting, will the band play the Star Spangled Banner? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. be choked to death by traffic. And now we're just waiting for a final word to see if everything is concluded before we take leave of you from Brooklyn. And so this long day devoted to the dedication of traffic arteries starting in the Bronx at 10 o'clock this morning with the Bronx River Parkway and then the highway over there in Brooklyn, the Van Wyke Highway that connects the Jamaica and Idlewild Airport cutting in from the Bell Parkway and finally the Queens Brooklyn Highway Expressway to be exact here at Meeker Avenue. And so with a busy day for your governor, your mayor and your three borough presidents Bronx, Queens and Brooklyn we take leave of you from this magnificent Meeker Avenue extension here of the Brooklyn Queens Express Highway. We thank you from the great borough of Brooklyn and wish you the best of luck and the enjoyment of this wonderful highway, this express highway between two great boroughs, the borough of Queens and Brooklyn. The band of the police department, bandmaster Harold Byrne conducting and the police glee club, Eddie Dillon, Sergeant Eddie Dillon to be more exact and give titles were the musical feature of the program here at Meeker Avenue. That is all from Brooklyn. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Fun Bloomsbury grants office guides we released from the Twin sağいき. Amen. Amen. I전에 they make theственный of the people out of� one indentationFit the Mayer Awości eyes closed by the new fund providing calls Curiosity, newer 20 or cities through vacation and建設 was placed beyond the dawns of midnight for today. We