Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and Merry Christmas from Washington, capital of your nation. On this Christmas Eve, the National Broadcasting Company again brings you the Christmas message of the President of the United States as he officially lights the National Community Christmas Tree. On seven successive Christmas Eves, President Roosevelt has come to the big tree, accompanied by the members of his family, to join in the ceremonies marking the beginning of nationwide observance of the birth of the Christ. The National Symbol of all community Christmas trees has this year been moved to a new location. The setting is the Ellipse, large circular park area immediately south of the White House, separated only by a roadway from the south grounds of the Executive Mansion. It's quite cold in Washington this evening, a dry, clear cold, but not too severe to have kept the Washingtonians away. Several thousand of them have gathered here to join with the President in these ceremonies. The tree itself, a 35-foot cedar, is from the original estate of George Washington, having been taken from a point on the Mount Vernon Memorial Highway near Collingswood and transplanted here. On the Presidential stand is a small mahogany box containing the switch by which the Chief Executive will light the tree. The Honorable Jennings Randolph, Representative from West Virginia, and Chairman of the House District of Columbia Committee, will preside. The invocation will be given by the Right Reverend Monsignor Patrick J. McCormick. The name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, Amen. Merciful Father in heaven, who did so love the world, has to give thy only begotten Son to redeem it, that whosoever believeth in him may not perish, but may have life everlasting, who sent him not into the world to judge the world, but that the world may be saved by him. We beseech thee, that as we gladly commemorate his coming on this holy night, and hear again the angelic tidings of great joy, we may join with the multitude of the heavenly army in praising thee. On earth extending peace to all men of good will. Thou who didst vouchsafe us a Savior, who was a lover of all men, the Prince of Peace, grant that on this day of his birth, we may all be renewed in faith and charity, that our homes may be blessed, that our president may lead us with wisdom and prudence, that our country may be preserved in tranquility, that war may cease abroad, and the blessings of peace be restored to the human family through the merits of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Amen. In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. Amen. Of all honored festivals, Christmas awakens in our consciousness the strongest and the most treasured associations. We think of carol singers, candle-lighted churches, and happy homes. We sense a sacred and solemn feeling that blends with our gladness and elevates the spirit to a state of hallowed and lofty joy. The dominant theme, both human and religious, is peace. The peace of the first Christmas, when heralding angels bestowed their benediction on the earth. To us in America, this perception of peace should be acute this Christmas Eve. In other parts of the world tonight, the angelic salutation of the first Christmas goes unheeded. Its message is scorned. Some men choose to follow the dark stars of their own destiny instead of the luminous star of Bethlehem. Their lust for power has led them from the path of those ancient and wiser rulers, the three kings who sought to pay homage to the prince of peace. The peoples in those nations are restless for peace, but all too sadly, their leaders have failed to realize the true meaning of the nativity. For ourselves, we are deeply conscious of a happier and a nobler realization. The message of Christmas is conveyed to us this year with a clarity that is strikingly significant in contrast with the dull rumble of wars about us. We are at peace, and we intend to preserve that peace as a part of our national substance. with a full comprehension of the preciousness of our possessions, and in the genuine spirit of this joyous season, it is our fervent prayer that the blessing of the peace we cherish so dearly may descend in all its fullness on those less fortunate than ourselves. In that prayer, and in our earnest desire for its fulfillment, we shall give to our fellow men the most magnificent Christmas gift that we can bestow. This Christmas Eve, the power of peace needs regeneration in the hearts of all. Let us in America dedicate ourselves to the preservation of the ideal of the first Christmas, peace on earth to men of goodwill. May the peace of our Christmas overflow the world until the sense of an unbroken joy is experienced by mankind everywhere. I trust that this sense of unity and universal goodwill may enter into all hearts and bring hope and promise for the new year. Mr. President, the nation's greetings. Mr. President, Merry Christmas and a happy new year to you and your loved ones. May you enjoy continued health and strength as the leader of our nation. May you find joy and satisfaction in the things that you do. I offer this greeting to the people of America and the youth of America. Mr. Roosevelt, it is with Mrs. Roosevelt, it is with much pleasure that I present these Christmas greens. They are a symbol of friendliness and goodwill to you from all of the girls' games of this country. We wish you a Merry Christmas. Thank you very much. The lighting of the National Community Christmas Tree in the nation's capital will be by the chief executive of our land, a leader who not only believes in peace, but who works for peace. And I am certain would the American people praise for peace. The President of the United States will light the tree and give his message to the nation. Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the President comes forward now, he prepares to light the switch and as he does so, chimes will ring out an indication to you on the radio that the tree has been lighted. Pull it over. One more photograph and then I press the button. Now we're all ready for the seventh consecutive time. There, ladies and gentlemen, with the buzzer and the chimes, the indication that the National Community Christmas tree is lighted. all right, Mr. the chimes will ring the bell. My neighbors of Washington and my neighbors in homes in every part of the nation, the old year draws to a close. It began with dread of evil things to come and it ends with the horror of another war, adding its toll of anguish to a world already bowed under the burden of suffering laid upon it by man's inhumanity to man. But, thank God for the interlude of Christmas. This night is a night of joy and hope and happiness and especially of promise of better things to come. And so, the happiness of this eve, of the most blessed day of the year, in that happiness I give to all of my countrymen the old, old greeting, Merry Christmas, Happy Christmas. A Christmas right for me is always to re-read that immortal little story by Charles Dickens, A Christmas Carol. Reading between the lines and thinking as I always do of Bob Pratchett's humble home as a counterpart of millions of our American homes, the story takes on a stirring significance for me. Old Scrooge found that Christmas wasn't a humbug. He took unto himself the spirit of neighborliness. But today, neighborless neighborliness no longer can be confined to one's own little neighborhood. Life has become much too complex for that. In our country, neighborliness has gradually spread its boundaries from home to town, to county, to state, and now, at last, to the whole nation. For instance, who a generation ago would have thought that a week from tomorrow, January 1, 1940, tens of thousands of elderly men and women living in every state and every county and every city of the nation will begin to receive checks every month for old age retirement insurance. And not only that, but also insurance benefits for the wife, the widow, the orphaned children, and even dependent parents. Who would have thought a generation ago that people who lost their jobs would, for an appreciable period, receive unemployment insurance and that the needy, the blind, the crippled children are receiving some measure of protection which will reach down to the millions above Cratchits, the Marthas and the tiny Tims of our own little four-room houses in every part of the Union. In these days of strife and sadness in many other lands, let us in this nation and in the other nations which still live at peace forbear to give thanks only for our own good fortune in our own peace. Let us rather pray that we may be given strength to live for others, to live more closely to the words of the Sermon on the Mount, to pray that peoples in the nations which are at war may also read, learn, and inwardly digest those deathless words. May their import reach into the hearts of all men and of all nations. And so I offer them as my Christmas message. Blessed are the poor in spirit for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness sake for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Christmast carols by the Federal Playhouse Chorus Linnell Gilchrist directing. O come all ye faithful Joyful and triumphant O come ye O come ye To Bethlehem Come and behold him For the king of angels O come and us adore him O come and us adore him O come and us adore him Christ the Lord Sing Sing Choirs of angels Sing In exultation Sing All ye Sillings From heaven O come and us adore him O come and us adore him O come and us adore him O come and us adore him O come and us adore him O come and us adore him Christ the Lordäischen O come and look the glory Cramp O come and earth Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. For the narrow angels sing, glory to a newborn king. He's on earth and mercy mild, God and sinners reconciled. Joyful, all ye nations, rise, join the triumph of the sky. With angelic hosts proclaim, Christ is born in Bethlehem. For the narrow angels sing, glory to a newborn king. Christ my eyes have not adored, Christ the everlasting Lord. Late in time behold him song, the spring of the virgin's womb. Filled in flesh, the garden see, filled in corn and deacep. Sweet as man, with man to dwell, Jesus, Lord, Emmanuel. Oh, the narrow angels sing, glory to a newborn king. A cornette solo, Cantonique de Noel, by the principal musician, Winifred Kemp, United States Marine Band. Homer later War ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ ¶¶ Now the president has gotten into his automobile, and in just a moment, he and the other members of his party will leave the Ellipse and return to the White House. The decorations on the tree, this National Community Christmas tree, arranged by the Electric Institute of Washington, are even more beautiful this year than ever, if that's possible. It contains many red and green hand-dipped bulbs, approximately 150 glass stars, each lighted with a colorful bulb. And they're flashing, which gives one the appearance of stars flashing overhead. The full moon has now risen quite high in the sky over the Commerce Department to the east of the Ellipse. And these ceremonies of the lighting of the National Community Christmas tree in the Ellipse, just south of the White House, have come to an end.