Over NBC's coast-to-coast network of independent affiliated stations, the University of Chicago Roundtable. Today, by transcription from the Festival of Contemporary Arts on the campus of the University of Illinois, the Roundtable presents a special discussion on Does the Artist Have a Responsibility to Communicate to the Public? Taking part in today's program are Lester Brydaham, artist and secretary of the Art Institute of Chicago, H. Harvard Arneson, chairman of the Department of Art, University of Minnesota, D. W. Gottschalk, philosopher of the University of Illinois, and Harold Hayden, artist of the University of Chicago. Now to introduce today's Roundtable discussion, we present Mr. Hayden. Well, gentlemen, today we're going to talk about the problem of understanding modern art. There is a problem, I take it, because apparently, many people do not understand much of so-called modern art. It does not seem to have meaning for many, or as we say, it fails to communicate. That is, it fails when a man or woman looks at a picture or a statue and has no idea what it means, or at least isn't sure of understanding it. Is there trouble with a picture or statue? Or is it the fault of the artist? Maybe some responsibility rests with the person looking at the work of art. Of course, when a question of modern art is raised, some people simply say, who cares, and let it go at that. Other people say, I don't know anything about art, but I know what I like, and these modern artists don't give it to me. There are other people who tell us, you shouldn't expect to understand modern art without studying it any more than you expect to understand how the hydrogen bomb works. Some people even say this modern art isn't art at all. But Picasso once answered this charge by saying, I do not read English. An English book is a blank book to me. This does not mean that the English language does not exist. And why should I blame anyone but myself if I cannot understand what I know nothing about? Now a statement like that seems to place the blame upon the public for not understanding modern art, and not on the work of art or the artist who made it. Is this fair? Does contemporary art, what's usually called modern art, does it lack meaning? Apparently it does fail to communicate meaning to many people, and I wonder why. Who is responsible? Is it the artist? Perhaps? For whom does he paint? Does he paint simply for himself, is some claim? Does he actually paint for everyone, whether he knows it or not? Does the public get the kind of art it deserves? Are the people then responsible if the artist fails to communicate to them? Let's begin our discussion today by turning first to this problem of communication between the artist and his public. Arneson, what do you mean when you use the word communicate? Well Hayden, I think that I can answer that first of all in terms of a very old and familiar story told about the artist Matisse. The story is that a lady was looking at a portrait on the wall of Matisse's studio, and objected to it, saying that this portrait did not look like a woman. Whereas Matisse answered that the portrait was not a woman, it was a painting. It seems to me, in this question of communication, that the first thing we have to do is to define some terms. Generally, when we talk about communication, we tend to think of the communication of the subject matter that the artist is using. For instance, what do you mean by subject matter? Well, that's fairly obvious, I think. The artist, normally throughout history, has taken a point of departure from nature. He has started with a landscape or with a religious subject. For instance, if an artist paints the crucifixion, we can speak of the crucifixion of Christ as a subject. However, the painting also contains, if it is a work of art, things beyond the subject matter. These are known to anyone who has ever studied the field. A painting contains an idea, a content, if you will. And it also contains an organization, a form. In practice, you can't separate these things, but we can verbally, just for the purposes of our discussion. Could you say, honestly, then, that art is transforming natural elements, rather than imitating them, transforming them in terms of something in the artist, some need, some feeling or urge or vision that is in him? If that were so, then perhaps we could say that communication is transferring this common element that he embeds in there from the artist to the public. Now, that common element, I think, does not need to be a political or religious element. It might be the purely aesthetic, as this interaction between the subject matter, content, and form that you mentioned. What do you think of that, Brighton? Well, Gotshock, I feel pretty strongly about that point there, because I think we tend, in our age, to have a little too much verbalizing about a work of art. As an artist myself, I feel we've got to get back to the actual object. There tend to be some writers today who want to compete in words with the artist's picture, and paint a word picture based on what they've seen. Well, I think of communication in another sense, or maybe the same sense, that art is a language. It's often been said this way, a universal language. I remember once I was stuck in the mud with a car near a small Mexican village, and I went in to get a tow truck, but I wasn't good enough in the language, and no one could understand it. I had a somewhat imaginative friend, but all he could do was stick his foot in the mud puddle and try pulling it out, or at least pretend it was hard to pull out. And that didn't work at all. And finally, I drew a little picture of an automobile in the mud and a tow truck pulling it out, and that worked. Now, when I paint a picture, I don't stop and ask myself, what am I going to communicate today? That would be a peculiar thing to ask, no doubt. I just go ahead quite certain that if I'm painting, and if I'm sincere, and if I'm in earnest, I'll express some part of myself, and some part of my time, so that sensitive people, wherever they are, will be able to understand some part of what I've said, for as long as that old painting lasts. I'm thinking every brush stroke, every color, every line carries meaning for people who can see. Well, that relates also to Picasso's Guernica, too. Well, now, you mentioned Guernica. I had a peculiar experience in an exhibit at the Art Institute, when a number of the sketches for the Guernica were on display, and I saw a couple of people looking at the head of that screaming horse, if you can see, look at the reproduction of the painting, and they were laughing, and I knew they should have been weeping. Now, something was wrong there. They weren't, something wasn't communicating. I just wondered what it was. Well, I think there's no question that the artist, throughout all of history, has always wanted to communicate. I mean, his primary job, of course, is a job of expression. The expression of some idea which is of importance to him, and which is a reflection of his particular environment, his personality, and all the rest of that. But he does want that idea understood. At the same time, we do have this simple fact, as anyone who goes into an exhibit of contemporary art can tell you, we have the simple fact that paintings today do not seem to provide that immediate impact in the normal terms of which we think the communication that paintings of the Renaissance did. What do you think about that, Gutschel? Perhaps, honest and people today come to these paintings with the wrong expectations. Perhaps they're looking for something that isn't there, and that modern art is really much simpler than people think it is. They're looking for something deep, whereas it is a word of working with these materials into some kind of immediate effect upon them. Gutschel, you think they're afraid of it, maybe, the concept they see before them, something like that? I think, in general, simplicity is very puzzling and very bewildering, particularly when you come to simplicity with the expectation of complexity. And perhaps a good deal of the stunned effect of people from modern art is the fact that it really gives you something simple. But on the other hand, Gutschel, a lot of people look at some of this abstract stuff and they say, well, that's just wallpaper. There's no place where it begins or ends, but go on forever. There's nothing. It's too simple. What's all this about simplicity? Well, the simplicity, perhaps, has its depth of subtlety as well. I think that in the analysis of our modern painting, as you get into particularly the formal type, you find all sorts of subtle relations of line and color there in addition to a kind of overall sense of pattern. Yes, but do they have any meaning? Do they mean anything? Or are they just there to be seen? I wonder what's communicated by those subtle patterns of line and form. Well, I think they have a meaning, yes. I don't know whether we can go into too specific an analysis of specific works of contemporary art. I'd like to say, Hayden, that in general I agree with Gutschel's point of view concerning this question of simplicity and complexity. One thing that I've always felt is that most people who contend that they understand a Renaissance work of art just don't know what they're talking about. To me, Michelangelo Sistine's ceiling is an infinitely more complicated work of art, more difficult to understand than almost any contemporary painting that I know about. Just how do you mean that, Arnison? Well, I mean that it involves a good number of experiences that we don't have anymore. It involves an environment which we have lost. It involves social, political, religious ideas which were common vocabulary at that time, but which have been forgotten. And Arnison also involves local ideas, anecdotes somewhat too, Farron. Well, of course it does. Of course it does. No. I think this notion, Hayden, that modern artists don't want to communicate is not exactly accurate. At least those I know are very eager to explain to an appreciative person all the details of their work, and if a person really grasps what they are saying, he's very gratified, which would seem to mean that he's delighted with it. Gotcha. I disagree there a little bit because there are some of the rather vocal avant-garde painters who, when I asked a group of them one time how they felt about that, they say, we don't care about the public. We're not painting for the public. But, Bridehan, when the public does care about them, what then? Well, that... On the other hand, when those fellows say they don't care, and their paintings aren't supposed to communicate anything, aren't they explaining their paintings? I think a good part of the problem of communication in contemporary art has to be traced to the whole pattern of patronage. I'd like to make the general point that artists always have communicated in terms of symbols that were fairly generally understood, as long as they had some pattern of patronage within an organized society. That is to say, this applies to the artists who worked in Egypt and Greece and Rome and throughout Europe and the Middle Ages and the Renaissance. It's... Ernest, do you mean that the patron dominated somewhat what they did or from that point of view? Well, I mean that the patron's point of view became a part of the work of art in that kind of a society where there was a natural relationship between the artist and the patron. I'd like to say that the creative process, the process of painting a picture, as we all recognize, is largely intuitive, somewhat irrational. The picture grows like a musical composition by trial and error. And into this creation, as we all know, there goes the entire personality and experience and social environment of the artist. Everything he's learned and lived through. Everything he's learned and lived through. And that's true today, just as it was in the Renaissance. Thus, if a class of patrons with defined ideas of likes and dislikes is part of the society that the artist inhabits, this fact will become part of and a condition of the picture. Well, that sounds pretty good, but nevertheless, if he is painting for this public, this group of people who ask him to do it, does he have to know that they're asking for it? Does he have to know what's popular art or what's demanded by a society? This sounds pretty dictatorial if the society is going to tell the artist, one way or another, just what to do. Now, he knows it partially consciously and partially subconsciously. That is to say, it's just part of the total social pattern within which he exists. The fact that certain types of pictures are needed by that society. Would you say, Anderson, that the onus of communication is with the society? Where you have a certain kind of society such as you were speaking of, communication is easy. Where you don't have that as today, communication tends to fail. And that the real onus and burden of the thing is with the society. I would say so, yes, Gautschalk. I think that we can illustrate this historically again. We have to remember that abstract art, let us say, or non-representational art, did not come into existence before a declining patronage. But came into existence after a declining pattern of patronage, which was developing from the time of the French Revolution. Artists had to realize gradually throughout the latter part of the 19th century that there wasn't any particular sale for their pictures. That is, experimental artists particularly. Anderson, they felt they were coming in a new phase of history of art, really, I guess. And with that, onus, his responsibility to communicate, you think, lapsed with... I think so. Yes, I think that when he gradually realized that nobody was going to buy his pictures anyway, that he felt more and more the right to explore aspects of art which were of particular interest to him. Now, I don't say this is the only source for all non-representational art, but I think it's an important element. Now, you think that continues right on until now, then, artist? Oh, I think it's increased to the point that nobody buys any kind of art. But what are you going to do with the artist who thinks he's really making a contribution by not painting what the people want, by not even painting what they're ready to understand, but feels he's right out on the forefront of the inventive world of art, and he's out there sending back reports more or less by remote control from what he sees over the horizon? What about that kind of an artist who feels he's communicating what must be communicated, and feels very intensely that there's a thing he has to do... Well, Hayden, I think in that connection the Van Gogh myth has had a great deal to do with giving artists false hope. They saw it happen with Van Gogh, he wasn't appreciated, and now hundreds of thousands of people come to see his work in 1950. And I think that's given artists a false sense of encouragement, of the possibility that after they die their work will be appreciated like Van Gogh. Well, and that's the case. Our society prefers to appreciate the work of dead artists, so the artists probably will count that into the equation when they're planning their work. They have to be good when they're no longer here. I think again, Hayden, that in this question of communication we have to go back to the matter of what is being communicated. When we talk about communication all too often, we... There's implicit in our thoughts the idea that the artist should communicate in the same way as the Renaissance artist communicated. That is, he should communicate ideas that have been common to Western history from the 15th century down through the 19th. Well, we know that in the Middle Ages there was a common philosophy which could be generally understood, the philosophy of Christianity. In the Renaissance there was a philosophy of man, of individualism that could be generally understood. And, Arsene, a lot of that was taught by pictures, by art. A lot of it was taught by pictures. Yeah, without people who couldn't read it. That's right. I mean, the pictures became part of the whole pattern of transmitting, generally felt ideas. There wasn't need for verbalizing about ideas. No, not very much, actually. And now, Bridehan, you mean we have no common philosophy and that the artist is therefore left of that basis of communication. Just a minute, isn't this a contradiction with the notion that the artist is always in touch with his times, maybe a little ahead of it, he feels it intuitively, now you're saying he's not in touch with his... Well, there is this cultural lag, of course, it's very interesting. A lot of the art that we call modern today was started way back in 1910, 1913, and today it is encouraging that people are accepting new packaging, new advertising, new industrial designs, which have come from long ago, 34 years ago. That's perfectly true. We find with students, I guess everybody who works with students these days in a college or university art program, finds that they'll wear modern art in their clothing, they'll hang it up in drapery around the window, they'll walk on it in linoleum, but somewhere or other there's a break, they just don't want to put a frame around it and call it art. And Hayden's men will wear, very conservative men will wear the loudest ties that you can imagine, but they wouldn't put a frame around it. I'd like to go back, Hayden, to that remark that you made, to that question you asked there just a moment ago, concerning the relationship of the contemporary artist to the ideas of his own age. You questioned that, and I think, or I'd like to say that, I think the contemporary artist, in many ways, is much more in contact with 20th century ideas than most of us. That's probably the trouble. Most of us are still thinking in terms of Darwinian and Newtonian physics. And the artist, however, has learned things about the world in which we live, which he's expressing in the paintings that you can see over in the exhibit here. See, for instance, the number of those paintings which are concerned with what might be called a microscopic view of reality. Ernest, you mean the influence of science? The influence of science on the artist. The influence of science on the artist. The science, new discoveries, that's how the artist is keeping up to date. The artist is in contact with many of those things. No, no. Excuse me. Ernest, I think he not only is communicating, I think he should communicate, that there is a responsibility there, in the sense that the more his work, his studies, understood, the more sense it makes, in, for example, formal terms, and in human terms. So it's not a mere mumbo jumbo. And he should aim, at least, to try for that kind of communication, and that is a communication that his art itself is required. Gottschalk, I get an encouraging suggestion, though, that the society may, everybody, just all of us, may be appreciating, understanding this art much more than we think. Just the fact that we use so much of it in furniture, and interior decoration, and clothing, maybe that's something to be taken into account. It isn't that the artist is talking into the dark, but somehow or other the people are turning around and talking back to what they use and do. Well, I think that the understanding of contemporary art isn't a particularly involved thing. I've seen in hundreds, I think I can say thousands of students now, that once you take them past certain premises, certain assumptions that they have about art, modern art doesn't present any difficulty to it. It comes fast, does it? It comes extremely fast, just as long as they approach it without the preconceptions, without certain ideas, that art is something which it actually isn't. But we aren't talking about students, we're talking about people that don't have the benefits of particular educational set-ups. What about the people? How do they get into this? How do they participate? Well, I think, going back, Hayden, to one point that Gottschalk made a little while ago, concerning responsibility, I think we have to make it very explicit that a very large part of the responsibility, in fact, I'd say the majority of the responsibility for understanding, rests with the spectator. The spectator will make no effort, the artist today, or at any other period in history, would be helpless. Now, what sort of an effort is that? Well, he has to realize that a work of art is a serious thing. A work of art takes time, it takes thought, and the individual who hasn't had contact with the artist's ideas, he can't just go up to it and comprehend it. As we said before, Arneson, that it isn't as many much less simple than the atom bomb in certain cases. They have to study it. It means sometimes the atom bomb's involved. Yes, and I think, Arneson, in our society, the public does tend a little to make the art come to him, and does not realize the responsibility that is involved there. I think that's part of the pattern of declining patronage, actually. Now, who's going to bridge this gap? We apparently recognize a gap, and we keep saying there are signs that it's being bridged one way or another, but who is really responsible for making art carry through, was it? Oh, Hayden, I think the critics, and those who are paid to write about art, have a very great responsibility, and I think always they're not living up to it. They try to make a secret cultivar and things like that. They don't, you don't find baseball writers writing about little, simple details of the game. They write about the game. What do you mean by simple little details? Well, they don't write about how the outfielder's left shoe hurt him and he limped around. They say it was a good game or a bad game. They don't write about the fingernail of somebody. They write about the whole game. They don't pick on how the frames are made. No, that's right. No. I think, Hayden, things like the Festival of Contemporary Art that's right here is one way in which this can be bridged. In other words, they're just presenting the work. Here it is, come and look at it. Is that where the public has to pick it up? No, I don't think so, Hayden. I think that the presentation of the work, let's put it this way, is a tremendously important step, just getting people familiar with the works of art. But museums and all people who exhibit it should go much further in clarifying and attempting to interpret these things that they exhibit, which they recognize are not immediately understandable to the public at large. But you don't mean that they should just explain things. That's not how you get people to participate, is it? By saying, now you sit here and I'll tell you what's what. Don't they have to do something more active than that? Don't they have to get in and participate some way? Well, I think trying to do it themselves, to paint, to mold, is one way in which they can, with these works today's model perhaps, to get the feel of what they are, would be a wonderful education. Well, and God's talking, you might find out it isn't so easy, that they'd have more respect for the artist who did it. Yes, I think so. And try and paint a good abstraction. That's right, Brightaham. In your work at the Art Institute in Chicago, I know you are trying to get more support for contemporary art from the museums. Museums do reach a great many people and have great prestige in the community. If they concentrate too much on old masters, who's to blame if people get the idea that the only good artists are dead artists? The community looks to the art museums for help in understanding living artists. If the museums show the work of living artists, that will be a big step toward bridging the gap. Well, I see we don't have time really to talk about what there is to understand in modern art, and how you go about understanding it. That might be a topic for another round table. We can say, however, before we conclude, that the modern artist usually is not interested in illustrating a story. For him, painting or sculpture is an end in itself. You made that point, Arneson, in your anecdote about Matisse. Matisse was interested in his painting, not in the model or the subject matter. That point of view really calls for a new look at art. When you go up and look at a painting, you don't ask, what's that supposed to be? Instead, you ask yourself, what is this I'm looking at? What does it mean to me? It may be very beautiful and exalting. It may convey a mood felt by the artist, which controlled him while he worked. It may be deeply stirring for reasons we cannot quite fathom. Through art, we delve into the past, peer into the future, and often may find ourselves. Whatever the effect, it is the object, the work of art itself, that is central. Facts, information, history are helpful, but we must never lose sight of the work of art. If the artist has anything to communicate, if people are to understand the artist, the work of art is the means. If then, as we all seem to be saying, both the public and the artist share the responsibility for getting across what artists in the society have to say, it is obvious that the artist and the public ought to get together. If we really want to understand contemporary art, perhaps we should get some of it, and live with it long enough to form an acquaintance with it. Perhaps we might all try to express ourselves through one of the arts. Let's try painting a picture, or making a drawing, or modeling in clay. In that way, we might see just how hard, or how easy it is, to communicate through art. Thank you, gentlemen. Taking part in today's University of Chicago Roundtable on Does the Artist Have a Responsibility to Communicate to the Public, were Lester Brydaheim, artist and secretary of the Art Institute of Chicago, H. Harvard Arneson, chairman of the Department of Art, University of Minnesota, D. W. Gottschalk, professor of philosophy at the University of Illinois, and Harold Hayden, professor of art at the College, University of Chicago. The printed pamphlet of today's Roundtable on Contemporary Art contains the full text of the discussion, and publishes special supplementary materials on modern art in America. Be sure to write to the University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois, to secure your copy of today's pamphlet. Single copies are ten cents in coin. A full year's subscription to the Roundtable pamphlet costs only three dollars. Enclose three dollars with your order, and make your subscription begin with today's program. I'll repeat the address. The University of Chicago Roundtable, Chicago 37, Illinois. Today's program originated from the Festival of Contemporary Arts at the University of Illinois, and came to you in part by transcription. The Roundtable is a public service presentation of NBC, the national broadcasting company. The National Public Service presentation of the National Public Service, and the National Public Service, and the National Public Service. Tonight, hear a tale of two cities on Theatre Guild. It's on NBC. It's on NBC.