We interrupt this program to bring you the special broadcast which follows in just a moment. Our regularly scheduled programs will continue over WNYC FM 93.9 megacycles. Good afternoon. Today is a special service of your city station. We bring you from the Hotel St. George roof, the Industry Day luncheon. This luncheon is under the auspices of the Advisory Board for Vocational and Extension Trade Commissions and the Vocational High School Principals Association. This is the official launching of Industry Day in the Vocational High Schools at which time industry will get to know the Vocational High Schools and the schools will get to know more about industry and its opportunities. Our speakers this afternoon will be the Honorable Andrew G. Clausen, Jr., President of the Board of Education, Dr. Lewis A. Wilson, Commissioner of Education of New York State Department of Education, Dr. William Janssen, Superintendent of Schools of the Board of Education, and the Honorable Vincent R. M. Pelletere, Mayor of the City of New York. And the first voice at our microphone will be John J. Brennan, Chairman of the Advisory Board for Vocational and Extension Education. The first speaker here today is a man who has four times headed the Board of Education as its president. And in that capacity has appointed most of the members of this advisory board, the Honorable Andrew G. Clausen. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Brennan, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, as president of the Board of Education, I deem it a great pleasure to be here today to be here today and to welcome the representatives of industry and labor as represented by the advisory board and by these 52 commissions. It has been my proud privilege as president of the Board of Education in the two terms that I have served as president, and as it has already been mentioned, to have appointed most of the individuals on the advisory board. The record of their accomplishment is part of the record of the Board of Education. The work and devotion that they have given, the time and the money that they have spent on behalf of the students, particularly those in our vocational high schools, is well known to me and to my colleagues. I am sure that the mayor is very happy to join with me and my colleagues in paying this public tribute. Together with the mayor and the superintendent of schools, I am proud to have a part in the launching of industry days in the vocational high schools of the city of New York. I wish to take the opportunity at this time to express the earnest belief that the results of the splendid advice given by these outstanding leaders who are industrialists and distinguished citizens will be reflected in the type of young men and women who will go forth into industry, better workers and better citizens for the contributions that they have made. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Claussen. The next speaker, representing the state of New York, will extend just a word of welcome. The man who was instrumental in the organization of this advisory board 22 years ago, when he was then Assistant Commissioner of Education. The now New York State Commissioner of Education, Dr. Lewis A. Wilson. The chairman, your honor of the mayor, Dr. Jansen, and members of the board and the advisory committees. It gives me a great deal of pleasure to be with you today and to extend our sincere appreciation for the great contribution you've made to the development of vocational education in the state of New York. Many years ago, we realized that no successful program of industrial or technical education could be developed without the cooperation of both employers and employees. The hundreds of committees serving in New York State have been a vital influence in the planning and the development of the comprehensive vocational technical program now in operation, not only in our secondary schools, but in the institutes of applied arts and sciences in New York State. And on behalf of our department, I wish to thank you men and women, experts in your many fields, who have contributed so generously of your time to the development of a better program of training for the boys and girls of New York State. Thank you very much. Thank you, Dr. Wilson. Thank you, Dr. Wilson. The next man that it is my privilege to introduce heads the largest school system in the entire world. A man who has given our board every consideration and cooperation. The leader of the school system of the city of New York, Superintendent of Schools, Dr. William Jansen. Thank you. Mr. Brennan, Mr. Mayor, members of the Board of Education, of the advisory boards, and fellow school people. I'm particularly interested in being here today because I feel somehow that I was in at the birth of the vocational advisory boards. At that time, 22, 22 and a half years ago, I was in the Bureau of Reference and Research at 59th Street, and they were looking for a place to put Mrs. Donnelly. Well, I had a spare desk in my room, so that's where Mrs. Donnelly began her service. And from time to time, we would chat about the work of the advisory boards. And so, from the very start, I became much interested and enthused about the way it was helping us. During this week, we want to inaugurate Industry Days, and we in the schools want to pay tribute to you people in industry for the help you have given us. It's obvious that we have to, in the schools, have to know what's going on in industry because with the rapid technological changes, if we don't know what's going on in your industry, we can't very well prepare our students for work in those fields. And I know, too, that you want to know something about what the schools are doing and how the schools function. And I must pay tribute to some of you who, it must be at the sacrifice of much time in your own business, have given so much time to our schools. I think we're very happy, too, that the mayor is here today because that makes a three-way tie-up, the city and the schools and industry. You know, the more we understand each other, the better we get along. Have you ever stopped to think how much of the world's ills are caused simply because people don't understand one another? And as they understand one another, these ills disappear. Many of the differences among religious groups and the difference among races and other differences of that kind disappear as we come to know what each is trying to do. And there's only one place in the world where they don't want to know or they don't want their people to know what others are doing, and that's in Russia where they put an iron curtain around themselves. I have a feeling they fear that if their people could know what was really going on in the world, that they would kind of like democracy. About ten days ago, I came back from a meeting where the superintendents of schools of the larger cities were gathered together. And I was very happy as we compared notes to be able to say how far advanced we were here in the way of our relations with industries. In one or two cities, they had fine relations with one or two industries. But I think nowhere did a superintendent have, through his staff, the contacts with so many industries in such helpful ways as we have here in New York City. And I think that our city will continue to maintain its leadership as long as the city and the industries and the schools work together. So I'm most happy to be here with you and to greet you. Thank you, Dr. Jansen. It is now my extreme pleasure to present to industry and labor, as here represented by these men and women, who over the past 20 years or more have given outstanding service and devotion to the City of New York, and to the principals of our outstanding vocational schools, Mr. Brennan, Mr. Clausen, Mr. Wilson, Mrs. Donnelly, Mr. Jansen, the other distinguished gentlemen and ladies on the desk, ladies and gentlemen. It is a great source of pleasure for me to participate with you at this very wonderful luncheon, where important people, both from business and labor, join together in doing something worthwhile for the children of our city. I feel that you deserve a very special tribute as outstanding men and women, representing, as I said before, labor and industry, who have worked long and faithfully, without compensation, in order to serve the youth of our city, particularly in the vocational high schools. We all know that vocational training is a public necessity. The need for it was recognized as long ago as 1682, when William Penn, in his frame of government, provided that the governor and council should, quote, erect and order all public schools, and that all children of the age of 12 shall be taught some useful trade or skills to the end, that none may be idle, close quote. Since then, vast industrial and technological developments have taken place. Obviously, these developments have greatly increased the need and accelerated the demand for vocational technical training. This has been, and still is, particularly true in our complex and ever-growing city of New York, where it is essential to provide the most adequate program of vocational education that is possible within the limitations imposed by budgetary restrictions. Sometimes people in education don't like that last addendum. In the development and maintenance of a realistic and effective program, the advice and experience of industry and labor are most valuable. And that is where you, the Advisory Board for Vocational and Extension Education of the City of New York, and your 53 trade commissions, have rendered an indispensable service to our community. While you have made certain that vocational education supplies to our young people the most modern and essential skills, you have wisely recognized that manipulative skills alone are insufficient. Cultural training added to trade skills builds the intelligent, well-rounded worker cognizant of social values. You may justly be proud of the advice and guidance that you have given to our Board of Education. Perhaps the best proof of your effectiveness is the fact that industry now considers the vocational schools as actual labor supply markets. Beyond that, however, you are an example of true democracy in action, where those who know give of their time and experience in order to build a future useful citizen. With appreciation of your unselfish devotion and pride in your achievements, I as mayor of the City of New York am happy indeed to launch Industry Week in the vocational schools of our city. Thank you. You have been listening to a broadcast of the Industry Day's Dinner from the Hotel St. George, brought to you by your city station. This luncheon was under the auspices of the Advisory Board for Vocational and Extension Education and its Educational Trade Commissions and the Vocational High School Principals Association. Our speakers this afternoon were the Honorable Andrew G. Clausen, Jr., President of the Board of Education, Dr. Louis A. Wilson, Commissioner of Education of the New York State Department of Education, Dr. William Jansen, Superintendent of Schools of the Board of Education, and the Honorable Vincent R. M. Pelletere, Mayor of the City of New York. Stay tuned now for a roundup of national, international, and local news preceded by a direct report from the Weather Bureau at the Battery. That report from the Weather Bureau follows immediately over the Municipal Broadcasting System.