The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What do you think about labor, management, and the law? The Taft-Hotley Law, as of today, has demonstrated that it is a failure. I disagree. The failure in labor legislation was the Wagner Act. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses labor, management, and the law. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around labor's demands for fourth-round wage increases, effects of the present Taft-Hotley Law, and management's relation to our price structure. Now, our moderator, Robert Buchanan, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Buchanan. The threatened coal strike, steel management's rejection of recommendations of the President's Fact-Finding Board, and labor's interest in a fourth-round wage boost. All these situations, so vital to our economy, have focused public attention on labor, management, and the law. To discuss the relationship of these three, the Reviewing Stand today welcomes Daniel D. Carmel, attorney for the Chicago and Illinois Federations of Labor, and DeWitt Emery, president of the National Small Businessmen's Association. Mr. Carmel, you seem to place all the blame for labor management disputes on the Taft-Hotley Law. Is that true of the steel dispute, the imminent coal strike, and the rumblings in the automobile industry? Yes, I believe that for the following reasons. It was most curious that when the President of the United States asked the parties to get together to avoid a strike, that the steel companies, the large steel masters, the greatest men in the industry today, insisted that the President follow the Taft-Hotley Law, that there must be a strike, an 80-day injunction, and then a fact-finding body. They were more interested in upholding the Taft-Hotley Act and getting an injunction against the Union than they were in any way of settling the strike. And do you think it's true also of this coal strike that's now threatened? Yes. It's most curious in that respect, too, because John L. Lewis has always said, we won't work unless we have a contract. In this instance, they were negotiating far past the expiration period. And curiously enough, it is the coal operators who now say that the contract expired, we're not paying into the fund because there is no contract, and yet they're living up to every other part of the contract. And the automobile industry? Well, the automobile industry comes in about the same category because of the fact that its relations are usually tied up with the other great industry leaders. Well, Mr. Emery, you seem to feel that the Wagner Act is really the source of our difficulties. How would that apply in the three situations that Mr. Carmel has spoken about? Well, the Wagner Act was our first excursion into labor legislation, and it set up where the Wagner Act was a very definite, one-sided law. Labor could do no wrong under the Wagner Act, and management could do no right. And you take these situations that Mr. Carmel refers to about the president setting up a fact-finding board. I'm just wondering if Mr. Carmel is in favor of fixing legislation by presidential fire. Well, no, and I don't see where the two come in together. The legislation is in the hands of the Constitutant of Authorities, the Congress of the United States, and the legislatures of the various states. But the Taft-Hartley Act has merely said that they shall be a fact-finding body to make a report without recommendations. But there must be an 80-day injunction and a strike before the fact-finding board can come into effect. Well, but you're in favor of the president making his own laws and doing what he wants to do and not enforcing the laws that are on the books. Is that it? Well, if it comes to the question of having a strike with 200,000 or 300,000 people going on strike in order that the law may be obeyed before the president can appoint a fact-finding board, I'm against that law. The president of the United States, having the great interest of the people at heart, wanted to stop any strike. And he asked them to get together and to have a fact-finding body review the thing and see if they can't get together. The end result has proven that the president was correct. Isn't it perfectly true that the objection of the steel companies to the fact-finding board was not necessarily to the board itself, but because the president issued instructions to the board to make recommendations? Well, every board that the president has appointed before the Taft-Hartley Act and after the Taft-Hartley Act, with the exception of those which are appointed because of the law, have had recommendations. Now, of what avail is it to the public to know that the union is asking for a 10-cent-an-hour increase and have no recommendation with respect to it? Well, the point there is that we're supposed to settle these issues by collective bargaining. And if you set up a board that gets public opinion on the side of one participant or the other, you're not having collective bargaining. Well, I don't agree with that because the board comes in after collective bargaining has failed and the parties have noticed that one said to the other, we're not going to do anything, and the other one says, we'll go out on strike. Oh, no, no, no, no. And that's what took place in the steel. They've still got to bargain on the board's recommendations. Your collective bargaining is not over. It's just beginning. They do not have to bargain on the recommendations of the board unless they want to accept it. The stipulation and the president agreed that the board would make its recommendation, like every recommendation of these advisory boards. They are not binding. And when you say that public opinion is favored one way or the other because of the recommendations of the board, you're afraid to have the general public know what three disinterested individuals say are the real issues. Oh, no, no, no. I'm not afraid of that at all. And I think the issues should be laid fairly and squarely before the public. But I do say that the board should have been a fact-finding board, period, and then take up collective bargaining after that. Well, when the board makes... Now, you mentioned John L. Lewis. What would have happened in this country if some big association like the National Association of Manufacturers had said, we're not going to permit manufacturers or employees to work more than three days a week? Oh, they've done that consistently. Oh, that's a lot of hooing. Oh, yes. Whenever the prices were getting too low on products, it was generally known that production was cut down. And today, one of the great advantages of the antitrust law is the fact that that is now one of the violations of the Act when production is kept down for the raising of prices. I'm awful glad you mentioned the Antitrust Act. Don't you think the antitrust law should apply to all combinations in restraint of trade, irrespective as to who may enter into them? Yes, those in business, because the antitrust law was passed solely to prohibit combinations and monopoly in business so that they will not affect the price of the commodity. The antitrust law does not say prevent monopolies or combinations in restraint of business. It says in restraint of trade. Correct. And that applies to labor unions just as much as it does to any combination of business organizations. Oh, that isn't a fact, because the Supreme Court of the United States has held that when Congress passed the Antitrust Act, that labor was never intended to be under it, and that it had kept labor under it. Why, the decisions in Lowy v. Lawler, the Danbury Hatter's case, and others where $400,000 was collected, and the men had to sell their homes in order to pay that under the Antitrust Act, some dozen years later, the Supreme Court said that the earlier Supreme Court was an error in putting them under the Antitrust Act. Yet they didn't get their $400,000 back. Yeah, well, I suppose you're in favor of the Teamsters' decision, too, which legalized highway robbery if it was perpetrated by a labor union. There is no such decision on the books. I represent the Teamsters' union, and I know of no instances where they perpetrate highway robbery. Well, you may call it something else, but as a matter of fact, that's what it is. When you stop a fellow's truck, you put a man on it, or you say, give me $8 or $12 or $16, you've got to hire a union driver before you can drive into New York City. What do you call it? Well, we call that protecting of our industry for this reason, that a farmer or any other person has no business coming in to an area that is organized and the wages, hours, and conditions are set, and then to take business away from fair employers who have to pay the union scale. For him to go ahead and work at $0.10 a ton when the employer can't do it, when the fair employer can't do it under $0.40 a ton is what we're protecting. We're protecting our own jobs. He has a right to come in to the city and go to a single dock and get rid of his load, but when he becomes a trucker within the city, we expect him to live up to the laws within the organization and the territory. You're talking about a farmer who grows his own produce and owns his own truck. He hasn't any right to go into the city and dispose of his merchandise without hiring an AFVL driver. No, that's where you're mistaken. I said he has a perfect right to come in and dispose of his goods at a dock. Well, what right has the union got to say that you can only have one customer? We don't say that. That's exactly what you're saying. We don't say that. We say that after he becomes a common trucker, after getting into the city, then we're going to ask the union men not to unload his goods, and that's all they say, and in order to get his goods unloaded, he then joins the union. Well, I'd like to move back a bit from the steel dispute to the coal strike, which we discussed just a little bit. What do you think the possibilities of the strike are and why are they now threatened, Mr. Carmel? Which one? The coal strike. Coal strike? Because of the fact that the coal industry, the coal operators, are taking the position that there is no contract. Now, if there is no contract, then the men do not have to work under it. Of course, Mr. Lewis cannot call a strike without giving the 30-day notice required under the Taft-Hartley Act. He hasn't done that as yet to the conciliation and labor departments. But the men are no fools. When their benefits are cut off and they know that the employer is not living up to their contract by paying as they are supposed to, they're not going to work unless they get paid because the 20 cents that they pay or whatever it is into the pension fund is just as much their salary as anything else. Well, you said in one breath there that they didn't have a contract, and then you said in the next breath that the men aren't going to work because the owners are not living up to their contract. Now, how can they live up to a contract if they don't have one? Well, you misunderstood me. I said that the owners say that the contract has gone beyond its expiration date. Curiously enough, the union has taken the position that they are working under the contract until such time as they cancel it or it is canceled by the employer. In other words, the union has the sole right of determination as to when the contract expires. Not a bit. Not a bit. Well, that's what you said. No, no. I say that the employer has been living up to all parts of the contract except that he isn't paying the royalty into the fund that is required to under the contract. He can't pick and choose and say that what the men shall work for? The only part of the contract that the employer is living up to is that he's paying the going wage. Isn't that it? Well, the fund is part of the wage because if he didn't pay it into the fund it would have been paid into salaries. Well, if Mr. Lewis doesn't like that why didn't he call his strike? Why didn't he shut the mines down? That's precisely the thing. The employers in the coal industry want a strike and they want John L. Lewis to call it. John L. Lewis is not desirous of calling a strike and he wants to negotiate until such time as it is impossible to do it. The employers are participating in a strike by cutting off one of the main features of the contract. Well, now let's say that it's your opinion that the owners want a strike. Well, anything I say is my opinion and anything you say is only yours. That's right. With which I heartily disagree. What the owners want in the mine situation is a fair and equitable proposition one that they can live under and isn't going to give everything to labor. Should work stop while they are negotiating for that condition? No, not necessarily. Why do you think that Mr. Francis failed to pay the welfare fund if it's part of the agreement and the conditions under which the men are working? Well, I wouldn't have the slightest idea why Mr. Francis didn't pay into the welfare fund. Well, I haven't any except as an onlooker and a man experienced in labor relations just as you and I are. We know that it was done for the purpose of precipitating a strike because no man who wants to keep his business going and satisfied to work under a contract would either cancel a contract or he's dissatisfied and not attempt to break it. Well, I can't imagine any owner wanting his business shut down when he's got a ready market for everything he turns out. That just doesn't make sense. Well, now the third situation that we've discussed seems to be a little different than either the steel dispute or the threatened coal strike and that is the rumblings in the automobile industry for another round of wage increases. Do you think such is possible under our economy now, Mr. Emery? Well, I think the only economically sound basis for increasing wages is an increase in productivity per man hour and whether or not the productivity in the automobile industry is as high as it can be or should be, I don't know. What does labor think about that situation, Mr. Carmel? Well, as far as the American Federation of Labor is concerned, we are for increased productivity. We've always believed that the man should produce a day's work for a day's pay in all good faith. And the fact that in some industries it is not being produced is laid to many other factors that are solely the employer's fault. The human relationship is lacking in a great number of employers. They fail to take into consideration the fact that the employee, the worker, is a human being. Well, what about the consideration of the worker as a human being? Are these pension plans, are special insurance situations a part of labor management relations, Mr. Emery? Yes, I think so. What about the thought that they might be a trend toward socialism, the fact that we're going toward a socialistic economy and granting such things? Well, so long as those plans are set up and maintained by private industry, by the employer and the employee making a contribution, I see nothing socialistic about that. It's when the government does it and forces it down everybody's throat whether they want it or not. That's when you get your socialism to tango. I don't agree with the part that Mr. Emery has said about the contribution of the employee to the fund. Welfare funds and pension funds are assets of the employee as a result of his employment. When the employer's machinery breaks down, he makes an allowance for its replacement. When the man works in the plant and becomes sick and disabled and becomes thrown on the industrial ash heap because he can't work anymore, that is just as much a cost of employment and should be paid for out of the earnings of the employer only. Well, no, no. That's very definitely socialistic and I wouldn't go along with that for three minutes. The only, in the final analysis, the only security that's worth anything is what we provide for ourselves. And part of the plan of providing for himself of many workmen is the contribution that he makes into an insurance or welfare fund. Do you think that workmen's compensation should be contributory by the employee as well as the employer? No. What's the difference? If the man is hurt while working, the employer pays it in full, or whether he wears himself out and becomes disabled from working because of ill health, he's obtained it while working. Well, you're going to carry that on down the line. You might say that the employer should buy his employees better food, better clothing, better housing. He pays wages for the employee to buy that stuff for himself. And the employee should at least help to provide for his old age. Well, these old age is provided for. He pays for it, this one percent to the government. The employer pays his proportion too. But the hazards of industry, injury, old age, due to disabilities of industry, are hazards of industry and should be paid solely by the employer. Well, I don't see how you know. you're trying to set up a risk-free operation of some, of a business. And you can't do that. Life itself is a risk. You may go out of here and get hit by a taxi cab crossing the street. And it's all over like that. Well, that is, that's a hazard of the street. That's a, it might be due to the negligence, but I'd recover from that employer that hit me if it was his fault. Now, it is not the fault of the employer when the man breaks down because of work, but it is because of his employment. So it doesn't make any difference whether I'm hit by an automobile and paid for it or whether I'm broken down in industry and should get paid for it. Well, no, it's because he's alive. It isn't because of the employer. If he wasn't alive, he couldn't break down, could he? Well, he wouldn't, he wouldn't break down had he not worked for the employer under those conditions and circumstances. What we need in this country is a whole lot more rugged individualism than we've got today. The idea of each individual that he's able to take care of himself and his own family without appealing to the state or anyone else. Well, with that view in mind, Mr. Emery, what sort of labor law do you think we should have to cover all the situations we've been talking about? Well, I think the Taft-Hartley law, with one exception, is pretty good as it is, and that exception is that we should have a ban on industry-wide bargaining. Bargaining should be conducted at the plant shop or mine level. Well, would you say that U.S. steel can own plants in every state in the United States and have one labor policy and that the union should bargain with U.S. steel only in Pittsburgh as a one unit and not a general industry pattern? I would say that, as I said before, that bargaining should be conducted on a plant or local area level. Now, your unions contend, and rightly so, I think, that the cost of living has a lot to do with wages. Yet, they insist that wages for the same operation be the same in a small town where labor, where living costs are very much lower than they are in a big city. Well, do you subscribe to the fact that the cost of living is the main consideration in fixing wages? No, I don't, well, personally, I don't think it should be considered at all. I think productivity is your only sound consideration. Well, I'm saying that the unions contend that the cost of living is part, an important part, of wage rates. I didn't say that I believe that. I don't think that that's quite correct. The unions take this position, that they must live and they must, and that there is one standard, that the American standard of living, that they're entitled as employees, and that the employer has no business hiring a man or keeping him in the employer unless he can pay him an American living wage. Now, on that basis, all factors, including the cost of living, are taken into consideration. Do you know that the employer was the man that was insistent upon a nationwide bargaining or an industry-wide bargaining? Because, for instance, in steel, if the wages in Pittsburgh was ten cents higher than in Boston, then the Boston people would outbid the Pittsburgh people because of that differential, and they wanted one wage factor so that competition would be met upon the same basis on wages. What about the application of the Taft-Hartley law in the various disputes that we've talked about? You think it's not working out at all, Mr. Carmel. Why? Well, first of all, I was interested in Mr. Emery's statement that the Wagner Act was causes of work stoppages prior to the passage of the Taft-Hartley Act. All the Wagner Act did was one thing. It said to the employer, you have no right to interfere with a worker joining a union, and that's all it said. And the other thing was that if a union, if the man joined the union without the interference of the employer and a majority of the employees in a plant at an election by secret ballot held by the National Labor Relations Board and a majority proved that they wanted that union, then it was the duty of the employer to bargain with that union in good faith. That's all it was to the Wagner Act. Well, there was not an awful lot more to the Wagner Act besides that. Why, coercion of employees for one thing kicking a guy out of a union because the head of the union didn't like him and taking his job away from him, making it impossible for him to get another job. The goons went out and beat up men because they wouldn't join unions. They smashed windows in their homes. They destroyed property all over the landscape. The Taft-Hartley Act protects the worker, the wage earner himself, not the union man, the union executive, union leader. The Taft-Hartley Act protects the worker and that's why as the Taft-Hartley Act and its operation becomes better known, more and more wage earners all the time are heartily in favor of it. You know, Mr. Emery, I'm very amused at that goon-happy argument that you're making. That's been made repeatedly. And then, as a matter of fact, in the Congress of the United States, the persons that were advocating the Taft-Hartley Act said, we want the Taft-Hartley Act because we want to rid the union of the domination of the union man over, union leader over the union man. He should not be herded into unions against his will. And then you put into the Taft-Hartley Act the fact that there shall be some kind of a hybrid union shop if a majority of the people vote for it. And out of the elections that were held since the passage of the Taft-Hartley Act, some 4 million men voted and only 22,000 of the 4 million voted against the union. And that demonstrates how wrong the basic philosophy of the Taft-Hartley Act was. Oh, no. No, no. No, no. You're leaving out the number of elections that were held. I can't quote the statistics. The number of elections that were held where they voted for no union. Yes, I can give you that. In one period, within the first year of the Taft-Hartley Act, there were 7,280, roughly, elections held, and all but 37 went to the unions. But you're, this is begging the point. No, that's explaining the point. No, no, no. No, no. The point I was making that under the Wagner Act, the union leaders had the authority to herd people into the union. even during the war, even during the war, when we were building our camps for our soldiers. They set up offices and they charged a work fee for everyone that worked on the job. The unions cleaned up billions of dollars. Well, there's another mistake there. The unions didn't have the authority to herd anyone into the union. It was only after he had made an agreement with the employer and the employer agreed that there should be a union shop, that there was, an article put in, the union contract, with the employer and with his consent, that a man must join the union after working a certain number of days. Now, there's nothing on the... That's the Taft-Hartley Act. That's not the Wagner Act. Well, that's the Wagner Act because you can't, they couldn't be, there's no provision in the Wagner Act that the employer had to give us anything. All he had to do was bargain in good faith and every union shop clause in a contract was put in with the consent of the employer. And the second thing, what's wrong about a man joining the union? If you wanted to become a member of the union league club, you couldn't get in there unless you paid the 1,000 or 2,000 initiation fee because you can't take advantage of what the previous members have paid and built up and for you to come in and merely pay the dues. And when we establish union conditions, wages, after a long fight, no man should go into that plant and get the wages without joining the union. There's nothing wrong with a man joining a union so long as he does it as a matter of his own free choice. That's all. The thing that I object to is the coercive part of it. You join or you don't get a job. Now that's as un-American as anything can possibly be. Well, Mr. Emery, you're the head of the National Small Businessmen. Can the employer do business in any state or city in certain industries without receiving a license from the state or city? They're being coerced in that way, aren't they? He can't. He can't do business without paying taxes either. Sure, that's coercion, isn't it? Well, after a fashion, yes, but that's... So that shows you that the argument of coercion is merely a platitude. No, no, no. Oh, no, no, no. It is not a platitude and don't forget this, that never at any time in the history of the country have more than 25% of the workers been organized. Well, two-thirds of all the manufacturing employees have been organized and one-third of all the other business employees have been organized. That's because they're segregated and the goons can get at them. Yeah, just as they voted. Well, the divergence of your views, gentlemen, emphasizes the many facets of the disagreements between management and labor. All of us, I think, as both of you do, look forward to a time when we may bridge the gaps of disagreement and progress toward a solution of such vital problems. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Labor, Management, and the Law. If you're interested in the problems of labor and management, if you wonder what collective bargaining has to do with the prices you pay at your local store, why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for the entire year. Write to The Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, The Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Daniel D. Carmel, attorney for the Chicago and Illinois Federations of Labor, and DeWitt Emery, president of the National Small Businessmen's Association. Now, our moderator, Robert Buchanan, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, The Reviewing Stand begins a series of two searching discussions about the Cold War. We ask, are we losing the Cold War in Europe? The following week, we ask, are we losing the Cold War in Asia? Our guest next week will be Captain Michael Fielding, noted author, lecturer, and commentator who's just returned from Europe, and Kenneth E. Olson, dean of the Medill School of Journalism, who conducted a tour of students through Central Europe this summer, and Franklin D. Scott, professor of history who spent last spring in Scandinavia, both of Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for, Are We Losing the Cold War in Europe? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. The RodriguezevismAK Is
