Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Many of you here tonight know that about a week ago, a little more than a week ago, there was a testimonial here to Harrison Tweed, a former president of the association. And at that time, there was quite a galaxy of actors and actresses who entertained from this platform. And so the men particularly who were here that night will understand when I say that it's a real privilege to be able to speak from the same platform that Miss Denise Darcell entertained from. But may I welcome you to this meeting of the section on labor law of this association. Those of you who attended our first meeting this season may recall a pledge that we made at that time. We stated that we were very fully cognizant of the fact, and we never permitted ourselves the luxury of forgetting it. That when you attend these meetings, you do so at the great expense of denying yourselves very valuable time at work or at recreation or with your families. And hence, we were determined to do everything possible, to arrange meetings that were instructive, that were interesting, that were stimulating, and if possible, that were a combination of all those things. In short, we wanted nobody to leave these meetings feeling that he had to chastise himself or herself for having wasted a very valuable evening. And the response to our meetings so far has been extremely gratifying. As a matter of fact, that response has more than compensated us for any time that was spent in planning these meetings. Now, tonight's meeting, we think, is in the nature of a very special dividend. As you know, it's a discussion of Mr. Walter Gordon Merritt's book with the many names. Destination Unknown, 50 Years in Labor Relations, The Truth About Labor Relations. Take your pick. I understand that Mr. Merritt's publishers like the title The Truth About Labor Relations best. I think Mr. Merritt likes Destination Unknown best. The book is so very controversial, you see, that even the publisher and the author had a controversy about its title. Whatever may be your particular views in regard to labor relations, No one who has read the book will deny that it is an extremely interesting and a very provocative book. No one could read that book without being stimulated to a great deal of thought about the very many important problems facing the nation in the field of labor relations. And I hope that tonight's discussion of the book by our panel will prove that fact beyond any question. Now, without wasting any more of the time of this meeting, may I introduce our very distinguished panel members to you. First, I'd like to introduce the gentleman who is principally responsible for this evening's discussion, the author of the book. He's a gentleman whose name is and probably always will be legendary in the field of labor relations. He's actually participated in more landmark cases in this field than any other living person. The law school casebooks on labor law, which many of us here tonight used as text, consisted very largely of cases in which our author, tonight, was the attorney for management, participated very actively and directly. His story extends all the way from the Danbury Hatters case to the most recent coal negotiations. And incidentally, as I noted tonight, those of you who saw this week's labor relations reporter, who saw the analysis that came out on Monday, noted that there was quite a discussion about the Danbury Hatters case. During the course of his 50 years in labor relations, he's represented many of the largest employers in the nation, including those in the coal, communications, automobile, and realty businesses. So I have very great pleasure in presenting to you first, or introducing to you first, Mr. Waldo Godmer. Thank you. Thank you. He's a member of the Department of Labor. He's a member of the Department of Labor. He's one of Labor's leading and most able spokesmen. I refer to Mr. William J. Isaacson. Mr. Isaacson. Next, I'd like to introduce another very outstanding representative of management in labor relations matters. I've had the pleasure of knowing him for several years. In fact, I've had the privilege of speaking from the same platform with him. He's a member of one of the largest law firms in the country and has been responsible for the firm's labor relations work for a long time. So he brings a very rich experience in labor relations. In addition, he's earned the very great respect and esteem of both labor union lawyers and management lawyers for his very able work. I'd like to introduce to you Mr. Charles S. Hamilton, Jr. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And last but not least, I want to present our moderator. There's hardly another man I could think of who could fill the bill better for tonight's meeting. He's accomplished the very unique feat of having achieved considerable success in the practice of law, as you'll note from his background in a minute. Then embarking on another field, namely the entertainment field, where he's achieved even greater material success. After leaving the Yale Law School, where he served as an officer of the law journal, he served as law secretary to the late chief judge Irving Lehman for the record period of about four years. Then he served in the legal department of the Lend-Lease administration. And then he served with the solicitor general. Then he joined a law firm and became a full-fledged practicing lawyer in a very active law firm. Then, as he puts it, he was seduced by something called television and became the producer of a wide range of shows, from Author Meets the Critics to Howdy Doody and The Gabby Hayes Show. This seduction, incidentally, is rumored to, at least I saw this in a gossip column, to bring him an income of about a quarter of a million dollars a year. If that be seduction, I stand ready. It's a pleasure to present to you Mr. Martin Stone, our moderator for tonight. Thank you. Thank you. Thanks very much, Mr. Levitt. I guess I left the law practice because the only way I could get on the platform of this auditorium was to, was not as a lawyer, but as the presenter of a program. And this program, this evening, is supposed to be a replica of a program that's been on radio and television for almost 11 years called The Author Meets the Critics. Very simply, let me tell you that the idea of this program is simply to present the author of a new book and allow him to state his point of view and then permit two critics, one for the book and one against the book, to exchange their ideas so that after you've heard from all sides, you can make up your own mind whether or not you want to read the particular book that's under discussion. Now, mind you, the purpose of this meeting, I hope, Mr. Merritt, is to sell some books because that's actually our purpose on the program. Of course, too, when we're on radio or when we're on television, we don't know how many people are listening or watching. And the Hooper here tonight, you can count. But that's another advantage because I hope that after the program is over, we can have some response from our audience. And I think we'd like to encourage whatever questions you might like to ask or perhaps after the meeting is over, you might want to talk to Mr. Merritt and ask him some questions in private. I hope, though, that essentially what we're going to have here is a fight because we like a fight. We think that out of a sharp exchange of opinions, you're going to benefit. And I think you'll get not only education, I hope, but entertainment as well because that essentially is the idea of this program. Now, of course, we're in the staid halls of the Bar Association, so our subject is a staid subject. And yet, at the same time, it's a very interesting and lively topic, and it's labor relations in general. Now, as the program works and as we think it best unfolds for you, we begin with our author. And what we do first is ask our author to tell us about his book. We presume, we always presume, that you have not read the book. So, first we begin with Mr. Merritt, and we'll ask him to tell us what his book is all about. Mr. Merritt. Mr. Chairman and ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to announce in advance that I'm going to violate every one of the rules. I begin with, I'm not for a fight. Particularly in labor relations, I'm for agreement. Secondly, I'd like to have you realize that I regard my part as a minor part. I have put my views into a book during the course of two years' effort, during which time I also tried to practice the law, so that you have my views. And assuming that these men who are to uphold and knock down my book have read the book, I don't think it's necessary for me to review it in any comprehensive way. Job, according to the Bible, said, Oh, that mine adversary had written a book. And Samuel Gumpers used to quote that statement with a great deal of glee. Job later said, however, I wish my views had been written in a book. Now, speaking to the younger men in the audience, and I think that includes all of you, I think you will agree with me that it's less dangerous to write a book toward the end of your life than it is toward the beginning. To begin with, you don't have to live with it so long. Above everything else, I would like to have you believe that this book was not written to subserve any cause. You may disagree with my viewpoint. You may say that Merritt suffers from pernicious associations in his early life, and that his philosophy is all wrong, but you do me a great injustice if you feel that this book was written with any idea of truckling to any group or any class, or if you do me the injustice of thinking that it wasn't written with independence of spirit and sincerity of thought. I had no ghostwriter. This is my book. I wrote every bit of it. No one ever saw the manuscript, except two or three of my partners, and my wife, who is here, and Mr. Arthur Meyer, who is here. Outside of that, it wasn't reviewed or passed upon by anybody. Now, why did I write a book? I feel a little bit on the defensive this evening. Why did I write the book? Well, to begin with, I was asked to by the publisher. I was a very weak and accommodating personality. I decided to do it. Maybe egotism entered into it, but it would never have occurred to me to engage in any such feature of exhibitionism if the publisher hadn't asked me to. Secondly, it became obvious to me that I was associated with certain historical events in the development of industrial law in this country, which were of great importance. And believe it or not, I was the only living man who had that experience and who by memory or memorandum had the data that could make this contribution to the literature of the time. So I felt that on the dusty shelves of some old library, this record should be filed and that possibly some students in the future might be ambitious enough to read it. The cases, which I'm going to refer to most briefly, which had a good deal to do with my writing of this book, were the cases that determined the course of labor law in this country. They determined the course of legislation. First, legislation to wipe out the decisions I secured. This sounds egotistical and I hope you won't regard it as such. And secondly, in our later day time, legislation to reaffirm the principles involved in these cases. It would be my fervent desire that I could take time to tell you a little about these, but of course, I can't deal very thoroughly with 500 pages of a book or even one or two of the lawsuits. But let's start with the Danbury Hatters case. It lasted 15 years from the time the case started until the time the Supreme Court decided we could collect the interest on the savings bank accounts that were attached. 15 years elapsed. That settled the question that labor unions were under the antitrust law like everybody else when they undertook to restrain interstate trade. Then came the second case or cases involving the Buckstove and Range Company, which took the form of contempt proceedings against Samuel Gumpers. That took seven years. The company capitulated early, but the courts were jealous of their authority, and they went on to try and punish Mr. Gumpers. Well, Mr. Gumpers escaped by two technicalities. One was that the first proceeding wasn't couched in the right sort of captions so that Mr. Gumpers wasn't properly warned that it was a criminal proceeding. And they sent it back for reconsideration by the trial court. The trial court tried it over again, sent it up to the Supreme Court again, and the Supreme Court said, aha, you're too late. When we sent it back to you, the statute of limitations had run. So Mr. Gumpers escaped. The interesting thing is that in the Hatter's case, the employer won so far as the law is concerned, but it was a case of winning the battle and losing the war because his business was ruined. In the Gumpers case, the employer surrendered by capitulating, but the principles of condemning the secondary boycott is illegal and enjoinable were sustained. So there we brought it down to that period. Now the next great question was the refusal of employees to work on non-union material. Well, it took 17 years to establish that proposition. 1910, we began by an injunction up at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine to prevent the men from going out on strike because Irving and Casson, manufacturers of beautiful carved woodwork, were putting in some of the carved woodwork on the altar in that cathedral. And then we wound it up to the Supreme Court on several different cases and at the end of 17 years, we established the principle that it was an unlawful secondary boycott to refuse to handle non-union material. I cite these so you realize that events which you telescope telescope in a meeting like this were the result of long, prolonged battles requiring courage and sustained power on the part of the client and were not things that just happened overnight. The personal incidents connected with them were incidents of great human interest if we only had time to look into them. Then we, this country, passed the Norris de Guardia Act forbidding the use of injunctions and the Supreme Court held that that meant not only forbidding the use of injunctions but it legalized everyone, every form of economic power on part of labor as long as it didn't result in violence. even though the purpose of the exercise of that economic power was to confront the employer with the doubtful proposition of violating the law or having his business ruined. Well, after the course of a number of years there came upon my desk a case in 1935 which involved the question of the Norris de Guardia Act that was the case of Alan Bradley Company that took 10 years to settle and in that case the Supreme Court clearly came out and said labor unions are exempt from the antitrust laws but employers are still subject to the antitrust laws and if labor unions combine with employers or in other words combine with the sinners who are still subject to the antitrust laws then the labor unions also become subject to the antitrust laws. So the sins of the employer became visited on the unions by virtue of their cooperation with the employers. Now that resulted in one of the greatest tragedies of justice that ever was. It amounted simply to this if a union struck against an employer to compel him to fix prices if the employer fixed prices he'd violate the Sherman antitrust law. If he resisted and went on striking the union went on striking the union had a right to strike against him boycott him or picket him because he wouldn't violate the antitrust laws and fix prices. But if the employer yielded to the union and agreed under some form of collective bargaining agreement that they should fix prices then both the unions and the employers became conspirators under the antitrust law. In other words in these days where we believe in collective bargaining the right to collective bargain was narrower than the right to engage in unlawful coercion of the employer. A perfect absurdity in which the court finally found itself. Now these cases which I've just given to you very briefly and I'm afraid not briefly enough represent the only successful prosecutions of private suits against unions under the antitrust laws which reached the Supreme Court. they are the record. Not because I was connected with those cases and because they really historically to a large extent represent some of the real controversies involved in the Taft-Hartley Act that I felt I had something to say and so that was my second reason for writing the book. Now the third reason as I began to think of it I suppose my ego began to expand and I thought I had something to say on the philosophic side. So I'd like to point out some of the dangers which were involved in the choice of courses which we might take or might not take. It wasn't so much to state conclusions or to dogmatize as it was to give a statement of what the issues were. I didn't want to say that as Shakespeare says there's a small choice in rotten apples and I didn't even want to be cynical enough to say that it was a choice of evils. But I did want to say that whatever course you pursued you were involved in pitfalls uncertainties and surrenders of one value for another value. For instance if you subtract from individualism and hand it over to collectivism you've lost something and you gain something. Your whole feeling on the subject may depend upon what your general attitude is. We have gone so far in labor unionism in having collectivism swallow individualism that so far as the individual worker is concerned while he's gained the protection of the union he has no right left of importance as an individual except his right in the union meeting hall to vote. He can't determine for what he'll work or what wages or what hours or conditions of employment he shall be employed that's determined by the union. His only right to express himself is through the democratic process in the meeting hall. His old fashioned right to decide just how what he shall work for has been taken from him. It's now settled collectively. All that brings home to you the one proposition of course that we must be awfully sure that in giving up the individual right to bargain that your right to express yourself in the union meeting hall isn't so repressed and so frowned upon or interfered with that it doesn't become a full normal right. Now if we concentrate on the fundamental problems presented in my book we'll find ourselves sorely perplexed as to just how we feel about these various problems of security social security and the problems of collectivism. Perhaps some of you don't realize that at the foot of the temple of Apollo 2500 years ago there was written this adage gives surety and trouble is at hand. Well that gives you pause. Unquestionably too much security isn't good for anybody but on the other hand none of us want to take the position I suppose that social security isn't necessary and good up to a certain point point and so it is with your extent to which you will give up individual rights for collective rights. The problems are so difficult that I think we can well say that men of good will are justified in disagreeing. We also recognize that in this country there's been a violent shift of policy throughout the last 50 years. But the interesting thing whom you who may not have paid me the respect of reading my book may not know is that in every instance the last 50 years we've gone just the opposite direction from Great Britain. After the decision of the Taft Veil case in Great Britain when unions were held liable for damages England passed laws in 1906 which lasted to 1926 whereby she freed unions entirely from regulation through the courts or restraint through the courts. You couldn't sue a labor union anymore. It was placed beyond the reach of legal process. Now during that very period when England espoused the cause of non-regulation this country was regulating unions violently and extremely through court decisions and injunctions. In 1926 England faced the bout. She had a general strike and she was so frightened by the general strike that she passed the regulation acts of 1926 and those existed from 1926 to 1946. What did we do in that period? We did just the opposite. We passed the Wagner Act which forced employers to deal with unions and we freed unions from all regulation or responsibility to a large extent on the part of the courts by the Norse de Gradi Act. So again we went in exactly the opposite direction. In 1946 we both faced the bout once more. England turned her back on regulation and decided that the union shouldn't be regulated or controlled or restricted in the sense of which I use those words. In the same year 1946 this country was saved from regulation only by the veto of President Truman. And in 1947 when the new Congress assembled we finally arrived at the Taft-Hartley Act. So again these two countries went just the opposite. How are people going to know what is right and what is wrong? We can't agree in our own country, we can't agree in Great Britain and Great Britain in our country can't agree. We have resorted to the extreme policies on one time of no regulation and the extreme policy on the other hand of regulation. But throughout this whole period, in this country at least, in time of peace, we have recognized and affirmed and enforced the right of the working man to organize, be represented in collective bargaining by people of his own choosing, and the right to engage in strikes as a last resort in all private employment. there's where we stand for the moment. The pendulum's gone to the left, the pendulum's gone to the right, the pendulum is now settled at some basis whereby we at least recognize regulation. all I hope is that we have finally have had enough of the extreme swingings of the pendulum one way or the other, and will allow the area of debate to be not as to whether there should be regulation or no regulation, but as to what is reasonable regulation of labor unions. The selection of a title for this book, which has been referred to by stating more titles than the book bears, was an intriguing process. The first title, which impressed me most, was Labor Pains. Well, that seemed like a perfect hit. It meant the birth of something full of promise, vigor, health, and improvement for a democracy. So why not call it Labor Pains? Well, we disguided the title as, for fear, it would be misunderstood, a little too flippant. We didn't want to mislead an expected mother, and I didn't want to pose as an expert obstetrician. Billy Phelps of Yale used to tell the story of how he went into a Sunday school library, to pick out a book for his delectation, and he picked up one that suited his fancy, Putnam and the Wolf. He said he opened the book and started reading, and the first sentence was, as Putnam descended into the den to deal with the wolf, so should we wrestle with the demon of intemperance. And that was the last they heard of Putnam and the Wolf. well, I felt that we owed some thought to the, not misleading, the honorary readers, so we abandoned the idea of labor pains. The final choice of Destination Unknown, which is the title I preferred, grew out of the preparation of the book itself. As my mind scanned the trends of fifty years, as I read ancient history including Arnold Toynbee, as I viewed our ready disregard of principles and our ready disregard of social durables for a momentary advantage, and our willingness to sacrifice tomorrow for the peace and comfort of the moment, I came to wonder if there was not in the picture something of the Greek idea of foreordained fate, stronger and deeper than the controls of man. So I ended with the title Destination Unknown. But I also ended with the conviction that if we are to work out of our state of industrial conflict and avoid a foreordained doom, it will be through labor unions and collective bargaining. It is upon the potential practicabilities and the obvious flexibility responsibility of this potentially constructive force that we must pin our hopes. But this thought carries with it a frightening responsibility for unions as well as employers. These civic institutions called labor unions, which may rescue us from the rigors and inevitable inequities of a free economy, have it also within their reach and capacity to undermine democracy and free economy until our industrial structure caves in like the streets of a mining town in Pennsylvania. The ability of unions to sail between Scylla and Charybdis may well determine the course of human progress. Upon the shoulders of their leaders, great and small, broad-minded, narrow-minded, selfish and unselfish men, rest as great an obligation as ever rested upon the shoulders of leaders of any group of civic institutions, not accepting prophets, priests, rabbis, and ministers. In the interest of future civilization and the preservation of democracy, we ask of these civic organizations and their leaders that they renounce, and within the limits of their opportunity, repress all resistance to the will of democracy and educate their membership even when exasperated to submit to the democratic will. law. This means an abandonment of violence in time of strife, abandonment of strikes for unlawful objectives or over issues which the labor board has authority to determine, abandonment of political strikes and strikes of threats of strikes against decisions of wage stabilization boards or other government agencies acting within their authority. What the people define by law or commit to government to decide should never be challenged or defied except through some peaceful process sanctioned by the Constitution. If these powerful institutions publicly and affirmatively espouse this idea, they will enormously strengthen in popular favor and the hopes of all mankind for a bright future for democracy will be enormously increased. Tonight, I am the target fixed by my egregious offense, my fait accompli. You speakers on my side here have a more interesting role, but you must shoot straight if you want to make a hit. Perhaps, after this evening, I'll feel like the boy who wired back to his mother after his first night on the sleeping train, carrying out a promise exacted by his mother, who was anxious about it, had uncomfortable night, gave birth to an old lady. I have so long been a target that I am rather numb to the dangers. Again, I may be like the darky in the Danbury fair as it used to be, with his head stuck through the canvas and the barker shouting outside, three balls for five, hit him in the head and you get a fine cigar. Gentlemen, the platform is yours. I know your brilliant talents. I can only quote Omar Khayyam and say, gently, brother, gently, please. I don't want to appear to be a sadist, but it's now my role to provoke a controversy. And I'd like to say immediately that Mr. Levitt, who made the arrangements this evening, made a great mistake. And I'm afraid that he needs some training in show business. He arranged for a dinner before the meeting this evening, and this is always a very unwise idea when you proceed with a program such as this, because you'd be surprised how friendly people become at a dinner. As a matter of fact, Mr. Isaacson, who is our next speaker, was very much embarrassed after the dinner because he grew to like Mr. Merritt, and you can see that's a very unhealthy state for any critic. But actually, this is a very controversial book, and I think that Mr. Merritt has prepared himself for anything that may happen, and I hope it will. And with that, I present Mr. Isaacson. Thank you. Thank you. In reference to Mr. Stone's last remarks, about an hour has passed since dinner, and that's helped considerably. When I heard the first introduction of the first moderator, I'm going to distinguish between the two moderators tonight as first moderator, Mr. Levitt, second moderator, Mr. Stump. The first moderator began, I think, by saying that as we feared, Mr. Goldberg won't be here tonight. I now appreciate how the understudy feels when she hears that groan go up from the audience when the management announces that Gloria Swanson, because of a bad cold, won't appear tonight. My sympathies never rested with her before, but now they do, I assure you. I took over this assignment because I was served by the person who was to speak here tonight, Art Goldberg, in order to show cause on Monday, returnable tonight. I took over the assignment and took a little hiking to finish the 500 pages of the book. You see, I'm unlike Groucho Marx, who was once asked to review a book, and he did. He wrote this review. He said, from the moment I picked this book up until I laid it down, I was fascinated. Someday I'll have to read it. I've read the book already. And I agree with Mr. Levitt that it is a very interesting, he said provocative, to me it was a very interesting and provoking book. And as to the three titles, I'm glad that it had three titles because of one thing I found a common ground. I could agree on something. I agree that this book is truthfully entitled 50 years in the labor relations field. That it is. Beyond that, though, I will not go. And the title which Mr. Merritt prefers, Destination Unknown, so far as Mr. Merritt is concerned, and if he were to have his way, I feel that the destination would be rather clearly known in a very short time. Now, I'm at a further disadvantage. This goes beyond the fact that I've taken this assignment over on very short notice. I'm at a real disadvantage tonight because I have to really combat two adversaries. The author of the book and the speaker of tonight's performance. The speaker of tonight's performance, his speech, I tell you, just doesn't bear any relationship to the book other than the fact that he did go over the names of certain of the chapters and refer to some of the cases. Some of the labor people in the audience, some of the labor lawyers who feel that they violently disagree with the speech, all I can say to them is, don't read the book then, because the book, I assure you, has gone far beyond anything that was said in tonight's speech with reference to the role of collective bargaining and the role of trade unions. And I wanted to say that I'm thankful to Mr. Stone that he did tell me to forsake this professional courtesy which we lawyers extend to one another and to take on the savagery of the critic, of the reviewer. And I intend, so far as I am able, on the basis of what I have read, to take on the role of the critic. And I'm going to forego the amenities and the apologias here. I disagree with just about everything that is in this book. With the isolated sentences here and there, I could call them out and put them on about one to two pages. I disagree with just about everything that's in this book. I disagree with the author insofar as he, his views expressed in the book represent his thinking on the Taft- Hartley Act, so far as they represent his thinking on the Wagner Act, so far as they represent his thinking on injunctions, so far as they represent his thinking with reference to the role of labor unions in America and how the labor unions have performed that role, so far as they represent his thinking with reference to labor's use of violence, which from reading this book I would think that it was an everyday occurrence for a union leader to be either an arsonist or a bomb thrower. In other words, I disagree with just everything that's contained in this book. And I began to wonder, as I finally finished the book, I began to wonder, what is this? Why is there disagreement on everything? There must be some basic reason, some underlying reason which goes beyond mere disagreement with reference to a particular statute. Why am I so violently in disagreement with the author? And I've come to the conclusion that my disagreement with the author is really a basic and a fundamental one that we just don't see eye to eye on democracy, that our concepts of democracy are so vitally and totally different that we just cannot agree on any piece of labor legislation or any piece of social legislation in America. America. Now, Mr. Merritt, it's difficult for me to say it after we have had the enjoyable time that we've had tonight. It's difficult for me to say it after he's made the kind of a speech that he's made tonight in which he refers to democracy in rather glowing terms on several occasions. But nevertheless, it seems to me that throughout this book is represented a grave distrust of the democratic process, a grave distrust as to the capacity of the people of America to make a wise choice with reference to leaders, with reference to the programs which they are going to accept. That is rampant throughout this book. Now, I've called a few of the references because that kind of a statement may smack of what Mr. Merritt refers to as labor union demagoguery. If these statements don't bear me out, then I stand convicted as the demagogue. But let me just read you some of these statements with reference to democracy, and you make up your own minds as to what the author has in mind. Now, on page 373 of the book, some of you may get the book, but probably want these page references. This is in the midst of the last chapter where the author weaves all of the threads of the preceding chapters and pages into one chord, which represents his personal credo. This is the, this is it. This is what I believe. And here at page 373, let me just read you what the author has to say about democracy at that point. The future menace to our industrial democracy is more likely to come from uncontrollable resistance on the part of labor and from the inherent weaknesses of the democratic idea. Concerning the difficulty of imposing law enforcement and labor movements, I need not expatiate. It is too obvious. On other weaknesses of democracy, volumes have been written. Its tendency to seek economic equality, its drift toward the Marxian ideal, quote, from each according to his ability and to each according to his needs, and its jealousy of talent and leadership all run counter to the free enterprise system and the human incentives upon which it relies. Every form of government carries the possible seeds of its own dissolution, and democracy is no exception. Its fundamental weakness is too much democracy and its drive against economic leadership. It is another paradox noted by Mr. Macaulay, of not so sainted memory, that great historian, that democracy, I interpolated there, the author does not refer to him that way, that democracy, I now quote again, which began by liberating the common man, my end by enslaving him. That's quotation number one that I've selected. Now again at page 404. Discussing now the selection of leaders in a democratic society. Probably no system for the selection of leaders is more dependable and reliable than that which operates in big business. The search for talent is always spurred by the necessities of competition and is ever on the alert. The old adage that there's always room on top still holds. In a democratic world where the leveling process is ever a threat to the common welfare, emphasis on the economic laws that select industrial captains and the contributions that these captains make to the good of everybody is not misplaced. Now again, reading from the book. If democracy is to be regarded as a step forward in the cycle of civilization as some people believe and not as a final step toward the destruction of civilization as others believe, broad education must be carried on to offset the evil tendency to be distrustful of leadership or over jealous of superiority and inequality. Then a quotation from a book by Alfred Zimmern, Nationality and Government, in which he quotes as follows. This is the author quoting Mr. Zimmer. It is one of the ironies of the modern age that democracy has become the dominant political creed at a time when the problems of society and government are more difficult and complex, less easy of understanding by the plain man than ever before in history. The necessity of recognizing leadership, superiority and executive ability, this is the author now talking, the author of the current volume, is greater than ever before. Now we've already heard the author's views as to the best methods of selecting leadership in a society as complex as our society is. The author goes on, no institution I repeat is in a strategic position to guard democracy against its besetting sin of devaluing leadership and special talents as the union movement. Now, the author also, I won't bother going into other quotations, I think that I have given considerable support to the statement, but certainly I don't see eye to eye with this, with the author on democracy. And I think that throughout these quotations and throughout the book, as a matter of fact, has represented a grave distrust for the democratic process and a grave distrust for the people to make up their minds as to what is best for them. Somehow or other, it seems to me there's a feeling on the part of the author, a belief on the part of the author, that these omniscient leaders of industry who are selected in this competitive cauldron, that they are best able to determine what is best, not only for their businesses, but what is best for the American economy and for the entire American society. We've had some experience with these people in the past, these great leaders of American industry. I would trust to them the running of their companies. Beyond that, I would not go. And I think that the great mass of the American people would be inclined to agree with this speaker on that rather than with the author. But one more observation on democracy insofar as the author is concerned. In discussing the Supreme Court, he has these few observations to make. And I think it's very indicative how he feels about the democratic process. He entitles the chapter in the Supreme Court Somersaults in High Places. And as you would assume from that chapter, he's referring to the period of the 30s, when the Supreme Court did, in a series of reversals, reverse a long chain of decisions which had been holding back the social program and social progress of America. Now, this is known as Somersaults in High Places. And I'd just like to pick up one quotation here to give you an idea of how he feels the Supreme Court should operate in a democratic scheme of things, his idea of a democratic scheme of things. The indispensability of the independent judiciary to the permanent stability of democracy presents a question upon which our forefathers and present-day progressives may differ. Certain it is that those who established this government honestly believe that the danger of democracy was too much democracy. And equally certain is it that the present standing of the courts has opened the gates to a more direct democracy. Now, throughout this chapter on the Supreme Court is a diatribe against what he calls the judicial decision. We've heard diatribes against the judicial decision in the past, too. And the author refers to Mr. Gomper's statement on the judicial decision. But let me say this. That the author apparently feels that the court was absolutely right in doing what it did to the Clayton Act and gutting that statute so it was completely unrecognizable to the legislators who had passed it. That is the kind of judicial decision, apparently, judicial legislation that is all right. But when the judiciary goes along with a social program and finds that because of the dynamics of the modern day economics, that that social program must be found constitutional, that now the framework of government is such that the federal government can encompass these wide areas which formerly were denied them, that is the kind of judicial legislation that he abhors. In other words, if the Supreme Court is holding back progress, if they're gutting what the legislators have done, well and good. But if they are upholding the legislators in promoting social progress very bad, then they are doing something which our founding fathers didn't envisage for the Supreme Court. This I refuse to believe. I understand the checks and balances system. I understand the system of tripartite controls. I don't believe that the social fathers envisaged, however, a Supreme Court which stood at dead center and said that all forms of progress we will find are barred to the federal government or to any of the state governments for that matter. Now, once I think I've established that the author and I just don't see eye to eye, if I may indulge in that understatement with reference to the democracy, the concepts of democracy, our American traditions, then I think everything else falls into place. All of the other areas of disagreement, the fact then that we don't see eye to eye on Taft-Hartley, that we don't see eye to eye on the Wagner Act, that we don't see eye to eye on collective bargaining, that we don't see eye to eye on the right for strikes to remain unimpeded, all of these things then are clearly understood in the perspective which the author has made here, and that is this distrust, this cynicism of the democratic process. Now, I'd like to just go on there and make a point with reference to the fact that the author did repeat tonight what he has stated in his book, or at least he's indicated, and that is this, that we, the labor movement, have it within our power to make this democratic society operate well. Now, I agree with that statement. I don't agree, though, with what underlies the author's thinking in making that statement. He feels that if we behave ourselves and we no longer attack employers where we deem employers need to be attacked, and we act as if the free enterprise system and all of the exponents of the free enterprise system, all of those who are heading up the large corporations which operate under the free enterprise system are fine, noble gentlemen, that then we will be doing a great service for democracy. But since we are attacking these, the capitalists, then we are doing a great disservice for democracy. We are doing a great disservice to the free enterprise system. Since by undermining a few of the capitalists, as some of our labor leaders do from time to time because they think they merit it, then we are underlying, or undermining rather, the whole concept of capitalism and free enterprise. Now, let me just say this, with reference to this whole theory that labor unions have it within themselves to keep a democracy and a free enterprise system going, and they have it within themselves to bring down this entire system to rack and ruin, that we stand at the pillars, and by pressing this way, we can destroy the entire structure. The entire history, the entire recent history of the Western democracies, particularly the history of Germany and of Italy, show that it was not the labor unions that destroyed the democracies and the free enterprise systems. It was the uncontrolled capitalists who had complete control there to do good or evil, that it was their doing that brought down their structures there. It was the Germans sunk to the degradations of Nazism, not because of what the labor unions did or did not do. They sunk to the degradation of Nazism because there we had an economy which was rotten at the core, and as a result, the people did sink to Nazism, to a fascism, as they did do there. The labor unions were wholly out of the picture. They were wholly out of the picture in Italy. And I will say this, that to those who believe that the English are now going down the long road to socialism, they have embraced certain aspects of socialism, thereto, what brings the English people to socialism has nothing to do with the labor movement, that the labor movement has finally seen fit to embrace the cause of socialism, although for a long period of time they too were rugged individualists in Britain. The fact that the labor movement has seen fit to embrace socialism is because the core of capitalism in England is sick. For whatever reasons, it is sick. And this sick economy is bringing on nationalization of one industry after another. And the fact that when the Tories take over, there is no denationalization program demonstrates that this is a sick economy that we're talking about in England, which has very little to do with labor unions. And the labor unions cannot control this inevitable that is happening in England, nor could the labor unions control what was happening in Germany, nor could they control what was happening in Italy. Nor will they ever be able to control, in the last analysis, what will happen in America. We can alleviate certain things. We cannot control. If capitalism is to be successful in America, it will take more than anything which we labor unions can do. It will take a combined effort on the part of government labor and the employer and the employer to do the trick. We labor unions are only part and parcel of that system in which we all believe this democracy and this free enterprise system. If, if it should fail, it will not rest, as Mr. Merritt would have you believe on reading the book, these ominous warnings of doom, these ominous warnings of doom don't have no effect on me. We in the labor movement will not have brought about this collapse that Mr. Merritt tries to pin on us in advance of what he appears to think is a inevitable fact. Since we are encroaching more and more on what he calls the prerogatives of management, more and more weakening management's incentives to progress and proceed. Now, in contrast, in contrast to Mr. Merritt's ideas, I think it's time that I gave you some idea of what I believe to be my credo. I can't very well give it to you at the length that Mr. Merritt did in his book, nor would I attempt to give it to you even at the length which he did tonight in his talk. Again, I'm at a disadvantage. I'm on the attack here tonight, and I don't have enough chance really to tell you what I believe, but I too have a credo. I have a deep and abiding faith. I try to indicate that in the democratic system, politically and on the industrial scene. I believe in transplanting, in bringing all of these things which we cherish so much in the political sphere, the freedom of speech, press, and assembly. I believe in bringing that all into our industrial society. To me, there is no such thing as too much democracy, whether it be in the political sphere or whether it be in the democratic society, whether it be in the industrial society. I want to transplant that democracy which we have developed here in America and make it part and parcel of our industrial society. I think we've gone a long way forward in the last 20 years in doing just that. In the organization of the mass industries, we have gone a long way to toppling over the autocratic or oligarchy rule, which did previously exist, where the employer made every decision with reference to a man's job, his livelihood, and his family. Where the employer made every one of these decisions, that no longer is the case. We now are co-partners in that enterprise with reference to the man and his relationship to his job, with reference to the worker and his relationship to the job. We are co-partners. And when I say we, I don't mean trade union leaders. And I don't mean trade union leaders and their administrative staffs, national offices, general offices, or however you want to refer to them. I say that the people now are co-partners with the management. True, they have selected representatives. But what Mr. Merritt holds in be so cheap, this right to go to a union meeting and vote, I hold to be very dear, just as I hold my right to go to a ballot box and vote for my representative. I'm not in Washington making laws in person, but I feel that I have something to say about it. I have a right to criticize the kind of laws that are being made, and I have a right periodically to vote them out. This is all I think that the union man asks for, that he has an opportunity to vote out to rascals, if they turn out to be rascals, that he has an opportunity to put himself up as a candidate and try to persuade his fellow workers to vote for him too. If he has the capacity and the persuasive power to do that, he too will become a leader in the plan and move on up the echelon of the union organization. This is democracy on the industrial side. This is the kind of democracy in which I believe, in which I hope will flourish for many years to come. I have no fears that this democracy will undermine the incentives of our capitalist enterprise. So far, we've been operating now, we've been flourishing in the years since 1930. And year by year, the capitalist enterprise enterprises in our country are doing better and better. We're now getting in astronomical figures insofar as national income is concerned, and that is shown on the part of all the companies that they have gotten a good large slice of what's been happening here. The worker has benefited. He's benefited tremendously. But the pie has gotten bigger and bigger and bigger. The employer is getting a bigger and bigger chunk of that pie too. The author does indicate at one point that the development of the mass industries made it imperative that there be some counterbalance. But that's tucked away in there, and he indicates there should have been a counterbalance. He seems to indicate that the counterbalance should have been a trade union, just as it is. But then somehow or other, everything which that trade union has done in performing its function of counterbalance, everything that it has done, all has been evil. It has destroyed the freedoms of the individual worker. Now, let me speak a little about that, this destruction of the freedoms of the individual. Individual liberties. After all, we all talk in terms of the dignity of the individual. This is a cardinal belief on the part of the industrialists, to hear them speak, on the part of the labor union leaders, on the part of everyone in America. We have a firm belief in the dignity of the individual. That's one of the hallmarks of our democracy. It's one of the things which distinguishes us from the totalitarian governments of Europe. Now, what is this dignity of the individual to which they make reference? This dignity, this right to refuse a job which a worker previously had before the unions came into the picture. I'm terribly sorry. This afternoon I was looking for it, but by that time I was out of the office. I wanted to get Mr. Dooley's comment on this right of the individual to work. He put it in this wonderful Irish brogue. I wouldn't even attempt to read it, but I'll try and paraphrase it if I can. I don't have it with me, but I'll attempt to paraphrase it. He talks about this right to work, this wonderful priceless heritage of the American worker, the right to work, or to refuse to work, or to scab on his fellow workmen, or to work for starvation wages, or even the right of the American worker to starve. Now, these are some of the wonderful freedoms which we have now denied the American worker. He no longer, if we unions are strong, he no longer has this inalienable right to work at a starvation wage. He can't undercut. He can't undercut his fellow workmen. Now, this is one of the great inalienable rights which we have forever withdrawn from him, the right to undercut his fellow workmen on the job. We've instilled in him a sense of group loyalty. Now, this question of semantics plays a part here. Mr. Merritt refers to it as collectivism. Now, I don't know whether collectivism is a good or a bad word as far as denotation is concerned, but the connotation now is collectivism. You begin to associate it with some foreign ideology, and this is done throughout the book, this linking of unionism and socialism and communism. Now, there's a link there all through the book to these isms of that kind. He refers to this group loyalty, this urge of fellow workers to work together for a common ideal. That is referred to as collectivism. Well, I prefer another word. I prefer group loyalty. And I think that we understand it, and I think that it does mean the same thing, but it just has a little different meaning in the present milieu. Now, I'd like just to speak briefly on one thing. I'd like to speak briefly on one thing with reference to the author's presentation of his material. The author in his book, as well as tonight, pulls himself out as one who is a great champion of our cause and the cause of collective bargaining. Now, I want to say to you that, I think I've indicated already, that he is no champion of our cause. This is a rather clever device, if I may say so, of the advocate. Now, he's no longer the author. He's really the clever lawyer who's putting his point and putting it well. He comes in behind you as your friend, you see. And before I come to a few of the passages, let me first give you a review. I know this is doing it in an illogical fashion, but let me just give you a review of the authors championing the cause of labor and collective bargaining. In a recent review in a law review of the book, I read, Though outwardly professing and abiding faith in labor unions, the characteristics he attributes to them are so antisocial and so contrary to our conceptions of democracy in the free enterprise system that one can only wonder on what grounds merit sustains his faith. His presentation of the labor movement in America will not make many converts to his faith in labor unions. Well, I think that's a rather mild criticism. Let me just read you the very next to the very last paragraph of the book in which, as I said before, the author is summing up his personal credo. Now, here is the defense of labor unions. This demonstrates the abiding faith in this collective bargaining concept. Quote, Despite some tyranny and crime committed in the name of labor, despite antisocial interference with efficiency and production, despite some defiance of government and some revolutionary tendencies, despite privations inflicted upon an innocent society, and despite aims and philosophies that conflict with individual liberty, I still place my faith in labor organizations. Prater idio. This is really the love which passeth all understanding. I say that if Mr. Merritt can love labor unions, as he claims to do, saying all of these things, his love transcends mine, I assure you. I would have no love for an organization that committed all of these sins and crimes. I think that if these be our friends, God help us, and may I never see our real enemies. Well, that, I think, completes the function of review, that is the immediate function, preliminary function of review. I hope I have a few questions I can put to the author a little later on. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. First, I think I ought to retract my remarks about Mr. Levitt's lack of showmanship, because I think he's cast his panel here very well, and obviously Mr. Isaacson has fulfilled his role. Now what we're going to do is present another side, and this is the defense for the author, and then when that is finished, we hope to have a full discussion ad lib among the various participants. And you see, my role is a moderator, and I hope to moderate, and I hope that the fists will fly, because sometimes that happens on this program. We've, on some occasion, had authors who couldn't stand the treatment, but we are in the Bar Association building, and I hope we'll be respectable. In any event, I want to say that I now present the defense critic, and I hope he will defend the book. This, too, is sometimes uncertain on these programs. I remember very well, oh, this goes back about ten years, we've now reviewed in the course of these programs, oh, I'd say about 750 to 1,000 books, with all kinds of people, from Eleanor Roosevelt to Bob Hope, and I think that runs the gamut. About ten years ago, we had a book called Kabloona, which is a book about the Eskimo country. It was a book of the month club choice, and I can't remember the name of the author right now, but he was a Frenchman, and had come over to the country for this book and came on the program, and I asked Sir Hubert Wilkins, who seemed to me a suitable man, to review the book, if he would come on the program, and he said he would, said he liked the book very much, and then when he was called upon to speak, he pulled out a brief, or I should say an indictment, and started to tear apart the author. This was after the attacking critic had already made several dents in the author, and the poor Frenchman walked out of the studio in the middle of the program. Therefore, I put the burden on Mr. Charles Hamilton to keep Mr. Merritt in this room. Mr. Chairman, there are five or six pages, I think, of Mr. Isaacson's speech. I think I'd better turn them over at this point. I don't want to confuse my own remarks with his. Oh, some more of him's speech. May I say to you, first of all, that I don't recommend being the last speaker on any program, because the chairman of the moderator politely leans over to you and said, now will you please behave yourself and limit yourself to not more than ten minutes. So at the risk of being, shall we say, relevant to the issue, let's get on to a discussion of the book. You have not heard much about the book in the last half hour. I suppose your approach to this thing pretty much depends on your initial point of view, your visceral reaction to the whole subject matter. Mr. Isaacson, of course, represents a highly respected union that behaves itself, that does a good, creditable job, the amalgamated clothing workers. But his initial reaction is necessarily, and as manifested here in his remarks, opposed instinctively to any presentation or ordered discussion of the relative rights of two parties to a controversy. And may I say there are really three parties to a labor controversy. There is the union, there is the employer, and there is the public, that long forgotten individual who are a group of individuals who finally, by legislative action in 1947, got a little recognition. Now, I plead guilty to the same sort of prejudice on the other side of the fence. I have never represented a labor union. On the other hand, generalizations are a dangerous thing at best for any of us, and particularly in this field. So let's not condemn the whole field by reference to a specific illustration, and let's talk about this thing in as objective a fashion as we can. I think all of you who've had any part or interest in this business of labor relations may quite properly with Mr. Merritt raise the question, what is the destination? Where are we going? I suppose nobody will be able to chart that course unless he has sufficient detachment from the subject and no advocate on either side. Neither Mr. Isaacson nor Mr. Merritt nor I can properly evaluate or give any estimate or prediction that bears any resemblance to fact as to where the course of future events are going to lead us. We're going to have to find out for ourselves by a process of trial and error as we go on. I don't want to accept 100% the responsibility of defending this book because there are parts in it that I want to criticize too. I do feel, however, and I think you will all agree that it is written by a man who is highly respected in his profession and who has had a perfectly unique experience in the field and who as a personal matter and as an advocate has tried many of the cases which are in fact the landmarks in this field of litigated labor law. But there are some aspects of the book which surprised me a little bit. For example, his suggestion that the Taft-Hartley Act should be amended in this first instance has since become an academic point. By taking out of the area of collective bargaining the issue of union security where a vote has been held. In other words, if pursuant to an authorization election, which no longer, of course, exists under the law today since the October 1951 amendment, if there is such an authorization election, the membership approves the negotiation of a contract with the union shop clause that that ipso facto takes that issue out as a negotiable matter. With that, I hardly disagree, though as I say, the disagreement becomes somewhat academic today. There are many, many cases, all of you have seen them, who've been in this business, where the issue of union security is advanced primarily as a matter of security for business agents. Union leaders to make the job a little easier. I think we've all had these situations where over six or seven years at the outset of negotiations we are informed that a union shop is a must, that it's a strike issue, and then oddly enough, when you get down to what really matters in negotiations, the money, that issue disappears with many others. One other modification which he suggests in the act is to permit the discharge under a union shop clause for reasons other than non-payment of dues or initiation fees, in other words, suggesting the possibility of the permissibility of disciplinary fines, where the imposition of such fines is subject to some objective detached review. With that also, I disagree. I think the law as it stands on that question is a proper treatment of the matter. One other issue the book takes up somewhat lightly in the course of its sweep forward is the matter of industry-wide bargaining. With that particular issue, I gather that Mr. Merritt has no particularly strong feeling one way or the other, although he does get on to a discussion of the coal situation and the matter of industry bargaining in that respect. As far as the coal situation is concerned, he has his own cure for the problems created by the negotiations in the industry. He would make it illegal to shut down more than 25% of the industry at one time. He would require regional contracts through the, I assume, through legislation, require regional contracts so staggered that at no time would more than 25% of the industry be uncovered by contract and would require automatic extensions of contracts where 25% of the industry is closed down for lack or absence of a contract at the particular time. I think I may have abbreviated somewhat, sir, your position on those matters, but I think that sums it up in brief. I don't think that we'll see the day where we get a special legislative treatment for a particular industry, however grievous the problems may be with respect to the coal industry and conceding, without argument, the national emergency atmosphere which is created by shutdowns in the coal industry. I doubt if we ever see such a legislative treatment of the problem. The problems in the coal industry, if they are treated at all, will be treated by the economics of the situation. Mr. Lewis has become the outstanding salesman for natural gas and oil and people who depend on a continuous supply of fuel have, over the years, made that rapid and willing transition to fuels other than coal. That in itself is going to have an effect on the negotiations in the coal industry. And I suppose that when the day ultimately arrives when John L. Lewis is taken by the Grim Reaper, that that in itself will have an effect on the coal industry or on the negotiations in the coal industry because I suppose no labor leader has really left so clear an impress or so personal, had so personal effect as Mr. Lewis on those negotiations. As for the railroad situation, the author makes an interesting suggestion and that is that the ICC or some subdivision of the ICC having power to regulate rates in interstate commerce should also be vested with authority to pass on questions of wages and hours. And as I read the book, he would make it illegal to incite or organize a strike against such a wage order. That makes a good deal of sense from many standpoints in that, of course, labor costs are a fundamental part of total operating costs and therefore enter into the picture as far as any rate regulation is concerned. He would also apply the same principle of permitting wage regulation to the regulatory body in the case of public utilities and I assume for the same reasons. On the question of compulsory arbitration, where I take it unions themselves are bitterly opposed to compulsory arbitration, Mr. Isaacson would also find Mr. Merritt on the same side of the picture. He does not believe in it as he states in the book except perhaps in the case of railroads and public utilities. There is a statement, Mr. Merritt, I don't want to read it out of context or paraphrase it out of context, in the book on the subject of pensions where you say, and I don't think you mean it quite that way, that the introduction of pensions into collective bargaining is the socialization of business through collective bargaining. I don't think you mean quite that statement and I hope that you'll elaborate on that later on. Of course, the whole concept of accepting the matter of pensions as a negotiable matter has been a painful one from an employer's standpoint, but now that we've got it as a result of the Inland Steel decision, I would suppose that there was pretty general acceptance of the proposition that it was properly a negotiable issue and that rather the accent or the hope was that certain areas of pension matters such as control of the pension funds, investment policies, funding, and the like would be matters which would be recognized as being functions of management where at least the pension system was a non-contributory system. At one point in the book, the author asks the question, what is the ultimate goal of unionism in relation to private management? I think that's a very apt question. I think Mr. Isaacson might try that on for size later on. I'll repeat it. What is the ultimate goal of unionism in relation to private management? I suspect that if you asked 60 labor leaders that question, you'd get approximately 60 different answers, but they'd all be interesting. He offers some counsel to unions which, while they haven't asked it, I think is still good counsel and perhaps good counsel for all of us. One, to undertake a tolerance of management. That is not to say that every labor leader is intolerant by any means, but all of us have seen instances, let's put it that way, where efforts are made to breed a class consciousness to build up a sense of social conflict. Anybody has any doubts on that question, may I refer them to the periodic publications of the United Mine, Mill, and Smeller Workers under the title of, quote, The Union, which I think is some of the most scandalous reading that anybody could undertake. But let me say in the same breath that there are plenty of other union publications which are pretty conservative reading too. Secondly, as counsel to the union or advice to the union to avoid industrial lawlessness, and to avoid strikes to attain illegal ends. And he makes the further suggestion that perhaps a strike should be outlawed where the employer is willing to arbitrate the question or the particular dispute. I'm not going to guess that one. I think it's most unlikely that we'll see the day where that happens. I might add myself a couple of other matters which might have been included in the matter of counseling unions, again, on an uninvited basis. And that is not to seek new horizons in the subject matter of collective bargaining. Years ago, the contract, the bargaining contract, was a pretty simple document. Today, it's becoming to look more and more like a corporate indenture. I think it's, as you read them today, you wonder, why do we get into all these new phases? Why must there be this constant, let's say, encroachment on what at one time, at least, was regarded as being the rights of management. And while I don't expect that anyone on the labor side of the picture would agree with the suggestion, I think also the unions would be well advised if they allowed in the operation of the contract, allowed the management the greatest latitude in operating the plant consistent with the protection of the rights of the employees. Now, Mr. Isaacson made some statements in that respect as I recall them. Of course, the responsibility of running the business in the last analysis, the responsibility of staying solvent, the possibility of providing the jobs, of making possible the wage increase, must rest, and does in fact rest, on the capacity of the employer to sell his product and operate. if he is to be hedged about with restrictions as to work content, if quotas are to be established and other limiting concepts of that kind, the possibility of competing in a highly competitive market is necessarily that much lessened. Now, moving along rapidly, the author seems to have little faith in profit sharing as any sort of a cure for the future, but underlying the whole book as I see it is a feeling, a desire to see the rights of individuals protected. That is where Mr. Isaacson and I would part company completely as far as the view of the book is concerned. The author is making the argument that non-union men in the unorganized plant have rights which are to be protected, that the non-striker in a plant which is struck has rights which are to be protected, and that the employer in a struck plant equally has such rights. We've all had these situations, or many of us in our own experience, where mass picketing has been thrown around the gates of a plant, and in my opinion, mass picketing is just as much a seizure of property as through any other use of force. And let's take a little town of 1,500 people with two policemen, it's idle to talk about police protection in that kind of situation. The fact is your property has effectively been taken from you. Now those are the types of things which I think the author is shooting at as being rights which are to be protected. They're legitimate rights. They're property rights. They're rights which you and I as American citizens should want to see respected. When we get to the question of the non-union man and the non-striker, we get into a more arguable, debatable position. I still think those fellows have rights themselves. They're still citizens subject to the protection of the law. There's several things the book does not touch on which might have been interesting to go into. The introduction of this concept of cost of living clauses into collective bargaining. The, what I think, is a Frankenstein that General Motors created unintentionally and which now by its adoption through government controls has developed a sort of built-in inflation so long as it continues whereby every quarter you recognize the increase in cost of living which results from your having recognized the increase of cost of living in the preceding quarter and so on up the ladder you go. The introduction of industry-wide pensions which is a subject matter for a lot of discussion. The matter of labor and politics which to my mind is again a bit of unsolicited advice. a great mistake on labor's part to play that role too much. The minute you become too active a protagonist in politics as a special pleader you find that you become a special target and I think labor may well come a cropper if it carries this whole concept of political participation too far. The matter of the communist control union whether qualified or not under the Taft-Hartley Act there are still unions which at least at the local level are under the influence of communists or let's not call them communists that would be libelous people who play that same side of the street. What is what situation what should labor's attitude itself be toward those unions toward those unions? What steps is labor itself taking apart from throwing them out of the CIO? What steps is labor taking by urging legislation to deal with that problem? In this whole field I think the greatest the most important factors are the economic factors. They are not factors which will find themselves expressed in statutory law. The future of the labor movement is so intimately tied in with the economic success or failure of our system that labor unions themselves actually viewing the thing properly should be the most ardent pleaders for the capitalist system. Thank you. applause Well I think now that we're supposed to address ourselves to the infining and you gentlemen would use these microphones here I think we may begin with a round table discussion here on an ad lib basis use a radio phrase I wonder Mr. Merritt if you wouldn't want to address yourself immediately to the charge of Mr. Isaacson which I think is a rather serious one namely that you have a grave distrust of the democratic process would you like to address yourself to that? I would indeed I'd like to return it first by a counter charge I believe the power of the workers in this country organized they are has reached such political magnitude that they ought to always be satisfied with the political process through democracy and not find it necessary to threaten to strike against wage stabilization or strike against the shipment of goods to Yugoslavia or call a general strike because the police enforce the laws the way they think they shouldn't be enforced these are but a few illustrations of what I mean it's because I am such a firm believer in democracy that I said a lot of the things that I did in the book reflecting a fear on my part that labor will not submit to the democratic process and will insist upon making its ends effective not only through peaceful economic power but in resorting to resistance to law and the use of its economic power to override law I'm just speaking to labor unions as institutions which I think can be the greatest factor for the furtherance of democracy and yet on the other hand through things which I give chapter and verse for in the book may ultimately undermine democracy Mr. Isaacson I'd like to comment on the comment on my comments I think I've got it all straight I agree that we should utilize the democratic processes I agree that we shouldn't engage in political strikes I agree that we shouldn't engage in a strike against the wage stabilization board or the mobilization effort and I want to go on to say I think that when Mr. Merritt levels the charge against us that we've engaged in the strike against the wage stabilization board or the mobilization effort he's misusing he's misusing the terminology which we did employ when we said that we would not participate in the wage stabilization board or that we would not participate in the mobilization effort we did not say and no one can point the finger at anything that any labor leader in America said at that time that we would not produce the goods for defense there was not one unit in America shut down by virtue of the difficulties which we had with the administration with the government as to our role in the mobilization effort as to our role in wage stabilization we had the right as American citizens to withdraw when we felt that we were not being recognized withdraw at the top echelon at the top level we felt that we actually were doing very little because the only place where we had received any recognition at that time was on the wage stabilization board which is a tripartite agency other than that labor was wholly unrecognized in the mobilization effort so we did withdraw two members from the wage stabilization board but we did not have any of the so-called political strikes no labor man laid down his tools and impeded the defense effort so let us let us not be misled in the thinking that labor has engaged in political strikes now I want to address myself to the question here of striking on the docks with reference to Yugoslavia I too am opposed to that kind of strike the state department may very well so far as these particular individuals are concerned have made a mistake in sending goods to Yugoslavia Yugoslavia to their minds I presume was a dictatorship just as Franco Spain just as Soviet Russia the state department however made a decision I think that we have a right to criticize that decision if we believe it to be wrong I don't think that we should stop loading boats that are going to Yugoslavia because we are critical of state department policy I do want to say that that is a very unusual kind of thing this business of not loading boats because the longshoremen or the seamen are opposed to state department policy now the general proposition we have engaged in political strikes I don't know of political strikes in which labor is engaged other than this incident this Yugoslavia incident and a few slight a few other incidents on waterfronts generally with reference to loading of ships I don't know these political strikes I think we are talking about minutiae whether there was a stoppage or refusal to load a ship destined for Yugoslavia it really has very little impact on the whole future of the labor movement or its economic implications in so far as the country at large is concerned it's one little piece of current events let me try that question on you what in your opinion Mr. Isaacson is the ultimate goal of unionism in relation to private management could you answer that in just a few words well I gather you would say it would be difficult for me to answer anything in a few words I'll accept that criticism Mr. I can't answer this question I think it's an interesting question I really think there would be a lot of I'll try to be brief let me say this that the labor movement in America is distinguishable from the other labor movements the world over in one respect for the most part labor movements the world over do believe in the overthrow of the profit system we in America do not we've had a group within our midst there is a group of unions that apparently did believe that apparently still do and they are still applying their trade but by and large the American labor movement the CIO AFL doesn't believe in the overthrow of the profit system now what is it what is our policy what are we aiming to do well I don't know we have a we have a simple credo which probably most Americans would subscribe to we're trying to get more benefits for our people we're trying to get them leisure we're trying to get them a greater role in our democracy we're trying to get them security both security on the job and security when they get off the job in terms of larger pension so that they can when they leave their employment having a an old age and not be a an old age which is satisfying to them and to the community we but we generally we play by ear this is true of all of America I mean our industrialists too by and large play by ear when it comes to these large social concepts we are not too different in that respect we are not the great intellectuals a great theoretician social theoreticians that we're always built up to be we too play by ear mr isis and I I'm sorry to interrupt but actually I'd like the spotlight to be not on you but on mr merritt I think it's short and perhaps we can ask you mr merritt would you state what you think is the ultimate goal of unionism in relation to private business my answer is found in the text of the book destination unknown and I said in the book that I don't believe any certain labor leaders could tell us what their ultimate destination is and if they haven't got anything definite in mind I don't know how I can have all right now do you want to ask me a question would you agree with me by large mr merritt that we do play by ear I think you're distinctly pragmatic and you're not theoreticians and that you are determining your boundaries as you go ahead in the light of experience isn't that what you mean I agree I agree now see ladies and gentlemen we agree this is very dang may I ask him a question now I think we're getting around to one of the basic questions I wanted to put to him I think at one point in your book you indicate that you can't have a static concept of the scope of collective bargaining the collective bargaining by its very nature is a dynamic thing that it will encompass more and more as we move along point of time I was going to say progress but we might differ on the on the use of that word yet at another point in your book it seems to me that you are indicating that there should be controls legislative controls placed upon what may be bargained about and what may not be bargained about for example the taft-hartley act imposes one of these controls and you're not you're not critical of that imposition to control as to what may be bargained about to with the closed shop that no longer is an element that can be bargained about that taft-hartley made it's further a bad day now I don't see how you reconcile this fundamental assumption which I think you have that collective bargaining cannot be static and at the same time there should be certain legislative controls prohibiting labor unions and employers from bargaining about them I'd like to have an answer on that sir I don't remember anything in the book to the effect that we should place definite boundaries around collective bargaining I think it is a living dynamic thing and if I were labor unions I'd refuse to agree as they did refuse to agree in Washington when they had a national conference to try to fix boundaries between what are management's prerogatives and what are labor's when management talks about productivity and pockets as a test of what they should grant or not grant in dealing with labor unions I don't see how they can deny to labor a pretty full voice in discussing nearly all phases of management except the few extreme ones which we could would name and even then we don't know where we're going to get in the end referring to Mr. Hamilton's statement about pensions you've entirely misinterpreted the word socialization there isn't a there isn't a word in my book against pensions or the right of unions to strike for pensions I know that without checking it because there's been no such thought in my mind or in my heart at any time I use the word socialize there in a broad sense I may socialize my point of view tonight as a result of Mr. Isaacson's education of me socializing is a broad word and granting a pensions is a form of socializing industry that doesn't mean socialism in the sense in which that word was misconstrued perhaps it's a poorly chosen word Mr. Hamilton but the word was socialization not socialization it was the broad sense it was the word socialization used in this broadest sense and my whole hope is that labor unions become more socialized and that business in the broad sense would become more socialized meaning more willing to serve the general purposes of society as a whole well Mr. may I ask another question yes go right ahead to the same line do you think that the Taft-Hartley Act is wrong then in banning the clothes shop and prescribing it as a subject of collective bargaining now in spite of your attack on my book you will no place in your book in that book find me condemning the clothes shop unqualifiedly or in any way treating the Taft-Hartley Act as the last word on social security on union security it's rather interesting here that my would-be defender here representing employer interest objects to my taking the position that when men have voted for the Taft-Hartley type of union shop that the majority ought to control I thoroughly believe in that I'm so pro-union however that I'm in great disrepute on behalf of the employers for taking that position you are and I'll tell you why I'm in favor of it having gone so far as to take so many rights against the individual and I didn't say it was wrong in spite of your gentleman's comments on the book but having gone so far to take away the right of a man to say when he shall work and for what he should work and subjecting that to a majority vote in in the union hall I see no particular reason why a few non-union workers in the shop shouldn't be bound by the majority vote as to the mere matter of paying dues I don't see any reason why they should have all the advantages of collective bargaining and not pay their their share of the freight and I can't see that you're going much further in extending collectivism and narrowing individualism if you say they must at least pay their share of the dues in a shop where the majority vote that they should pay their share of the dues Mr. Hamilton do you want to say something to me with that? Well I we just disagree on that point I don't I just want to make it clear Mr. Hamilton that I think I provided you a good rejoinder here. And at one time he's being charged by an employer attorney as being too pro-union on the other hand he's charged by the union attorney as being too anti-union. The point is academic of course I think his criticism is a little more measured than mine Mr. The point is academic because we don't have union authorization elections anymore but my my my criticism of your position is based on a purely pragmatic fact that when when these authorizations of authorization elections were conducted the issue suddenly came to be the issue of shall there be a union in the plant when that of course that's the way it was pictured customarily is pictured by the union in getting what develops to be a 95% voter thereabouts in favor of a union shop contract. I say that's no fair statement of the proposition but that's the way it became. And I and those those elections which went 19 to 1 there was scarcely an election lost on the question of authorizing such a contract. First of all the issue was erroneously presented. Secondly I don't think the vote fairly reflected the attitude of the people in the plant. That's my reason for saying I don't think you ought to take it out of the area of collective bargaining. Simply because you have a vote recorded which in my judgment is not a fair or representative vote. Then perhaps you don't believe in democracy. Let's not get into that. Mr. Merritt finds himself with two members of the opposition rather than one defense and one attack but I would like to enjoy that position more. Good. Mr. Isaacson I'd like to get back to you. This is a big book and covers a wide range of subject matter but you very generally said in your introduction that you don't see eye to eye with Mr. Merritt on the Taft Hartley Act, on the Wagner Act, on the right of strikes to remain unimpeded, collective bargaining. I'd like you to be a little more specific on some of those subjects. Sure. Let's take the Taft Hartley Act, bet and wired of labor and the new Magna Carta to employers. Now here's a statute which Mr. Merritt apparently wholeheartedly subscribes to except for the qualification on the union shop. Apparently he's willing I think in his speech tonight and his answer to my question goes a little further than he did in his book with reference to the closed shop. That he would not be critical of the closed shop itself. Well now let's take the Taft. May I interrupt you? I would not unqualifiedly condemn the closed shop. May I just explain myself a minute and then I'll... All right. I won't rob your time. I say the closed shop is a monopoly. All monopolies have to be regulated. If you're going to allow the closed shop then I would adopt the theory more of some mislichter and see that it was so regulated that a non... That is individual couldn't be ruined and driven from his business by the rigidities of the closed shop. And unless you accept that regulation you ought to abandon the closed shop. The closed shop with proper regulation might be all right just as some monopolies are all right with regulation. All right. All right. Now back to the Taft-Hartley Act. The Taft-Hartley Act did represent a fundamental departure from what we had conceived the role of collective bargaining in America to be. We believed in a free collective bargaining in a free enterprise system. Taft-Hartley circumscribed both the area of collective bargaining and began to circumscribe the manner in which collective bargaining was to take place. There I think they made a grave error. Now the Wagner Act was a very simple statute. This did not conflict with the... Our traditional concept of collective bargaining. Their collective bargaining brought the parties to the table and then left them to their own devices. Let them bargain in good faith. But no more than that. What kind of a bargain they hammered out, that was their business. Now Taft-Hartley went far beyond that and said, you may not bargain about certain subjects. The kind of a pension which you can have has to follow this certain regulation, certain rigid regulation. The Procrustean bed idea was now applied to what should be a dynamic, a free thing, a thing that has to meet the exigencies of the moment. Collective bargaining. The statute swept all that to one side and said, we know, we the legislators in Washington, we know what is best. This is the kind of a pension program you're going to have. This is the kind of a social insurance program you're supposed to have. This is the kind of a union shop proposal that you can have. And despite the fact that they've eliminated this stupid election requirement, this they finally had to agree was stupid because the government was wasting money conducting union shop elections, despite what Mr. Hamilton said. Conducting these stupid union shop elections and the voters were voting 19 to 1 and finally the board, joined with employers and with unions, pleaded say, take this off our back. We want to get back to the business of administering the statute and not conducting these useless foregone elections. But the closed shop prohibition, the closed shop ban still remains. Let me get on to the more serious aspects of it though. The limitations on the right to strike. And at one point in Mr. Merritt's book, this is my basic criticism with Mr. Merritt, is that there is a recognition that the strike is the firepower, the mechanism which makes this collective bargaining operate. And at the same time, he would go beyond Taft-Hartley and proscribe it. The Taft-Hartley Act has very serious prohibitions on the right to strike. Those that are explicitly set forth there, certain strikes cannot be had under any circumstances, the broad emergency strike. You have to give 60 days notice now before you can strike if you have a contract. What's wrong with that? There are rigid requirements there. You can't strike over the closed shop. That's an illegal kind of a strike. That's an illegal kind of a strike. And you subject yourself to very dangerous penalties there too. But let me tell you one of the most serious though of the prohibitions on the right to strike. This is not explicit. This is implicit in the law. This is where the employees engage in an economic strike. That is a strike because they just can't agree with the employer. The employer is made difficult for them to remain on the job at current terms, so they walk off. Their inherent right to walk off. No one disagrees with this right to walk off. And this is not prohibited, we think. The employer then proceeds to get replacements for them. All right? The employer now has a right to, his economic right to secure replacements. Then he proceeds to ask for an election, which is now his right under the Taft-Hartley Act. And who is to vote in that election? Well, unfortunately, these persons, these strikers, they no longer have any rights to their job. Therefore, they no longer have any rights to vote. The people who vote in that election are the strike breakers. And they are the persons who normally and naturally would not vote for the union. You can bet your bottom dollar on that. Now, why hasn't this brought about the destruction of labor unions in America? Because I think it's serious enough to do that. The reason it hasn't is because, contrary to what we all have believed, including the government people, the government economists, we have not yet reached a point where we have large labor supplies to furnish their replacements to go in as strike breakers. Let me assure you, gentlemen, that once that time comes, you will really see how effective the Taft-Hartley Act can be in operation. And how effectively a union can be pushed out of a plant and on the street and the workers forever lose their jobs. Now, I have no less authority on this than Business Week. Some two years ago, made this point just about as I am making it now, almost in height verba, and said that for that reason, we think in the measure of tones of Business Week, we think the Taft-Hartley Act went too far. Mr. Merritt, do you want to comment on that at all? Not in particular, no. I don't for a moment question that there are some things in the Taft-Hartley Act that are difficult to handle, and some of them may require some changes. It's a rather serious problem when an employer is engaged in a strike and has replacements. And then you want to decide who should represent the people that the employer employs. Are you going to have the people vote on that who are not employed or the people who vote on it who are employed? They are the ones to be represented. Well, it's a rather difficult problem. Well, in the least that can be said, that both parties, or rather both parties, I mean the strike breaker and the striker, have some rights and the determinations to be made. And that was what the board used to do prior to the passage of the Taft-Hartley Act. Mr. Hamilton? Well, I think there's a lot more... I'd rather put it to the author, if I may, since he is the... No, this wasn't a question addressed to me. I was going to comment on some of your statements, but that's too fruitful a ground. You go ahead. No, I was... Well, I was wondering what you think... Well, I think... I'm perfectly ready to spend all the time on that detail if you want to. But I think it's a sort of thing that's very difficult to lay down a general rule about. Suppose you've got a strike that's on its tail end, that nine-tenths of the places have been filled by replacements, and nine-tenths of the people are out on strike and never going to be re-employed. Are you going to let the nine-tenths of people who are out on strike vote to determine who shall represent the nine-tenths who are employed? There's so many varying situations of that kind that present absurdities that I find it very difficult to find an answer. Mr. Happ. Well, of course, this contemplates that the individuals have been permanently replaced by those who are now working. There is no... Assuming an economic strike, there is no obligation to re-employ under those circumstances, and you have permanently replaced. Yes, then, who should vote in the question of the election? Should not the permanent... The people who constitute the permanent replacements be the ones who cast the ballot as to who shall represent the people in the plan? Well, let me say that the question of what a permanent replacement is, is one, very difficult to ascertain as a matter of fact. That's exactly it. But as a matter of law, I, as a regional director for the NLRB, had the case squarely put before me on a consent election agreement, if I can use the lingo that we use in labor circles. And I knew that as a matter of fact, I just knew that certainly these people were not replacements, permanent replacements, yet there was no way of establishing that as a matter of law. And the fact is that as a result, the strikers did not vote, and the strikebreakers did vote in that particular election. After that result was made known, some weeks later, some months later, as a matter of fact, then the employer began to let some of the strikers trickle back into the plan, and the strikebreakers began to win their way back to their farms or wherever they may have come from. But there was no way of establishing that in a board proceeding, and I don't think that there is any way of doing it. But I'd like to come back to a part of this basic question, which I want to put to Mr. Merritt. And that is this. If the strike is the firepower behind this operation collective bargaining, if it is the thing that really makes the collective bargaining system operate, then why do you at so many points in your book, and even tonight, suggest that not only should the prohibitions of the Taft-Hartley Act remain, and the proscriptions of the Taft-Hartley Act remain, but that we should have even more. And at one point in your book, you suggest that the Delaware Act, which has fortunately been repealed, that that act be suggested as fruit for study, and which, as you will agree, provides further limitations on the right to strike from that already contained in Taft-Hartley. Well, I don't know what point you're referring to except this. In the course of the book, I pointed out that we had set up public agencies at the instance of labor to decide certain definite questions as a matter of law. They are quasi-courts. As long as those agencies have been set up there as a kind of compulsory tribunal or compulsory arbitration tribunal to decide those questions, why should we settle them through strikes in upsetting some industry to the injury of the public? As long as the tribunal of reason exists with the approval of labor to decide those questions, why should labor ever resort to the right strike to decide those questions? Assume it wins the strike. Assume it wins the strike. It would decide that question according to force when the tribunal of reason might have decided it the other way. And one can hardly say that might makes right. So the one suggestion I can, the one point I can think of that you have in mind is the theory I advanced to the effect that where the government, through any agency, has the power to decide a question. Assume it, that the parties should not engage in industrial combat over that question to the injury of the public. Theoretically, I certainly saw, from my point of view, the real important question is whether or not we could properly man the National Labor Relations Board so there wouldn't be the same degree of delay that there now is in disposing of those issues. And labor wouldn't you lose out by the delay. That, however, is an administrative question which could be taken care of by adequate appropriation of funds. And I suppose you would indicate then if the employer were engaging in unfair labor practices that the board would have to, I mean the union would have to wait its turn before the board, assuming we had a board now that was moving expeditiously. No, I would not necessarily on an unfair labor practice issue. So that the union would have, could make a determination without the board as to whether or not the employer were engaging in unfair labor practices. And if they were later sustained, well, it's good. Those are things that could be taken care of by proper action by the board in the form of temporary injunctions. Injoining the employer from engaging in the unfair labor practice. If we're going to dispose of these matters by adjudication, I don't think there should be the alternative by disposing of them through economic combat. Well, let me ask you one other question along this line of the limitation on the right to strike, Mr. Merritt. Perhaps this was an unfortunate use of terminology, but in discussing limitations on the right to strike, I think you did say that you would limit those that had, quote, illegal objectives. Two, you would limit those that had utilized illegal methods in carrying out the strike. Three, at one point, I distinctly recall you said unnecessary strikes should be barred. Now, once we start talking in terms of barring unnecessary strikes, I think that what we are talking about is the complete elimination of any kind of strike. Because then we are saying that some governmental machinery is now going to determine when a strike is necessary and when it is unnecessary. And this, I say, I would refuse to grant any government power. And I should think that an employer who really believes in a free enterprise system would refuse to grant any government power too. All right. Now, number one, will you go so far as to say that labor should not be allowed to strike for an illegal purpose? Will you go along that far with it? Then I'll take up the unnecessary strikes. Let me get back to the unnecessary strikes first because I have an answer to this illegal objective. Will you answer it? Sure, I'll answer it then. Well, all right. If you would rather delay your answer to what I think is a more basic question. No, I think I'll try other one too. But I will say this about this illegal purpose strike. That once we have come into this metaphysical realm of what is an illegal purpose, we are right back to where we started when the injunctions were issuing from the court as if they were cash registers. Now, I say that we have gone far beyond that point, it seems to me, in our thinking, where we believe that the labor relations problems are such that they can be solved by the judiciary issuing an injunction. That we've gone far beyond the point that we had reached there in the decade between 10 and 20 and 20 and 30. And now I would not, no, say that a court should be permitted to decide for itself in every situation what is an illegal objective. We are now beginning to see what courts will do under those circumstances. And I say that they have turned the clock back so that there will be little to distinguish the period between 50 and 60 and that between 10 and 20 so far as the kind of injunctions that will be issued. They'll find them issuing unlawfully because of a violation of statute, state, or federal, or a municipal ordinance for that matter. Or they will find that they are violating the common law as determined by the judiciary. I am opposed. Yes, sir. Then you would be willing, so far as law is concerned, to have the unions free to put the employer in the position of having his business wrecked by a union combination or his violating the law. In other words, the union says to the employer, unless you do this act in violation of the law, we will strike, picket, and boycott and ruin your business. There are two kinds of illegal objectives to which you make reference. Now, you're talking about an illegal objective where an union is compelling an employer to do that which is a violation of the law. Right. Or where a union seeks an objective which would place it in violation of the law according to the judicial thinking of a particular man who sits on the bench. I think there's a great distinction to draw between the two. Well, let's take the two distinctions, sir. Pardon? Let me ask you whether you would be... You're still forgetting my first question, and I have not forgotten, Mr. Mayor. We haven't supposed to this yet. We ask you whether you would be willing to concede that unions should not have the right to strike, to compel the employer to do something which is clearly, definitely a violation of law under the terms of a clear statute. To win. To win. I'd like... Strike to compel him to fix prices. At which he shall sell his product. I would go along on that. All right. Now I'd like an answer to my question. About the unnecessary strikes. About the unnecessary strikes. About the unnecessary strikes. Labor secured the enactment of the Norris LaGuardia Act. And in that enactment they provided that no employer should be entitled to an injunction to protect his business even against violence or fraud unless he had exhausted all the means of the law. By negotiation and mediation and so forth. Why isn't it equally fair to say that a union has no right to engage in a strike against an employer until first it has made its demands upon the employer and given the employer a reasonable time to confer with him concerning them? And why wouldn't it be a good thing as a matter of law to prevent such premature and unnecessary strikes? Because as a matter of fact I think we're addressing ourselves to one of those things that looks plausible on the surface. I mean you... One hand you have a prohibition. On the other hand you have a prohibition. As a matter of fact a union doesn't engage in a strike as lightly as that kind of question would seem to indicate. A strike to a union is a very serious proposition. One is it costs the trade union treasury a lot of money. Secondly, the workers. The people are very directly and drastically affected. They have no real savings here to come back to any long period of time. So strikes in the part of unions are usually the last resort in the... On the last resort or the last stop on the line. They aren't the kind of thing the union just blows a whistle there because the trade union leader woke up that morning and didn't feel well. So I don't really think there's any real purpose to be served by that kind of a prohibition on the part of a union. Whereas the part of an employer he may very well be very adamant because he loses nothing there by continuing at the prices he wants to pay. At the wages he's willing to give these employees and the conditions under which they are to work. I think the two are not comparable and you can't equalize them or analogize them. I would not go along on that. At this point I'd like to break in gentlemen and I thought perhaps that some of our people here in the audience might like to want to address questions to anyone on the platform, excluding myself. Completely ignorant on this subject. And if you would I wish you'd raise your hand and address your question to either Mr. Isaacson or Mr. Merritt. Yes. I have a question from Mr. Isaacson. In his opening criticisms he affirmed the faith in democracy, by that you mean the people I presume, generally speaking. And then in one of your telling comments there, you showed how the tactile is all has in the Chili's heel, which is able to destroy humans in a technicality you were referring to. Now, this is a very broad question. What I mean is what happens to your faith in democracy then when it's possible for a technicality to be the democratic process. By that I mean, for instance, you don't have just any kind of people. You have highly sophisticated people in unions. You have a strong union organization in this country. Although a lot of working people of the 60 or 65 have been employed and are not in unions at present. Quite a number of them that are not in unions have been through unions. You have a new deal experience. What I mean is all sorts of social security legislation. What I mean is the ordinary person is slightly sophisticated. Now, if you can use a technicality to do what? You see, I may not make myself too... Does this disturb my faith in democracy, the fact that people are disenfranchised and thrown out of their jobs and the union is destroyed? Yes, but here's my... No, you want an answer from me or do you want to continue with your dissertation? The hard line question is, what kind of a democracy is it that the people themselves, with other things like this, come to pass? No matter what, Detective Calvin, despite the German and the Italian experience with you, quote? I don't think that anyone, and I'm not going to be the first in this group here, contend we have a perfect system by any means. Our democracy is not a perfect system, and many times it lags behind the desires and aspirations of the people. I think that in this particular situation, the people's will was thwarted. In 1948, I think that the repeal of Taft Hartley was injected into a campaign more than any campaign in recent American history. The people's will was thwarted on that occasion. I, nevertheless, am not in the... I'm not now, and I don't think that I ever will be prepared to say that for that reason that our democracy has completely failed. 52 is here, we'll take another whack at them, and if we are able to persuade enough people to go along with us, maybe this is our time to get the repeal of the statute or a substantial modification of the statute. We'll take another whack at it. I think that so long as we have this opportunity to talk it out and try to persuade others, so long am I willing to go along with democracy. When we no longer have that opportunity, then it will be a democracy and I won't have to make a choice any longer. It's as good an answer I can give to your broad statement, sir. I have a question for Mr. Barrett or Mr. Hamilton. It would seem to me that both of you gentlemen recognized that two of the vital aspects of our democracy is the right of the individual worker to improve his working conditions and raise his name and living on the one hand, the right of the employer to engage in free enterprise, also with the objective in mind of making some money and improving his lot on the face of the circuit. Why do you assume, Mr. Merritt, that the banding together of the individual workers into labor unions is potentially more destructive, potentially more ominous economically and politically than the banding together of employers and employer associations for the very same purposes, that is to assert their power collectively on the economic front as well as on the political front? It would seem to me that historically speaking and theoretically speaking there is no basis to that assumption. I'm very glad you asked that question because it's basic in my whole thinking as to this problem of social control of labor unions. I am not fearful of employers running away with our rights in a democratic country like this. We've admitted, or at least we'd have to admit, that labor is a strong pressure group that can always have attention at Washington. So that I don't think there's any chance politically that the employer is going to run away with the rights of democracy or the rights of labor. On the other hand, we find that labor unions are not as capable of control. The employer's property interest is a hostage to society for his good conduct. You can always get at him. You can always make him obey the law. For labor unions, it is hardly so. It is a very serious question. If all the workers in steel or coal stop at one time as to whether the logic of the situation can be carried out for your dealing with uncontrollable units. That's one of my reasons. One is that the employers are not going to be political pets and they are subject to control. Now, thirdly, you're saying that they both have all have the same rights is quite different. So far as I know, no group of competing employers can turn around and close down their whole business in combination under the law. But a group of labor unions with their nationwide bargaining may close down entire industry and threaten the very welfare of the country so that they have their country at the throat, as it were, and are in a position almost to deal with the country as if they were sovereign power making a treaty. I agree with your statement. There are a couple of NLRB decisions that throw a little doubt on that last remark. I was going to say that. Are there any other questions? Well, you mean by Laco? Yes.