Your City Station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Commissioner Hilliard of the Department of Welfare, who is Director of the Welfare Emergency Division of the Civil Defense Organization. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense. Here is Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Hilliard, I'm glad to have you here again to discuss the city's civil defense program. In our last talk you outlined the duties and responsibilities of the department of welfare in the event of an atomic attack. That's right Commissioner. Since that time we've been working rather hard and have made some progress. Well that's fine. At this time I would like you to discuss the Central Registration Bureau, the bureau that will register civilians in the event of a disaster. I'd like Commissioner to make one thing clear, and it's important if we are to operate at all. We will only register civilians who are affected by enemy attack. Those civilians not affected will not be registered. I wonder, Commissioner Hilliard, if you can tell in more detail about registration. Let us assume a bomb falls on New York City. Tens of thousands of persons will be rendered homeless. Thousands killed and many more thousands injured. Well now for each injured person received in a hospital, an admission card is completed by the hospital and a copy of the card is sent to this Central Registration Bureau where the information is recorded on a registration card and then filed. This same procedure is followed when bodies are taken to the morgues. What happens when the injured and dead cannot be identified? I'm glad you asked that question because our file is being set up in two sections. The identified file where listings are alphabetical and in the unidentified file where the listing is by age, sex, and by other physical characteristics. Well, what information will your registration cards contain about the injured admitted to hospitals or casualty stations? It will have the injured person's name, his home address, the nature and the extent of injuries and the hospital where the patient is. Well, Commissioner Hilliard, you did a very fine job on the registration of the injured and dead. What provisions have you made for those civilians rented homeless? Well, we'll register those persons also. Their cards will be filed alphabetically. They'll also contain home address, present address, family composition, and so on. And this file, incidentally, is also in two sections, namely the identified and the unidentified. What is the purpose of an unidentified section for persons bombed out of their homes? What we're trying to do there, Commissioner, is to anticipate every conceivable situation. We can picture a very old person or a very young child who, because of shock or excitement, just can't recall his name. In this type of case, the registration would go into the unidentified section. I see. Well, wouldn't you say that this could happen to any adult, regardless of age? Yes, I'm afraid that it could. And I feel that a great many people of all ages might forget their names and their addresses. I would like to emphasize, however, that now is the time for parents to drill their children in their names, their addresses, as well as the name and address of some close relative. Your suggestion seems to me to be excellent, Commissioner Hilliard, and I would advise all parents to heed your advice. Tell us some more, won't you? Well, of course, children are of primary concern to all of us. In addition to the registration forms for children, we have other forms that will be kept separately by our regular children's officer. Well, if one atom bomb falls, we expect that there would be over a half a million registrations. Where would these registrations be taken, Commissioner? Well, I'm afraid, first of all, Commissioner, that we're looking for more than a half a million. It might be as high as one and a half million. We would register people at our 47 emergency welfare centers. We'd register them at rest centers, congregate shelters, and police stations. I see. Well, we've assumed in this discussion that a bomb has fallen on New York City, and that the emergency welfare division has taken one and one half million registrations. What happens to these registration cards? Well, the cards themselves are filed in our central registration bureau. Our experience in past disasters show that there will be five to ten inquiries for every registration. This indicates that we can anticipate, I think, seven to twelve million inquiries on these million and a half registrations. That's a great many. Where would these inquiries originate? Well, friends and relatives all over the country, perhaps in many parts of the world, would write asking about their loved ones, would call in, and so forth. To whom would the people outside of New York City send their inquiries? These people should address their inquiries, or they will be routed to the Emergency Welfare Division Central Registration Bureau. The replies to the inquiries would then be sent to the people requesting the information. That is fine for people familiar with the Central Registration Bureau, but are you aware that many people would rush to the Red Cross all over the world seeking information about their loved ones? What would happen in that case, Commissioner Hilliard? We realize that this might happen, and undoubtedly that it will happen, and further we feel that it may happen in great volume. In order to meet this situation, we have made arrangements with the Red Cross. We have agreed that all inquiries received by the Red Cross will be sent by them to the Central Registration Bureau. That bureau would then send replies back to the Red Cross, which in its turn would contact the person making the inquiry and give that person the information he was seeking. Commissioner Hilliard, it seems to me that you have not overlooked any possible contingency here. Now let us get back to the people of New York City who have relatives and friends living in the area affected by an atom bomb. How would they go about in asking an inquiry and receiving a reply? Well, as you know, Commissioner Walder, we have or will have 47 emergency welfare centers. The present time it's planned that these be located in the five boroughs of the city. In each of these emergency welfare centers, there will be a registration section. A person affected by the bombing will come into the emergency welfare center and register. The original will be forwarded to the Central Registration Bureau and a copy retained in the emergency welfare center. Why do you retain a copy in the emergency welfare center? Well, if a friend or relative living in the same area inquires about a person registered in that emergency welfare center, the registration worker could and undoubtedly would check his file and be able to give an answer immediately without having to go through a clearance with the Central Registration Bureau. In other words, people would register and make inquiries at the emergency welfare center in their own neighborhood. Is that correct? That's correct, Commissioner Walder. We feel that this method of having the emergency welfare center as the focal point of activity in each neighborhood will help avoid panic and will also eliminate undue hardship and anxiety. Well, that's pretty well reasoned out, I should say. Let us assume that a patient calls at the emergency welfare center to make an inquiry about a relative and the local emergency welfare center has no record of the patient. What would be the procedure then? Well, the original inquiry is sent to the Central Registration Bureau and the inquirer is told to return in a reasonable time to pick up his reply or get the information he is seeking. It may be possible that the person was registered, let's say, at a hospital or an evacuation center or at some other emergency welfare center or at some point to which people will go to make inquiry and will be registered. What plans have you made to carry these forms between your location and the Central Registration Bureau? We have enlisted the aid of the Motor Transport Corps of the American Women's Voluntary Service not only to carry these forms but also to transport our personnel and civilians from our emergency welfare centers to places of shelter and evacuation centers. May I say that the cooperation that's been extended by the AWVS has been magnificent as has been the case with the cooperation we have had so far from the various welfare and voluntary charitable agencies throughout the city. Well, it's good to hear that, Commissioner Helliard. Do you believe that such a plan as you have outlined is workable? Yes, we rather think so, Commissioner. As a matter of fact, during the recent hurricane, we alerted the American Women's Voluntary Services and they evacuated children from Brooklyn to our Manhattan Children's Shelter. Well, it's good to know that. It seems to me, Commissioner Helliard, that you have done a tremendous lot of work to set up such a splendid registration procedure. Well, it does represent a lot of work. It's work, however, that has to be done. Well, I certainly appreciate what you're doing. I know it's a it's a tough job. The overall picture of handling people who are in need of some shelter and sustenance, clothing and such in time of great emergency is really a job of great magnitude, especially when you consider a city like ours. When we consider that the registration is only one phase of the welfare activity, I believe your job department has up to this time done an excellent job. Well, frankly, Commissioner, it's so large a job sometimes it almost scares us, because when we contemplate the problem of feeding and sheltering and clothing the numbers of civilians who may be affected, it takes on rather tremendous proportions. The encouraging thing, the most encouraging thing so far has been the alacrity with which the citizens of New York, the interested agencies, the people in the various industries of New York have almost leaped forward to extend their cooperation. In the matter of feeding, the Food and Nutrition Division of the Health Council of Greater New York has taken over the great bulk of that problem and is planning in the direction of feeding facilities in accordance with any indicated need. We've had similar cooperation from people in the clothing, the garment industries, and the various aspects of that industry. We have either already had or are expecting from the various charitable and voluntary organizations and agencies throughout the city the same offer and manifestation of cooperation. Well, that's fine, Commissioner Hedded. I know that you will need a great many volunteers, and perhaps many patients who are listening into this broadcast will want to volunteer. Where do you suggest that they go? Well, first of all, Commissioner, we have as the nucleus our own staff of the Department of Welfare, approximately 8,000 employees. But as you say, we will need a great many volunteers. Those at this juncture who would wish to volunteer might call our central office, the number of which is DIGB4-8700, and inquire about the location nearest to their home where they might enroll in our program. At a somewhat later point, they can consult the telephone directory for the nearest welfare center and proffer their services at that location. Well, thank you very much, Commissioner Hedded. I'm sure that our listening public fields reassure that something is being done on the welfare front. You have been listening to another in the important series of reports on civil defense, in which civil defense director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Hedded of the Department of Welfare, who is director of the Welfare Emergency Division of Civil Defense. Next Tuesday evening, at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.