and the beloved mayor of the city of New York, Honorable William McWire. President Rogers, reverend and distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. We have come here today to dedicate this small plot of ground. Within the next year, a monument will be erected on the ground which we are dedicating for that purpose today. It will stand here in memory of six million Jews who were slaughtered by Hitler in the execution of his perverted racial theories. However, this monument will be more than a sad reminder. It will stand here as the hope of Americans that the tyranny of racial discrimination will never again exercise its power. While a monument will commemorate the death of Jews in Europe, it will not be solely a Jewish memorial. It will also be an American memorial. The committee which is sponsoring it is composed of Americans from all parts of our country, from all creeds, and from all racial origins. The memorial will be the expression of the sorrow of Americans for the victims of the greatest tragedy in history. It will be the expression of the hope of Americans that the power of tyranny to inflict human misery died with these victims. It is fitting that such a memorial should be on public ground. We have selected one of the most beautiful sights in our city for this memorial. Here, for all time, it will face the majestic Hudson. To the right will be the stately tomb General Grant. To the left, the beautiful expanse of this Riverside Park. And its background will have the residential skyline of Riverside Drive. We have no idea at the present time of the physical appearance of the monument. That has been left to the sculptor's eyes. However, we do know that the Battle of the Warsaw Ghetto will be his inspiration. That tragic event is one of the most stirring in history. I cannot imagine any motive more appropriate for this monument. When the battle started in April 1943, the ghetto population had been reduced by the Nazis from about one million to 40,000 men, women, and children. These 40,000 people, ragged and hungry and poorly equipped, fought two of Hitler's crack divisions for 40 days. They forced the troops to resort to planes and tents. No one surrendered. The Nazis captured the ghetto on the 40th day, only after they had reduced the houses to ashes and killed nearly every defender. While these people fought a poor, doomed fight, their cause was not in vain. This first open battle between an underground army and the Nazis was a psychological loss for Hitler. It was a signal for open, bitter, underground warfare throughout all Europe. After the battle of the Warsaw Ghetto, whenever the Nazis set foot on foreign soil, they found an underground army to harass their progress. During the Second World War, there were many gallant defenses in besieged areas. There were far more important to the Allies militarily, perhaps, than this battle of the ghetto. There was Sevastopol, Fubrook, Great Stalingrad. But in all those battles, there were defenders in uniform, under able generalship. For real heroism, I believe that the historians of the future today will rank the defenders of the Warsaw Ghetto among the first. I often think of the terrible end of those six million Jews. I often think of the victims of those cruel pseudo-scientific experiments on living human beings. Of the victims who died from exhaustion while working in slave labor camps. Of the victims who died in horrible gas chambers. These catastrophes cannot be phrased in words. The world saw wars for religious and racial extermination before, but the world never before saw horror in such a magnitude. Now that the tragedy is over, I get this little consolation, which is not so little. The men who perpetrated it were not Christians in any sense of the word. They expressly disavowed and attacked Christianity for years, before they even committed their killings. They had to commit treason to their own faith. Because anti-Semitism is un-Christian. I am happy to reflect that in the dark days of Hitler, the strong voices of Christendom challenged him. In a memorandum addressed to Hitler by the Protestant confessional leaders in 1936, they notified him in strong terms that anti-Semitism or hatred of the Jews was forbidden by the Christian commandments. I am also thinking of the unequivocal position of my own church, the Catholic Church. This is a fitting occasion for me to repeat the words of Pope Pius XI. On September 30, 1938, when totalitarianism was running at top speed in Europe, the Pope, receiving a group of Belgian pilgrims, said, Abraham is called our patriarch, our ancestor. Anti-Semitism is not compatible with the sublime reality of this text. It is a movement in which Christians cannot share. It is impossible for Christians to take part in anti-Semitism. We are Semites spiritually. End of quote. On the following day, the Pope, in a decree from the Holy Office, condemned the hatred which is anti-Semitism. Today, the world is still trouble. The world needs peace. Peace is not just a hollow term to be spoken softly, nor is peace merely a negative of war. Peace is dynamic. We will have peace when all peoples learn to live peacefully together, as we do in our great United States. When people will determine who shall govern them through the use of the ballot and without alien interference. When people will worship as they please. When people will speak as they please. When people will receive justice administered impartially. When people will walk without concern as to racial or religious differences. May this memorial to the six million victims of savage dictatorship, always remind men of the value of peace. May God grant that the world attained peace in our time. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm so without address by the Honorable William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York. We conclude the broadcast portion of this program dedicating a sight, an American memorial to the heroes of the battle of the Wausau ghetto and the six million modern Jews of Europe. We return you now to our studios. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, you're okay to have a great glance.uya.