Because there was an atomic explosion in the Soviet Union in 1949, we must act on the assumption that they do have atomic bombs. They have planes that could drop atomic bombs upon our city. This is the 16th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, transcribed for the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communications lines are destroyed. Now here's Bill Leonard. This week, we're going to discuss the tremendous job the Department of Public Works will be faced with if an atomic attack comes. First, our guest will be Commissioner Bertram D. Tallamy of the New York State Department of Public Works. Then, local stations will have the opportunity to discuss the subject in terms of their individual communities. Commissioner Tallamy, our first question comes from a man in Newburgh, and he writes, In the event of a bombing attack, if special equipment has to be rushed into the bombed city, such as fire, police, rescue equipment, and so forth, how does civil defense hope to get this material into the city when the roads are expected to be jammed with evacuees? Well, in the first place, Mr. Leonard, no private vehicles will be permitted to enter or leave a bombed city for 24 hours after the attack. And the necessary steps have already been taken to enforce this prohibition. Secondly, evacuees will not be permitted to jam the roads, and police controls will prevent other traffic from interfering with the movement of civil defense vehicles. The state civil defense commission has designated certain highways throughout the state as civil defense routes. These will be under special police control immediately following an enemy attack, and will be reserved for the exclusive movement of civil defense and military vehicles. Well, that answer, Commissioner, leads right to our next question, and this one from a man in Tarrytown. He says, I've read about the emergency highways that have been designated by the Civil Defense Commission for use by special civil defense forces. Is this restricted information, or can the public know what highways are marked off for this purpose? What about that, sir? Well, the state civil defense commission has issued several thousand official civil defense highway maps, which indicate the highways which will be under special control following an enemy attack. Information concerning these routes is not restricted, and it may be obtained from your local civil defense office. Here's a question from a listener just outside of New York City. He says, I'm owner of a small construction and wrecking firm. We have special bulldozers and heavy-duty trucks and equipment. So far, I've only been asked to register this equipment with civil defense. Now, if New York is atom-bombed, just how do I, my men, and my equipment fit into the picture? The public works division of your local office of civil defense is developing final plans and procedures for furnishing maximum public works assistance to New York City in the event it is bombed. Since you are located just outside the city, you may be selected as part of the automatic aid portion of the plan. In such an event, you will receive detailed instructions as to where your men and equipment will report, without waiting further orders or special instructions following an enemy attack. In other words, your first signal for action will be the report you receive in any manner that New York City has been bombed. That is what is known as the automatic aid plan. However, if you are not included in the automatic aid plan following an attack, you would receive instructions from the civil defense director of your city or county. Commissioner Tallamy, I believe this question is quite important. It's from a man who writes, I work for a rather large wrecking firm. We have been told that we would go into a bombed area in order to assist in any kind of rescue operations. Now, he says, do we get any special protective clothing or equipment? A lot of the men, he writes, have been asking this question. They are worried about their chances of going into a radioactive area. Well, I must make some qualifications in order to answer this question. First, in the event of an air burst of an atomic bomb, there will be no danger of lingering radioactivity or residual contamination as it is officially known. Therefore, special clothing or equipment beyond that which you would normally wear for heavy duty work would be unnecessary. We will make sure of any area being free from danger through immediate monitoring of the bombed area by radiological monitoring teams. They will determine whether the area is affected by lingering radioactivity. This information will be radioed back to the control centers. They determine the disposition of the movement of all special equipment and personnel, including public works. If the area is free of contamination, personnel will, of course, move in immediately. For added safety, the radiological monitoring teams will continue to move about the bombed area, maintaining a constant check. Under no circumstances will the public works personnel, or any other personnel, be sent into any area where their lives are endangered because of radioactivity. Stringent precautionary measures will be undertaken at all times. That's reassuring, Commissioner. Here's a man in Albany who comes up with another problem. And he writes, We've been told that no automobile transportation will be allowed after an attack. I'm a rescue worker handling heavy equipment. If I'm not at home or with my company when an attack takes place, then how can I get to my equipment? It seems to me, he says, that this whole arrangement would fall apart if most of the men are not allowed to move right after an attack so that their equipment can be put to use in civil operations. Well, the prohibition on movement of private vehicles applies only to a city that's been attacked. If every civilian defense volunteer was authorized to use his car to get to his duty station, the resulting traffic congestion can easily be imagined. Every effort will be made to keep rapid transit and bus lines running. And in addition, it is planned in large cities to establish many personnel assembly points from which civilian defense personnel could be picked up and taken to duty posts by a minimum number of authorized vehicles assigned for that specific purpose. Your local office of civil defense or your employer should issue instructions as to when, how, and where you will report for duty. Thank you, Commissioner. You have been listening to Bertram D. Tallamy, Commissioner of the New York State Department of Public Works. And, of course, we'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. Meanwhile, this concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. One of the busiest men in New York City is Frederick H. Zermilan, Commissioner of the Department of Public Works. We're glad he could find the time to be with us to answer some questions that you New Yorkers have sent in to us. And our first letter says, People seem to think that the whole danger from an atomic bomb would come in the first few minutes. Have you done anything about the danger of weakened buildings which might collapse days later? How about that, Commissioner? I must have learned that anyone who thinks that the main effects of atomic warfare are confined to minutes, hours, or even days after the attack is very much mistaken. In a congested city like New York, the chaos that would follow in the wake of a bombing attack defies the most vivid imagination. The condemning and reconstruction of weakened buildings is one of the many functions of the Public Works Division. Our engineers, architects, and trained personnel in the construction industry have been organized just for that purpose. Most New Yorkers are apartment dwellers, and so this next question is of vital importance to millions of them. This lady writes, Suppose that our apartment building was destroyed and one or two hundred tenants trapped in the basement shelter. What would be done about them? Bill, that's a very likely situation, and we are preparing for it. Our engineers will make a prompt appraisal to determine what type of equipment and help are needed to tunnel through, shore up, brace, or excavate a stricken area. Our control centers will send heavy construction equipment to prepare such an area for what we call heavy rescue work. If you are trapped in a basement shelter, the only thing to do is to keep calm until help can reach you. Commissioner, on one of these Plan for Survival programs a few weeks ago, it was suggested that everyone carry police whistles to attract attention if they were trapped. Do you favor that idea? Well, it seems reasonable to me, Mr. Leonard. In the noise and confusion that would follow an attack on this city, certainly a police whistle could be heard much better than the human voice. This question comes from a lady in the Bronx, and she writes, What would you do if a number of our water mains burst? After all, eight million of us depend on New York water. Well, the Public Works Emergency Division squads will have charge of shutting off all service utilities, such as broken gas, steam, water mains, power lines, and services at key points, so as to provide normal service to other sections of the city, which will in turn supply to stricken areas until such time as the normal utilities are repaired. Here's a fellow that shows the spirit we like to see, Commissioner. He writes, I'm an electrician. I know how to handle tools. I can repair wiring, and I know how the wiring system in my building is worked. What can I do for civil defense? Well, electricians, plumbers, carpenters, in fact, all of the building trades should volunteer in the Public Works Emergency Division of the city's civil defense organization. Bill, we have already enrolled more than 50,000 such volunteers, and we can use more. This man seems to be worried, Commissioner. He says, How do you ever expect to get enough tools and heavy equipment for all the rescue work for the shoring and bracing of buildings which might be destroyed? Well, you'd be surprised how much city and private-owned equipment there is, Mr. Leonard. We have already completed probably the largest inventory of such equipment in the history of our city. Everything from picks and shovels to heavy cranes and bulldozers are being compiled in a master list which will designate not only the type and amount of equipment, but where it is at all times. Our next question is from a contractor in Brooklyn. I have bulldozers and other heavy equipment, he says. If I enroll it for civil defense, how can I get it to you in case of emergency? How would I know where it is, and how would I get it back later? Well, most of the contractors have already registered their heavy equipment with our Public Works Emergency Division. By periodic telephone contacts and postcard notices, we keep track of all registered equipment as it is moved to various locations and jobs. Because of our system of equipment registration, there will be a minimum of delay and confusion in getting it back to the contractor later. Another question, Commissioner. If my home is destroyed or damaged by an atomic bomb, can I expect financial aid from the city or state to rebuild it? Well, I know of no way that the city would be financially able to pay war damages on private property destroyed by an atomic bombing. However, I think it's reasonable to expect that the federal government will make some provision in the form of some kind of war insurance. One final question, Commissioner. A man in Brooklyn asks, how soon after an atomic attack can we expect normal services of water, gas, and electricity to be provided? Well, I think that's a foolish question, and to make any general predictions would be an equally foolish answer. Obviously, the extent of damage will control the amount of time necessary to make the repairs. I would suggest that the Inquirer stop worrying about how long he will be without gas or electricity and worry more about what he could do to help our civil defense program for the benefit of the city as a whole. We got a lot more serious problems to worry about than to consider just how long any individual might be without all the comforts of home. Thank you, Frederick H. Zermelin, Commissioner of the New York City Department of Public Works. So many of you have commented on the Question Box program we did a while ago. We're going to have another one next week. Our guests will be Martin Caden, Technical Specialist for the New York State Civil Commission, and Joan Gould of the New York City Civil Defense Committee. Try to be with us, won't you? This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. You've been listening to the 16th in a series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we'll answer a variety of questions you listeners have sent us about civil defense. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at this same time next week when we open our question box. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network.