The microphones are your city station aboard the USS Wasp, which is being recommissioned at this time in the famous New York Navy Yard, familiarly known as the Brooklyn Navy Yard. The President of the City Council has just taken his place with the distinguished guests, Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt, Mr. Barney Baruch, and Captain Matt Caffrey will preside as General Chairman and present the regular order of program. He's just asked the guests to be seated. In just a moment we'll hear his voice announcing the regular order of program. He's now greeting the guests, and here he is. He has just introduced Admiral Delaney. Watch through. Let's cover. Two. Almighty and eternal God, we ask thy blessing on this ship today, recommissioned to serve in the Navy of the United States. We offer even this vessel of war to thee, the God of peace, authority and power, and as a weapon of tyranny and greed, but as a protector of God-given freedom, a defender of right and justice, a guardian of our beloved country. Almighty God, we humbly Almighty God, we humbly beseech thee to look with divine favor upon the ceremonies of this hour. Bless the captain, his crew, his officers, so that they may be enabled by thy powerful protection to discharge the duties of their respective stations with honesty and ability. Keep them mindful and worthy of their noble mission, so that willingly and generously they will be in their own very hearts what their uniforms proclaim them to be, dedicated guardians of America and its people. From this high purpose only can they draw the enthusiasm which can make welcome the rigors of training and service and can temper the sadness of separation. Nor can we fail to turn our thoughts in these sacred moments to those in the past who made the wasp a name of honor and heroic memory. Many of them are dead. Let it not be said that they are forgotten. To thee, O God, we recommend their souls, trustful that thy unbounded mercy is keeping them in a place of refreshment, light, and peace. Grant that the memory of them will ever be not a thing of sadness, but of inspiration. That their heroism be not a fact of the dead past, but an ancestry of courage and achievement. May the present and future officers and men of this illustrious ship continue to live up to that glorious inheritance and never tarnish in any way its luster. In thy hands, O God, we place the fortunes of the wasp. Let the measure of thy care over it be not our merit, but thy fatherly love. Amen. Cover. Two. Admiral McCoy. Admiral Badgett. Admiral McCaffrey. Distinguished guests. Members of the warship company. And our friends and guests who have gathered with us here today. We are proud and honored that so many of the friends of the Navy and so many of those who are interested that we retain our supremacy of the seas would take time out of their busy lives to be with us when we commission this modernized carrier. To redo this ship built during the war and with a great war record, to handle the newer, bigger, and faster planes, and also have the lessons of the war and new developments included in her modernized hull and equipment was an enormous task. That she is ready for commissioning, about six months ahead of her original date, reflects great credit on those who planned and implemented her modernization. For the large part of that fine job for which you are responsible, my thanks to you, Admiral Nybecker, as commander of the naval shipyard, and through you to your loyal, energetic, and efficient yard workmen and your naval staff. My thanks, too, to you, Captain McCaffrey, and your ship's company. In spite of all the time you and your crew have spent in pre-commissioning training and other work, they still found time to cooperate with the shipyard personnel in readying this ship for today's commissioning. I am sure this same spirit will continue to prevail during the remainder of your time in the yard. The civilian and naval personnel of this district stand ready to assist you in any way we can to ready your ship, train your personnel to meet your readiness for sea day. In accordance with the directive from the chief of naval operations, I have had an inspection made of this ship to determine her readiness for commission. My board of inspection has found the ship ready. You are to command this modernized carrier, Captain McCaffrey, and I am sure that all hands here today will want to join me in congratulating you on your new command and in extending best wishes to you and your ship's company for many pleasant, peaceful, and successful commissions of voyages. Will you take charge now, sir, and please put the USS Wasp in commission. Please put the USS Wasp in commission. Aye, sir. Covered to watch. Face the colors. Sound off. Present! Worldоть nostrhereal fund Senate! Airborne arsenic! Adheartwarmingullahs! As 30th of USA, shoulders annual hearts给 another town Hollywood head! Man! A personal vision of this declare for a magic lantern, AMT 101, ha capitalized by November 17 moto. Believe it or not, planet 11 the helm, must feel free. Long Eso everyeman preparatory takes over office means not absolute behalf of men and смотреть. See on that common tradition another star American Captain, the ship has been placed in commission. Very well. Will you please be seated? From the Chief of Naval Personnel to Captain Burnham C. McCaffrey. Change of Duty. Upon completion of your course of instruction, you will regard yourself detached from duty at the Industrial College of the Armed Forces, Washington, D.C., and from such other duty as may have been assigned you. We'll proceed to New York, New York, and report to the Commandant, 3rd Naval District, as prospective commanding officer in connection with the reactivation of the USS Wasp, and for duty involving flying as commanding officer of that vessel when placed in commission. Signed, L.G. DuBose. Admiral Delaney, I accept command of the USS Wasp. Commander Drake, set the watch. Aye, aye, sir. Moses, pipe the watch. First section. Commander Austin, you have the first watch to drop to the deck. Aye, sir. Set the watch. First section. Break the flag of Admiral McCormick. Break the flag of Admiral McCormick. Break the flag of Admiral McCormick. Press the flag of Admiral McCormick. To open the up to the flag. You are密 contact official for the commander's troops who have been taken. Larry and I will, as H.OD Right, sir. Mr thelf soldiers make the daylighters which were given more and more. But you're not in trouble than us. Rungie himself now and your rifle guns for the commander's troops to escort duty vamps, the end of many lights. www. senator cabs, Watch crew, parade, rest. You have just seen the ceremonies which make us a full-flip ship in the Navy. We have here on the platform a number of distinguished guests. I would like to introduce them to you. Mr. Sharkey, the President of the City Council of New York and the personal representative of Mayor and Coletare. Mr. Sharkey. You all know that the WASP has a record of historic service in the Navy. I would like to introduce to you a gentleman who has an equally honorable record for this country, Mr. Baruch. Admiral Ballantine, the Commander in the Commander Air Force Atlantic Fleet, will be our immediate commander when we report ready for sea and on our way. I am indeed happy that he has been able to come here and be with us today. Admiral Ballantine. Many of you ladies who are here today have come because you have a son in this crew. Back in 1943, when this ship was first commissioned, another lady came for the same reason. She was also the First Lady of the Land. I am happy, and I am sure you are, to see that mother return with us today. Mrs. Roosevelt. Among all the distinguished guests, I have one figure, my wife. Mrs. Roosevelt. Admiral Ballantine is the commandant of the current Naval District. I thank him for the applied counsel and help that he has given to us. No one could have been by him. Admiral Osterbacher is a man of such multitudinous duties that I cannot give them all to you. Sufficient to say he represents the Navy in a way in which we are all proud. Admiral Neibecker, the Commander of the shipyards. Admiral Neibecker has done for us. His staff and his men. I will try, however, and thank him for all of the cooperation, the utmost effort, and all of it has been given with a cheery smile. Admiral Hillencotter, the Commander of the Naval Base here, has recently reported by his staff, has been of an estimable value to us in preparing for this commissioning ceremony. It must have been a sad day when Captain Wendell Switzer had to put the wasp in mothballs. He had her during those last hectic fly of fighting days that marked the end of the Pacific War. war. He knew she was tops among fighting ships. I think perhaps it is justice that now that we are being sent back to the fleet, that we should be sent to the fleet in which he plays such an active part. Admiral Switzer, the Chief of Staff for the Commander-in-Chief Atlantic Station. Less than a month ago, the blue-starred flag, which you saw hoisted up there, was raised over the headquarters of Admiral McCormick in Norfolk. We are the first major man of war to report to his command since that time. We are happy to be with him, and we are happy to have him here with us today. May I introduce the Commander-in-Chief of the Atlantic and of the Atlantic Fleet, Admiral Lyon McCormick. Admiral Badger, Admiral Delaney, Captain McCaffrey, distinguished guests, fellow members of the Atlantic Fleet. The occasion of commissioning this great ship marks the most important event in the lives of many people. For you, Captain McCaffrey, it is a great honor to be with you. Captain McCaffrey, the most important event in the lives of many people. For you, Captain McCaffrey, it is truly a red-letter day. It marks the beginning for you of the best duty a naval officer can earn, the command of a big ship of a naval officer can earn, the command of a big ship of war. For you, officers and men, it marks a new crew with new shipmates and a chance to be with you. For me, it is another boost for the ship. For me, it is another boost to the new ship. For me, it is another boost for the crew. For you, Captain McCaffrey, it is truly a red-letter day. It marks the beginning for you of the best duty a naval officer can earn, the command of a big ship of war. For you, officers and men, it marks a new crew with new shipmates and a chance to recreate the character of this ship. For me, it is another boost in the ever-increasing pride that I feel in having succeeded Admiral Feckler as commander-in-chief of this great fleet. But above all, today's ceremony should be a most comforting one to the American people and to the free world, since it marks the addition of a powerful weapon to the forces in being so vital to the protection of their freedom. I will speak later of the part this great ship played in World War II. I would like to compare for a minute the broad task of the Navy in that war and the problem that confronts us today. When World War II started, we controlled the oceans only a few hundred miles from our continental shores. We then had to raise tremendous forces and fight bitterly to extend this control thousands of miles across the oceans to the opposite shores before we could force our enemies to surrender. Now in 1951, we must have enough naval strength to start with that control of the oceans and to keep a tight grip on them to make sure that they serve our purposes and not those of our enemies. This fine ships and the planes that will soon be flying from our decks are good examples of solid fighting power with their inherent mobility can be applied over most of the face of the globe and thus play a vital part in the keeping of that control of the oceans. In fact, it is fully recognized by all the informed that the fast carrier task force of which the carrier is the heart exemplifies modern sea power. Such ships as this, together with battleships, cruisers and destroyers, make a most formidable fighting team which can hit hard and accurately, which carries its own protection, and which can sustain itself at sea for days on end. We feel great satisfaction in having such a team reinforced by the wars. However, I am sure that I do not have to tell you of the ship's company that you have a tremendous task of preparation still ahead of you. During really peaceful days, that task of welding this ship and crew into a great fighting machine would be a long and arduous one. Under the ominous conditions of today, you must exert superhuman efforts to make yourselves ready to take your place in the fleet. The threat from the evil forces of the world is very real and very grave. The country needs your every effort and ungrudging self-sacrifice so that you may soon make this ship a part of the strength which the free world needs to deter and if necessary to overcome those forces which clearly aim to destroy us. As this ship once again becomes a living thing, you will find that her personality represents the sum total of the personalities of you, the captains, the officers, the men who sail in us, sharing the comforts and discomforts, the fair weather and the foul, the long cruises and the joyous homecomings in the days ahead. Only another seaman can appreciate the intimate regard that sailor has for his ship. To him, she represents his job, his home, and his country all rolled into one. His daily life is governed by her plan of the day. His recreation ashore must conform to her operations schedule. His pride in the service is measured by the reputation garnered by his ship as to her efficiency and smartness, as to whether she is known throughout the Navy as a happy ship. Because this ship is starting a completely new life, I am sure that her distinguished earlier career will be an inspiring influence on you who will mold her character from now on. You should have ever in the forefront of your mind the accomplishment of that short but full existence. From her commissioning on 24 November 1943 until she was temporarily mothballed in July 1946, she filled the days with actions which you would do well to emulate if war operations should be ahead of you. She did her full part at Marcus and Wake in the Marianas campaign, the Philippines, and Okinawa. Her plane scored a hit on the battleship Yamato, thus aiding the annihilation of that last desperate charge of the Japanese surface Navy. She was a vital member of the almost fabulous Task Force 58, smashing at the Japanese homeland and launching aircraft from close off the coast. On 19 March 1945, the Japs finally succeeded in making a direct bomb hit in the war. The bomb pierced the flight deck on which we now stand and crashed through the hangar deck before exploding. In that area, now beneath our feet, 102 men died and many more were injured. But the war stayed in the fight. It was ready to launch aircraft in less than an hour after the bomb had struck. During the same period in March 1945, the wasp established what is probably a record for one week. In seven days, she accounted for 14 enemy planes in the air and six more on the ground. He scored 500-pound bomb hits on each of two jet carriers. He landed 1,000 pounders on two of his battleships. He worked over a heavy cruiser with three 500-pound bombs and slapped a 100-pounder into a big cargo ship, heavily strafed, and probably sank a large Japs submarine. The Japs might well have called that very unhappy wasp week. After a brief period back on the coast for repairs, wasp returned in July 1945 for the final kill. She had a new skipper, as has already been mentioned, Captain Switzer. As you've heard, Rear Admiral Switzer is now my chief of staff, and I know how happy he is to be here today aboard his old command. I think maybe you see a little jealousy in his eye. He took the wasp to join the far-ranging third fleet of Admiral Halsey and the Great Task Force 38 under the late Vice Admiral J.S. McCain for the final blows against the Japanese homeland. In a series of strikes, wasp pilots swept down on Yokosuka Naval Base, on Kobe, on numerous airfields, and on hidden manufacturing centers. On 9 August, a wasp pilot on patrol high over the task force spotted a Jat kamikaze diving toward the ship. Diving in turn, on the Jat's tail, he poured a stream of lead into his left wing. The Jat plane blazed and smoked, but continued implacably to head for the war. The ship's gunners then took over and concentrated a perfect hail of fire on the diving enemy. When it seemed he could not possibly miss, his right wing disintegrated, he veered and crashed into the sea off the starboard bow. Only some fragments came aboard the ship. On 15 August, when the fighting should have been over, two Jat planes came snooping toward the ship. But her fighter pilots, still flying an alert combat patrol, intercepted them and sent them flaming into the sea. The last time wasp pilots and gunners were to have a chance to fight. Although the combat was over, the wasp was in for still more excitement. When she was struck by a typhoon with wind reaching about 80 knots, the waves dove in some 30 feet of her flight deck as they crashed upon her. But not stopped by this severe damage, which made hazardous the job of launching planes because of the shortened flight deck, the wasp flew her aircraft again and again on missions of mercy to American prisoners of war near Nagoya. These prisoners, appreciative of the effective way the wasp pilots were doing this new job, placed together a sign which they put on the roof of one of the hubbles in which they were imprisoned. It read, Men of Bataan Corregidor, thank wasp. This is a thumbnail sketch of the World War II career of this good ship. I think we should also mention the earlier wasp of the Navy. As you know, this ship is the eighth in that distinguished succession. They all played part, large or small, in the never-ending struggle for the control of the sea, always so vital to this country. War I and the Revolutionary War, Wars II and III in the War of 1812, did their brave little part to challenge and damage the British Navy. War II wasp VII participated in the desperate struggle to hold back the Japs in the Pacific in 1942. You know she was the carrier commanded by our deeply bemoaned, Admiral Forrest Sherman, when he was a captain. Though she was lost due to an enemy submarine attack, the conduct of the ship's company under Captain Sherman added more luster to the wasp's tradition. These are some of the examples which we are holding up to you, the ship's company, of the reincarnated wasp the eighth. One final word. Your ship is starting her life anew today. She'll respond to your every influence. Her future reputation from this day on will depend on each and every one of you who is taking her to sea in a few days. Yours is the responsibility to uphold the traditions and high honors which have always been associated with the name United States Ship Wars. Captain McCaffrey, an officer's man, the good ship wasp, I most heartily wish you smooth sailing. And if you are called upon to fire your guns or launch your planes in anger, good hunting. You have just heard Admiral McCormick, commander of the Atlantic Fleet, give a complete resume of the history of USS ships by the name of WASP. But now Captain McCaffrey in the familiar term, it's skipper. Captain McCaffrey. Honored guests, fellow shipmates. All of you have probably read on your program that my talk is to the crew. In defining the word crew, I quote Samuel Goldrins' famous remark, include me in. Admiral McCormick has told us of the glories of our predecessor WASP, and particularly of this ship. From that history, all of us can see that since 1775 and WASP the first, a ship with our name has walked step in step with the history of the United States. The battles of this country have always seen a WASP in the fleet. I think you will agree that the WASP is a symbol of the best fighting tradition of the United States. We are going to maintain that tradition. And we are going to do it with ship spirit, discipline, and teamwork. To make a happy, hard-hitting fighting ship, it is necessary for each of us to understand ourselves and what we are trying to do. Who are we, the crew of this ship? Some of us are career men. Others are volunteers. And others have been called to active duty at great personal sacrifice. But we are all Americans. And we are now WASP sailors. These two facts impose on us a responsibility to this ship and to every other member of its crew. And your relationship to each other. I recommend to you, from personal experience, the best rule of conduct I know. That is the golden rule. Do unto others as you would have others do unto you. what or or or video. WHAT OR. WHAT CORRECT WE TIME TO DO. WHAT MORAL PEOPLE SAY AND YOUR TEST?