Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Oh, say can you see by the dawn's early light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. Oh, say the sad star-spangled banner yet wave, for the light, what so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? The land of the sea, and the hope of the wave. The senior surrendered military pageantry here in the City Hall, the Mayor of the City of New York, his host, General Courtney H. Hodges, who will receive a scroll and the bronze medal of the city. And now the Honorable Glover A. Whalen. Mr. Mayor, about ten days ago, you will recall that your office was advised that there might be an unofficial landing made on Manhattan Island by Alonson. A man who was advised to describe to you as a soldier's soldier, and that he intended, without your permission, or the permission of the police department, to escape from Governor's Island. You alerted all the police department, some 20,000, and they covered every inch of Manhattan Island. And we just discovered the man coming through Pier 6 on South Street. I must say that the Navy helped a bit by telling us the direction in which he was coming across the 17-gun salute indicated that the Navy had picked up this distinguished guest on its radar. However, before I turn the general over to you, Mr. Mayor, we have a request that the French government would like to have a message read by the Council of General Trump, the Council of General Trump, the Council of General Trump. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, is the President of the United States. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, is the President of the United States. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, is the President of the United States, and the United States. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Mayor, I must say that the American Army, after such a long and brilliant career, I want to make known to you the gratitude and admiration of all my compatriots, while some in contact with you, when, in the surface of two wars, you came to fight depiliously on the side of France. It is that then known what the authorities of St. Miel and the Argonnes meant in the outcome of the First World War, and none forget the era of soldiers of whom you were once. The Tournée will live forever in the hearts of our people, in the magnificent campaign which keeps his hands on the German oppression and occupation. You led the First Army from the beaches of Normandy to Paris, while not only the French, but the Roux-en-Vert, looked on the arms with deep emotions. You are very pleased in our capital, told the profound gratitude of the people of Paris, and their confidants in our victory. And it marked at the same time, and once more, the French which unite our two countries. I want all you so to thank you for the warm understanding which you have always told for France, and in the name of the French people, I send you my best wishes for your happiness for you and you. Always, you are very pleased to see a list of the next place from the Confederacy of the United States. Mr. Mayor, I give you perhaps the most modest man that ever entered the City Hall of New York, General Barton Cutter. General Hartley, General Hartley, General Hartley, Ladies and gentlemen of the room, and to you, the citizens of New York, the New York, the American. We are here for your information, listening, in City Hall, on an occasion that a note, a regret, which is a day in history, when we welcomed General Hartley to City Hall, to stay far out. In saying goodbye to General Cartley Hodge, we New Yorkers are losing a good friend. During his tour of duty with the First Army here in New York City, General Hodge's time and again, in periods of stress and emergency, offered the complete cooperation of his forces to the people of our city. He was always the first to come forward, especially during the great snow of 1947, when he mustered every piece of equipment the Army had in this area that could possibly be a tough to run. For that, New York still long remembered. Of course, New York knew of General Hartley, before he assumed command of the First Army here. As leader of that Army, in large time, he contributed greatly to the defeat of the Nazi war machine, and the most unaccompanied in the world. Many of our own rough warriors were with him, as we watched him, as one of the outstanding combat generals of the war, watched him drive across the country, as he judged. We honor him today as a man who has been, as Mr. Erwin suggested, and as others have written and said, a soldier's scope, as enlisted man and gentle for forty years. We honor him as one who has served his country, its courageous brilliance in two wars. We thank him for the people of the city of New York, and we wish him and him every happiness in his return. This city and his country are proud of him. General Hartley. The conned and food for his time, the warmest thing he told me to work, viels are the folly Party, but he loved his country, the way of the storm and other things he waited. AndEX is a beillotmoman. And those nations are holding the law. For it's high, high, deep in the field of glory. All of your sons are coming strong. To where you go, you will always know. And those nations are holding the law. And those nations are holding the law. Mayor Dwyer, St. Louis Ches, my good friend. I feel that I'm being greatly honored to be here today, this day, in which I go into retirement. And I can say this in the honor. In accepting these honors here today, I wish to accept them not for myself alone, but for all of the officers and men of the First Army. That is the team which has endued itself to New York City. Without them, I would not have gotten very far. I wish to thank the mayor, all of the city officials, for the fine cooperation, for the fine friendship, as has been shown, to me personally, to special and official channels, and to all of my officers and soldiers. Surely, New York is a friendly to operating citizens. We are now headed out for Texas. But, uh, a few of us have fought eventually to retire in New York. So, I'm not going to say it's the last new area that is in Colorado. There are our ways that was at theDr. Louis Music Eleev again. TheFund EV is the Aw basta-PRAN withformist rennant. O Lord, the saints, the peace of God, and the Lord, the God. O Lord, the light of the light, O Lord, the light of the light, O Lord, the light of the light, O Lord, the light of the light, O Lord, the light of the light. Ladies and gentlemen, our final tribute, which in no wise lessons are fetching, and will shortly play you as a memory of General Hines. The City, I have now the honor to present to the General the following story. The Office of Mayor of the City of New York, on behalf of the citizens, who did by sight for distinguished and exceptional public service, General Courtney H. Thomas, United States Army, whose outstanding military genius, personal courage, and un-daunt spirit brought about the successful completion of all military objectives, and whose exemplification of living American democracy, have enlisted the hostile, objective, and deep appreciation of the people of the city of New York. And a medal, one of the very few, the German Hodges. With an inscription on the reverse side, it reads, New York City awards this medal to the victorious man who's down, of the first United States Congress, for his defense of human liberty, 1944-1945. New York says those war winners, and his huge passion. The mayor of the City of New York is now pinning the medal on General Hodges, and, uh, presenting the scroll of the city, and the cameramen are demanding their opportunities to photograph this historic event. And there's the set to be in the Hodges in City Hall. The cameraman is in their commands, and the spreading pageantly of the flag in the top of New York City Hall, and in the most early scene, under the portraits of George Washington, and the marquee of Lafayette, painted, by the way, by a great communications scientist, Morse, here in the, uh, council chamber at City Hall, why this ceremony is taking place, and the city of New York acknowledges in formal, uh, statement, and deed its tribute to General Hodges of the First Army. The cameramen sound like this. An army in itself is a musician's command. The prodigal goes to pieces when the cameramen get busy, but they do make splendid records for the, uh, future. And when we turn to these records in a literary way to recapture the scene, the faces and the facts are all there in the picture. Nobody minds their lack of prodigal or their plentary commands because they're working towards an end, too. And these pictures are very, very important. And, uh, I cite this instance since in the formality and the organization of these receptions, we all receive the most careful instructions except the cameramen. And they tell the first people what to do, how to stand, when to smile, and what to do. So a good picture is the record, and that record is there when we try to recapture the event. And now the general and the mayor are having a few words in private, and this is where Mr. Whalen is about to escort the mayor and, uh, General Hodges from the council. There's a couple of guides and paid and his guard doesn't represent the Ember십 pounds and his team together these people. And one field Month two night 그렇지 The police glee club. The police glee club. The police glee club. The police glee club. The police glee club. Mr. Mayor, there are, awaiting in the plaza of City Hall, 600 firemen and policemen, all GIs, many of whom, most of whom, fought with General Huston and level part two awaiting your inspection. So General O'Dwyer, as far as General Courtney H. Hodges, from the Roston here in the Council Chamber, down to City Hall, where our own two great armies of blue, the fire department and the police department are constantly facing the anxiety of life and death in carrying out the protection of life and property in the city of New York. One against the hazard of fire and sometimes the carelessness of our citizens. The others in situations that arise from time to time that are unpredictable in a great and humble city like New York. But our army of blue are there, the policemen and the firemen, and they will now be reviewed by their commanding general, General O'Dwyer, and General Hodges, as he leaves amid a pageantry of flags most beautiful to witness here in the Council Chamber at City Hall. As the flags and color guards leave the Council Chamber, and this movement in processionals, certainly New York City has played a wonderful tribute to this man, this man who rose from the ranks, General Hodges, the commander of the First Army, who was so signally honored by General O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York today, in the presentation of the the Greatly Proof, the Nationalhoof, and the bronze medal of the City. And as we hear the music of the Police League Club, marching along together as we all do and as we all must, we take lead of you from the Council Chamber in City Hall. And we turn you to the studios, this is the Municipal Broadcasting System.