What does the word democracy mean to a Russian in terms of his frame of reference? What does it mean to a Hindu in terms of his frame of reference? Well, now, it's our feeling that in a society of this nature, when we can get people together, such as those representing speech, those representing linguistics, those representing general semantics, those representing mathematics, sociology, anthropology, and so on, all who have one interest in common, and that is the study of communication, that we can do studies of the nature that was done by this group of social scientists, but we can work as a team. In other words, Dr. Norbert Wiener, inventor of the human or the mechanical brain, known as the electrical numerical integrator and calculator, has turned out two books that are of interest to all people, I think, who are interested in the field of communication. One of them is titled Cybernetics, or the subtitle is of Control of Communication Among Animals and Machines. Dr. Wiener is interested in the ability of man to communicate with machines and machines to communicate back to man. If you want to read a very interesting article upon the necessity of that as far as future survival is concerned of the human species, I would suggest that you read Brigadier General David Sarnoff's article that appeared in the April issue of Liberty Magazine, 1950. General Sarnoff points out in that article that now that we have developed machines that will travel faster than the speed of sound, that in view of the fact that we have guided missiles that will go in the neighborhood of 2,000 miles an hour, that sort of speech as we know it today is too slow for purposes of living in that kind of a supersonic world. We started out in terms of our language by learning letters and learning to string those letters together and then later learning words and learn to string those words together in sentences. Today when a plane is traveling through the air at something like 856 miles an hour, by the time the individual being sees it, reacts to it, interprets the data, attempts to put it into words and so on, that object can be 100 or more miles away before the individual reacts to it. So we are in the process of developing new methods of communication. I wanted to refer to the second book that was written by Dr. Wiener titled The Human Use of Human Beings. And I think that is of significance to people who are interested in this total field of communication. But it is our belief that if we could get teams of people working upon these problems in communication, and on that team, upon a given team, for example, we might have a man like Dr. Wiener, a man like Major Estes here, who is in the practical field dealing with individuals who have communicative problems and management sits on one side of him and labor on the other, and they can really communicate in a certain kind of a frame of reference, as the Major has told you on numerous occasions in the past. We want to bring the people from federal mediation and conciliation into the picture, get them to meet with teachers of speech and English and these sociologists and others that are interested in this problem, and as a team, work upon these given problems. And then possibly, we will not encounter the sort of thing that you run into when you pick up any profound book on some of the complex problems of today that state that even though we have made tremendous technological progress in the field of communication, as far as a meeting of minds are concerned, we are probably farther apart than before we learn to communicate with the speed of light, which we are able to do with new developments in the field of electronics. Many thoughtful writers and speakers are concerned with that problem today, that even though we have developed all of these mass media for the purpose of disseminating ideas and so on, we grow farther apart in terms of our agreement and our understanding of these basic issues. And it's my personal conviction that sincere scholars, sincere men and women who are primarily interested in that problem or if they are interested in communication from the standpoint of teaching a course of communication, if they are primarily interested in students rather than subject matter, and if they are willing to allow that interest in students to become the chief concern rather than their interest in a particular vested area, subject matter area, something like that, to blind them to possibilities that might be brought about, then I think some real good can be accomplished. I want to pay tribute to Major Charles Estes, who is with us here today. He read to you the names of the outstanding men from industry who appeared on the workshop panel that had to do with communication in industry. At times, there were more people on the panel than there were out in the audience, and we had some of the most high-powered men in the country, or men with ideas. We appreciate the tremendous amount of work that he has gone to in organizing that particular panel. More than anything else, I appreciate the fact that for years, Major Estes has been trying to get teachers of speech out of their ivory towers down into the practical laboratories where communication is going on to get them to study it and in turn help them solve their particular problems. Well, now, the National Society for the Study of Communication is one year old as of this time. I am convinced in terms of the reception that we have received from men like Paul Lazarsfeld, who is now a member and a sociologist, men like Dr. Weiner, Mr. Sarnoff, Lyman Bryson, and others, that this society is going to go ahead. It's going to attack these problems of communication in a cooperative kind of a way, and our research is going to be objective and of a scientific nature. It's a pleasure to have this opportunity to appear on the program, and thank you, Dr. Wixell, for giving me this opportunity. Thank you, President. Thank you, President Bagwell. In conclusion, I want to express my appreciation to this audience and to Station WNYC and the members of this panel, Dr. Murray, Dr. Nichols, Professor Redding, Professor Bagwell, and Major Estes for their contributions today. Thank you. Now, now that the broad... A large number community over half-house for everyone and they have a plan to improve theасes and to allow them to be the best of the people and that the students have taken to the committee a bit of interest for everyone in Washington. They have to embrace We're on the bottom of the ocean. What land is this? Well, there it is. I see it. What a beautiful cathedral. Oh, I've never seen anything so wonderful before. There's your music over there. Look, quick. See the monks walking so slowly? The cathedral's moving. Yes, let's see. The great sun-patch of people is going to rise from the blue depths of the sea, the gold and sunlight. Then after a thousand suns, it slowly returns to its enchanted home on the ocean floor. In the darkness. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. By transcription, your city station invites you to enter the magic land of music. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Your city station has brought you transcribed the magic land of music. William Stelling was heard as Mr. Music, Bretta Coleman as Nancy. The program was originated, written and produced by Annette Fackner and Laurie Gordon. This is the municipal broadcasting system. film fighter and protestation. By transcription, your city station invites you to enter the magic land of music. For these days, open to your Your city station has brought you transcribed The Magic Land of Music William Stelling was heard as Mr. Music Retta Coleman as Nancy The program was originated, written and produced by Annette Backner and Marie Gordon This is the Municipal Broadcasting System The Magic Land of Music The Magic Land of Music