Thank you, Anna. Our guest today has been described as one of the 50 greatest women in American history. She is Mrs. Mary McLeod Bethune, and her success story is one of the most thrilling I have ever heard, for it is a story of success against what seemed almost insurmountable difficulties. Mrs. Bethune was born in the South, the daughter of slave parents. Her older brothers and sisters also were slaves, freed at last by the Emancipation Proclamation. Somehow, the little girl, Mary, always had a great deal of energy and a thirst for knowledge, and when she had attained an education, she wanted to share it with others, for as she once said, the drums of Africa beat in my soul, and they will never be still until every Negro boy and girl in America has a chance to learn and to grow. Mary Bethune opened her first school in Daytona Beach, Florida, with a total capital of $1.50. They used charred splinters of burned logs for pencils and mashed elderberries for ink. Today, that school is the Bethune-Cookman Junior College, and its founder is a noted educator, lecturer, and executive. In 1937, she founded the National Council of Negro Women, and it is about that we wish to question her today. Tell us about the council, won't you, Mrs. Bethune? Thank you, Mrs. Roosevelt. I'm most grateful to you and your daughter, Anna, for having me as your guest on this program. More particularly, I thank you for permitting me to be with you today, for I am here representing the National Council of Negro Women, and as you know, on tomorrow, Lincoln's birthday, we are launching our first nationwide interracial membership enlistment. For the first time, we are inviting women who believe in the fundamental spirit of democracy to join us in our fight for human and civil rights. You tell me that you wish to increase the council's membership this year by 100,000, and that you'd like to reach the million membership mark. Why are you so anxious to get all these new members at this time? In these times, Mrs. Roosevelt, we feel that in order to achieve the goal of civil and human rights for all, it is necessary for women of all races and creeds to know and understand each other. The National Council of Negro Women serves now as a clearinghouse for the women of our major organizations. But this is not enough. We need the strength of all women who believe as we believe, and they need us, for none of us can do much alone. There are masses of women without organizational affiliation who are waiting for guidance and leadership in order that they, too, may participate in the great struggle for human rights and interracial understanding to which you have already made such a great contribution. These women must be instructed in the proper use of the ballot, using it rightly as a weapon for freedom and economic security. Well, that, of course, is most necessary. But I understand you've been told that you ought to take a rest. It doesn't sound as though you were going to. Although the organization is called the National Council of Negro Women, it is really interracial, isn't it? Could you say a few words about this, Mrs. Bethune, too? It is remarkable, Mrs. Roosevelt. Well, how during the past 13 years, the doors of interracial opportunity have opened to us. In every phase of the work of common interest to all women, we are rapidly being affiliated with national and international organizations. And, of course, in the national affairs of our own government, we participate very fully, gaining knowledge which enables us to inform and assist all of our women. In this effort, which begins tomorrow, we have as our honorary co-chairman and interracial team, Mrs. Harper Sibley, President of the United Council of Church Women, and Miss Marianne Anderson, our great contralto. We have many distinguished life members. You were, of course, our first one. And we are fortunate in having, among others, Madam Pandit of India, Honorable Helen Gehagen Douglas, Mrs. Agnes Myers of the Post in Washington, Mrs. Estelle Tonnenbaum, one of the great Jewish leaders, Mrs. Frances Biddle, Madam Laura Dreyfuss Barney, and others. We now seek to create, or the creation of still greater areas of cooperation between the women of all the races of mankind for the preservation of universal peace and justice. Mrs. Bethune, Thank you, Mary McLeod Bethune. None of us certainly can say that as yet we have perfect democracy, nor even the democracy that Abraham Lincoln and others of our great men envisioned. But I, for one, am proud that our country could produce a Mrs. Bethune. Your achievements are a tribute to our nation, even more a tribute to your own individual spirit and effort. And now, back to my daughter Anna in Hollywood. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
