Philip Wiley said this recently, The Soviets, with far fewer bombs, might quite conceivably so shock and horrify an unready USA that our folks would abandon our cities and refuse to go back. Then we'd have to surrender. We can be sure we are strong enough to face those birds on a city trading basis only if and when the whole 150 million of us are all set and prepared and briefed and rehearsed for the evil show, the show they could start tomorrow. This is the 21st in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival, transcribed for the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed. Now, here's Bill Leonard. This week, our topic is traffic in an emergency. First, our guest will be Mr. Casimir A. Kenswick, Assistant Deputy Director for Operations and Training of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. And then local stations will have the chance to discuss the subject in terms of their individual communities. Mr. Kenswick, just what does the State Commission mean by emergency traffic? From the viewpoint of the State Civil Defense Commission, Mr. Leonard, emergency traffic concerns the movement of disaster relief equipment and personnel into a city hit by an atomic bomb, movement of vehicles and personnel within a city in actual disaster fighting, and the movement out of a stricken city of wounded and homeless. As I see it, a bombed city would have to rely on state civil defense authorities to direct overall rescue operations involving other communities. That's right, Mr. Leonard. After a bombing attack, a city would require tremendous and immediate assistance from hundreds of communities near and far. The aid that a city would require from outside points includes medical aid teams, firefighting apparatus and personnel, light and heavy duty rescue teams, public works and engineering teams, welfare teams, and police. Thousands of vehicles of all kinds will be dispatched by the State Civil Defense Director. They're movement based on field reports to him. Mr. Kenswick, you mentioned assistance from near and far. How much territory does that take in? Depending upon the extent of the disaster, the mutual aid plan calls for assistance of all types to be sent to a bombed city from all over the state of New York, from neighboring states, and in fact, even from Canada. Nearby communities will have to bear the greatest initial burden, even to the point of sending all their civil defense forces to help. Additional emergency units will be moved in from more remote areas to prevent stripping cities of all their disaster-fighting people and equipment to help another city. Well, you mean then, Mr. Kenswick, that some form of reserve must be kept in each city? Yes, Mr. Leonard. We base our civil defense plans on the assumption that the enemy would probably attempt to hit several cities at one time in the state alone in a heavy initial attack. No doubt exists as to the proficiency of the Soviet Air Force. Only a very stupid person would underestimate their ability. I understand you recently had an all-out full-dress rehearsal for emergency operations, I think it was in Utica, on the 26th of May. Yes, and another for Niagara Falls on Friday, June the 15th. While it proved a necessity for more training and more practice, the overall results were satisfactory. These tests will be continued throughout the state to discover our deficiencies and to remedy them. Regardless of the extent of civil defense training and instructions, Mr. Kenswick, don't you think that hundreds of people will try to flee a bombed city by car and on foot? I wish I could disagree with you, Mr. Leonard. I'd like to think that every citizen of this state was sensible enough to understand the situation, follow instructions, and not give in to fear and panic. That's certainly the way it ought to be. At the same time, we have anticipated the seriousness of the problem you suggest and have set up very strict and definite rules to take care of it. We cannot let a few panic-ridden people stand in the way of our saving thousands of others. Immediately following an attack, all unauthorized vehicle movement in and out of the bombed city is forbidden. Roadblocks and their locations have already been selected, and the police have been given their post-attack assignments. Within an attacked city, no vehicle can move except with the authorization of the local director. Outside the city limits, civil defense routes will be controlled so that emergency traffic can pass without difficulty. But they will not be barred unnecessarily to normal traffic. And these main civil defense routes aren't a secret, are they? No. They are by no means a secret, Mr. Leonard. This commission has already printed and distributed 5,000 copies of the civil defense highway map. Many motorists driving on the New York State highways have already seen large civil defense road signs stating that the road will be closed in the event of an attack. Well, so far we've talked only about roads and highways. What about the other kinds of traffic, like railroads, for instance? After an attack, no train movements will be permitted until the condition of the main tracks and the terminals has been determined. Emergency commuter services will be set up as promptly as is physically possible. This will be gradually extended until normal operations have been resumed. Of course, people will undoubtedly converge on rail terminals following a disaster, expecting immediate transportation out of the city. Metropolitan police, assisted by auxiliary and railroad police, will be assigned to handle these crowds. What about cities with rivers or those situated on the ocean, Mr. Kenswick? We have already thoroughly explored the use of waterways, Mr. Leonard, and will put our plans in operation the moment we have to. Docking points have been surveyed and emergency sites selected for landing rescue equipment. We will employ everything that can roll, cars, trucks, buses, taxi cabs. We will make use of everything that runs on rails or floats in the water. In the case of an atomic attack, two things are of paramount importance. Our ability to make our needs known instantly. And emergency traffic, our ability to get necessary equipment to disaster points without delay. Many lives will be needlessly lost if civil defense teams cannot move quickly and freely. Thank you, Mr. Casimir A. Kenswick, Assistant Deputy Director for Operations and Training, New York State Civil Defense Commission. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. With me now is Deputy Commissioner T.T. Wiley of the Department of Traffic of New York City. Commissioner, to any New Yorker, the word traffic is kind of like waving a red flag in front of a bull. With our streets so congested during the so-called normal times, isn't it frightening to have to plan how you'd handle traffic in an atomic emergency? Not entirely, Mr. Leonard. The job's got to be done. We hope to do it with a complete and intelligent cooperation of every person who lives in New York City. Mr. Kenswick has made the situation very clear. Emergency equipment must be able to move quickly and freely. We intend to see that it does. Well, Commissioner Wiley, what agencies of civil defense are responsible for the movement of traffic in and around a bombed city? Is the local municipality supposed to handle matters? Outside the city limits, it is the job of state, county, and city police and their auxiliaries to keep the way clear for emergency traffic to move and to permit whatever flow of normal traffic is possible. Inside the attack city, the emergency traffic responsibility lies with local police and their auxiliaries, assisted when necessary by public works personnel to clear streets. Now for some questions. First, a listener from Brooklyn, Mr. H.H., writes this one. Suppose he says I'm driving along, say, the Belt Parkway when the warning siren sounds. What should I do? The parkways will be routes for the moving of emergency vehicles in case of bombing. Therefore, it is desirable that they be immediately cleared of vehicles when an air raid warning is given. Persons driving on the parkway should leave at the first exit, then park at the curb and seek shelter. Mrs. R.W., who is also from Brooklyn, says, if I'm in the middle of a tunnel or bridge during a bombing attack, should I drive to the other side or should I stop just where I am? Traffic in tunnels is under the control of signal systems and police officers. In case of bombing, drivers will be told what to do by these officers or signals. Bridges are a different matter. They are strategic parts of the highway system and will undoubtedly be principal targets for bombs. Therefore, motorists should drive across the bridge, park, and seek the nearest public shelter or building. Park in an orderly manner. Why, I emphasize the orderly manner. It would be awfully easy for a few thoughtless or panicky drivers to create serious traffic congestion by abandoning their cars in the traffic stream. The few extra seconds that it takes to get the car out of the way are not going to jeopardize anyone and can be the difference between serious traffic tie-ups and orderly movement. Well, here's one a lot of people have been asking, Commissioner Wiley. Mr. L.B. of the Bronx writes, I've seen signs on taxis saying that they are part of the emergency taxi corps. Now, just what does that mean? The various taxi companies have pitched in wholeheartedly to organize the emergency taxi corps to operate as part of the air warden's service in periods of emergency. Taxis will provide much-needed messenger service. They will be used as emergency ambulances and to provide other types of emergency transportation service under the direction of the police department's air warden service. Well, here's one I think I can answer myself, but let's make it official. Suppose you reply to Mrs. R.P. She says, my husband commutes from Larchmont by car. Would he be able to drive back home after a bombing? No. No. During the first 24 hours after a bombing or until permission is granted by the civil defense authorities, all traffic is prohibited except emergency vehicles. We'll get all those husbands home as soon as we can, but it might take a few days. Every man who is able-bodied and unharmed will be expected to stay right here to help with disaster work. Most men know this and are prepared for it. Thousands of commuters have already accepted our invitation to sign up for civil defense, both where you live and where you work. We hope thousands more will do the same thing. One more question. This listener writes, I know that many bridges, highways, and tunnels would be destroyed after a bombing. How would you route the essential traffic? The routing of traffic after a bombing will depend upon what effects bombs have had. As I stated before, during the first 24 hours, only emergency traffic will be permitted to move. In order to accommodate these emergency vehicles and keep them moving, a network of primary and secondary emergency routes has been selected. Even after the expiration of the 24-hour period, no other traffic will be allowed on these routes except under police direction. Insofar as use of other streets is concerned, traffic in undamaged areas will be permitted to move as usual. Special regulations will be set up as necessary around or through damaged areas. In closing, I want to emphasize one thing. We who have the responsibility for moving emergency traffic if this city is bombed have our plans made and are as well prepared as we can be. But in the final analysis, your survival after an attack may depend much more on the help you're able to give yourself and your neighbors. Are you signed up for civil defense? Do you know what to do yourself and your family until we can get to you? Just what is your plan for survival? Thank you, Deputy Commissioner T.T. Wiley of the Department of Traffic, New York City. Next week, Plan for Survival will bring you a man with a message of utmost importance, Governor Thomas E. Dewey, who will speak on civil defense in New York State. Because the governor's talk is so vital, there will be no local cut-ins. He'll take the entire 15-minute period. Be sure to listen, same time, next week, when Governor Dewey reports on civil defense in New York State. This is Bill Leonard reminding you that civil defense is common sense. You've been listening to the 21st in a series of transcribed programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Send us your questions, and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Don't forget this same time next week, Governor Thomas E. Dewey reports on civil defense in New York State. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.