Rockefeller Center, the skyscraper city within a city. As a special event of this station, we are pleased to bring you Ted Malone, well known to millions of radio listeners, who is about to take you via radio on a tour of Rockefeller Center in New York City, during which he will describe the incredible wonders of the vast development, and also present interesting Rockefeller Center personalities in informal interviews. He'll bring you Radio City Music Hall Rockettes, tour guides, Radio City Music Hall Ballet Girls, and ice skating stars from the Center Theater. But first, here's the famous organist, Dick Liebert, at the console of the Radio City Music Hall's huge organ, to start our program in a gay mood. And now, Dick Liebert. Dr. C Arggout D Arggout The End And now here is your radio host and narrator, Ted Malone, who will take you on a brief radio trip through Rockefeller Center. Hello there. Did you know that Rockefeller Center in New York City is a greater tourist attraction than the Grand Canyon, Mount Vernon, or the Statue of Liberty? Well, according to magazine surveys, it most certainly is. In daily population alone, it ranks as America's 56th city. I'd like to know more about this busy metropolis, and I think you would too. So how about joining me on a guided tour of Rockefeller Center right now? Well, here we are on the final stop of the Rockefeller Center guided tour. Atop the RCA building, 850 feet above the street, after being whisked to the observation roof on the world's fastest elevator, quicker than you can say Prometheus. Imagine shooting up the sky at 1,400 feet per minute. And here before me is our attractive young guide, Miss Mary Jo Twitty, who's just been showing us some of the many attractions of Rockefeller Center. Miss Twitty, I think right now we should review some of the things that we've been seeing on our tour, don't you? Certainly, Mr. Malone. Well, tell the folks where we've been, what we've seen. Well, our tour began with a brief history of Rockefeller Center. We have visited one of the many roof gardens in the center and the sub-basement, 34 feet below the ground, where deliveries for all of the 15 buildings are made. We've seen several of the 100 artworks, including the famous Prometheus statue in the lower plaza. Oh, I remember the gentleman. We visited the beautiful lounge and lobby of Radio City Music Hall. That's where you fooled me on the height of the ceiling, wasn't it? That's right. Yes, sir. I really bit on that one. Well, we've covered spots of interest in the buildings throughout the center. And then we took the world's fastest elevator, traveling at the rate of about two floors per second, to arrive here on the roof. And, of course, we saw people everywhere we went. So, I think you should tell the folks how many people there are in this huge development. Well, we have almost 32,000 men and women employed in the offices. 32,000. Yes, and we have about 128,000 visitors here every day. So, I was just thinking, 32,000? That's more people than there are in my old hometown. We only had about 20,000 in Independence, Missouri, and that included the mayor, too. How long does it take for one of these guided tours, and how often do they start? The tour takes one hour. They leave every day during the week at intervals of every few minutes. And how long is the tour? You walk less than a mile on the tour. No fooling. They tell me that on a clear day from up here on top of the RCA building, I can see Catalina, I think they said. Is that right? Not quite Catalina, Mr. Malone. But we can see about 50 miles and four states on a clear day. Which four? Connecticut, New Jersey, New York, and Pennsylvania. Thought I'd catch you on that. No, no. You must meet a lot of interesting personalities on these tours. I'll bet a lot of famous names have taken them. Do you remember any particular ones and any of their reactions? Oh, yes. There certainly have been quite a few famous names. Among them have been Herbert Hoover, Cordell Hall, the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, and theatrical celebrities Raymond Massey, Charles Lawton, and, of course, Mr. Ted Malone. Oh, I was afraid you were going to leave me out there. I was getting nervous. Well, it's been awfully nice talking to you, Mary Jo. Thank you, Mr. Miller. Now we're off again, and this time, let's visit the Center Theater. Well, here we are at the Center Theater, America's only ice theater, where the new popular and successful Howdy, Mr. Ice of 1950 is playing to delighted audiences. The Center Theater is famed for its ice-stravaganza, what with laughs, thrills, spills, spectacle, and beauty galore. And, uh, speaking of beauty, right before my very eyes are two young lovelies who are starring in the Frosty Carnival at the Center Theater, Eileen Say and Jinx Clark. Hello there, girls. Hello, Ted. I'm a little outnumbered here. Suppose I ask you ladies some questions individually. Uh, that'd be all right, Eileen? Fine, fine. I understand that, uh, you've been an Olympic skater, Miss Say, for some time. How, how long is it since you turned professional? Well, Ted, I turned professional one year ago to, uh, join Howdy, Mr. Ice at the Center Theater. And, uh, before that time, I had, uh, been a member of the 1948 Olympic team competing in Switzerland. What did you do? In other words, did you raise at figure skating? Figure skating, yes. And I've also competed in the world championships in Stockholm, Sweden. Do you come from a skating country, Eileen? No, Ted, I'm from Brooklyn, New York. No? Well, that's a skating country. How long have you been skating, Jinx? Well, I have been skating about seven years now. I was gonna say, if she said any more, I'd know she started, uh, ahem, a child skater, we would say. Where did you start? But I started in Colorado, Colorado Springs. No. Yes. I started there, too. You did? Yes. I was born there. You were. Yes, that's right. But we didn't do any skating there. What do you do in the show? Well, I do the Sleeping Beauty Ballet. Hmm. She would wake the audience up, I would say. Well, I know it's a great number, and I'm looking forward to seeing both you girls. This will have been a lot of fun talking to you. And I want to thank Eileen Say and Jinx Clark of Howdy, Mr. Ice of 1950 at the Center Theater in Rockefeller Center. Here we are off again on one more stop to the showplace of the nation, the world-famous Radio City Music Hall. This huge theater draws more tourists to Rockefeller Center than any other one attraction. Besides the finest in full-length films, short subjects, and newsreels, the Music Hall is the home of the most famous precision dancing group in the world, the Rockettes, the Chordie Ballet, and the Symphony Orchestra. Well, here we go again. And now before me is a representative of the Music Hall Rockettes, and a mighty attractive-looking young dancer she is, Dean Miles. Dean, when did you join the Rockettes? Well, I came from California about seven or eight years ago. What part of California? Los Angeles. No fooling. Were you a native of the... Yes, one of the few. I thought everybody out there came from Iowa. They generally do. Well, then you came to New York... Yes, and I came to the Music Hall. What are the basic requirements for becoming a Rockette? Well, most important is an all-around good dancer. Yes. And most of the heights are from 5'4 to 5'7. You mean there are different heights? Yes, but the way they're arranged, it makes them look from a distance like they're all one height. The center girl's the tallest, and they range down the end girl to the smallest. I didn't realize anybody was in a different height at all. I suppose weight is a factor. Yes, they're generally all pretty thin, long legs. Yes. Good sense of humor. I hear that some of the kids have gone on to greater glory in solo parts in movies and on the stage. Yes, we've had quite a few. There's Lucille Bremer, Vera Ellen, Joan Mann, Adele Juergens, and oh, many others. Well, thank you, Dean Miles. Thank you. And now here's another dancer, Athena Keller. But Athena is in the famed music hall, Corde Ballet. I'm going to ask you the same question, Athena, though, that I asked Dean. How did you become a dancer? Well, I guess I always loved music. Dancing seemed to be my medium. I like the strenuous exercise, as strange as that may seem. That is strange. There's no question about that. The ballet, now, that isn't quite the same precision. Oh, no. That's the ones that always stand with one foot this way and one foot the other way? Yes, or they're commonly referred to as toe dancers by lots of people. That's right. It requires different training than the Rockettes get, and we admire their precision dancing. Ours is much more of a free movement, I think. Yes. Well, what are some of the celebrated ballets at the music hall from the viewpoint of the audience? What do they seem to enjoy the most? Well, of course, there's Bolero. Oh, yes. I like that one. It's done with so much spectacle. And then there's La Valsse, the Undersea. There's Coppelia. We have Swan Lake variations on it. Yes, I see that. Well, now, beside the corps de ballet and the Rockettes, what other large groups are featured in the stage spectacles? Well, we have the Glee Club. Oh, sure. And they're a fine group of boys. They sing well. They bring in a choral ensemble, a woman choral ensemble sometimes to sing with them. We have the famed symphony orchestra. Yes. I certainly appreciate it very much. Both Athena Keller and Dean Miles. It's been nice talking to you. Thank you. Appreciate the privilege of visiting here backstage at the music hall. Now, I see Dick Liebert readying himself at the console of the Radio City Music Hall's organ to bring you a lively show tune often featured at the world's greatest theater. The End The End The End The End The End The End