Northwestern University in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the University holds its centennial convocation, honoring 100 men and women who have given distinguished service in the states comprising the old Northwest Territory. The Reviewing Stand salutes these 100 men and women. Many of them have appeared in this program over the past 18 years. In cooperation with the American Bible Society, the Reviewing Stand today asks the question, should more people read the Bible? The discussion will center around the kind of help the Bible gives and how to read the Bible. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Five years ago, the Reviewing Stand presented a discussion of the question, why read the Bible? It's interesting to notice that we received the largest response to this program we have had in 18 years of broadcasting. The same discussion has been repeated twice as a recorded program with a similar response. Now today we raise a variation of this same question, should more people read the Bible? Our speakers are Dr. Richard C. Hertz, Associate Rabbi of Chicago Sinai Congregation. Dr. Charles W. Kohler, President of the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary. And Father Barnabas Mary, Professor of Sacred Scripture at the Passionist Theologate in Chicago. Now, gentlemen, those of us associated with the Reviewing Stand have noted, or we think we have at least, a remarkable interest in religious, ethical, and moral questions in recent years, more especially since World War II. Do you think this interest really exists, Dr. Kohler? I think undoubtedly religion is in the news as never before in our lifetime. This increase of interest is evident from the greatly increased emphasis upon religion in newspapers, magazines, and radio programs, and by the multiplication of religious books and the wide reception which is given them these days. It is evident also in the readiness with which people generally, and young people in particular, profess belief in a divine providence. We can remember the time when it was fashionable to be skeptical or unbelieving. It has now become fashionable to believe. Has that been your experience, Rabbi Hertz? Yes, it has. As a chaplain in the Army, I found a widespread revival of interest and religious concerns among the troops and our armed forces during the last war. I have seen it too in the college classrooms and in the bull sessions that students have in their dormitories, as well as, of course, as in the formal courses on religion and literature which are becoming very popular in the colleges and universities of our country. Well, I certainly agree with Dr. Coulter and Rabbi. There is a gratifying revival of interest in the things of religion, particularly in those matters, that are easy of practice. And yet we know that religion has to plunge its roots deeper than simply in emotional life or in cultural and social expansion. It has to plunge its roots deep into man's mind and will. And there I wonder whether or not we can be so sanguine in our own age. Certainly, we know, if anything, a greater uncertainty about God, the truth that God has revealed. We know an attack on the sanctity and stability of family life. We know a vital attack on morality and integrity in public life that makes us wonder whether or not this religious revival is plunging its roots deep into man's own being. And that, I think, is the pertinence of this particular question today. In other words, more people should read the Bible, not only to carry on this great religious revival of interest, but also to plunge it deep into what is most important in us, our intellects and our wills. I don't think there's any doubt that the times are crying out for the truths of religion. Despite the high prosperity of our time, people are living under the shadow of fear. Fear of war, insecurity, inflation, old age, unemployment, ill health. And they are seeking religion to help master those fears. I share with Father Barnabas Mary the fear that this interest, which is so widespread, may be too superficial to do us much good unless we can manage somehow to strike deeper roots for it. Yes, well, don't you think, Doctor, that as Rabbi has pointed out, that's exactly what God is providing for now. I love to see our present times under the symbol of that beautiful figure that Moses gave his people. That just as God, like an eagle, plunged Israel from the nest in order to accustom it to walk in his ways, so that the uprush of the air would force it to develop its wings. So, too, in our own day, I do believe that these problems have arisen under God's providence that these wings of ours of intellect and will could be strengthened to walk in the ways that God has traced for us. In order to understand this widespread revival of interest in religious concerns, you have to realize the confusion that people are living in. People know more and more these days about less and less. Less and less. This is an age of specialization. People seek answers to fundamental and basic human questions. What we live with is clear nowadays. Gadgets, inventions, comforts, conveniences. But what we live for is often unclear and at times unwise. Well, don't you think, Rabbi, that's just the reason why we have to go deeper into the Bible, that these minds of ours and these wills of ours can be directed along fundamental lines so much deeper than just the horizontal plane that most of us are living in. Yes, I agree, Father. People are hungering for spiritual inspiration and people are becoming aware of the appalling spiritual illiteracy of our time. Well, now, I know you men are agreed in your answer to our question, should more people read the Bible. I know you think more people should read the Bible. But why, Father? Well, I think you can sum up the reasons under three little heads. First, I'd say its author, second, its content, and third, its style. Its author is God, and that's the wonder of it. It's a letter that's come from our Father in heaven. And just as these young lads in Korea today devour the letters from home, so I think we, too, should be avid in studying the message that God, our Father, has sent us from his heavenly home. And then, secondly, its content. You take up the Bible and every single department of your life is covered. It tells you all about God, who is truly our Father and who has a plan for each one of us, and whose providence reaches from end to end mightily and orders everything in our lives very sweetly. At the same time, it tells us a great deal about ourselves, that we are precious in his eyes because we're his children. And at the same time, that we have a tremendous responsibility to God to do his will and to carry out the plan as he has mapped it for us, to find out what God wants us to do and to do it. And it also gives us a very clear insight in our dealings with one another. It makes us realize that all men are truly children of God. And therefore, colored and white and Protestant, Jew and Catholic, we are all truly children of God and we are bound together by the most strong claims of justice and charity. I would also say that, thirdly, it's very style because the Bible is written in a language that even a child can understand. Its pages are splashed with colors and God's truth is there manifest to us in living object lessons that we can see and feel. In its pages, we see what God can truly do in the lives of men and women like ourselves when these lives are totally surrendered to him. So to sum it all up, I'd say that God is author. And then the contents and finally the style is a compelling reason why we should all go deep into study the sacred scriptures. This renewal of interest in religion seems really to have begun, in a small way at least, during the Great Depression about 30 years ago when people were groping for stability in what seemed a tottering world. Some of this interest of today may be foxhole religion brought home by the boys from the war. But most of all, it seems due to the threat of catastrophe which hovers over the whole world today and the realization that human ingenuity cannot save us. Our help must come from above. When you ask the question, should more people read the Bible, the obvious answer is, of course, yes. But it isn't enough to own the Bible. We need to be owned by it. It isn't enough to take pride in how many copies we buy and sell. The Bible is still the world's bestseller. It will always be that. But we need to read it and understand it and appreciate it and live by it. Gaithi was right. The Bible grows more beautiful as we grow in our understanding of it. The best thing that you can do for the Bible is to let the Bible do its best for you. And the only Bible we need to own is the one that we have made our very own. And what can the Bible do for you, Rabbi? The Bible can do a great many things. If a person were to ask me, Rabbi, what would regular reading of the Bible do for me? I think I would say something like this. Regular reading of the Bible will give you poise. Quietness of spirit. A time for meditation and reflection. The kind of tranquility we all need in these hectic, hurly-burly days. It will help you cultivate the serene spirit. And that's a priceless boon these days. It will give you insight into human personality. While the Bible is full of rare insights into human nature. From Joseph and Saul and David. From Ruth and Esther and Job. You will learn to understand your fellow man. But about those insights, Rabbi, are the kind of personal insights that you get from the Bible likely to be applicable in this year of our Lord? The Bible is full of human situations. People are human beings in the Bible and they speak out of human situations. People are the same today as they were 3,000 years ago. But Rabbi, to really appreciate what you're seeing and to admit its logic, don't we have to presume that people are approaching the Bible with a definite spirit of acceptance? In other words, that they see in the Bible something more than just a human book. They see a work that has truly come from God. Because otherwise, how could it ever produce these wonderful effects of which you're speaking? In other words, would you trace just what is the basic reason why it produces this tremendous change in a man's soul? Regular reading of the Bible gives a person a new reverence for life. Take the book of Psalms. The Psalms exalt this reverence for life as no other human book does. A person who reads the Bible regularly learns the vocabulary of religion. The Bible is the textbook of religion. And it helps a person understand his own religion as well as that of his neighbor. And of course, I as a Jew and as a rabbi know that regular reading of the Bible from my people teaches them the origins of Judaism and the Jewish people, our religion, our history, our past. A person listening into this broadcast wondering what would regular Bible reading do for him will realize that he will discover a passion for ethical living. Why, you can't read the prophets, for example, without becoming inflamed with zeal for social justice and personal righteousness. And of course, your general cultural background is vastly improved. The Bible is part of the classics of man. It stands at the top of the list of the great books. I believe you cannot be an educated or cultured person without a knowledge of the Bible. I should like to add this. If it is to be well with us in the world in which we live, we must come to terms with God, the Creator and Sovereign of this universe. Without his favor and help, we are undone. And if we are to have his blessing, we must know him. We must respond to him in obedience and devotion. To this end, we have the Bible, the Holy Scriptures, inspired of God and designed to show men the weight of fellowship with him and to the experience of his divine favor. I, too, as a religious leader, share that same sense of commitment to God. A person reading the Bible finds most important of all a sure faith in God, in the oneness and righteousness of God, in the unending inspiration of God, in the continuous revelation of God's will through the still, small voice within each person of the human family. Well, through all this, must we not emphasize that the reason for these wonderful merits of Bible reading does lie in that fundamental fact that it has come from God. That even though God has truly used human beings like ourselves in its composition, nevertheless, it is he who has illumined and directed their minds to write those thoughts that he wished to convey to ourselves. In other words, isn't that the fundamental reason for the glory of Bible reading, that we come into contact with God's own message, come to us through the lips of human beings like ourselves for the direction of our own life. So that that message is divine in its origin, divine in its content, and really and truly one message and the same message for all. Well, people are enormously complex. They live in all kinds of environments. They suffer all sorts of vicissitudes. Some of them read the Bible and some of them don't read the Bible. What kind of help specifically can people get from reading the Bible? Take a man who is suffering, who is sick. What can he get out of it? Well, I would prefer to take it even more basically. Let's just take everyone in general before we go into particular groups. I would say that for everyone in general, it helps you to put first things first. It helps you to establish something of a hierarchy of values in your life and to put God first. It helps you to begin to live vertically rather than horizontally. I mean, I think that's the trouble with most of us. We're living too horizontally, looking all around us on a level with ourselves, and losing sight of the fact that there's a vertical line that binds us first of all to God. And that it will not profit us, and we gain the whole world, and yet lose these souls of ours. And that there's nothing to be given in exchange for these souls. I think that's the fundamental basic reason for Bible reading for everyone. It establishes a true sense of values in your life. It puts God first as God should be first. Well, I don't mean to be facetious, Father, but I'm thinking about the person who is horizontal. Oh, that's right. What kind of help can he get out of the Bible? Well, the person who is living horizontally can get a world of good from the Bible. First of all, insofar as the Bible teaches him to cease living horizontally and to begin living vertically. But secondly, even in his problems, he can get a great deal of good because as he pages through the sacred scripture, he begins to see the story of men exactly like himself, Jeremiah and Job, who had to go through these sufferings, and yet who, in surrender to God, at last found peace. But above all, in the world and pages of the New Testament, he sees how God's own Son had to go through the same way that we're walking, and that he did so in order to prove his love for us. And that very thought, there comes inspiration and an example and direction for his life, and a sense that after this battle and this struggle is over, there will be a reward waiting for him, which eye has not seen, nor ear heard, nor has it even entered our minds to conceive what God has prepared for those who do walk in the way that he has traced. I can say amen to all of that. To every life, sooner or later, there come crises in which we instinctively reach up for help. Even the professed unbeliever, in his extremity, cries out, O God. If we have a growing knowledge of the Bible, we have a growing reservoir from which draw in time of need. And as we walk in the light of the scripture, we prove for ourselves that the path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more under the perfect day. The Bible points the way to national as well as personal well-being. A widespread revival of Bible reading would produce a corresponding revival of godliness, morality, and integrity. The result, by the grace of God, would be clean government, national security, and a glow of national well-being such as our generation has never known. Well, Dr. Kohler, aren't you there touching upon what, after all, is a very fundamental thing in the composition of the Bible? Well, actually, in reading the Bible, we're not only dealing with the positive law that God has revealed by word of mouth, but we're also dealing with that fundamental natural law that's written in every man's heart. So that, therefore, the Bible apathems and the Bible directives really and truly have a valid claim on every human heart, insofar as they're merely translating into words that fundamental law that God first wrote upon our hearts in our very creation. So that, therefore, here, we're beginning to see a reason for that justice and that charity that binds all men together, even though it's true. In particular aspects, they may be at variance. The Bible can help people facing all kinds of situations in life in every possible way. There is an appropriate biblical portion for nearly every occasion of life, for joy or sorrow, for depression or exaltation. When things go wrong, when life looks dark, when loneliness overpowers you, a person suffering often asks himself, well, why do righteous people suffer? How can a good God permit this? A God of love and kindness? Let him turn to the book of Job for some profound answers. Or if a person is troubled and discouraged, let him open the book of Psalms and find there that he does not stand alone, that he has God's help. He finds a key to courage and successful living in the Psalms. But you men seem to be saying that we should turn to the Bible when we're ill, when we're suffering, when we're in distress. Perhaps you've done so under the pressure of my questioning, but how about the millions of healthy, happy, prosperous people? Do they have any need for the Bible, Father? Well, I would say that probably they need the Bible more than anyone else does. Because there's always the danger that in prosperity we're very apt to lose our sense of perspective. We're very apt to begin to live as though this life were the end-all and the be-all of everything, and to forget there's something yet beyond. Whereas to turn to the Bible as something of a tonic, immediately you're told to lift up your eyes and to realize that we have not here a lasting city, but we're looking for one that's to come. In other words, I'd say that the Bible in moments of prosperity keeps your feet solidly on the rock of God's own word. It makes you realize this life is but a testing time to get us ready for the next. A great lesson of the Bible is the theme of humility. And a person who reads the Bible, even if he's happy and healthy and prosperous, always has to remember that God who gives can also take away. And when he takes away, he should not have cause, that is, the person should not have cause to reproach himself that he has not justly or wisely used the gifts of almighty providence. You men have made, if I may interrupt, Rabbi, some oblique remarks, references at least, to public morality in relation to the Bible. Does the Bible have anything to say about that? The Bible has plenty to say about public morality, and if ever our times needed to hear that message, it's right now. Recollect the message of the ancient prophets. Three thousand years ago, theirs was a trying age of disillusionment and corruption. Venal men in high places were using their positions in those days to curry personal fame and gain through secret bribery and double promises. And yet the voices of Amos and Hosea, of Isaiah and Micah and Jeremiah, were not silent. They rose up and spoke out to teach mankind vision to perceive wrong, courage to face up to injustice, truth to unmask deceit, integrity to pursue honor, loyalty to serve God. It was Amos in particular who told the people of Israel that the time would soon come when there would be a famine in the land. A famine not of bread, but a famine of hearing the word of the Lord. That's what's happening today. People are hungering for a return of decency and morality in public affairs and in private thinking as well. And the masses of plain people, the citizens who were revolted by the television expose of the Acostellos and the Adonises and the Anastasias, and the thousands of indignant citizens who took the trouble to write letters to the editor and to their congressmen, and the conversations on every street corner and over every dinner table. Isn't it terrible? Can't something be done about it? All tell us this, that the slumbering conscience of America is awakening. People want to hear the word of decency and morality again, the word of ethics and of right conduct. People want to hear the word of God again, and that's why they are turning to the Bible. I would add this to what has already been so well said. It would be unfortunate if we should think of the Bible as merely a place of refuge when we're in trouble or when we're suffering or when the public morals have gone wrong. I believe that we need it all the while to keep us in the light and walking straight. And it is to be remembered that people are not always going to be healthy and happy and prosperous. And they need to lay up spiritual reserves for the time when there will be illness and sorrow and adversity. And as a people, we're not always going to be on a righteous level. I think that's already been well emphasized. We need this light all the time, all the time, no matter what our momentary condition may be spiritually, privately, or as a people. Well, I would just like to remark that that observation Rabbi Justin made on the influence of the Bible in public life was admirably summarized in that recent letter of the bishops of the United States in which they clearly asserted that men in public life are as vitally bound by the laws of morality as men in private life, that there can be no separation between public and private morality. That seems to be the basis of the biblical text. And in that, I think it's necessary to point out that for all people, whether they accept the Bible or not, these messages of the prophets on social integrity and political integrity bind all men because they go deeper than the positive revealed law of God right down to that natural law that's inherent in every man's soul so that therefore, on that basis of natural law, these biblical tenets are built up and expressed in divine language, but the principles themselves, because rooted in human nature, bind all whether they accept the Bible or not. There is one of the wonderful things about these recent encyclicals of the popes, that their claim to all men rests not merely on God's positive revealed law, but rests above all on that fundamental natural law of charity and justice that binds all. That's where we all agree. But I just want to say this. Here we sit around this round table, Catholic, Protestant, and Jew. Each of us has our own respective beliefs and convictions, and yet all of us as citizens, feeling the deep impulse of these religious convictions, have a tremendous opportunity. Why, if the voice of the Church and the synagogues of America were to rise up in protest of righteous indignation against the kind of public immorality and the lack of integrity from our government on all levels, the greatest voice for good could awaken what I call the slumbering conscience of America, and we would really get some good out of the message of religion. And we would be justified in that, because we would be appealing, would we not, Rabbi, to the fundamental natural law that binds all men, which has received its divine expression in the Scriptures. The fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man teach us that if we don't act as brothers, the time will soon come when something else will happen. It's religion or else. Yes, and I think that's exactly where we're going to get to this present problem with regard to race. Colored or Jew or white or Protestant or Catholic, there are fundamental bonds that bind us together equally, and that justice and charity is rooted in our very nature, finding the expression in the Bible. Of course, I'd like to underline what Rabbi Hertz has just said and direct this question to you, Dr. Kohler. Here we sit as Protestant, Catholic, and Jew, representing an enormous influence in our churches and synagogues and in our great universities. We're aware of this question of public morality. Why can't we raise our voice in unison and do something about it? Well, the Bible reminds us that we're to be doers of the word and not hearers only. And as a matter of fact, if there's not the sincere intent of responding to that which we read with heart and life, there's not much value in reading anyhow. He that willeth shall know. Others will not even get the message. There's just one remark I would like to make. We're here presuming that everyone is going to get one and the same message from the Bible. Yet actually, such is not the case. It comes down to the fundamental position. Do we need help in reading this Bible? Obviously, there's much in the Bible that we all can certainly understand. With the guidance of the Holy Spirit, there's much that we can certainly appreciate. But at the same time, there are fundamental differences in our interpretation of the Bible. Accordingly, therefore, certainly, we have to look to that interpretation of the biblical text that his author, God himself, has given us. And we know that actually God, in order to supply for this, has founded an institution and a church to which he has committed the custody and also the interpretation of this sacred text. I think it's important that we realize that there's also a need for this help in our interpretation if we are all to come to the same message. I'm sorry. Yes, gentlemen, I'm sorry, but our time is up. You've been listening to a transcribed Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion should more people read the Bible. Today's program was the first in a series of four rebroadcasts of our most popular discussions from the past year. Participating today were the Reverend Richard C. Hertz, Associate Rabbi of the Chicago Sinai Congregation, the Reverend Charles W. Kohler, President of Northern Baptist Theological Seminary in Chicago, and the Reverend Father Barnabas Mary, Professor of Sacred Scripture at Passionist Theologate Chicago. Our moderator is James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech at Northwestern University. We invite you to send four printed copies of today's broadcast, copies are available for 10 cents in coin. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Next week, the reviewing stand asks, What should children read? Our guests will be Mrs. Margaret Friske, editor of Children's Press, Chicago, Leverides Gleason, a New York publisher of comic books, Mrs. Dilla McBean, director of the Division of Libraries, Chicago Public Schools, and Paul Witte, professor of education at Northwestern University. We hope you'll join us next week for What Should Children Read? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer is Jerry Coffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Excellent. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.