The Police Safety Program. Good morning, good morning, we've come to visit you. Good morning, good morning to you. This transcribed safety program is brought to you through the cooperation of His Honor the Mayor and the Police Commissioner in the interest of highway safety by members of the Safety Bureau. Be a little bit careful, you cross the corners when the light is green. Be a little bit careful, you cross the corners, that's where you'll be seen. Be careful, make streets safer and safer, for you're the one so near and dear to us. So be a little bit careful and take it easy. We don't be in our eyes. Good morning, good morning, boys and girls, and good morning, mothers and dads. And how is everybody this morning? Really glad we're all here. This is your friend, Mr. Narrator, speaking to you from the safety studio here. We're going to have a lot of fun today, I'm sure, because we usually do in our little safety programs here in the morning. Say, who's that brushing? Well, hello, good morning, Tommy. Oh, hello, Mr. Narrator. Gee, I'm all out of breath. You're all out of breath. Oh, am I excited? Hello, Tom, how are you? Hello, Mr. Safety Policeman, uh, Singing Safety Policeman, yes. Oh, I can hardly say, do you know that, uh, Mr. Safety Policeman took me here today? I just had a run ahead of him. Mm-hmm. He told me, well, I just couldn't believe him. He told me that you have a book that talks. Uh, is he fooling me? No, no. We really have a book that talks. Isn't that true, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman? We sure have. We have a book that talks. Listen, Tommy, it may sound strange to you about a book that talks. You have, you read books, don't you, Tom? Oh, I'm sure I do. Mm-hmm. You do read books. Well, now, I'm going to tell you, if you read books. Oh, Mr. Oh, here he comes, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman. Good morning. Oh, good morning, Mr. Narrator. And, uh, good morning again, Tommy. Good morning, Mr. Singing Safety Policeman. Say, you, uh, Tommy rushed in here this morning, and you must have had them all excited this morning. Do you know what happened? What happened? I told him about the, uh, the safety book, you know? Oh, yes, yes. And, uh, he was so anxious, he came in and found out if it was true or not. I, he got all excited. I couldn't hold him. Ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha, ha. Well, I can blame him a little bit. I got to explain it to him now. I was just, uh, just about to tell him. Tommy. Yes? Uh, you read books, is that right? Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Well, now, look, Tom. If you read books, uh, those books are like speaking to you. Isn't that true? Well, they, they tell me a story. They do. But, but they don't make any sounds. Well, no, well, how about the movies, Tom? You go to the movies? Of course I do. Mm-hmm. Now, sometimes the movies talk. Mm-hmm. Sometimes the movies sing. Isn't that true? That, we all know that, Mr. Narrator. There's nothing strange about that. Now, you know, you, you see the radio at home? Of course I do, yes. Well, it's a simple little box, and you go over to the radio, and you turn a knob on, and this little radio, the box, begins to talk, and it plays music. There's nothing strange about that, is there, Tommy? No, everyone knows what a radio can do. And, and you know those, those flat discs? I think they call them records. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Well, you play these records on a phonograph, and the records sing, and the records play, and you hear all kinds of sounds. There's nothing strange about that. Well, well, well, well, Mr. Narrator, I, I know about records and radios and, and movies. Mm-hmm. But, but I never heard of a talking book. Ha, ha, ha, ha. Well, now, you, you, you just sit right down here, and, and you let your eyes be all wide open, because I'm going to show you. Say, Mr. Traffic Safety, please. Yes, Mr. Narrator. Will you help me, please, this morning? I, I will if I can, surely. I'll go over there to our, in the corner of this safety studio, in our library there, and you'll see a very large book over there. Will you bring it over for us, please? Yeah, sure. Thank you, I'll do that, Mr. Narrator. Now, while Mr. Traffic Safety, please, man, is going over there. You, you, you mean, do you mean this one here, Mr. Narrator? What, what is that, Mr. Traffic? Is this book here? Oh, no, no, no, no, no. That, that book there is, that's the, uh, traffic regulations. I mean that book over there that called the traffic, the, the talking safety book. That, that book there, that large one with the, with the green traffic light on it. That's the one. Oh, you, you mean this big, heavy one. Oh, that big one, yeah, yes, you do. Oh, I, I, I'll bring you this, this book is really heavy. Now, where do you want me to put it, Mr. Narrator? Now, wait a minute, be careful now. No, no, no, oh, say, oh, my goodness, you've got to be so careful with that there. Don't drop that like that. That's a big book, I know, but you must be careful. It's heavy, huh? It's very heavy, very heavy. Say, say, say, say, Mr. Narrator. Yes. I, uh, it's a big book, but I don't understand. Oh, what's the purpose of the green traffic light on the book? Well, tell me. See, when we want to go into our, into careful town, take a visit to careful town. Mm-hmm. This is the green traffic light that we use while we're in the safety studio, and then we tell everybody to look deep and concentrate and look into the green traffic light. Oh, I remember that. You see, and then, then we find that we, we find ourselves in careful town. Well, someday we'll take a visit to careful town. But for the present now, I want to show you how this book talks and sings. Mm-hmm. So now listen. Uh, if you want to learn how this book talks and sings, just you watch now. I will. When I open up this here latch that's on here, let me open up the latch now. Oh, this is so heavy. Now, I open up the latch. Now, will you hear a very familiar music? When I open up... That is safety thinking music. See, the Talking Safety book taught us that song. Now, I'm going to open at one of these pages. When I close my eyes, and I look through the pages here, and I look through this one page, and I'm going to stop at this page right here. When you're walking home from school, cross at corners, that's the rule. First look left, and then look right, and cross with the green traffic light. Now, I close the book again. Now, you see, Tommy, how simple that was? Could you believe a thing like that? I've never been so surprised. And, uh, Mr. Safety Policeman, I'm sorry I didn't believe you. When you said a book could talk, I just don't know what to say. Well, Tommy, you must always believe what we tell you, because maybe your safety will depend on it. Yes, any lesson that we have here from the safety studio, it really means your safety is concerned. So I'm going to tell you something now, Tommy. I'm going to give you something to do now, Tommy. Yes? Would you like to try one of the pages in the Talking Safety book? You mean I could do something like that? Yes. Look at how his eyes nearly popped out of his head. Now, listen, Tommy, I'll tell you what you do. What do I have to do, Mr. Well, oh, no, could you come over here? Sit right alongside of me here. Now, give me a hand. Yes. Give me a hand. And we open up the Talking Safety book. Open it up. Now close your eyes. Mm-hmm. And pick out a page. This one all right? Any one you pick. All right. And lay it over there very slow and gentle, and then the music will stop. You must wash your face and wash your hands. Be clean in every way. Scrub your teeth each morning and night. Stay healthy every day. Now we close the book. You see? There's all kinds of safety in this book. Did you like that, Mr. Traffic Safety, please? I enjoyed that a lot, Mr. Narrator. You see, we have all kinds of safety in this book. Mm-hmm. This book tells us a lot of things to do. It gives lessons, you know. Well, do you know what I think was nice about that last lesson? What was that? If every boy and girl took the proper time, or took enough time to clean themselves properly and scrub their teeth, then they would allow themselves sufficient time when they went out in the street. Say, you see that? Mm-hmm. So time is a very important part of safety, and you've just done a very important thing for us. Oh, say, by the way, would you like to try it, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman? Well, can I? Why, positively. I'd like to try it. Well, now, will you please close your eyes? Surely. Close your eyes. Give me your hand. And now we open up the safety book. Now you stop at any page that you want, and when you stop, the musical will stop. I'll take this page here. Very well. Old Man Accident He ain't what he used to be He ain't what he used to be He ain't what he used to be Old Man Accident He ain't what he used to be Because you are careful now Yes You're careful wherever you go Careful wherever you go Old Man Accident He won't be what he used to be He won't be what he used to be He won't be what he used to be If you are careful now Now we close the book And we lock it right up Did you like that, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman? That was wonderful, wonderful, Mr. Perry. Now you take this book and please put it over there again. Why, have you carried this heavy book back again? Well, please don't drop it now Oh, I'll take good care of this book Because it's a very good book Say, Tommy Oh, yes, Mr. Merritt I'm still so... Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman Is taking the book over there I wanted to ask you I wanted to tell you something You know that in our studio here We have a lot of people here Who are very wise And very... They know a lot of things about safety Now, Tommy, I'm going to ask you To do me a favor You sit over here Yes And I'm going to ask Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman And Mr. Singing Safety Policeman If they will... Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman You sit right down here, please Thank you for putting the book over there Thank you Mr. Singing Safety Policeman Can you sing a good safety song for us today? I just want to show you That even though we have a talking safety book We also have people here Who can sing nice safety songs I have one right here, Mr. Narrator If you'd like it Well, something that's timely, please Mr. Piano, will you please help? That's very good Here we go Look, walk, and cross with safety That is the safe thing to do Look, walk, and cross with safety That is the safe thing for you And for you, you should Look, cross with safety And tell your ma and your pa To look, walk, and cross with safety And then they'll know how safe you are That's very good, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman Of course, everybody knows the corner is a safe place to cross the street Isn't that true, Mr. Traffic Safety Policeman? That's where everyone should cross the street And before you cross the street, everybody should think That's true, everybody should think So I tell you what we're going to do with the song Everybody's going to think these very important five words And we're going to listen very closely to the rest of the song Let's try it that way Everybody ready? Look, walk, cross with safety That is the safe thing to do Look, walk, cross with safety That is the safe thing for you And for you, you should Look, walk, cross with safety And tell your ma and your pa I'm going to tell your mother and father you'd better shout it out To look, walk, and cross with safety Then they'll know how safe you are Now, Tommy, you heard that very nice song? Oh, that certainly teaches a lesson, Mr. Narrator. I enjoyed it. Now, here's a very important lesson. Remember we told you to think? Yes, I remember that. We always close our program with safety thinking music And this is what we want you to do First corner Look, traffic light Then look left Then look right And remember Playtime can be safe time If you think Walk safely Remember what's said Don't cross streets While lights are still red Cross at the corner Don't run in the street Because that's where trouble and accidents meet Walk safely You look left and right The roadway Is no place to play Be cautious in bad weather Be glad we're safe together As you walk safely each day This transcribed safety program Is brought to you each Saturday At this time This is a presentation Of the Municipal Broadcasting System 써 spending of you Give us a tan Of the Municipal Broadcasting System Just to confirm You will be staying I willalliss See you next time Bye I willalliss You will relax See you next time See you next time Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye Bye