The New Frontier, today starring Richard Widmark. The question was a simple one that began with the word, why? Why does a man put his life in jeopardy? That's what this story is about. About a man who traveled halfway around the world to risk his life. On the New Frontier of Human Freedom. The story is called The Man in the Plane. And it stars Richard Widmark. Control tower to DC-6 on runway 3. You can take off now. DC-6 to control tower. Thanks. See you in a couple of weeks. Give my regards to Broadway. Shalom. Come again? Shalom. Means peace. Excuse me. Yes? Would you like to come up front? There's room and it'll be a long flight. Oh, thanks. You're very kind. I'd be glad to. Sit over there if you like. Thank you. Uh, Johnson's my name. I'm the pilot. Ah, this is fine. My name is Gibor. Glad to know you. How are you? Ah, it's been a long time since I've sat up here. Oh, you were a flyer? Yes, in the RAF with a Polish squadron. Say, that was an outfit. I was with the 8th Air Force, but, uh, Gibor isn't a Polish name, is it? No, it's Hebrew. I took it when I joined the Israeli army. I see. Say, uh, who is he? The guy back there on the plane. Big shot? The American? Very big. I heard he was an American. Tell me, what did he do it for? Dull? No, it wasn't money. How come, then? Why did he do it? Why did he do it? How many times I've asked myself that question. What the American back there did doesn't make sense. For me, yes, there was no other place to go, nothing else to do. But for him, there was America. America. What else can a man want when he already has America? But still, he did it. What answer can I give this pilot? I, uh, I, I was with him in New York the day he decided. Oh? Oh, I thought you were just his bodyguard on this trip, or I wouldn't have talked that way about him. No, that's all right. If I, uh, hesitated, it's just that I'm not sure that I know the answer. Why does a man do anything? Because he wants to, I suppose, or because he thinks he has to. I guess that's right. If you're really interested, I'll tell you what I know about him. Go ahead. Well, when I went into his office that day in New York and told him that I was from Palestine, he looked surprised and pleased. He shook my hand and said... Well, this is a real pleasure, Mr. Gibor. But surely you've not come halfway around the world to see me because you need a lawyer. No, not a lawyer, Colonel. A soldier. An experienced soldier who's seen combat, who can train undisciplined and unorganized guerrilla fighters. Who can mold them into an army as quickly as possible. Well, we think that you are that man. You, uh, you realize that I'm a reserve officer in the United States Army? I don't think you will refuse us because of that. No. But are you sure I'm the man? What you ask is an enormous task, a tremendous responsibility. There must be others better qualified than I do. There was an essential modesty about the man that appealed to me immediately. He was a West Pointer, a colonel in the American Army, familiar with every phase of modern warfare, from logistics to hand-to-hand combat. He'd fought in the Pacific and on the Normandy beaches. He was at Yalta in Tehran as a military aide to President Roosevelt and with President Truman at Potsdam. It was he who drafted the German and Italian surrender documents. He who had helped set up the American military government in Europe. All of this, and he wanted to know if we were sure he was the right man. Maybe it wasn't modesty, Gibor. Maybe he just wanted out gracefully. No, I don't think so. He didn't hesitate. He said he would come. He spoke to his wife, and in a few days we were on our way. Well, it's beyond me. Why should a guy stick his neck out when he doesn't have to? Why? Because after the victory in Europe, he'd seen the concentration camps at Dachau and Belsen. Because he'd looked into that subhuman abyss of Nazi terror and destruction, and had seen the starved, broken bodies of people whose only crime was that they worshiped God in their own way. But his family didn't perish there. How could he feel about it as I do? And yet when I asked him, he came with me. Maybe he wanted to be a hero, Gibor. Personally, I wouldn't give you a bent metal for it, but some men can't live without glory. No, he didn't want that. Well, whether he wanted it or not, he's going to get it anyway. You know about the ceremonies at City Hall when we arrive in New York. Yes, I do. And then he goes back to West Point, 28 years to the day since he graduated. I heard that his classmates are gathering from all over the country to honor him. But it's not honor he wanted. He had enough of honors. It was something else. There's a story they tell about him when he was a kid. Where was he born? On the Lower East Side in New York. His father owned a small vegetable store. What's the story? Well, he had a brother. His brother's name was Big Mike, and he was called Little Mike. Mickey. Yeah? He spent a lot of time on the streets like all the kids do down there. Hey, Big Mike! Big Mike! Wait for me! Oh, hi, Mickey. How's my kid brother? Say, we gonna put on the gloves today? Hey, what's with you, Mickey? Always wanting to fight. It's important. What's so important about fighting? Maybe not for you. You're Big Mike. Nobody picks on you. But me, I'm Little Mike. I gotta know how. So you can beat up all the kids? Oh, you know I never pick a fight. But I can't run away from one either, can I? It was the same when he got into West Point by competitive appointment, incidentally. You could always count on him. Not only for the ordinary things, but always for a little more. What do you mean? Well, one year he won the inter-class championship in boxing. But in the finals the following year, when his bout came... Mickey lost that one, I'll bet. I'm not so sure, buddy. Looked good to me. I think he's still inter-class champ. The winner! And new inter-class champion! What'd I tell you? He lost. Wait a minute. Wait a minute. What's the doctor going into the ring for? Mister, let me see your arm. Yes, sir. Ouch! Your wrist is dislocated. When did this happen? At riding, sir, this afternoon. You fought this bout with your wrist dislocated? That was a darn fool thing to do, son. We didn't have anyone to take my place, sir. I was hoping I could lick him with one hand. I'm sorry. I was wrong, sir. Okay, Gabor, so he was a decent guy, a scrapper, and I guess from what you said, a darn good soldier. But what's it add up to? Is that enough to make a man leave his home and his wife, his career, his security, and risk his life for a lot of people he didn't know, never saw before? What's the percentage? It doesn't add up. No, I guess it doesn't add up. Well, how would you explain it, Johnson? I don't know. But tell me, how did you get involved in Israel? Oh, with me, it was different. I was discharged in Italy, and I... Italy? Yes. I thought you said you were in England with the Polish squadron. Until I lost my eye. Then I asked for a transfer to the Polish army in Italy. You were at Monte Cassino? Yes. Well, what are we talking about the guy back there in a plane for? Why did you do it? You could have gotten out of the war. You'd done enough. I wanted to get back to Poland, and I couldn't until the war was over, so... So you stuck your neck out, too? Maybe. When I did go back to Lublin, there was nothing there. My wife and children were dead. My parents were dead. My friends were dead. All killed by the Nazis. I couldn't stay there. There was only one place where I could build a new life. I went to Palestine. Then got yourself into another war. Like him back there. What gives with you guys? Well, it was different. I had no choice. He did. Sure, sure. You should have seen him those first few days after we got to Palestine. He was everywhere. In the hills of Galilee, in the wastes of the Negev, in the Valley of the Jordan. He was there under an assumed name, hiding out from British patrols. Studying the terrain, meeting the guerrillas, learning their songs. Every one of the men and women are like even the kids, Gabor. Why, they're incredible. They're not afraid. They know what they want. But, well, that's not enough. If the Arab Legion attacks with its tanks and armor when the British pull out, they'll die. Bravely, but they'll die and we'll be defeated. They're guerrilla fighters, not an army. Tell us what to do, Colonel. That's what we want from you. Tell us what to do and how to do it. What do we need? Everything. We've got to start from scratch. In three months, the British will move out of Palestine, then the Arabs will strike. Can we prepare in time? Not can we. We've got to. We must. He worked night and day for three months. There were never enough hours for him. He dictated training manuals on weapons and tactics. He built a staff, set up training camps, planned campaigns, attacks and counterattacks. He found the Hebrew equivalents for terms like logistics and zones of fire. You've been in the army, Johnson. You know what this means. Yeah, sure. And the men took him to their hearts. They redoubled their efforts because of him. They called him the American. And the way they said it, it had a special meaning. Single-handedly, he built an army from the survivors of concentration camps. The army of Israel. And then the British pulled out. I remember. You know what happened. The Arab attack came from Egypt in the south, from Transjordan in the east, and from Iraq in the north. But the American was ready for them. We were prepared. We held. We pushed them back to make good on a 2,000-year-old promise. Well, that's what the American did. Now, can you explain it? If you can, Johnson, tell me. I want to know the answer, too. No, I'm afraid it's beyond me. I never knew anybody like that. Oh, sure, in the Air Force, a guy would volunteer for something. I've done it myself. But then, if you were going to get it, you'd get it one way or another. It didn't make too much difference what you did or didn't do. But it wasn't that way with him. No. No, it wasn't. Unless... Unless what? Do you remember Pulaski and Kosciuszko? Pulaski and Kosciuszko? Yes. You mean the soldiers who came over from Poland in colonial times to help fight in our revolution against England? Yeah. And there were von Steuben and Lafayette, a German and a Frenchman. They, too, left their homes to help your people win their freedom. People they didn't know and had never seen before. I think I know what you're driving at. But that happened a long time ago. Do you really think there are people like that living in the world today? I don't know. But what about him back there in the plane? Is there any other explanation that adds up, as you say? You know, I'd like to believe that. I'd very much like to believe that. To feel so deeply about people, to believe in freedom, not only for yourself and for your countrymen, but for people everywhere, no matter if they live halfway around the world. To want liberty and justice and equality, not only for yourself, but for everyone. And not only to feel and to believe and to want, but to act, to do. That would be a man, wouldn't it, Johnson? Yeah. Yeah, that certainly would. Then I tell you, that is Colonel Marcus, the American back there in the plane. Yes, it's clear now. That's the answer to the question we asked. For the homeless, he fought to build a new home. For the persecuted, a place of refuge. For those denied all human rights, a place of freedom and justice and equality. Yes. Yes. Yes, that is the American, back there in the plane. You know, it's strange. You and I have been talking about him as if he were still alive. Instead, he lies back there in a coffin, dead, killed by a stray bullet. Tell me, Johnson, does a man like the American, like David Marcus, ever really die? Richard Widmark was starred in The Man in the Plain, another program in our series The New Frontier, a Lest We Forget presentation of the Institute for Democratic Education. Listen in again next week at this same time for another tale of our times on The New Frontier of Human Freedom. The New Frontier . The New Frontier .