New York, Queen of Commerce. Each week at this time, your city station presents New York, Queen of Commerce. A new series of transcribed historic educational dramas, recreating stirring periods and moments in the commercial and economic growth of New York City. Today, furs enrich the world. On New York, Queen of Commerce. Well, Jim, here's City Hall and WNYC just across the street. Milt, what story are you working on this time? Did you ever take a good look at the official flag and the seal or coat of arms of the City of New York? Yeah, I guess so. Why? Well, if you did then, Jim, you must have noticed the orange stripe in the flag and the figure of the beaver in the seal. See up there? Yeah, I notice them now. Do you happen to know what these mean? Well, does it mean New Yorkers work like beavers? Well, I guess it does now in a way. But historically, it was just a little bit different. I don't suppose you ever heard of Oranje Bowen? No, I never have. Well, that, Jim, literally means the orange above or the orange on top. Way back when New Amsterdam was first settled in the 1620s, the royal house of the Prince of Orange had ascendancy in the Netherlands, and then the official Dutch flag had an orange stripe on top. Now, in those days, the Dutch saying Oranje Bowen was, oh, something like us saying the stars and stripes forever. And although the Dutch soon afterward went back to their multi-striped ancient flag, which you can see on Dutch ships in the harbor today, incidentally, New York retains the old orange in its flag, as does the present Union of South Africa. Well, then how about the beaver? Well, after Henry Hudson tried in vain to find a passage to the Orient, it became apparent to the early traders and settlers who followed him that the furs of this northern part of the Western Hemisphere were the most valuable things that they could readily get by barter with the Indians. Although otter, mink, and other furs were obtained, why, the beaver were by far the most abundant, so that for many years the richest trade of this part of the New World was in furs. Didn't northern Europe have plenty of good furs? Yes, Jim, they did, but never enough to supply more than the wants of the wealthy and the privileged of those days. In fact, ordinary people were not generally permitted to wear furs. That sounds crazy. Yeah, I know it was, but furs were controlled by a monopoly, the Hanseatic League of northern Europe. It took the discovery of America to change all that. And the beaver pelts were so plentiful, they provided the first fur to be commonly worn by all classes, rich and poor alike. How did that come about? Well, that came about through its use in making hats. Since the 17th century, the words beaver and had have been synonymous. In New Netherlands, as elsewhere in this country, the beaver skin was once a medium of exchange. It was often considered currency. And all this is what the little picture of the beaver means? Yes. In 1630, the Dutch West India Company considered this trade so important that it adopted the original design of our present city seal or coat of arms. The area around New York was once as wild and as untouched as the most hidden valleys in the Rockies. Gee, I wonder what it was like. Well, Jim, strangely enough, the most interesting and probably the best first-hand account we have came from a little old French lady named Kathleen Tricot, who was a pretty young woman, first stepped ashore in lower Manhattan, two years before Peter Minuet bartered $24 worth of trade goods with the Indians for possession of the island. She gave one of those accounts one day in New Amsterdam in 1684. That was ten years after the British had finally taken possession of the city. Earlier that day, some children were playing in the village street. Hannah, come. It's time to dress. But, Mama, do I have to? Of course you have to. We have to be at the meeting room at the Stathuis at 2 o'clock. Now, you know Master Peterson, your teacher expects us, and the governor is going to be there to talk to that old French lady who lives in Long Island. But, Mama... I swear, I don't know what gets into the heads of you young people. It's these crazy modern times. But, Mama... It will do you good to sit and listen for a change. Perhaps you'll learn something, although I doubt it. And speaking of sitting, do sit like a lady. And if chocolate and cakes are served, try not to act like a half-starved wolverine. Now, come on. We don't want to be late. They'll be gathering in the meeting house in a short while. Ladies and gentlemen, permit me to introduce myself, please. I am Evert Peterson, the schoolmaster. I bid you welcome, and I hasten to explain that I've asked you here at the gracious bidding of the governor. Wait, wait a moment. He arrives. Ladies and gentlemen, His Excellency Thomas Dongan, His Majesty's governor. Thank you, Master Peterson, and good day to you all. Please be kind enough to present me to our honored guest. Madame Cateline Tricot, I have the honor. Madame. Well, sir, I must say you're a most kindly gentleman. And although my eyes are somewhat dimmed, I can plainly see you're a most attractive one also. Madame Tricot, the passing of time has not dimmed your charm or obscured your beauty. I can only hold myself unfortunate to have been born several years too late. Pray be seated. Of Excellency, this lady is the oldest living woman in New York, and she was one of those to first set foot on these shores. It was to pay you honor that I asked you here today. In these busy, bustling times, too little attention is paid to the tradition and history of the past. I'm sure that all of our guests join me in expressing our deepest admiration for your great courage, spiritual fortitude, and self-reliance. We are most anxious also to learn of your experiences. Thank you kindly. The whole world has changed in my lifetime. I was born in Paris, but spent most of my youth in the Netherlands. When we left Amsterdam on that grey spring morning of 1624, little did I think I would ever cease to be a heart-sick émigré from my European homeland. This land, for all its vastness and even terrors, has a sweetness and a sort of magic power. I belong here now. Why, I guess I'm an American. That is quite obvious. What ship brought you here? Oh, it was so long ago. Our ships, the first sent out by the new Dutch West India Company, as I recollect it, were the Unity, the Netherlands, and another, carrying the first settlers and their wives to this New Amsterdam. Oh, you don't mean to ask that. Oh, pardon. New York, your express. Oh, that's what you mean. Captain Arian Jorison commanded our ship. At the start of the voyage, there was much excitement, dodging the Spanish ships which were at war. The other ships carried most of the settlers. But there were five of us unmarried girls together on the unity. That's quite interesting. It must have been considered best to segregate us from the married folk. I suppose it would be. And I guess it was a good idea, too. My, what a confusion we did cause when we went aboard. And you know, not a single one of us ever reached Hudson's River. Why, how can that be? Each one of us was married before we ever got there. Poor Captain Jorison spent as much time with the marriage ceremonies as he did with his navigation. It's a wonder the Spaniards didn't catch up with us. Did you settle in New Amsterdam? New York, rather? New York, of course. Well, except for a few bark shacks, there was little here. No. After three weeks, my new husband and I, with another family and eight soldiers, were taken in the new Netherlands ship by Captain Jan Cornelius May to the south or Delaware River. There we settled in a small fort. Two other families and six soldiers went to Fort Good Hope on the Connecticut River. Eighteen families went up the river to Fort Orange or Albany. The rest stayed here. Yes, I can vouch for it, that the south river was lonesome and filled with danger and hardship. For I myself taught school in New Amstel, the newer and larger fort until driven out by the famine of 1658. Yes, that is so. I have heard of it. Well, we were glad when Captain Jorison in Fort Orange sent for us. There we renewed friendships and lived again in what seemed a haven of security. Tell me, did you have any Indian trouble? Oh, my, no. Our captain had a way with the redskins. They were as quiet as lambs. We received delegations from many nations, all bearing gifts of the most beautiful furs I have ever seen. Mr. Jorison opened up trade treaties for more and soon was able to send the ship New Netherland, commanded by his son, back to Holland with more than 1,500 beaver and 500 otter schemes. Yes, that was the real beginning of commerce then. Yes, but it was nothing compared to the huge shipments which followed. We moved to New Amsterdam in 1626 and, well, I remember the koopman or store clerk keeping accounts in the large Dutch West India Company warehouse. My, it was nearly always full of beaver and other furs awaiting ships. Seems so long ago. Madam, you have my profoundest esteem and most sincere gratitude for a most informative and pleasant conversation. I must take my leave, but pray continue with the other guests and partake of the refreshment that Master Peterson has so kindly arranged to provide. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, good day. Good day. Au revoir. We've enjoyed your present. So there you are, Jim. You can see how the little beaver is a symbol of the trade that was the beginning of the busiest, most energetic city in the world. New York. Truly the queen of commerce. You have heard another transcribed episode of New York Queen of Commerce entitled Furs Enrich the World. In today's cast were Martha Barron as Madam Trico, Lloyd Moss as Milt, Alan Feinstein as Jim, Alfred Israel as the governor, and Joy Seligson as the mother. Sound and music were by Marvin Laskowitz. Production assistant was Helen Milstead. New York Queen of Commerce was written by Kenneth H. Dunche. The next voice you will hear is that of L. Porter Moore, executive director of the Downtown Manhattan Association. Mr. Moore. You have just heard the second historic episode in this new series of radio programs titled New York Queen of Commerce. These broadcasts will tell the story chronologically of the growth of our city over the course of a little more than three centuries to its rightfully deserved top rank and royal title of Queen of Commerce. Searching for the wealth of the Indies, those early day explorers and traders found furs, timber, and an abundance of raw materials on this North American continent which the old world so greatly needed. Thus our commercial growth commenced. On the eve of our city's 300th birthday anniversary year of 1953, this series of historic broadcasts is most timely. They offer to the listening adult audience and the youth in our schools the historic background of the growth of our city from its 800 population in 1653 to its present total of 8 million persons living within the five boroughs. Through the Mayor's office and the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, it is anticipated that within a few days will be made an official announcement concerning plans and programming for the 300th birthday anniversary celebration next year of which these radio programs in the New York Queen of Commerce series are a part. Thank you, Mr. Moore. This program is presented by your city station under the auspices of the Greater New York Civic Center Committee of the Downtown Manhattan Association, the Department of Commerce of the City of New York, and the New York Journal American, and is produced by the Municipal Broadcasting System. Consultant for the series is L. Porter Moore. These programs also are heard three times weekly on the New York City Board of Education station, WNYE-FM, rebroadcast in the city's classrooms. Be with us again next week for another program in the series, New York, Queen of Commerce. airtime music in the Aspen in the청let airtime music The End The End