The programs on your city station's agenda devoted to you and your good health has the cooperation of the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York on Tuesdays to stress the importance of your teeth and their equally important relations to your general good health. We're privileged today to present as our Good Health speaker Dr. Walter F. Cain, Chairman of the Oral Hygiene Committee, and he's going to tell us about the work, the plan, the forward intentions of the cooperation of the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York with you and your good health. Dr. Cain. The customary procedure every Tuesday at this hour is for the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York to give a talk on dental health, but today we are going a trifle off course. We think perhaps those of the listening audience who are familiar with these weekly broadcasts would like to know a little of the background of our committee, and therefore have dedicated this morning's talk to the work of the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York itself. The origin of the committee dates back to 1917, when a small group of dentists decided to organize for the sole purpose of promoting better dental health throughout the city. This was to be accomplished by the distribution of information which would help in educating the public on the importance of dental health. For the less fortunate, who are unable to obtain dental care, the organization sought to establish free dental clinics in the public schools of the city. However, the attempts of the committee to promote this program did not look very promising. Conflicting opinions and the lack of funds towards a task as tremendous as this threatened to forestall the plans. Despite this, the committee was not idle. It refused to be discouraged. Instead, it thought a way out of its difficulty by calling on the various rural dental societies of longstanding to back their efforts in promoting a dental health program. This persistent zeal grew crucial. And in 1918, the First and Second District Dental Societies enlisted their aid by uniting to form a body known as the Oral Hygiene Committee of the First and Second District Dental Societies. These societies operating independently but engaged in the task of obtaining the goal the original committee was striving for. As a result of this union, a citywide campaign was made for the purpose of raising funds and obtaining speakers on dental health. The cooperation of the Department of Education was enlisted in giving lectures and providing illustrated slides and motion pictures at parents' association meetings. This drive proved an astonishing success. The much-talked-about committee, triumphant in its undertaking, attracted such widespread interest amongst the other dental societies that they decided to join this organization to constitute what is now known as the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York. From what started a mere seedling through this extensive organization we have today. The roster of the present body is composed of nine members each in the First and Second District Dental Society, the Allied Dental Council having been dissolved to amalgamation with the District Society. In addition, the following groups have been and are cooperating with the 18 other members. The Brooklyn Tuberculosis and Health Association, the Bronx Tuberculosis and Health Committee, the Children's Aid Society, the Community Science Society, the Dental Division of the Department of Health, the Dental Hygienist Association, the Health Education Division of the Department of Education, the High School Principals Association, the High School Principals Association, the New York Principals Association, the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, the Parent Teachers Association, and the Teachers Union and the United Parents Association of Greater New York. The Committee, now well established, began an extensive program in the educational field. The principal objective was to stir the people to the realization of the importance of a periodic checkup of the teeth and the good effect of wholesome diet and proper cleanliness of the oral cavity in relation to the health of the entire body. The problem at hand now was how to communicate the various dental facts to a vast public. This was accomplished by several methods, amongst the most valuable of which are the radio talks that are given weekly at this time. These programs are important, and that they are a means of conveying dental knowledge to a whole community. The contents of these features are arranged so as to distribute constructive information towards the development of good sound teeth and healthy mouths. Each week, a different topic is chosen by volunteer speakers of the dental and allied professions in order to promote a better understanding of dentistry. These talks have proved a valuable aid to many listeners and are well worth public attention. For those who are unable to listen to these broadcasts, a radio leaflet is published which is issued to dentists by the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York. Copies may be found at your dentist's office. If you do not see one at the office you visit, ask your dentist for one and benefit by the message. The author is your constructive lessons to the doctor. The committee also publishes the pamphlet which will guide you in the selection of foods which are vital in maintaining good sound teeth. It will familiarize one with the names of the various teeth and gives a detailed outline of the approximate time each tooth appears in the mouth. Most important of all, it illustrates and describes the proper technique of brushing the teeth. This booklet is issued to anyone on request by the committee. Another salient point of the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York is the showing of slides and motion pictures. These showings are mainly limited to students in schools and hospitals and deal with the importance of mouth health in relation to the rest of the body. Along with the pictures and slides, a simple talk is presented to help acquaint the students with the proper care of the mouth and thus help practically ward off any infection that may begin in the oral cavity. From what has been said this morning, it is apparent that the main point of stress by the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York is to keep the mouth in good health at all times. The question that may enter the mind now is, what significance is this as regards one's health? Is there any relation between the teeth and the rest of the body? We all know that the body is subject to disease. No matter how well we are, there is always the possibility of bacterial attack in all of us. One of the main instances of bacteria in the system is by way of the mouth. The internal structure of the tooth contains the canal which is directly connected with the bloodstream. Any infection in or around the teeth is conveyed to the various parts of the body by way of the bloodstream, thus causing an uplift in one's health. To ensure ourselves against such an occurrence, it would be wise to have our teeth checked periodically and perhaps in the long run save ourselves the cause of misery, pain and much unhappiness. For guidance in mild health and items of interest in dentistry, this committee offers a program every Tuesday at 11.45 a.m. on the municipal station WNYC. Perhaps you have a question in mind regarding a dental problem which your dentist has been unable to answer in these busy times. One of these talks may be just the answer to your query. They are short and concise and have proved of great value to many a person in doubt. Above all, we wish to do our full care in stimulating every man, woman and child to realize the importance of a good set of teeth and a healthy mouth. With such knowledge put into action, the result will be helpful and beneficial to all who wish to enjoy the happiness and blessings of good health. Thank you, Dr. Kain. Thank you, Dr. Kain. Thank you, Dr. Kain. In our Good Health broadcast this morning, we had the privilege of presenting Dr. Walter F. Kain, Chairman of the Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York, to whom we are indebted for this splendid series of health broadcasts, expressing the importance of your teeth and their equally important relation to your good health. The Oral Hygiene Committee of Greater New York is cooperating with the municipal school and health authorities in having every school child visit the dentist every six months for a check-up in order to demonstrate the practicability of prevention over cure. And that might apply to the adults as well. Now, following through with Dr. Kain's message this morning about the importance of a healthy mouth, that is exactly the topic of Dr. E. Lee Stolper next Tuesday in the Oral Hygiene Committee Series. Listen in for Dr. Stolper's broadcast next week on the subject of the importance of a healthy mouth. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.