At this time, your city's own station presents another program in the important and authoritative series on the federal and state laws which regulate business. This evening in our studios we have Professor Milton Handler of Columbia University Law School, writer and expert in the field of trade regulation. Professor Handler has chosen tonight as his subject, the Sherman Antitrust Act. Ladies and gentlemen, Professor Handler. Good evening. Like most great historic documents, the Sherman Law has been much discussed but infrequently read. It has been criticized and praised, blamed for the most of the evils confronting our economy as well as credited for conditions it had no part in creating. What is this statute and what does it purport to do? It forbids all agreements among competitors restricting or stifling competition, such as arrangements for fixed prices, limit production, or share markets. Second, it prohibits the merging, consolidation, and integration of companies to form huge industrial empires with monopolistic power. Third, it inhibits practices inimical to competition, unfair trading methods such as false advertising or price discrimination. The purpose of these prohibitions was to liberate and preserve competition. The purpose of these prohibitions was to liberate and preserve competition. To leave competition free so that it, without governmental inclusion, could regulate the economic activity of the American people, encourage business efficiency, and protect the consumer against exploitation. Let us compare briefly the theory of the legislation with the stark realities of business to see what has been accomplished by the Sherman Law and to consider what might be accomplished. The mammoth trusts of the 90s, which inspired much fear and foreboding in their day, are but pygmies in comparison with our modern industrial giants. Concentration has continued to pace until a predominant part of our basic industry is controlled today by a mere handful of companies, which in turn are directed by a small group of men. There is less competition in American industry today after 50 years of the Sherman Law than there was before its enactment. The disappearance of competition in many fields has been accompanied by the intensification of competition in others. Business competition does not always operate as beneficently in life as it does in books on economics. Competitions can be blind, uninformed, and wasteful. In the absence of collective bargaining and governmental regulation of hours and wages, it may drive wages below the minimum standards of subsistence. It may lead to the sweatshop. The train, and the train of social problems that follow in the wake of poverty and economic distress. This combination of economic concentration in some lines and the intensification of competition in others has had serious consequences for the American people. Excessive competition and inadequate external control have reduced many of our industries to a state of chronic disorganization. Concentrated power has robbed the economic system of its flexibility, of its resistance to the forces of depression, and of its capacity to adjust itself quickly and effectively to changes in supply and demand. The Sherman Law thus has prevented neither the disappearance nor the degradation of competition. What are the reasons for this failure? Many responsible students feel that the Sherman Law sought to prevent the inevitable, and therefore had to fail. They feel that we are in the grip of economic forces which compel the formation of giant combines and the making of restrictive agreements. I do not share this view. The policy underlying the Sherman Law has never had a fair trial. No really adequate effort until recently has been made to enforce the law. Government has been handicapped by lack of funds, insufficient personnel, effective and unscientific procedure, the vagueness and lack of clarity of the legislation, restrictive and frustrating judicial interpretations. These difficulties are all man-made and can be overcome by vigorous and diligent action. Consider for a moment the problem of stamping out collusive price fixing or fraudulent or misleading advertising. With a clear and unambiguous definition of the conduct which is being prohibited. With adequate funds for enforcement. With trained personnel to detect and prosecute violations. With modifications and procedure to facilitate the collection of proof and the trial of actions. With improvements modernizing the methods and procedures of administrative agencies entrusted with the duty of enforcing the laws. There would be no real difficulty in attaining the purpose of this legislation. Real difficulty, however, is encountered when we turn to the problem of monopoly. What are we going to do with the huge industrial empires that dominate many of our industries? Can we and is it desirable to break them up into small fragments? Are we prepared to pulverize them to the extent necessary to restore competition? The law forbids monopoly. The law forbids monopoly. The complete monopoly in the sense of one company control of an industry is very rare. What we have is three, four and five company control. Where power is concentrated in few hands, there can be no real competition. And no effective enforcement of the antitrust laws. Concentrated power is just as dangerous as monopoly. The true nature of the problem of concentrated power and monopoly has not been fully understood. In ordinary parlance, the word is used as a term of approach. Conveying a definite notion of moral obliquity. The question, however, is not one of morals but of economics. Profiteering is but a minor aspect of the problem. There are two real evils to concentrated business power. First is the catastrophic social consequence of the response of concentrated power to changes in business conditions. The reduction of volume rather than price. A reduction which increases unemployment, accentuates depression and unbalances the federal budget. The second set of evils flows from the disproportionate share of the national income which monopoly appropriates for itself. The fact that an individual purchaser has to pay tribute to monopoly by an overcharge of a few cents is not in itself socially disastrous. But when at any time monopoly grabs more than its proportionate share of the current national income, it leaves that much less for those industries that are unable to dictate the price of their goods or to control the volume of their production. If buyers must turn over 50% of their income to monopoly, they have only 50% left for other purchasers. The competitive industries thus find themselves competing for the balance of the consumer's dollar after monopoly has taken its toll. This intensifies competition and derives competitive prices downward, sometimes below the cost of production. Thus monopoly does more than gouge the public. It depresses other industries and disorganizes and unbalances the entire economic system. It is very fortunate that at this critical time in our history, a thorough study of these problems is being made by the temporary national economic committee. It is only unfortunate that such a study has been so long delayed. We all want to know the reasons why our business system operates as poorly as it does. Why it is that we have not yet been able to bridge the gap between our huge but unused physical capacity to produce and our huge and unsatisfied capacity to consume. We are all interested in a program that will provide a use for idle capital and increase the opportunities for private profit. That will provide regular and continuous employment to all who are able and willing to work. That will put to work both machines and men. That will increase purchasing power. That will provide not only a more equitable distribution of wealth, but will greatly increase the wealth and income of the country to be distributed. We want more and better goods and more regular and continuous employment. The American people yearn to see smoke rising from factories now idle. And to see wage earners busily engage in useful occupations producing goods and services for general consumption. Every thinking man is shocked to learn that the average annual income of one third of the nation is less than $750. And will willingly cooperate in any program that will raise the American standard of living. If the way out of our difficulties is strengthening amendment to the Sherman law, then such legislation should be enacted without delay. If study on the other hand reveals the need for abandonment of this statute and some of our historic policies, we should not hesitate to substitute a new system of regulation for the old which has been tried and found wanting. We should approach these problems without preconception or timidity. For myself, I feel that we shall end with a reaffirmation of our faith in competition. That we shall redefine, clarify, and strengthen our prohibitions against those devices by which competition is compromised. That we shall materially improve and strengthen our methods and agencies of law enforcement and administration. That effective curve will be placed on further integration of companies and the rise of new monopolies. That the existing giant corporations, instead of being disintegrated, will be subjected to a rational system of regulation. To overcome the difficulties arising from the fact that our economy is part competitive and part monopolistic. And which will be designed to bring about a flexibility, a resilience, a capacity of adjustment, a power of coordination of the entire business system comparable to that which would exist for all industry entirely competitive. And finally, that our chronically distressed and disorganized industries will be encouraged to reorganize and place with government aid on a more stable foundation. To begin that their products may be more orderly marketed. Our problems are many. Our responsibilities are heavy. There is no easy solution to these perplexing problems that confront all of us. But if democracy is to succeed, we must let our minds be bold. This is the challenge of our time. Ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard Professor Milton Handler of the Columbia University Law School, who spoke this evening on the subject of the Sherman Antitrust Act. This program has been another one in the series of programs brought to you by your city's own station on a very authoritative series, the federal and state laws which regulate business. If you, our listeners, have any comments or questions to ask concerning this program, we earnestly desire that you write to station WNYC in the municipal building New York City and let us know about them. Once again, you may say that only by your letters and cards are we able to tell what you care for and what you desire. So please drop a line to your city's own station telling us what you do want. Your announcer, Anthony Marvin. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.
