From Adams and Johnson streets in Brooklyn, your city station brings you the groundbreaking ceremonies for the new Domestic Relations Court building. Among our distinguished speakers today are the Honorable John Cashmore, President of the Borough of Brooklyn, George C. Wildermuth, First Vice President of the Brooklyn Bar Association, and Honorable Frederick H. Zermullen, Commissioner of the Department of Public Works. Here now is our Chairman, Honorable John Warren Hill, presiding justice of the Domestic Relations Court. Justice Hill. Mr. Borough President, Commissioner Sir Mullen, Commissioner Prope of the State Department of Probation, Dr. Colonel Arthur Levitt to the Board of Education, my distinguished colleagues on the bench, and other friends of the court, distinguished visitors here today. Last Thursday was a day of national thanksgiving. Today is a day of thanksgiving for the people of this borough and of this city, who are interested directly and indirectly in the efficacy of the work of the Court of Domestic Relations in the borough of Brooklyn. We are here today to break ground for the building of one of the most important, most needed, and most helpful treatment facilities in the city of New York. And let it be solemnly remembered that this court is the last hope for many thousands who come to us, or are brought to us each year, and who are in the last stages of despair. To them, we give emergent and long-term care and guidance with the most beneficent results. For many years, too long, we have been quite fully handicapped in our work in this borough because we have been obliged to dispense aid and assistance under the most shocking and discouraging working conditions, for which our outgrown and outmoded family court and children's court buildings were responsible. I have often said that this court is engaged in God's work. I am not so sure that I felt that way the first time I sat in the Brooklyn Family Court in a room about 25 by 30 feet on a hot July day and listened to a calendar of 167 cases. Nevertheless, this is God's work in which this court is engaged in protecting and rehabilitating adults and children. And I wish this afternoon that I were a member of the clergy so that I, like Rabbi Sachs, could thank God publicly for these splendid groups and individuals in this borough who saw our plight, realized our need, and came to our aid. Among them we find Judge Joseph F. McGuire of our bench, who, as chairman of our Brooklyn Courthouse Committee, has long sparked our effort to arouse public interest in a new courthouse. Also, I wish to publicly commend Louis Wolfe, clerk of our Brooklyn Children's Court, who has ably served as Judge McGuire's right arm. And we find in the foremost ranks the Brooklyn Bar Association, together with many other civic groups which joined with us in this program. The Brooklyn Daily Eagle has a fine civic conscience, and it operated most helpfully on our side in this particular planning, as it has done always when it found us worthy. And we can thank God for borough president Cashmore, I said it before and I repeat it, and I'll continue to repeat it, who not only recognized the need for this building, and I again call it a treatment center, but who took a practical, alert, and most intelligent part in convincing the city of New York that this building must be given. Now, I had a rather nice speech, I thought, prepared for this occasion, but last week I inadvertently talked to a reporter of the Brooklyn Eagle, and he previewed my speech last Sunday. So, we'll let it go at that. Now, I have a great pleasure at this time in presenting as our first speaker the first vice president of the Brooklyn Bar Association, which has maintained a steady and helpful interest in this project, Mr. George C. Wildermore of Brooklyn. Thank you. Thank you. Judge Hill, honored guests, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission, I'll keep my hat on. It's kind of a stormy day. We of the Brooklyn Bar Association are very much interested in the administration of justice, and with the administration of justice goes the housing and the home of the judges and the court attendants and those connected with the courts. The Brooklyn Bar Association some time ago appointed a committee for the erection of the new Supreme Court building, which was headed by the present Supreme Court Justice James Brown. We are very much interested in seeing that the courts are properly administered. They can only be administered properly if they have adequate quarters. Today, we all know that in every business, in every factory, in every office, everything is being done to make conditions more agreeable, more cleanly, lighting facilities, air conditioning, and everything else in order that there be better and more efficient service. That is equally true in our courts in Brooklyn. We of the borough of Brooklyn, the largest borough in the largest city, have a horrible condition as far as the family court, the children's court, and our Supreme Court in particular are concerned. Now I am very happy to see that at least something is being done, that we are moving ahead, because when a person gets into court, at least he has his day in court. And when the judges and when the clerks work in ample and beautiful and nice surroundings, why, of course, they're in better condition to render justice and be more agreeable to those before them. I wondered at first why this building went up before the Supreme Court, but now I am very much satisfied, very well satisfied, that probably the city fathers used the best judgment in the world, because in this new court, the domestic relations court, it deals with the human being, not necessarily with dollars and cents. And in this building, the family and the home life is taken care of. And I believe, and on behalf of the Bar Association, feel that it was the best thing to do under the circumstances to first erect our domestic relations court. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Wildermuth. Now it is most appropriate that we have with us today a gentleman who will speak to us next, your beloved borough president of Brooklyn, Mr. John Cashmore. Thank you, Judge Hill. Commissioners in Yolen, last but not least, Rabbi Sack, distinguished guests and neighbors and friends, today, the Brooklyn Civic Center represents a potential investment of more than $80 million in public and private funds. While time does not permit me to itemize each and every improvement we have already completed and the many others which are planned, I want to summarize today these improvements as briefly as possible. Before the development of the Civic Center could be started, it was necessary to acquire property for improvements and sites for public buildings. These acquisitions cost $16 million and this total consists of eight separate and distinct projects. It includes, for example, the widening of Adams Street from 60 to 160 feet and that's to convert this into the main traffic artery to speed the flow of traffic between the modernized Brooklyn Bridge and our own Brooklyn Street system. In this $16 million total, the largest items were the acquisition of the site for the new Brooklyn Supreme Court building with adjacent park areas and the site for the new domestic relations court for which we are breaking ground today. These very extensive acquisitions, just these two, cost $7,433,000. Among the other important projects in this group, which we mentioned, are the acquisition for the widening of Fulton Street and that's from Montague Street to Pierpont Street and from Pierpont Street to Clinton Street. The acquisition of property along Washington Street from Tillery Street to Concord Street and from Concord Street to Sand Street for the public and semi-public projects to be erected. And finally, the acquisition of the site for the central office building of the Board of Transportation and the city prison and remand shelter in the block bounded by Smith, Skimmerhorn Street, Forum Place and State Street. In 1950, $10,600,000 was spent by the Board of Transportation for the completion of its new building and it's now occupied and it's in use. and now we are witnessing the beginning of construction of the Domestic Relations Court building at a cost of $3,200,000. Two more buildings awaiting construction are the $14.5 million Supreme Court and the $9 million city prison and remand shelter. In this park's Cadman Plaza, we have completed the World War II Memorial Building for which the people of Brooklyn subscribed over $1.5 million themselves. Now east of Cadman Plaza Park, a group of savings banks have built three units at Concord Village at a cost of $9.5 million. Now these three units are 15-story apartment buildings which are now fully occupied and four more units are planned. In conjunction with the Civic Center's development, it has been necessary to install street and drainage improvements which are costing $881,000. It has been essential also to remove encroaching buildings and structures to clear the way for many of these improvements. improvements. And this work has cost an estimated $500,000. To provide the setting for the War Memorial and to improve Cadman Plaza Park, the city expended $809,000. Now in this brief summary, the foregoing improvements represents a total estimated cost of $65 million. Now that's your money. Nobody's giving it to you. The taxpayers are paying for it. Now the construction of the approaches to the Brooklyn Bridge with related improvements is costing $2.5 million. So that this summary now reaches an estimated total of $67,490,000. In the development of the Civic Center, however, we must include the sections of the Brooklyn Queens Expressway, which generally forms the north boundary of the Civic Center. The sections of the expressway in the vicinity of the Civic Center, which are now completed and others now under construction, including the part from Middorf Street to a point north of the Brooklyn Bridge at Main Street, represents an estimated cost of $12 million. This summary, therefore, amounts to an estimated total of nearly $80 million. But this is not all. Many of you know that a site in the Civic Center has been made available to the federal government for a new United States courthouse. And that, in addition, we have provided a site also in the Civic Center for a new building which the Brooklyn Red Cross will erect at its headquarters at a cost of about $700,000. Here, then, is an outstanding example of what we are accomplishing for the people of Brooklyn. It is one of the finest examples of urban redevelopment in any city in the entire United States. We have not only freed this area of its slums and run-down buildings, but we have provided for better living, better health, better business conditions, and improved property values. On that more than six years ago, the whole area, which now forms the site of Concord Village, had a total assessed valuation of only $1,770,000. Now, I'll repeat that. $1,770,000. And the run-down tenements and other buildings which occupied the old site yielded only $35,000 a year in taxes. $35,000 a year in taxes. Today, this area has been transformed into an attractive and modern residential development with apartments for 1,400 persons. It has an assessed valuation of $3,950,000 and is producing almost four times as much in taxes for the city as the same site did in 1947 and 48. Today, we are beginning a new and important unit in development of the Civic Center and in the not far too distant future, we will complete additional improvements. All this has taken time, it's taken hard work, it's taken careful planning and the splendid cooperation of the Board of Estimates and other city departments and public-spirited groups and citizens. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to say this to you, this is not the work of the borough president alone. It couldn't be, it couldn't continue to even be dreamed of without the full cooperation of Mayor Impelle Tiri and the entire members of the Board of Estimates. Remember, Brooklyn is only one of the five boroughs and I've given you just in this area what Brooklyn has received. And I do want to congratulate, if I may, Fred Samuilen, the Commissioner of Public Works, who has not only given his full time and his energy, but the great support he has given me in the arguments and the debates, not only before the City Planning Commission, but the Board of Estimates, to see this great work going forward. As a man who isn't here today, Rob Moses. Now, Bob Moses is the type of a man that's dynamic. I've referred to him on many occasions as the Leonardo da Vinci of 1952. He's untireless in his efforts and he has a great pride in his work. I say this to you, you read in the newspapers about the abolition of WNYC. Let's save $350,000. Well, then, WNYC just doesn't sit over there on the top floor of the municipal building and broadcast records. We couldn't have this ceremony today if it weren't for WNYC. Now, let's take a look at one of the great bands of the United States. And here they are, right in front of us. There's not much glory and credit sitting out here in dismal, rainy weather, but they're giving of their time, willing to cooperate. We have a great team with the 8 million people of the city of New York. Now, you may say anybody could do this. This takes a great deal of courage and I'll tell you why. When you talk of $80 million and I said to you it's the taxpayer's money, somebody's got to pay it. And the easiest thing in the world to do is to say, let George do it. Because to get this $80 million, you have to have taxes. And when you have taxes, and you have to vote for the sales tax and the utility tax and the business tax and the cigarette tax and the conduit tax and all the other taxes, there's just a few people that turn around and they say, cut out the waste and put your house in order. And after they say that, remember they haven't got another thought left in their head. I've been in public life for 30 years. I closed two baths here in Brooklyn the other day because they were built in 1902. and I didn't believe in that area. We should spend $150,000 to maintain those two baths with the great improvements we have. And on the other hand, if they really need a bath, we still have two bath houses in Brooklyn that they can go to for a dime. And if you were in my office this morning and you could see the letters of protest and the people who don't want those baths closed, who probably have never been inside, never seen the inside of them, those are the people who say, cut out the waste and put your house in order. So I want to say this to you, Fred, and to you, Judge Hill. You've been a great help in getting this done. A tremendous help. And you have a fellow in that court by the name of Louis Wolfe who stands right here, who has more courage and more guts than a great number of people on the city payroll. Now let's go ahead, have this building up, Fred, as quickly as possible, and don't forget that when I come in with the crying towel again for the new Supreme Court building, I'll have the same cooperation that I've had in the past. Thanks very, very much. Thank you again, Mr. Borough President, and thank you particularly for this very constructive address. I'm very glad to have with us today a representative of the Brooklyn Daily Eagle, particularly so distinguished and important to representative, we find in the person of Mr. Edwin B. Wilson, who is the executive editor of that newspaper, Mr. Wilson. Mr. Jones, President Cashmore, distinguished guests, there are many thoughts that crowd through one's mind on an occasion of this sort. First of all, naturally, is a new building what it's going to mean to the people who have recourse to it for justice and to think of the great need of it. Many people do not realize the conditions under which they have had to dispense justice in the present building, old, inadequate, and a fire trap. It has really been a disgrace that it has been necessary to use it so long. And it's therefore a wonderful thing that only a few months from now it will be no longer necessary to use that structure. but we also think of the things which Borough President Cashmore has spoken of the other new buildings that are going to rise in this neighborhood. Among other things, the new entrance highway into this borough through Adams Street right across the way. And we also think of the terrific situation in this very area which is being removed in order to put this building here. of these old tenements and the living evidence of the type of life to which such a large proportion of this borough has had to live in recent years due to the natural obsolescence. We are glad for all of these things. It means progress for the borough and we can only hope that the remaining improvements which will bring down still more of the old and useless buildings and bring up new and badly needed public structures will go forward speedily. thank you very much Mr. Wilson. We regret very much indeed the inability of his honor the mayor of this great city to be with us today as has been stated by your borough president our friend the honorable John Cashmore we are indebted to the willingness of the mayor of this city to go along with this project we're indebted to him for his understanding of this need and the cooperation if not the actual consent that he gave that this project go ahead. he designated in his place although this honorable gentleman was already on the program that our commissioner of the department of public works speak for him on this occasion as I stated the commissioner was already on the program to speak for himself he's a very able public servant the city of New York is indeed fortunate to have a man with his professional capacity occupying this important position and we who are interested in the proper construction of this important building are glad that he will see that the work is done properly he is here today with my good friend Deputy Commissioner Morgan and his department and Mr. Sylvester head of public relations I wish that we had opportunity to mention by name all of the different agencies and groups who are represented here today despite this inclement weather who have shown a remarkable interest to come here at this time and to let us see their faces I take great pleasure to present to you the Honorable Frederick H. Sir Mullen Commissioner of the Department of Public Works of the City of New York Commissioner to your moment Judge Hill Reverend Tloygy Mr. Borough President distinguished guests and ladies and gentlemen I very much appreciate the very fine introduction of your chairman I might say I might say though that I am a doctor of engineering not medical but I do know that this kind of weather is not conducive to good health and as I represent today not only myself but the mayor it would have been right for me to read a real prepared speech but along with Judge Hill I'm not going to do that I know the mayor will forgive me when I just say to you that he regrets not being able to be here as for myself my gratitude and my pleasure is in when this building is occupied by the good judges of the domestic relations for to an architect and to an engineer that is the pay that they cherish the most the gratification of putting into existence something that they planned and knew what it would be knew what it would look like and coming from paper into actual brick and mortar and that is going to be our pleasure I think it's only right at this time to say that here in your borough of Brooklyn for this borough this building we selected in the department of public works an architect who is a Brooklynite and that's Henry V. Murphy who is on our roster today and is the architect for this building in my own department of course we have many fine architects the man in charge of this particular project is Mr. Dadoan and Mr. Chiljean the resident engineer who will see that the contractor who is also on the platform today carries out the dictates of the plans and specifications is Mr. Regan now these gentlemen are all capable men and will provide for Brooklyn the completion of your hopes and wishes in a fine domestic relations court I think that we should end this ceremony Mr. Judge by digging our little bit which I notice the contractor has waited for us to do probably figuring that he wouldn't have to pay the excavator as much for the excavation if he waited for us to do part of it for him but I think we should do it quickly and I think we should all get back under shelter so that we will not have to change this fine building with hospital beds into a hospital thank you very much thank you commissioner and before we break up and before the genediction is pronounced on behalf of all of us I wish to thank this fine band from the department of sanitation for being here today and contributing so beautifully with their splendid music and thank you from Adams and Johnson Street in Brooklyn your city station has brought you the groundbreaking ceremonies for the new domestic relations court building we've had a group of distinguished speakers participating in the ceremonies including the Honorable John Cashmore President of the Borough of Brooklyn George C. Wildermuth First Vice President of the Brooklyn Bar Association and the Honorable Frederick H. Dermullen Commissioner of the Department of Public Works all of whom were introduced by the Honorable John Warren Hill presiding justice of the domestic relations court who acted as chairman music was supplied by the New York Sanitation Department Band led by Superintendent John Celebrer this program transcribed earlier was presented as a public service by your city station this is the municipal broadcasting system
