From the Rotunda here at the Customs House at Bowling Green, your city station brings you the proceedings at the induction of the District Commissioner of Internal Revenue. The District Commissioner, Clarence R. Krigbaum, has been a career employee of the Revenue Service for 35 years. Three directors of Internal Revenue for areas now served by collectors of the New York District will also be inducted into office. This is in accordance with new civil service procedures of selection of Bureau of Internal Revenue officials. There are many notables here this morning. Mayor Vincent Arum Pelletere, Commissioner Cavanaugh, and Secretary of the Treasury John Snyder will be the principal speaker. In just a moment we'll hear from our chairman, Edward H. Foley, Under Secretary of the Treasury, who will introduce our speakers. Now here is Mr. Foley. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. William J. Farrell of the United States Coast Guard Reserve will now sing the Star-Spangled Banner. Mr. Farrell. The Star-Spangled Banner. Mr. Farrell of the United States Coast Guard. Mr. Farrell of the United States Coast Guard. The Star-Spangled Banner. Mr. Farrell of the United States Coast Guard. Mr. Farrell of the United States Coast Guard. Oh, say can you see, by the dawn's early light, what so droly we hailed, and the twilight's last gleaming. And the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we watched Were so gallantly streaming In the rocket's red glare The bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night That our flag was still there O'er say does that star-spangled An o'er yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave Thank you very much, Mr. Farrell. The invocation will now be pronounced By Dr. Francis Daly, Assistant Director of the Siemens Church Institute. Dr. Daly. Let us pray. O God, our Heavenly Father, Send thy blessing, we humbly pray thee Upon this nation of ours And bless those into whose hands Thou hast committed the authority of government. Make us all ever mindful to learn To know and to do thy will That each one of us in our several callings May be better citizens. And especially we implore thy divine blessing At this time upon these thy servants About to be inducted into office of responsibility And authority in the service of their country. May thy Holy Spirit ever guide, guard, and direct them In all of their doings. And may thy heavenly blessing ever be upon them And upon us all. We ask it in thy most holy name. Amen. Thank you, Dr. Daly. Mr. Secretary, Commissioner Dunlop, Mr. Durning, Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. At the outset, I wish to thank on behalf of Secretary Snyder And myself, the customs brokers and forwarders Who have so willingly consented that business be suspended Here in the Rotunda during these induction ceremonies. After due consideration, it was the opinion of Secretary Snyder And myself that there was no more appropriate place In the entire city of New York to hold these ceremonies Than in the customs house, which has been one of the principal sources of revenue For running the federal government over a period of many years. These are historic premises. And they again witness an important proceeding. Our purpose this morning is to effect reorganization Of the Bureau of Internal Revenue Offices in New York City In accordance with the President's Reorganization Plan Number 1 of 1952 As approved by the Congress. Under the Reorganization Plan, the Internal Revenue Service Becomes the country over a career service. Its objectives are the best possible service to the public, A maximum degree of efficiency and economy of operation, And every possible freedom from suspicion of dishonesty or betrayal of trust. I want to acknowledge on behalf of the Treasury Department The effective support which the Reorganization Plan had From Senator Herbert H. Lehman, Representative Eugene Jay Keough, And the other members of the New York Congressional Delegation. The fact that the benefits of the plan are being extended today To the New York City area is due in no small measure To the endorsements which Representative Keough and Senator Lehman gave it While it was pending before the Congress. The ideas embodied in the Reorganization Plan Derived in part from a thorough, unbiased examination Into the structure and operating methods of the Bureau of Internal Revenue By a New York firm of management engineers The firm of Cresset, McCormick, and Padgett. Secretary Snyder has recently had a letter From a partner of these management engineers Mr. T. D. Morris Outlining his firm's observations As to the character of the job Being done to make reorganization effective. I want to read two paragraphs from Mr. Morris' letter. He said, Mr. Secretary, I want to pass on to you personally our feeling That the results being obtained in the Bureau of Internal Revenue Are in large measure attributable to the fine leadership Which you and other capable Treasury personnel have given And to the enlightened use which you have made of outside specialists Both in and outside of government My firm is indeed proud to have shared in planning these improvements And is convinced that under the continued leadership and interest Which has been displayed by you and other officials of the Treasury Department A record will be made in which all personnel of the Treasury Department Can take equal pride. Thank you, Mr. Morris We are happy to have had and we appreciate The generous cooperation of many New Yorkers In arranging this ceremony We are happy, of course To have so many of you present here this morning The Bowling Green vicinity And this famous customs house Seem to me particularly appropriate For such a gathering Closely identified as they are With many forward steps in New York life Certainly there is every prospect That the steps we are taking here today Will be fruitful of real improvement and progress It is now my privilege, ladies and gentlemen To introduce the man whose guidance and inspiration Started the reorganization plan on its way six years ago And who patiently but resolutely Saw it through to the full accomplishment Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable John W. Snyder The Secretary of the Treasury Mr. Foley, Commissioner Dunlap, Collector Durning, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen Ladies and gentlemen We are entering on a new era In the Internal Revenue Service throughout the country And today marks the beginning of a new phase in the history of the service In the city of New York A completely modernized revenue service structure Is being completed here and elsewhere throughout the country To keep the service fully abreast of its far-reaching responsibilities One of the changes in the reorganization Is that from now on the New York City offices of the service Are to be manned wholly by civil service personnel Ability, integrity, and application to duty Are the cardinal tests for employment and promotion In all positions in the service Conversion of internal revenue operations to a career service Was authorized by the President's Reorganization Plan Number One of 1952 New York City is the second area in which the plan has been placed in effect Reorganizations will be completed in other areas of the country within the next few months I am glad that so many citizens of New York have gathered for this installation ceremony Their attendance shows they appreciate the importance of what is taking place here today The reorganized internal revenue offices in the city of New York In this district will provide more convenient and faster service To all New Yorkers who have federal tax business to transact The greater part of the public's transactions of federal tax matters In New York City will be carried on through the offices of the new direct Of the three directors of internal revenue Who are being installed today for upper Manhattan, lower Manhattan, and Brooklyn The responsibilities of the directors of internal revenue Correspond to those of the former collectors of internal revenue Except that the directors are under civil service Additional revenue services will be installed in each of the directors offices Including audit transactions heretofore performed by revenue agents in charge To streamline the administration of internal revenue operations A district commissioner will supervise revenue operations in the city as a whole Formerly there was no counterpart in the revenue service for this position The three directors of internal revenue are responsible to the district commissioner He in turn is directly responsible to the office of the commissioner of internal revenue in Washington These straight and clear lines of authority and accountability Will help ensure more efficient service to the taxpayer For the present at least There will be no change in the locations of any of the internal revenue offices With which New Yorkers are accustomed to do business But eventually the Bureau of internal revenue in order to promote efficiency And convenience for the taxpayer Plans to bring together in one location The offices under the jurisdiction of each of the three directors of internal revenue The district commissioner for New York City The district commissioner for New York City Who assumes his responsibilities today Takes charge of an area of exceptional importance in the field of public service This area is of greater importance than most people realize For in the fiscal year 1951 Its people and business concerns accounted for almost 15% of the internal revenue collections For the entire United States During the calendar year 1951 alone This area produced 8 billion 400 millions of dollars of internal revenue collections Including such sums as 3 billion 200 million dollars in corporate income and profits taxes And 4 billions of dollars of individual income and employment taxes The work of the internal revenue offices here does not end by any means With the collection of income taxes During 1951 for instance 128 millions of dollars in alcohol taxes And more than 80 millions of dollars in retail excess taxes were collected here In one year this area is now processing over 6 million corporate individual payroll And other federal tax returns Simplification of all federal tax paying and tax collecting processes Was a major goal in the preparation of the Revenue Service Reorganization Plan This goal has been achieved in many important respects Prior to the reorganization reports went to Washington from New York City Went through the offices of 3 collectors, 3 internal revenue agents in charge, an appellate staff, a regional finance office, a special agent in charge, and a general As district supervisor of alcohol tax division That was a total of 10 lines of authority and responsibility in daily operation Now there is but one line From the district commissioner to his Washington superior Our fixed purpose is to eliminate as many complexities for taxpayers as is possible New York City taxpayers will find that with authority lodged in the local offices to deal with a great many problems Formerly referred to Washington The compliance with federal tax laws has been tremendously simplified Under the district commissioner Under the district commissioner The assistant district commissioner for intelligence Has very important responsibilities Under his direction There will be intensified efforts To see that every fraudulent attempt To evade federal taxes Will bring quick investigation and action The task of fighting tax frauds The task of fighting tax frauds never was an easy one In recent years the criminal element has attempted tax evasion with greater persistence than ever before It is our determination that this persistence of tax evaders will be met by the special agents of the revenue service with even greater enforcement activity And prosecution Last year additional taxes and penalties resulting from tax fraud investigation in this area amounted to approximately 75 million dollars This activity will be stepped up under the direction of the assistant district commissioner for intelligence To the full limit of available manpower The fact that the reorganization plan makes possible a more thorough audit of all types of returns will have a direct and forceful effect in the war against tax dodging The plan is a forward step in government Streamlining operations, pinpointing of responsibility And the improved business methods and procedures it embodies Assures the revenue service of a high degree of efficiency The independent inspection service of the bureau of internal revenue Which will maintain a vigorous and thorough check on the revenue service offices and employees Will be represented in New York City district by a chief inspector The inspection service will be directly responsible to an assistant commissioner of internal revenue in Washington The reorganization plan has features that will stimulate high morale among revenue service personnel Extension of the merit system throughout the service will help develop great efficiency and loyalty among the bureau's employees Promotion opportunities are being broadened throughout the field service It is a significant fact that the reorganization of the revenue service has been accomplished through six years of intensive study and effort It was by no means a quickly conceived plan It becomes evident it became evident to me shortly after I became secretary of the treasury in 1946 That the revenue service had suffered severely due to the conditions under which it had had to expand Under wartime restrictions and developments There had been a great increase in the number of tax returns filed and the amount of revenue collected Many expert employees had been called into the armed forces New tax legislation had been enacted The workload had increased enormously And the bureau had not been able to modernize its operations due to shortage of up-to-date equipment We immediately set about to improve management methods and achieve greater operating efficiency But every change had to be made without interrupting the service's continued task of collecting revenues and enforcing the tax laws Conferences were held with many groups of revenue officials as early as October 1946 to discuss problems and suggest solutions A work simplification program was set up as a means of enlisting the aid of every employee towards improved efficiency Task forces of key officials were established to make specific surveys and reports Congressional recommendations were given the closest attention A firm of management engineers was employed to analyze operations of the service and suggest other improvements The alcohol tax and tobacco tax divisions of the bureau were consolidated In this fashion, for six years we have been gradually reorganizing the Bureau of Internal Revenue Until we have reached this final step in a long series of actions taken by the Treasury Department To improve and streamline the federal tax collection system The President's Reorganization Plan number one of 1952 is the capstone of this progressive development In placing the plans in effect, we have made it our objective that only the most capable persons available would be named to the positions of District Commissioner of Internal Revenue Director of Internal Revenue, Director of Internal Revenue, and other supervisory posts To accomplish this end, I set up a selection board made up of top career officials of the Treasury and of the Bureau of Internal Revenue Which acting under civil service commission rules and regulations has inquired painstakingly into the qualifications and records of all applicants and appointees The installation of the reorganized internal revenue service here today for the Bureau of New York City operations under the new plan brings to a fulfillment the intensive work of many individuals and groups All who aided in the task deserve public commendation I also want to commend Commissioner Dunlap and his associates for the splendid work they have done in carrying out the reorganization plan They have done so with untiring interest and earnest cooperation In addition, I want to thank all who have been who have so enthusiastically contributed to the successful outcome of the task In addition, I want to thank all who have been who have so enthusiastically contributed to the successful outcome of the task Including congressional groups, the personnel of the revenue service, consultants of business management, firms, and others who aided in various advisory capacities All who have taken part in this task have shown remarkable initiative, ingenuity, and objectivity. In closing, I want to assure you that the American people are entitled to a federal revenue service of top efficiency, of unquestioned integrity, and of maximum operating economy. The continued success of this country's voluntary system of taxpayer compliance depends upon such a service. Here, New York City shares significantly in the steps now being taken to provide the nation with the finest internal revenue service it is possible to create. Thank you. You are tuned to WNYC, New York City's own station, and WNYC-FM. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I now want to present a man who came to Washington only a year ago from Texas and very quickly made a name for himself in an office beset by difficulties and handicaps. It is my privilege to present the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, the Honorable John B. Dunlop. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary, friends of the revenue service. All of us realize that no matter how fine a plan we might develop, for improving any agency, whether it be within or without the government, could not work unless it had at the top men of stature sufficient to ensure that within any agency, or improving any agency, whether it be within or without the government, could not work unless it had at the top men of stature sufficient to ensure that within every locality, every effort was made to give to the public the finest possible service in selecting the people to serve you here in the city of New York. We have spared no effort to comb the Internal Revenue Service and the other areas available to us so that you might have, as your servants and at the head of your revenue service in this fine city, the best there is. It is my honor to present those people to you at this time. I will not say that I am going to introduce them because most of them are well known to you already. First, Mr. Secretary, friends, it is my honor to present a very close friend of mine, a man for whom I have the utmost respect, a man whom I call a dean of hard work in the Internal Revenue Service, a man who has served his country long and faithfully throughout 33 years of service all over the United States of America, a veteran of World War I, and a man who has made a name for himself right here in your own home city, who will head up the Internal Revenue Service in this area. It is my pleasure to present the new District Commissioner, Mr. Clarence R. Kriegbaum. Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applauseients Thank you.