The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. How do the comics affect your child? Speaking for the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, we're interested in seeing that the objectionable comics go. Comics affect different children in different ways. We can answer that question only by knowing full background for a particular child. No writer of comic strips today can ignore the recent agitation against cartoon crimes and criminals. In condoning the bad, however, it is too easy to overlook the good. As a menace, comic books are vastly overrated. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents The Reviewing Stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, The Reviewing Stand asks a question which bothers many of today's parents. How do the comics affect your child? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around influence of comic strips and their importance in the reading habits of our children. At the end of the program, we'll tell you how to get a printed copy of today's discussion. Now, our moderator, Martin J. Maloney, Assistant Professor of Radio in the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Maloney. To discuss the question, How do the comics affect your child? The reviewing stand welcomes to the air, Mrs. Newton P. Leonard, Vice President of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, Stanley Baer, creator of the comic strip, The Toodles, and Paul Witte, Professor of Education, and Robert Kleemeyer, Assistant Professor of Psychology, both of Northwestern University. I understand that there's been quite an agitation going on against comic strips. It's something that I at least wasn't too thoroughly aware of. Apparently, it's true, though, that there is at least one good reason for the excitement, and that reason is the enormous sales that comic books have been having. I think, Mr. Witte, that you know something about that. Do you have the figures with you? Yes, Mr. Maloney. By the middle 30s, the comic books came into high favor. On May 8, 1940, Sterling North wrote that 10 million copies of them were sold, of the comic books, were sold every month. And now, according to the figures, the number sold is simply overwhelming. For example, it seems that 15 million comic books are published each week. That's 60 million a month, 720 million per year. And who reads them? Well, practically everyone, adults as well as children. It is amazing, in one publication to find it stated, that a billion comic books were published during the interval 1943 to 45, inclusive. Well, that's a considerable number. And you say adults read them as well as children, Mr. Witte? Yes, indeed. 44% of the men in the army reported that they did, and in one army post, it was said that they outsold the three most popular magazines, 10 to 1. They certainly outsell textbooks, then. I'm beginning to wonder if you shouldn't begin to regard your comic books as the effective teaching age nowadays. What do you think of that? That would certainly bring out what we are trying to get rid of, the objectionable features, and bring out the good features which we do approve of, bringing literary value into your comics. Yet I think the comics are, comic books are likely to keep children on a plateau educationally, repeating over and over again these exciting experiences that they get to upon the radio, and now up on television. So, I would like to see us start with comic books, and move on to exciting, fine literature, in which the cartoon technique is utilized, and then move on to stories that have in them excitement and adventure and so on, but are good literature. That is, you simply think the comics are too limited, but not perhaps otherwise objectionable. Well, how would you introduce good literature into the comics? What would be a standard of good literature, Witte? Clemyra, I wouldn't attempt to do it through the comics. I would try to improve them so that they would continue to entertain and have certain value. And then I would try to produce more good educational books that have the elements of excitement and adventure in them. I would improve our textbooks. I would utilize cartoon technique. And I would teach children how to read discriminatingly among the varied sources, including the comics. What do you think would happen to the comic book sales after you've done all this? That would only be my guess. You would hope that they would go down, is that it? I would certainly hope they would go down as we would increase substitute material. In fact, I believe we could demonstrate that it would operate that way. But better comics would probably come into being as well as comic books and materials and strips utilizing the same technique. Some of the strips are excellent educationally. I think of them in some magazines for children, and they are fine, and they accomplish a job just as definite and important as some of the jobs accomplished through comics in the Army. Well, Barry works in this field actually creating a strip, and he was saying something a moment ago about the attempts that the profession has made to improve the quality of comics. Well, I think the profession has tried to improve comics wherever possible, but I think we overlook an important point in line with what Professor Whitty had to say. And this is where the parent enters into the picture. They have the power to let the editors know which comics should remain in their papers, for the editors will tell you that they try to give the public what they want. And it's up to you to see that good comics are recognized and the poor ones are done away with. I think you've made a distinction here that maybe we ought to comment on. The comics that appear in the newspaper and those which appear in comic books, whether they're the same thing, there are certainly two aspects of the same thing. That's right. They're written differently. There are two distinct fields, and too often we overlook this fact. While a few of the comics that appear in newspapers are published as comic books, most of the comic books are published as comic books alone. And apparently most of the agitation against comics are against comic books, and too often we don't bring the distinction out. I think our title indicates this. It was comic books that we were being mostly concerned about. But even there, I stated earlier that I thought the menace was vastly overrated. I still do. I made a one-man survey, a very inadequate sample, one drugstore last Sunday when I knew I'd be on this program to look over some of the comic books. And the druggist mentioned to me that he had been taking his own steps in following the recommendations of the local parish and censored his own list. And so I bought some of the censored ones. They weren't too bad in accepting I think they were oversold. The stories were in general innocuous. They could have come from the pen of Grace Livingston Hill Lutz and not have caused any great consternation at all. Except they did, I think, try to sell them under a flamboyant name and the drawing may be a little bit excessive. But aside from that, the evil ideas that they might have gotten from these comics were probably no worse than they could have gotten from many of the accepted sources of child's literature. The fairy tales, the...we could even bring in the Bible. And yet, Klee Meyer, when there is the kind of content that you have in so many of them, the violence, the fascistic type of thing, and when you consider that most children consume a dozen comic books per month and go to the movies one or two times a week and listen to the radio two or three hours daily, and when you think about the relatedness of this problem, you realize immediately how great it is. On the radio, you may hear this, comes a pause in the day, and that is known as the children's hour. And then we have an atomic bomb and all the violence that is terrific. I think there is a related problem of dealing with these media and making them work more effectively in education. I think one thing that makes comic book appeal is its cost. One little boy said, sure, little Toots and Madeline are fine books, but you can get a second-hand Superman for two cents. at Herman's. We must produce better books, and books that have the same elements of adventure and excitement in them, and also utilize cartoon technique. Yes, and...but we as parents realize that this violence, that is the thinking parents, the parents who are aware of some of these...of the comic books. You see, too many of our parents use comic books as a...well, as a soothing syrup to keep the child still or keep him occupied. They're not too much worried about his other activities. If a child is just comic book diet, it's bad. But if a comic book come in and give these educational values that Dr. Whitty has spoken about, or have...will take a child no farther than what his own natural atmosphere is going to be in violence. But when a child uses his comic book experiences to imitate or improve the situation, why shouldn't...why did this criminal get caught, says the youngster? Because he failed to do such and such things. Well, I'll see what I can do. How I can improve on his behavior. I think that's a very isolated circumstance, really, the comment that you make. I mean, you hear it. Well, I know it happens in our own state. Perhaps our state is a bad state. But I know it was in the last...within the last two weeks before I left home. Well, perhaps it would be better to say that you can't judge a child except in terms of his total pattern of reading. That's right. That's right. And the comic magazine or reading should be considered along with other types of reading. I know a boy in a school in Evanston who was the best citizen in the school. He read more comic books probably than any boy in the school. But he read many other things and his pattern of reading was generally commendable. I think, Mrs. Leonard, that is the question in the case of every child in reading the comics. Well, that's what I meant. That if you take the comic book and he has no other outlet for his imitation, there is no other outlet for his creativeness, you've narrowed him to a point where he's going to live on this sadism, this sexism that's in these...the violence that's there. And, well, then he'll minimize the good things that are in his life. But that, of course, again, is Dr. Witte says you've got to take in the whole environment of every child. But we've got too many parents that aren't too worried about the children of our... Well, take out the comic book and you still have a child that is going to get in trouble and going to be all wrong. I think the comic books are getting to be a scapegoat to some extent for the inadequacies of parents, the inadequacies of the environments in which they're bringing up their children. Just recently, not a matter of more than a couple of months ago, here in Chicago, we had a child who committed some atrocious crime, and the parents rather blandly said, too many comic books. Whereas if you looked at the pattern of the...as explained to the parents' background, the kind of people that they were, the responsibility that they felt for the child, it was...they were simply maligning the comic books. Well, I'm inclined to agree with you. This agitation has become so great that there are some cartoon baiters who feel that the man who earns his bread and butter, inventing the shmoo and advocating the advisability of eating spinach or depicting the life on Mars, who should be horse-whipped in the public square at high noon and imprisoned for the rest of his natural life. It's not only that, it's the fellow who buys them, or gets them for his children. The children begin to think, these are evil things. Are the parent who does not help his child to develop a better ideal of self in which comics assume the right proportion and the total reading pattern. And about this question of stopping children from reading them, I have an interesting observation. In one of our schools, they stopped selling nearby the comics in the drugstore and the grocery store and the elevated station after some statements were made about them. I went over to the school and there was a boy, one of the finest boys in the school, and he had a tray of magazines, comic magazines, and he said, Mr. Whitty, would you like to rent a book? And he also offered to make a comic for me, which was excellent for two cents a week, was called Green Revenge, and it added in many of the elements of the finest type of fairy tale or imaginative material. Well, if you can't beat them, join them. Is that it? That's your idea. Well, don't you feel, Professor Whitty, that the parents have it in their power to help the child discriminate between good comics that'll actually enrich their imagination rather than those that will excite them and lead them nowhere? Indeed I do. Two things we must have. We must have reading material so that children will develop skills in reading so they will be able to read something that isn't all pictures. They will also should have the kind of reading experience so they will come to enjoy the process and the results in reading. That means that we must have better books, and parents must join teachers and others in leading children to find the satisfactions that there are in great books and in good books. Now, there's just one thing that I'd like to caution there as far as the parents are concerned. Don't take the attitude of leading the child away from something evil and say a national or a family catastrophe has occurred when the kid happens to like a particular comic strip. I think that can be the source, say, of a good family relationship as much as any of the good literature, and I certainly approve of your statement. But around the comic book, well, let's say the comic in the daily paper, not the comic book so much, because that does come daily. We have a children's hour, I have it, and it certainly made a new pattern of my own comic reading. Because my youngsters taste and my taste happen to differ a little bit. Incidentally, he does a good job of censoring his own comics. He's a little, well, just over five, and he won't read the Blood and Thunder ones, except on occasion, but in general not. He likes the sort of thing that Mr. Bear creates. Klee Meyer, we should recognize that parents have a tremendous responsibility in this whole thing. A mother brought a youngster in to me not long ago. The point that you made is so appropriate here. And she said, John is just like his father. His father never could read. And John reads nothing but the comics. Well, to get back to Professor Klee Meyer's point, I think too often we think that anything that is good is dull. The emphasis is there, and we must never, we mustn't overlook that. That's why the children like these comics, because our books are dull that we give them to read, and we don't liven them in any way. And the mother and the father who aren't thinking, who do not have the children dull as the Klee Meyer does with his child, they give them the comics, because they haven't had a no mistake. And we do not make available for them the fine, exciting stories that they will turn to instead of the comics, if they are available as readily as the other things, because books do provide the basis for the highest kind of enjoyable experience, and in them, as Carlisle has said, all that mankind has done, thought, gained, or been, it is lying in magic preservation, in the pages of books, and not in comic books. Well, I think you're, I think you're right, as far as the contribution maybe that literature, good literature provides, is not one of cutting down on excitement. We know there just as much blood and thunder in any piece of good literature as you can find in comic books, a little better done. The thing that's impressed me about, particularly comic books, and I think television, because there again is a dependence upon the picture, that we really can't create an illusion by means of pictures that is as good or as satisfying as that which comes from the printed page, and that's the thing I would hate to see to be denied of the developing child. If he realizes, finally, and I think it's a long process of realization... But give him a book that is exciting and which he can read and is good literature, and he'll be like H. L. Mencken who said, when I was eight, a miraculous thing happened to me, by the sight of it all other things seem unimportant. I found Huckleberry Finn, and then I knew there'd be books, and more books all the rest of my life. Mr. Whittier, if that's true, why is it that children and adults read the comics in such enormous numbers? What do they get out of it? What's the point here? I think you have to admit one reason why they'll get these comics is they're so accessible and so cheap, and if the child doesn't have a dime even, he can borrow from his neighbor. They all, you see them on the doorstep swapping and borrowing, and it's a regular... Well, in our neighborhood you just see them going passed around, passed around, and there's very little effort on that part. And school books are often tepid and unexciting and repetitious. Absolutely. I don't think this accessibility is the thing. I think that's a result. That's right. You think that's just a result of them being around? Of the popularity of the medium. Mm-hmm. And our failure to utilize the very elements in the media, in the educational channels, in terms of more desirable objectives. You know, we've been talking a little bit, and I think this has bearing on your point, of the exciting and the evil stories, in a sense, that are brought out in these comics. Can you tell me one successful story, in literature, in anyone here, that does not have these elements in it, that does not have the objectionable elements of the comic book in it? I just wanted for information. I think some poetry might be found, but it would be difficult. Your point is an excellent one. If we start saying what is on an approved list and what isn't, we get into very great difficulties, as people in the past have tried to condemn Shakespeare as undesirable and many other writers as contributing to crime. So we find the same situation applying to the comics. But I think there's one point that we overlook. Most writers of comic books, especially crime comic books, feel that if the gilly man receives his reward in the end, either if he's killed by a g-man or he goes to jail, the story is justified. But to the juvenile or added lesson nine, these endings are inconsequential. All the child understands is that the tough guy is exciting and has exciting experiences. The murderer or thief may even become a hero to that child. And that, I think, is a very important point that you don't find in the classics and other literature. Well, now, I think you do find that. There are two ways you could look at Ulysses, for example. Ulysses could be a very fine adventurer, but he was no rover boy. Well, that's true. That's true of the benevolent Robin Hood, who steals from the rich and gives to the poor. Again, it comes back to the guidance of each child so that his pattern of reading is desirable in terms of the type of child he is and the ideal of self you're trying to get him to form. It seems to me, Dr. Klimaier, that most of the comic books that I see that deal with crime and so on overemphasize violence and present to the child too much of a fascist society. Therefore, the democratic ideals and so on that we should aim for are likely to be overlooked, and we should, through other approaches, try to associate these with the reading of the comics. Don't you feel that there's enough stimulating and exciting experience in the average family life to give a stripped zest? It's fairly easy to depict these experiences in an interesting way without having to resort to crime and bloodshed. Well, you do that admirably in your script. I don't think there's any question about it. Well, I think there are many other strips that do it too. I think so too. And there are books that make the logical transition from that type of thing into desirable reading for boys and girls. Some of the best of the Disney books, some of the more exciting books such as the U-books of One Press, where we have the cartoon technique used with good literature, and then the exciting adventure stories that come in relatively cheap books today. We have many fine 25 and 50 cent books. The job is for parents to know about these, to know children, and to know the pattern of reading of every child so as to give him proper direction and aid as he needs it. And isn't it the job of the community to go farther than that to see that this better type of thing that you express is available to the child? You've got to go farther. You can't just say the parent knows about it, because you're going to not reach every parent, but it's available in your community. The child will pick that up. I think we ought to have comics and comic books available in the public libraries, perhaps, just as a... so that they would be as easy to get as the other books, those that were approved and were the things that would stimulate the... Yes, and Mrs. Leonard, we should not overlook in this responsibility of parents the related problem of the radio and television and the other activities that are similar to reading the comics or reading the comic books in their outcomes. I'd like to go a little bit beyond that point and put it that since we are not going to be able to correct any bad situation as far as all of these media are concerned immediately, it's a matter of the parents being able to develop in their children, in the home environment, such a satisfactory experience for the children that he can take comic books, he can get something out of it, he can leave them, leave them, he can have good literature. He's not prompted to read something simply because of his... he shouldn't have it. The atmosphere of the home and the atmosphere of the classroom are indeed very important items in this respect. I wonder if comic books aren't something like the farmer who had some hay that wasn't very good and so he put a very weak fence around it so that his cows would break through the fence and eat the bad hay for him. We kind of put those fences around comic books, parents do, by their attitude, and the child says, I can't have it, it must be good, because everything else I can't have is good. That's why we in the parent-teach group do not prove generally of bands or senses. We feel that's the... just makes it be more inviting to the child. But if we can just develop and show them this good, then they'll be just as interested. And if parents too, Mrs. Leonard, would read more and would set the right kind of model for youngsters and discuss books with them, how much better it would be. But I am a person who feels that books offer so much to everyone, to every child, to every parent. I feel like Virginia Woolf, who said, I've often dreamed of the Judgment Day, and how the Almighty and St. Peter will be there, and the people will come along, the conquerors and the lawyers and the prominent ones, to receive their rewards. And we will come along, we people who have loved books, with our books under our arms. And the Almighty will turn to St. Peter, not without a certain envy when he looks at us. And he'll say, turn these people away. They need no rewards. They have loved books. They had an escape within an escape, in other words. That's right. They'll go on through eternity reading books. Although we all agree that the children, as well as adults, make up your comic book and strip readership, I think from the contributor standpoint, it's the juvenile reader that we should be most interested in. He's our adult of tomorrow, and our future audience, as well as our present one. And he's going to bring home the newspaper. He will guide his own children's tastes. If he starts out reading good comics, he will pass them on to the next generation. I'm sure that the people in the industry aren't ogres, as you pointed out before. No, that's right. And they are interested in appealing to the large group of people. But I don't think he will come to like good comics or good anything else, unless he gets some direction. A study of his whole pattern is necessary, therefore. His reading of comics and everything else, and an intelligent guidance of him, making available for him these other kinds of books that are desirable in the very best sense, and will lead him and others to want to read better materials in comic presentation, as well as in other forms. So there is a dual problem there. Well, as you said before, it all ties in with the radio picture, and in all probability with television. The comics, the good comics, are not encouraged enough. You never turn on a radio program, and you're quoted from the various comics, the Blood and Thunder comics, but you never hear about the home life and family comics on the radio. And this is up to the parents to, these are the comics that should be encouraged. And the parents can do that by letting the newspapers know the comics they like, and those that they don't like. Because the editor is very sensitive to his reader audience. And may, haven't, Mr. Bayer, haven't the publishers gone together on this and drawn up a code, trying to abolish some of these bad features which they are admitting, but expecting us, the parents, to develop a buying sensitiveness to the good comics? Well, frankly, I don't know too much about the comic book code. There was always a code in comic strips. The syndicates watch the strips very carefully, as well as the editor, the feature editors, and the various newspapers. And it isn't the newspaper strips that are the ones that are severely criticized. But it is a matter, after all, of educating each child in terms of his unique nature and his needs. And we ought to see this whole problem as an educational one in which many media are involved, and many avenues are possible. Wouldn't it be a good idea, then, if it's an educational matter entirely, that it would get right into the schools? And the schools do have these comics. Use them, as someone has said before. So the community becomes wise. Thank you. Thank you. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, How Do the Comics Affect Your Child? Why not send now for printed copies of these broadcasts with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin, one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Mrs. Newton P. Leonard, Vice President of the National Congress of Parents and Teachers, Stanley Baer, creator of the comic strip, The Toodles, and Paul Witte, Professor of Education, and Robert Kleemeyer, Assistant Professor of Psychology, both of Northwestern University. Now our moderator, Martin J. Maloney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand completes its series of three discussions on the so-called American arts. We ask, what is happening to the American theater? Our guests will be Jackie Cooper, motion picture star, who now appears as Enzim Pulver in the Chicago production of the stage hit Mr. Roberts, John Forsythe, who stars in the title role of the same production, and Claudia Webster and Edward Crowley, both of the theater department, School of Speech, Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week for what is happening to the American theater. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of the Mutual Broadcasting System. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. Theished