Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the struggle for oil in the Middle East. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the present Anglo-Iranian oil dispute and the economic and political importance of the resources of the Middle East. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Our guests today are E.B. Espenshade, Jr., associate professor of geography at Northwestern University, Gustav E. von Grunabam, professor of Arabic in the Oriental Institute at the University of Chicago, and Dr. Robert E. Wilson, chairman of the board of Standard Oil Company of Indiana. Gentlemen, Iran, formerly Persia, is threatening to rival Korea as the world's danger spot, with the oil dispute growing hotter by the hour. Dr. Wilson, although your company, Standard Oil of Indiana, has no interest outside of the United States and Canada, can you tell us why the Anglo-Iranian conflict is important today? Well, in the first place, from the Middle Eastern area, which includes Iran, Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and so forth, produces between 15 and 18 percent of the world's oil. As a matter of fact, it has between 35 and 40 percent of the world's proven reserves of oil, so it is very important from that viewpoint. Espenshade, what is involved in the present threat by the Iranian government to seize British-owned oil industry in Iran? What has prompted the Iranian government to make these moves? Well, I think a variety of factors are involved in here. In the first case, there is a growing sense of nationalism throughout the Middle East, as in other parts of the world. And in the particular case of Iran, it's already an independent sovereign power, but nationalism is expressed in forces of anti-imperialism. The forces involved here, therefore, are in part a reaction against exploitation of their area by outside groups. It should not be forgotten that it is not only nationalistic opposition, but also religious opposition to the foreigner. One of the groups that is most vocal in demanding nationalizations are the so-called Fedayana Islam, those that are ready to sacrifice their lives for their religion, and they are the ones who assassinated the former premier. Now, what groups are behind this nationalistic movement, Espenshade? Well, as Van Gundenbaum just mentioned, there is a fanatic religious group. There is also actually a society called National Society for the Struggle Against the Iranian Petroleum Company, and that society has been accused of being an offset of the two-day Communist Party in Iran. But going back a little while, I think there's one thing we ought to clear up here. Some people have the idea that it's a question of payments that has brought about this present difficulty. That is, that the Persian or Iranian government hasn't been receiving as much money in oil royalties as the Arabian government has been receiving from American companies. That is not completely true in one sense. The British have offered the Iranian government a contract which is as good as the contract the Saudi and Arabian government have. In fact, it may even be a little bit better. And the payment problem here is not an insurmountable one. I think that there can be agreement on that from that standpoint. There's something more than just pure economics. I think we ought to realize that there's a great deal of poverty and suffering in the lower classes in Iran. And while the Shah has been endeavoring to remedy this, there are a large group of landowners who have opposed it, and I believe are using the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company as sort of a scapegoat. Well, the Iranian parliament, the Majulis, is made up of a few wealthy individuals. Some of them own thousands of acres, old villages in fact. And they naturally are not interested in agrarian reform. The Shah has tried to direct their interests in the field of agrarian reform. And as a result, they probably are using in part this nationalization of oil as a way to take the peasants' interests off of their problems and focus them in another direction. It's interesting that the workers don't seem to follow this very closely because the attempt to make a strike, in spite of all the feeling that had been stirred up politically and religiously, was practically a failure. They never shut down the Abedan refinery, which is the world's largest, and the total interruption to operations only lasted about two weeks. Now, Espencheid mentioned the action of the British government up to this point. I wonder, Dr. Wilson, what are the British doing at the present time in this crisis? They appear to be endeavoring to work behind the scenes and reach some satisfactory conclusion of a very difficult problem, which of course involves breach of contract. They're moving rather slowly then, is that true? Yes. Von Gunnbaum, what is the United States doing in the present crisis? The United States have no direct interest in this oil problem in the sense that they don't have any oil concessions in Iran. But they, of course, are very much interested in preventing any violence from arising and from giving the Russians an in to get their own men down to South Persia. It's interesting to note that this same situation occurred about 15, 20 years ago. Sometime in the early 30s, the Iranian government attempted to nationalize the oil industry. And at that time, the British signed a new agreement underneath which the two parties are now operating. But the case went to the League of Nations, I believe, in Geneva for solution. Was the problem solved at that time? It was satisfactory to both parties. At that time, the royalties were increased and the area to be exploited was well defined. A moment ago, Von Gunnbaum, you mentioned the Soviet Union. Where does she fit into this picture? Well, anything we lose in this area, the Soviet Union gains. Not in the direct way that they could take over immediately, the British were to clear out. But if we do not control the oil production of the Persian Gulf area, the Russians would sooner or later control it. Dr. Wilson, I think you're in a unique position to comment on the viewpoint of the American oil industries, even though your company doesn't hold resource supplies here in this area. I wonder how do the American oil industries view this particular problem? As far as the Iranian dispute itself is concerned, of course, no American oil is involved. That's entirely owned by Anglo-Iranian, of which the British government owns a 52% stock interest. However, American companies do own about half of the production and crude reserves in the Middle East, and they're therefore particularly concerned of a bad precedent of contract breaking. You must remember that in developing an industry in any country, many hundreds of millions must be poured in to build up refineries, pipelines, oil wells, and so forth. And if after that begins to be profitable, a country can calmly move in and break a contract, it's a very bad precedent for all concern. The second thing that concerns us, of course, is that a possible shortage of oil might occur if not only Iran but other parts of the Middle East were seriously affected for any substantial period of time. The seizure you were talking about, didn't that occur in Mexico a few years ago? Yes, and that was a bad precedent. Fortunately, Venezuela was strong enough and honest enough to realize that they were better off to let the American oil companies stay there, and they have made the Venezuelan oil industry continue to grow, while that of Mexico has practically stood still for the last 10 years. Aspen Chate, what was the result of the Mexican seizure of American properties? What accrued from that? Well, I think it took them almost nine years after the seizure to get back up to the production that they had at the time the oil lands were expropriated, so that conceivably any nationalization in Iran might indicate that the industry might fall off very sharply in its production for a period of time. In addition to that, Mexico had substantial domestic consumption, whereas Iran consumes very little of the amount of oil that they produce. They're dependent on foreign markets. In other words, the analogy won't quite hold in the two situations. Right. What about technical skill? Did the Mexican government lack technical skill? Yes, they did. They had considerable difficulty for a time. And that was the reason for the difficulty itself? That was part of the reason. There were other reasons as well. Government is not well-equipped by nature to do wildcatting. It takes the individual entrepreneur willing to lose his own money to prove where oil is. A bureaucrat has a great deal of difficulty drilling five or ten dry holes for one successful wildcat, which is what you have to do if you're going to find new oil supplies. Now, isn't Russia in the unique position of being able to offer that technical skill, which might conceivably be withdrawn in case of seizure? I don't believe in a unique position. The Americans could give it or the Dutch could give it, but Russia will certainly be waiting at the door and maybe have their foot in it. As a matter of fact, they have already offered to substitute Russian experts for British experts. Well, now, I'd like to ask this question. I think it's very important. How would seizure affect Great Britain? Aspen Shea? Well, we might change that word from seizure to nationalization. Actually, the effect upon Britain will depend upon what sort of a negotiation can come out of this nationalization attempt. In one sense, if all of the oil was cut off from Great Britain, she would suffer seriously in several ways. This is her only source of oil supply, of any consequence, that she controls directly. In addition, the British Navy and the British Merchant Marine obtains most of their supplies from this region. Churchill, in 1914, was responsible for the Anglo-Iranian company having half of its shares purchased by the British government. And the British, therefore, have a very direct economic interest, as well as a military interest in this region. As for the United States, the effect would not be large, but by and large, any shortage which developed from cutting off Iranian supplies would have to be made up by United States companies, either in this country or in other foreign areas. As for Iran, she would find herself in a somewhat paradoxical situation. From the point of view of Iranian psychology, it would certainly be good and healthy for her to win such a victory. From the point of view of her economic reforms, it would probably be bad, because something like one-third, and if you count all the foreign exchange transactions, something like one-half of her revenue comes in one way or another from the Anglo-Iranian company. So if nationalization would, and it certainly would for the first few years, cut down on those royalties, they would have less money to put into the reforms for the sake of which they are now undertaking the nationalization. I think we might look beyond immediate effects and ask this question. Would seizure, or nationalization as Espen Shade would prefer to call it, would it further destroy the possibility of foreign nations coming into undeveloped areas to develop natural resources? There's no question that it would have a serious adverse effect on anything like our .4 program. If companies are going to invest their money in foreign countries, they must be able to rely on the sanctity of contracts, whether it's made with foreign governments or foreign companies. The United States history is a good example of this. We, for the first 150 years of our existence, were very largely dependent on supplies of foreign capital. Now, of course, some of those enterprises went into bankruptcy, but many of them continued to pay dividends for 100, 150, 200 years, and we didn't begrudge it because we needed the foreign capital, and we kept a steady stream of foreign capital coming into this country to help us get to the place we are today. I think your point there is well taken, Wilson. Actually, some people say that Britain is embarrassed by Persia or Iran wanting to nationalize the oil industry because Britain has been nationalizing her own industries. I don't think the question is here whether Iran has the right to nationalize her oil industry. The British don't deny that the Persians or Iranians own or possess the oil. It's a question of whether a country has the right unilaterally to break a contract. The contract underneath which they're now operating should extend to about 1993. The contrast between the British nationalization and this attempt is that the British did give the owners of the properties a substantial value in the form of British government bonds, whereas all Persia can pay with are essentially the proceeds of the theft, and that is not a very good precedent to establish. Their great asset is this oil industry built up with foreign capital, and I don't see how they could pay for that unless they were willing to take much less return over the next ten years in order to eventually acquire the ownership. Has some plan been offered by which Iran could pay for the property seized? Has it been changed? So far as I know, nobody has put forward any final plan. I think the British are more or less holding back now, waiting until the temper of the people and the parties involved cool down somewhat. But I think that satisfactory agreements could be made that admitted the Persian government's power to nationalize the industry. They could perhaps agree to pay back some of the royalties or some of the profits each year underneath the nationalization to the British and thereby amortize the British investment over a period of years. That may be what will happen, although I still think Wilson's point that that will have a definite hindrance to the interests of American capital and other capital developing foreign areas is a serious problem. Well, in any event, isn't Britain about the only substantial market for oil in this area, Britain and the United States? The United States doesn't furnish a market for any appreciable quantity of oil from Iran, but Europe is partially dependent upon it. We've been talking a good deal about the Iranian question itself. I think Dr. Wilson earlier indicated that a substantial portion of the world's oil comes from this area of the world, which would be certainly more than Iran. I wonder how is this production divided between Iran and Iraq and Saudi Arabia? Espin Cade, do you want to tell us about that? Well, I think it's roughly divided in equal thirds, about a third in Iran, about a third in Saudi Arabia, about another third in the smaller countries of which Iraq has the greater share. But this is not only a question of production, it's a question of the importance of the resource in this area. I think that this area now, you said, Wilson, had 40% of the known proven reserves of the world, and they are producing at the present time only about 15% of our oil production. Whereas in the United States, we have roughly 30% of the world's proven reserves, and we're producing 50% to 60% of the world's oil at present. You've got a lack of balance here between resources and production. And that means that in time, this area, to an increasing degree, will have to supply a large share of the world's oil. I think that present plans are that by about 1955, this area will supply 25% to 30% of the total world's oil production. Where are American oil interests in this area, Dr. Wilson? Americans own all, American companies own all of the Saudi Arabian concession, which is about equal importance to Iran, and they own about half of the other areas. Actually, the division between American and British interests in the Middle East as a whole is just about 50-50. There are some other interests besides British and American oil in Iraq, the oil concessions and the control of four countries. France, Netherlands, and Great Britain and the United States share equal parts in the concession there. I wonder how extensive would American losses be if, suppose, we lost our oil in the Middle East? Would it be a severe economic blow? Yes, it would be a severe economic blow to those companies. I wonder also, von Grunabam, what significance these oil resources, and I think Aspen Shade indicated that they were very important as resources, I wonder what significance they hold for the indigenous peoples. Well, this is best demonstrated, perhaps, at the example of Saudi Arabia, where under the new royalty agreement, where Saudi Arabia and the company share the profits 50-50 after U.S. taxes, where something like 90 to 100 million is going to be paid into the Saudi treasury, which is perhaps close to 90% of their total revenue. Well, in addition, there's a great political significance in these deposits or resources to the indigenous governments. To some extent, they can use them for, as bargaining powers, playing off the Western free world against the Soviet. You take in the case of the Arab peoples, the American government has been very hesitant to do anything that might discourage them or change their point of view about our exploitation of the Arabian deposits. I think, therefore, that Iran is going to play the Soviet against the free world in this present nationalization problem that's before them. I doubt if this would hold for Saudi Arabia as well, because King Ibn Saud seems to be very conscious of the possibilities which these huge sums give him to modernize his country to the extent he wants it to be modernized. Are these countries especially sympathetic to the Russians? Is that in the picture, Aspen Shade? I would say they are strongly anti-Russian as they are anti-British at the present moment. As Van Gunenbaum mentioned a few moments ago, they turned down a concession to the Soviets in 1947, so that there's no question here that it's anti-anybody who comes in and tries to develop their resources. It's a pure question of nationalism, but they will use their resource to play one party against the other. And it will be inevitable that, suppose the Western powers leave Persia, that the only power group that could come in into this vacuum would be Russia and her friends. I think another important thing to realize is the effect that the oil resource and its development has had upon the economy and social aspect of the Middle East. You take in the case of Abadan, that big refinery, there are about 20,000 employees of the Iranian-Persian-Iranian-Anglo-Iranian oil company. In Saudi Arabia, I think Aramco has about 15,000 employees. Now that means population support for 50,000, 60,000, 100,000 or more people. Abadan was a desert island until the Anglo-Iranian company came in and built it up. How large is that city today, Grenfell? It's now about 200,000 population. And similar developments are now in the offing in Saudi Arabia, where around Amman you have a city of something like 50,000. Now, von Gunnbaum, you've traveled extensively in these areas, and I think probably you know the people fairly well. What do they think about foreign investments in this country and all of the insuant struggle that we've had over the oil deposits there? I'm afraid that these people are present under a great emotional strain. They want to modernize as quickly as possible, and modernization means to them running their country independently in every respect. So I think that emotionally, they are rather in favor of dispossessing the foreigners. But at the same time, the leading straighter know very well that they need the foreigners for investment and for all the reasons Wilson has just enumerated. I think there's one word we ought to add to that, von Gunnbaum. Actually, the great mass of the people in these areas are uneducated. Politically, they're not conscious of any struggle about oil. Well, it's mainly the few educated people, probably 2% of the population. There's no middle class as such, but there is a growing middle class, and many of them perhaps are American students that have brought forth this desire or strong feeling of nationalism in these areas. Well, I think it could be safely said that there is hardly a single intellectual or political leader in the Middle East today who has not had his education in one way or another in a French, British, or American university, perhaps in a German university. But I wanted to add one more thing, that this popular opposition does not seem to hold for Saudi Arabia, where the king has managed very well to keep the indigenous population and the foreigners apart. Some people think that the exploitation of oil in the Middle East is entirely a matter of Western powers showing their imperialistic desires. And you're speaking of Saudi Arabia, reminded me I read Trichell's book. And in that book, he spends a whole chapter telling of his difficulty in peddling around American oil companies, the concession to the oil rights in Saudi Arabia. He spent two years before he was even able to sell any American oil company on such a deal. It was in Trichell's book in the 30s. I think up to this point in our discussion, we've neglected one important aspect, and that is the military importance of the area. I wonder what would happen to the oil refineries and pipelines and wells in the event of an outbreak of war in this area. Dr. Wilson. Refineries are, of course, vulnerable to air attack, and it would be difficult to set up a defensive scheme against a strong power that would prevent a refinery from being rather seriously damaged by bombing raids. As against that, however, oil wells and pipelines are practically invulnerable to anything except actual physical seizure by an army. I think it would be likely that we would lose a substantial part of oil production if we got war, of oil refining if we got war with Russia, but I do not believe we would lose much crude oil production or pipeline transportation. Well, I think here it should be added that pipelines are very vulnerable to what might be called fixed-column activities. I think an important thing to realize, though, this area produces about 15% of the world's oil at present, and in case of war, if you lost 15% of your world's oil, at the very time when, if we had war, our needs would increase probably by 15%, we would find in the Western world we were about 30% short of our immediate oil needs. Of course, part of that could be taken up in the United States, but not the total by any means. We are expanding and have been expanding our industry at a tremendous rate, but demand has also been growing very rapidly. Well, a considerable part, or the greater part of this oil now, goes to Europe, and in case of war, our Western allies would lose their entire oil supply. We'd have to supply Europe of all their oil needs during any conflict if we lost the Middle East. From the Western Hemisphere. Which would mean an extra drain on not only our own resources, but that of the Caribbean region. Well, I think you're indicating the military importance of these resources for the free nations. In other words, Europe might be deprived of some supplies, or at least we would drain our resources in order to supply Europe. Is that true? Yes. Well, the British would need these Middle East supplies to fuel their merchant marine as well as their navy in the Middle East. And even the United States fleet has been getting oil out of Ras Tanoor there in Saudi Arabia. As we've moved into the Mediterranean, it's become an important source of oil for our own military forces. I think you've indicated the importance of the resources for the Western world. What about Russia? What is the military importance of these resources for that nation? Von Gunnbaum? Well, they are mainly indirect. Any loss of the free nations is Russia's gain. But it would take quite a few years to build a pipeline that would carry the oil northward from Abadan, from southern Persia, into Russian territory. There's a question as to whether the Soviet Union is actually short of oil. She has tremendous potentialities for production, and she probably has enough oil to meet her own needs. Her interests in this area, and as I see it, are indirect. She would like to cut the oil off from the Western free world. In that way, if she can cut off a major source of supply, she can thereby weaken the Western world's power potential. Of course, Russian refineries are also quite vulnerable. And within fairly easy bombing reach of either the Mediterranean or, to some extent, from Japan. And they would like to have more oil refining. They probably could get enough crude oil to supply what refineries were able to operate. Well, in case of war, what would happen if Russia destroyed the oil refineries in the Middle East? Dr. Wilson? Well, I think we've pretty well covered that. It creates a shortage of 15% at a time when we need more oil rather than less. And it would be a burden. Well, she'd probably bomb the big refinery at Abaddon first, wouldn't she, and cut out your production or refining capacity. But do you think the Americans or the British would destroy their wells in that area? Would it do any good to do so? It would not have much effect because by rail, Russia could get very little oil into their country. I'm sorry, gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, The Struggle for Oil in the Middle East. Why not sit now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the Reviewing Stand, $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Write to the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the Reviewing Stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were E.B. Espenche, Jr., Gustav E. von Grunerbaum and Robert E. Wilson. Now our moderator, Leighton Boran, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the Reviewing Stand will discuss the question, how far should we go with credit controls? Our guests will be Byron Kuhn, president of the American Finance Conference and chairman of the board, General Finance Corporation, and R.B. Heffelbauer, professor of economics at Northwestern University and former advisor to the department administrator, Office of Price Administration. We invite you to listen next week for How Far Should We Go with Credit Control? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. We know this is the Mutual Board of Alumni