Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. We're speaking to you from historic City Hall in New York, this being another great day in the annals of civic affairs. As you know, City Hall Plaza has been the scene of many of these great celebrations, days of ceremony, days of rejoicing, and official receptions to the heads of governments of other lands. And today, New York City officially greets to its heart the president of the provisional government of the Republic of France, General Charles de Gaulle. General de Gaulle, Mayor LaGuardia, and their parties left Idlewild Airport about an hour and a half ago, making their way in solemn procession through the streets of New York City, down to the tip of lower Manhattan, and coming up Broadway, would then make their way to the rear of City Hall, in through the rear entrance, onto the steps in front of City Hall, that's at City Hall Plaza itself, and up onto the temporary platform which has been erected by the Department of Parks. City Hall Plaza today is just about as colorful as it was on another day, not so very long back, when we greeted General Dwight D. Eisenhower. There's a lot of military here today, but there isn't very much brass. All branches of the armed forces are represented. The Army, the Navy, the Coast Guard. Not only of our own armed services, but also of those of the Republic of France. I can see over on the east side of the runway, leading to the platform, a detachment of the Marine National. Below the stand is a detachment of the Lafayette Cadets, who will play the ruffles greeting General de Gaulle upon his arrival. Over on the far east side is the band of the Department of Sanitation, under the direction of John F. Celebrate. Here on the west side, now playing, is the fire department band, under the direction of Honorary Battalion Chief George F. Bregel. There are some 25,000 or 30,000 people gathered here in City Hall Plaza this afternoon. Not all of them of French descent, but I should imagine that the greater percentage of them are of French descent. You know, New York City has a French colony of some 350,000 or 375,000 people. And they've turned out this morning, not only along the route which the General and his party took to reach City Hall Plaza, but also down here in City Hall Plaza itself. Over on my right, that's on the west side of City Hall Plaza, is a detachment of military police, heavily armed, forming part of the bodyguard for the General. Over on the far side, that's on the east side, is another detachment of the same military police. On the steps of City Hall Plaza are detachments of the Coast Guard and of the United States Navy. And flanking the runway, as I just mentioned a moment or two ago, to the platform itself, on the east side, a detachment of the Marine National, on the west side, a group of veterans of the United States Army, of various divisions and various battalions, all wearing their insignia and the ribbons which they have received in action. They, too, are fully armed. New York City is well prepared to guard against any eventualities which might occur for its welcome to such a distinguished guest as General Charles de Gaulle. Many of you, of course, will remember a former visit of General de Gaulle here to New York City. And today, with victory in the hands of the Allied Nations, it is really a very happy privilege to be able to greet him back as the head of the provisional government of his country. Looking down on stage, I can see two very distinguished artists known to music lovers all over the world. Marcel Degna, to the left, who will sing La Marseillaise with the Department of Sanitation band. To the right, Helen Jepsen of the Metropolitan, who will sing our own national anthem with the Fire Department band. In the far distance, down about the foot of City Hall Park, where Park Row and Broadway meet opposite St. Paul's, I can hear a military band, which probably is preceding the General's party as it slowly makes its way up Broadway. About six or seven minutes ago, the police shortwave told us that the party was then at Exchange Place and Broadway. That's down on the part of the financial district, of course. There's a reason for the General having made this roundabout tour. I think probably it was due to the fact that he had to pass the consulate on Fifth Avenue at Rockefeller Center, and then down through the representatives of the various steamship lines and of the consulates down in lower Manhattan at the lower tip of Broadway itself. The platform which the Park Department erected here within the past two or three days is fully flanked by the flags of the United Nations. And on the south side of the plaza itself, a steel stand has been erected about 20 feet high, which is crowded with press photographers, movie cameramen, of course. And just below the stand, in the plaza itself, are the representatives of the press, the national, local, and international press. I can see over here to my left, Commissioner Paul Moss, who arrived a few minutes ago with Helen Jepsen. My Cedena has been here quite a long time this morning. As a matter of fact, she was here at about 11 o'clock, a quarter of 11, when I got here myself. Over on Broadway now, at approximately, I should say, Warren Street, is the band which is preceding the official cars as they're making their way up Broadway to turn left, that is, to turn east, or right rather, east, into City Hall, the rear side of City Hall. The general has party, Mayor LaGuardia, Grover Whalen, and the official reception committee making their way through the rear of the City Hall itself, through the building, and into the plaza on the south side. Curiously enough, we've been having a great deal of music here all morning for the past hour and a half, the fire department band, the sanitation department band, and the police glee club, which is up on the balcony immediately above us. They've been entertaining the some 25,000 or 30,000 people gathered here in the plaza all this time. And now I can see the flags of the United States and of the Republic of France passing the west entrance to City Hall Plaza. I believe it is the police department band which is preceding the official cars. All I can see are the tops of their caps, and it looks to me very much as if that's what it is. Probably Eugene Labar conducting. And then we will, in just a moment or two, be able to see the official cars as they're making their way up Broadway after having left Idlewild earlier this morning and after having passed through the major points of interest in the city itself. I have somewhere here the line of march. Of course, those of you who happen to be somewhere out on the street were able to see for yourselves. The actual line of march was from Idlewild Airport at 1045 all the way down to Battery, Whitehall and South Streets at 1145 and then arriving here. Immediately following the reception at City Hall whereby General de Gaulle will be made an honorary citizen of this great city of ours. They will leave immediately before the Waldorf Astoria where a luncheon, an official luncheon will be given to the General by the City of New York at 2 o'clock this afternoon. At 2.30, the General and his party will leave for LaGuardia Field arriving there at 3 o'clock and then leaving for Chicago. General de Gaulle has been a rather busy man since he arrived in this country last week. He's had several interviews with President Truman, official receptions in Washington, of course. And yesterday he paid his respects to Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt and laid a wreath on the grave of Franklin Delano Roosevelt in Hyde Park. Immediately after that, he went to West Point where he had lunch and inspected the United States Military Academy. He arrived here in New York City yesterday afternoon, a rather weary man but a very happy one, and took up his quarters in the Waldorf Astoria where he has been until sometime about 8.30 this morning when he left for Idlewild Airport where he was met by Mayor LaGuardia and after the brief inspection tour of that great new airport which is still being constructed and which is to be the greatest airport in the world, the General and his party, Mayor LaGuardia and his official reception committee then made their way through the streets of the city, across the Pryboro Bridge, through the streets of the city, down to Battery Place, up Broadway, and now we're quite sure that the General must be about ready to leave his car on the north side of City Hall to make his way through the building and then he, with his immediate entourage, his aides, will make their way out onto the platform to be given the honorary citizenship of this city. In the immediate entourage of General de Gaulle are Monsieur Georges Bideau, the French Foreign Minister, Monsieur Henri Bonnet, the French Ambassador to the United States, General Join, the Chief of National Defence, Monsieur de Beaumont, the Consul General, Admiral Feinard, General Didier, Monsieur Falefsky, the Chief Advisor to General de Gaulle, Monsieur Alphard and Monsieur Falefsky, two of his other advisors. The United States is represented by Stanley Woodward of the State Department, Captain Michelet of the United States Navy and General Waite of the United States Army. And ladies and gentlemen, you've just heard the call to attention, which means that General Charles de Gaulle and his party, Mayor F. H. LaGuardia and his party, are now making their way into the building and will then be at ease has been given. That was a bit of a false alarm, I believe. He is still just making his way into the rear of the building and has not yet made his way into the building proper. The photographers are milling about. The flashes are now being taken. Mayor LaGuardia is coming in now and General de Gaulle will immediately follow. We'll hear the command issued again to come to attention. And immediately following that, the drum and bugle corps of the Lafayette cadets will play the ruffles, greeting General de Gaulle. I can see Grover Whalen inside the building now, which means that he probably is immediately flanked by the others. I've just been informed that General de Gaulle is going into the mayor's office for a moment or two before making his appearance here on the stand. It's somewhat difficult at times in ceremonies of as great importance as this to have things run exactly to the split second. However, the General's immediate entourage and his aides are now making their way out onto the platform. You can probably hear the applause in the background, which is greeting their arrival. And so I should imagine that General de Gaulle and Mayor LaGuardia will be making their appearance in a very brief space of time. As soon as I can see them making their way around the corner here, I'll notify you to that effect and then let you know when the ruffles are to be played, greeting General de Gaulle. Then Marcel Denia to sing the Marseillaise with the Department of Sanitation Band. Helen Deption to sing our own national anthem with the Fire Department Band. It's quiet here now. Everybody's just a wee bit tense. It's the 350,000 or 375,000 members of the French colony in New York City anxiously awaiting a sight of the leader of their country. He is the president of the provisional government of France, General Charles de Gaulle. The photographers are on the runway leading to the platform itself. They're on the far end and they're already there with their classes. There are three banks of them, as a matter of fact. One bank kneeling, one bank half-squatted, and the third bank standing straight. Just to be sure that they won't miss anything of the arrival of General de Gaulle as he makes his way out onto the platform for his official reception by the city of New York and is being made an honorary citizen of this great city of ours. There's a poor little baby around who's somewhat tired after being down here for the past hour and a half. She and her mother are dressed in the provincial costume of one of the provinces of the Republic of France. You may probably have seen these tremendous black ribbon headdresses, embroidered skirts with overflows of lace, and the lace shawls. Well, the little child, who can't be more than about three or four years of age, I imagine, is dressed as a miniature replica of her mother. And she being tired is probably just crying. Her mother's taken her into City Hall, and she may even have the opportunity of being just a little bit closer to the General when he makes his arrival. The crowd here, some 25,000 or 30,000 strong, is becoming just a little bit impatient now. They're calling for the General to make his appearance. Now, what the reason was for his going into the mayor's office, I don't know. Probably a little tired. He may have wanted to wash his hands. After all, he has his dignity to uphold, and that may be part of the reason for his going into the mayor's office. As I told you before, not so very long back, City Hall Plaza was the scene of a tremendous demonstration to General of the Army, Dwight D. Eisenhower, when he, too, was made an honorary citizen. And today, we greet this leader of a great people, one of the great nations of the world, the Republic of France. General de Gaulle will be leaving this afternoon, after his official luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria, from LaGuardia Airfield to Chicago, where another reception is waiting him there. It seems very much that with the fast action since D-Day and with V-J Day to be announced within the next week or so, that City Hall Plaza may be the scene of many more such ceremonies as we greet our returning heroes. I read in the papers this morning where General of the Army's Douglas MacArthur is to be given probably the greatest reception ever tendered anyone down in Washington. And I imagine that New York City won't permit itself to be outdone by any other city in this great land of ours. The crowd is still milling around. The police department guard of honor flanking the entrance through the building and on the steps here, standing at attention, there's a detachment of policewomen too. At least we're fortunate for one thing, it is a beautiful day. The sun is coming down, yet it isn't too warm. And we can only be happy that General de Gaulle should be made an honorary citizen of New York under such auspicious conditions. The photographers are still waiting very anxiously. They've been here, oh, since early this morning, taking shots of the people as they took their places. There were some 10,000 or 12,000 seats arranged for those who were fortunate enough to obtain tickets. The others are just spread throughout the park. Now, I mentioned a minute ago or so that there were about 25,000 or 30,000 people here. I'm afraid that I'll have to revise that estimate because there must have been a great number of people along Broadway from the battery up waiting on the line of march for the passage of General de Gaulle and his party. And now, ladies and gentlemen, here is General Charles de Gaulle and Mayor LaGuardia. Listen to the calls to attention and the ruffles. machtos. Present! Thank you. General de Gaulle, Mayor de Gardia, Hugo Lloris, President of the City Council have made their way to the public stand. And as the crowd shouts its welcome and its approval, General de Gaulle is waving both arms in the air, saying thank you, merci mes amis. And now, ladies and gentlemen, that the anthems of the two countries, Le Marseillais, sung by Marcel Dignard, our own national anthem by Helen Jepsen. The flags are being grounded just prior to the singing and the flag of our two anthems. Too late there, Marcel. There is some delay on stand, ladies and gentlemen. Now, here is Marcel Dignard and La Marseillaise. Allons-en-Fant de la Patrie, Le jour de croix est arrivé. Contre nous, dans la nature, Les frères sont envergées, Les bras sont envergées, Et vous entendez-vous dans nos campagnes, Lugir ces feroces soldats, Ils viennent jusque dans nos bras Et bougez nos vies de nos campagnes Pour l'armes de nos campagnes Pour l'armes de nos campagnes Marchant, marchant, marchant, Comme ça, je veux dire Pour l'armes de nos campagnes Marchant, marchant, marchant, Comme ça, je veux dire Pour l'armes de nos campagnes May can you see By the dawn's early light What so proudly we hail At the twilight's not gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars Through the perilous fight On ramparts we watched From the silent east stream And the rocket's real gleam The bombs bursting in air He flew through the night What a flight must still fail For save us, the fast-fired For the land of the free And the home of the free And the home of the free Marcel Denia with the department of sanitation band Sang the merseilles Helen Jepsen with the fire department band Sang our own national anthem And now the military has been given Given its command at ease And in just a moment the official ceremonies Will get underway I understand that Grover Whelan Who has been on the platform Here in City Hall Plaza For many, many occasions For many, many occasions In this past generation or so Is to introduce Mayor LaGuardia Who as the mayor of the city of New York Will greet General De Gaulle Will make him an honorary citizen Following which General De Gaulle Will respond of course Ceremonies will then be over And the general and his party The mayor and his party Will then make their way to Waldorf Astoria For the official luncheon And now let us listen to The Croix de Lorraine Which is being played By the department of sanitation band The Croix de Lorraine The Croix de Lorraine And now ladies and gentlemen Mayor LaGuardia Mr. President Fellow New Yorkers I am sure Mr. President That you are convinced Of the love and affection Of the people of my city For the people of your country They have shown you Today By their spontaneous greeting That they are happy That you have come To visit us So that we Through you Could send our greetings And wishes To the people of France The people of the people This morning Greeted you first Because you are a Frenchman Because in your vocabulary The word defeat Does not exist Because when you were last here You symbolize You symbolize The courage and determination Of the people of France Today You personify Their assurance And confidence In the future There was no doubt At any time In our minds That the oppressors Could conquer France The Nazis Occupied Part of France But they never Conquered The French people And we were confident To During those hard And difficult years Of occupation That it could not be permanent You know We never considered it A military occupation In the real sense Of the word It was like The fence Of a pen Breaking down And the swine Getting over The front porch On the lawn And we knew We chased the swine Out In your beautiful Ten back And then To For a time And we knew It was only temporary The people Of France Had another Burden to carry What will be known In history As the Disastrous Trinity The Trinity Of senility Timidity And rascality And they are being cared for One by one Yes The war is over But there is still A great deal To do A great deal That will take A long Time First And I know I can speak For the people Of my city And I Venture With all due Deference To our Department Of foreign Affairs That I speak In this instant For all The American People When I say That we Must not Permit Anything To happen Or to be said That would In the slightest Degree Marr The historical And traditional Love And friendship Between the people Of the United States And the people Of the Republic Of France I say You have a great deal To do It will take A long time For an army Courage And blood Can occupy A country In a short Time But it takes The people Of a nation A long time And requires Industry And sweat To cultivate That country An attacking army With modern weapons Can destroy A city In a short Time But it takes People Of that city A long time To rebuild That city And only By hard work Can it be Rebuilt It takes More than A program It takes More Than promises It takes More than The expression Of hope To rebuild A country It takes Work And work And work Of the people Themselves And the people Of France Can do it And they're going To do it And They May not be Distant When all The memoirs And all The scars The terrible War Will be Wiped out May I Through you Mr. President Send my Personal Greetings To the President Of the Municipality Of Paris Tell him He mustn't Believe Everything He reads In the Papers Either Your own Or my Own You know I know Something about Newspapers Too And I'm Sure We are All in Agreement That part Of a Free People And part Of free Institution Is a Free Press It may Be annoying At times But it's Necessary All Of the Time If we Call Ourselves The Paris Of America I give my Colleague Permission To call Himself The New York Of Europe If we make Beautiful dresses You must make Them More beautiful We will Continue We will continue That wholesome Happy Artistic Rivalry We will Continue These two Great cities Of art And beauty And happiness A constant Reminder To the Entire World That free People too Can build And build Permanently Can create The things Of beauty Can dedicate Their lives To make Life Sweeter And happier That's the Mission Of Paris In Europe And New York City In America Now Mr. President You will Carry back With you I hope The assurance Of a Friendly People A People That have Always loved Your country And have Grown to Admire you Personally We will Have periods Of difficult From time To time It will Not be Easy To rebuild A world Than subjected To fire And destruction The Nazi Could have Destroyed Our buildings But they Could not Dampen our Ardor And our Love for Liberty And freedom A free A free People Will not Tolerate Oppression A Free People Will not Submit To injustice To themselves Or their Neighbors Or their Neighbors The people Of Germany And the people Of Japan Had the Opportunity To rid Themselves And the world Of The brutal Dictators That brought So much Sorrow To this World They failed To do it And they Must now Learn To live As decent People Should live A Nazi Will have To tip His hat To a Frenchman Every time He sees Him Any place In the world And now Mr. President I have The extreme Civilization And honor To initiate You In the Greatest Fraternity Of the Whole world The people Of the City of New York This is The only Way That we Can Record Our Expression Of Affection And to Give Testimony To our Permanent Friendship I Mayor Of the City of New York On behalf Of the Seven and One-half Million People of The city Do hereby Present This Scroll of Honor To General Charles De Gaulle President Of the Provisional Government Of the French Republic In Recognition Of his Enswerving Faith In the Principles Of democracy And in Tribute to His Inspiring Devotion To the Maintenance Of freedom For the Stalwart People Of the French Republic To Hereby Constitute Him An honorary Citizen Of the City Of New York General Charles De Gaulle Has just Been made An honorary Citizen Of the City Of New York By its Mayor The Honorable Fiorello H. LaGuardia And in Just a Moment As soon As the Photographers Have taken All the Necessary Pictures General De Gaulle The President Of the Provisional Government Of the Republic Of France Will Respond The Flash Is still Going On All we Can See Is the Flash The President Of the President Of the Provisional Government Of the Republic Of France General Charles De Gaulle Is speaking To Mayor LaGuardia In order To make The Pictures For National And now He turns To the Stand Takes Place At the Microphones To respond General De Gaulle New York A city A city Which Is As large As a World And As proud As victory Charles Today How faithful Her friendship Can be And now And now It is Giving A striking Prove Of its Regard For France In Granting To the President Of French Government Its Praciously Honorary Cities To my Illustrous Friend LaGuardia Mayor Of New York Who Has Voiced The Feelings Of The Council And Of The Population In Such Moving And Generous Terms Generous For Me On By For My Country I Should Like To Answer That On The Other Side Of The Ocean The Hawks Of A Whole Nation Are Now Focused On This Balliant American City Indeed On Both Shores Of The Atlantic Each Citizen Fully Realizes Which Is The Great Task Now Facing Both Continents In The Era Of Peace Now Beginning Europe Now Arising Out Of This Earth Its Reigns And America Resuming Its Peaceful Progress Are Equals Resolved To Work Rosely Together For The Common Good Of Mankind This Ocean This Ocean Believe Is Ready To Carry Lively All The Sheeps Of This Time Which May Be Available The Heavens I Feel Will Welcome All Plains Of This Time Even If They Come In Countless Number Mr. LaGuardia Knows That He Who Is The Creator Of The Biggest Airport In The World What A Wealth Of Goods Of Activities Of Thought Can And Must Be Exchanged Tomorrow How Many Of These Goods Of These Activities Of This Thought Will For Instance Be Dispatched Between New York And Paris Over Are The Difficulties Left In Our Path By This True War Let Us Therefore Altogether Look Boldly To The Horizons Long Life This Noble City Of New York Long Life The United States Of America And So ladies And Gentlemen As General Charles De Gaulle The President Of The Provisional Government Of The Republic Of France Has Responded To Mayor La Guardia Upon His Initiation As An Honorary Citizen Of City Of New York General De Gaulle Speaking again Mr. La Guardia The plaque Of Great Officers Of Our Legion D'Honneur Ladies and Gentlemen I Couldn't Quite Pick Up What General De Gaulle Said But I Believe That He Turned Around And Presented To The Mayor The Medal Of Honor Of His Own Republic And Now Here's The General Again In Name Of France We Will Give To Mr. New Bold Morris The Decoration Of Officier De La Legion D'Honneur And New Bold Morris As President Of The City Council Has Just Been Made A Member Of The Legion Of Honor He Is Being Decorated Now By The General The General Kissed Mayor La Guardian Both Cheeks And Is Now Doing Likewise To New Bold Morris And That And And Now Ladies And Gentlemen I Believe That The Ceremonies Are All Over The Pathway On The Ramp Is Being Cleared And The Order Is Being Given Provisional Government Of The Republic Of France General De Goil Is Not Only The President Of That Provisional Government But He Has Within The Past Five Minutes Become An Honorary Citizen Of This The Greatest City In The World The City Of New York Its Mayor The Honorable F.H. LaGuardia Having Bestowed This Honor Upon Him And So From City Hall Plaza In Downtown Manhattan We Bid You All Good Afternoon And Return You To Your Studios