Good afternoon ladies and gentlemen. We are speaking to you now from the council chambers at City Hall here in downtown Manhattan to broadcast Mayor William O'Dwyer's official reception to a special congressional delegation touring New York City this weekend. We are in the council chambers which is now crowded with the members of Congress and their families and here to introduce the proceedings is Mr. James Sauter, Chairman of the meeting and Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Commerce, Mr. Sauter. As so often before in the life of this great city we are gathered here in City Hall on this occasion to welcome a group of the legislators of our country who have honored us today by a visit from Washington and who were with us last night and will be with us tomorrow going through the different parts of our great city and we will open our program today with the police glee club singing our national anthem. the opium of many we have been poder fian in all Dusse and you'll see O say The only we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight All the ramparts we marched were so gallantly streaming And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there Oh, say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave Thank you gentlemen of the police glee club Last evening And I am not addressing these remarks to the people here Because you all know that you are here But for the members of our radio audience Of the city station WNYC I want them to know that last evening we were honored here in the city of New York by the visit of a congressional Delegation to make an annual congressional tour of New York City under the auspices of our own Department of Commerce And of the Commerce and Industry Association of New York This tour is sponsored by these two groups And we do hope that you ladies and you honorable gentlemen of our congress are enjoying yourselves here We of the city will certainly do everything we can to make you happy, comfortable, and hospitably inclined to us when we next come to Washington It's now my distinct pleasure to introduce to you A gentleman whom most of you know, know personally The very honorable William O'Dwyer, the mayor of our city Congratulations Congressman Short, Congressman Seller, Sauter Ladies and gentlemen of the delegation I know that you're on a rather tight schedule You're due at LaGuardia Field at 115 And those of you who have come to New York before Will understand that you may have some traffic hazards on the way out And we ought to make some arrangements for that By not taking you too long this morning Last year I had the privilege of welcoming a delegation from the Congress of the United States with their ladies Who came here to make a similar visit to the one that you're making today I was happy to have the delegation A number among its members, ladies and gentlemen, who had not been to New York before And this year, those who have not been to New York before, I especially greet and welcome We in New York Are labeled throughout the nation As extremely wealthy people Every time Someone passes a new bank The idea is that everyone that passes by it has some money in his pocket It isn't true I want most of all that you will In the short time that you're here Look at the basic fact That we're Eight million people here Trying to be as good Americans as we can That we're living In a small, confined area In a small, confined area In a small, confined area There is no such concentration of people in the whole world I hope you will have time to notice That living in a small area It makes for a lot of hardships For eight million people We have to plan for things that smaller communities do not need to worry about Those lovely children, God bless them I'm sure Would not understand the idea of being cooped in In a small, little flat When they come home from school With very little contact with the forces of nature That children of smaller communities enjoy We have over 800,000 children in our public schools alone And their lives are certainly circumscribed by the conditions under which they live The health problems of our city are great The transportation problems of our city are great The policing is a problem The fire department work is a problem And health and hospitals, parks and playgrounds Are just a drain on this city In order to make it a livable place for whom? The rich people? Now, over five and a half million people in this city Who live under conditions where they pay less than $50 a month rent Now, the tax burden is heavy Much heavier than it is in a smaller community Of course, there are benefits But please look at us as we are A city in the main are struggling low-income people But struggling Struggling to live And if you want to remember that we have big banks and big institutions That is true But in the main, our people are struggling people of a very low-income group Now, we are here again to the new visitor We are a city that In its size and its tremendous growth Of course, we have the kind of people that sometimes When they leave New York and go out into smaller communities, they're boastful They give us a bad name Too many smart-alecks get around And that is not the type of people that you meet in everyday life here in the city They're just the exception The kind of people that grow Out of a crowded, fast-moving existence that we have But they give us a bad name The truth is That From my 40 years of living in this city I have found it to be a friendly place A very warm place A human place A humane place In my four years as mayor I have never asked The people to stand up And really dig down for For causes That are beneficial to All the peoples within it And I was never once turned down Not once And I've asked for Many an expensive program In our low-cost housing I wish you could look at it We've been four years trying to get that program underway Ladies and gentlemen We are now For the first time Getting into real occupancy At a rate of about 2,000 a month 2,000 families a month Taken from slums And put into low-cost housing We expect the program to end up When we have 500,000 such units occupied That would about Straighten New York's slum areas out Of course we can't do it alone We get help from the state as well But we do appreciate the help That Congress and the Senate gave us In the matter of low-cost housing It's all something that goes to making life better For people that just can't do it by themselves Starting with the little babies And going all through their lives Until whatever days God gives them Then again Sometimes we ourselves lose We get the wrong perspective I keep trying to get the idea across That while this city is big And it has certain power It's not a growth of the city It's a development of America America made it Ladies and gentlemen In this city We get about 22,500 tons of foodstuff a day From the outside If we didn't get that We'd be in a bad way We had a strike A trucking strike here for 11 days And we're mighty lucky that we didn't starve to death Because you can't raise a blade of grass For consumption purposes within the city limits We just have to go outside the city We on the other hand provide a market We manufacture But the big point is that we're just as dependent on the small town As the small town is dependent on us And we're, I personally regard New York City as a place Where there are a lot of jewels We have the Metropolitan Museum We've got many museums We have many cultural institutions But ladies and gentlemen We don't lock them up And keep them for ourselves It's just like a jeweler We pull the tray out when anyone wishes to come And we hope that they'll join with us And enjoy them And getting down to the final word on it Those of us that look at it over the years Feel that New York City, for whatever it has We have it in trust for the nation Because we are a part of the growth of the nation And we could go much further than that And say the nation had more to do with our growth Than we have had ourselves Therefore when the nation's representatives And their families Pay us the honor of a visit It is with that spirit in mind That I offer you the heartiest welcome That this city can give Thank you very much Thank you Mayor O'Dwyer And now we are privileged to hear In answer to the mayor's remarks From the honorable Dewey Short Congressman from Missouri Mayor O'Dwyer Officials of the city of New York And fellow Americans For the very generous hospitality And the gracious welcome You have extended to us We are truly grateful For those of us who have been privileged To have visited and seen The great and beautiful cities of the world We keenly realize that there is only one New York You can go from Boston to Bombay From Chicago to Cairo Or from San Francisco to Shanghai and Singapore Or from Berlin to Baghdad and Bangkok Or all the way from Zamboanga to Zanzibar But wherever you go whether it's from Rome to Rio You will find only one New York We like to think that we live Mr. Mayor In the capital of our nation But in a real and genuine sense New York is the capital of the United Nations And of the world Not only the financial and commercial center If you please But the center I would say Of perhaps the world's thinking Due to the polyglot nature Of the heterogeneous peoples Who inhabit this vast metropolis And the most comforting thing That is in time of stress and of peril The citizens of the great city of New York Regardless of their ancestral strains Or the kind of blood That flows through their veins Or the color of their skins Can present a unity and a solidarity Of purpose and effort That is not only comforting But most reassuring To all the people of our great nation In time of national emergency We do feel that Coming from the little towns Out in the Midwest, country boys It's more or less difficult To adjust ourselves to your ways Here in New York We got to bed this morning Usually when we get up out in the Midwest But we feel that we are a part Of your great city And without boasting I think I could safely say That many of your leaders In the realms of commerce, finance, business, education And the learned professions Are men who have come from the small towns From over our great nation You have been exceedingly kind And grateful to us And in turn I want to express the sincere And deep appreciation For I am sure I speak the sentiment of every member of Congress Who is present today And to their wives and families For the good time that you have shown us thus far It seems to get better the longer we go along I cannot keep from expressing a word of thanks to your police department Which has given us protection and guidance And guidance And I want to say in closing that as long As any city As a group of policemen Who can sing our national anthem With the understanding and the vigor And the genuine spirit That these men here have sung it for us today America will be saved That would be a very appropriate place to stop and sit down But I must say that we are all grateful to our colleague Congressman Jimmy Van Zandt of Pennsylvania Who has so freely and generously given of his time To make these conducted tours such a success There is a lot of effort to do There is a lot of effort to do We have plenty of headaches down in Congress Mr. Mayor But it is too bad that every member of Congress Has not taken Or could not take the tour on which we have been today We saw a little of the seamy side of your life this morning I think it was enlightening To many of us who have often visited New York University And I have been here many hundreds of times During the past three or four decades Since I was a young chap I have seen things today I have never seen before And I want to see a little more before I leave We have our headaches and our problems But the amazing thing to me Is because of the multitude and complexity of problems That confront any city government in a metropolis Of this size is simply staggering And I think all in all We can say that Mayor O'Dwyer And his administration has given this great city Good government and Mayor that's quite a confession Coming from the only Republican member of the House of Representatives The House of Representatives From a Sir We But since I have a little dash of Irish in me We Irish have to stick together I want to thank you again on behalf of our colleagues And wish you Godspeed and good success As you continue in this most responsible and difficult position Of Mayor of the largest city in all the world Thank you Congressman Short, ladies and gentlemen, it's too bad that you're here in New York this weekend Because had you come to New York three weekends hence On May 21st you'd see something in Central Park that would do your hearts good That's I am an American day And in Central Park on that day we usually have I would say Mayor O'Dwyer Somewhere in excess of a million and a quarter people Celebrating and singing the songs of the nation And saying to the world how proud they are to be Americans And one of the keynotes of that day and that program Is the police glee club under Sergeant Dillon singing I am an American And I'm going to ask them to give us just a preview of I am an American day now Now And I'm going to ask them to give us a preview of the American day now Thank you Voices sing Let them ring On the street In the home In the crowd or alone Come on and shout Wherever you may be I am an American I am from the heart of me Rich or poor young and old Let this message be told Just give a shout Wherever you may be I am an American I'm proud of my liberty In the factory in the mill Through each valley from each hill Raise your voice and give America a thrill On the farms in the schools And step what set of roads Come on and shout Wherever you may be I am an American I'm proud of my liberty In the factory in the mill Through each valley from each hill In the factory in the mill Through each valley from each hill In the factory in the mill Through each valley from each hill Raise your voice and give America a thrill On the farms in the schools And step what set of roads Come on and shout Wherever you may be I am an American I am every part of me From Alaska's snowy beach To the southwest bloody streets Listen in because America now speaks America now speaks America now speaks On the street, in the home In the crowd or alone Come on and shout Wherever you may be And your voice keep ringing I am an American I am from the heart of me Rich or poor young and old Let this message be told Just give a shout Wherever you may be But I'm in vigor I am an American I'm proud of my liberty Oh say, can't you see How we love liberty On the farms in the schools Let's have one set of roads Come on and shout Wherever you may be Wherever you may be I am an American I am every part of me I am an American I am an American I am an American And the mountains I am an American That's great. Shall we call on them for another song? Eddie? What will you do? Just as a slight change of pace, Alexander's Ragtime Band that shows you the police glee club are showmen too. Come on in here, come on in here, Alexander's Ragtime Band. Come on in here, come on in here, it's the best band in the land. They can play a beautiful ball like you've never heard before, so natural that you want to go to war. That and the bestest band, one and all my honey land. Come on along, come on along, let me take you by the hand. Up to the band, up to the band, up to the band, up to the band, who's the leader of that band. And if you want to hear the Swanee River play in cheap time, come on in here, come on in here, Alexander's Ragtime Band. Oh, my honey, oh, my honey, better hurry and let's me and the ain't you going, ain't you going to the leader man, riding leader man. Oh, my honey, oh, my honey, let me take you to Wally Sanders. Grass, grass, grass, grass, grass, ain't you coming along. Get that beat, shake your feet, come on along, come on along, let me take you by the hand. Up to the band, who's the leader of that red hot band. And if you want to hear the Swanee River play in sweet time, come on in here, come on in here, Alexander's Ragtime Band. Couldn't be better. Thank you. Thank you, gentlemen. And Mayor O'Dwyer just said that I ought to tell you, you know, you can come back here on May 21st and see the rest of the I Am an American Day program. In New York City, as in any city or town or hamlet in the United States, there are businessmen who are interested in their particular community. And so, in the city of New York, the Commerce and Industry Association of the city are interested from a public welfare point of view in the life, the commercial life and lifeblood of the city. And just as in small towns and small cities, a few men are always called on to do all the work, so in the city of New York, a few men are always ready when the call of duty sounds. And it's my privilege to introduce to you today to talk for the members of the Commerce and Industry Association of New York, one of their directors, a very good friend of ours, Robert Dowling. Mr. Dowling. Congressman Short, Congressman Seller, Mayor William O'Dwyer, ladies and gentlemen, to conclude this meeting this morning, I just want to say a few words to you about how much we appreciate the way Commerce and Industry and our members, our representatives, have been received when we've gone to Washington. I know because I've been part of many groups that represented Congress and Industry when we went there. You've seen and you've heard our mayor. I think you'll understand now why we all feel so strongly at patriotic Americanism in New York. What a sympathetic, what a lovable person our mayor is, and it certainly is a wonderful thing to have such a leader. Now, I want to tell you this. They've said in the past that every American has two cities, his own city in Paris. They used to say that a great deal. May I say to you that every one of you representatives in Washington probably have always had two cities, your own city, and Washington. Now, please just open your hearts a little further. Make it three cities, your own city, Washington, and New York City because we sincerely welcome you here. We're delighted to have had you. We know you're in safe hands when Jim Sorter is arranging the party. We hope you'll enjoy every minute of your stay and do come back very, very often. Thank you. Thank you, Bob. Ladies and gentlemen, our ceremonies here in City Hall are at an end. We return you to your bus drivers who will, I believe, the next stop, Mr. Mayor, is at LaGuardia Field, and from then we're going to take a boat trip around the island and we'll manage to keep everybody busy, I hope, until you're ready to and train for Washington tomorrow afternoon and let us know if there's anything here you see that you want. We'll have to try to get it for you. Thank you. And so we conclude our broadcast from the Council Chambers in City Hall of the Mayor's official reception to the special congressional delegation visiting New York City this weekend. Heard on today's broadcast was the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Also, Dewey Short, Congressman from the State of Missouri, speaking for the Congressman, and Robert Doherty of the Department of Commerce and Industry. Your Chairman was James Sauter, Deputy Commissioner of the Department of Commerce. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.