Mr. Mayor, Mr. Cullman, ladies and gentlemen, this represents primarily an achievement of the Port of New York Authority, but also an achievement of many other agencies of government. I would take too long, and I doubt my ability to explain to you how complicated these big regional arterial improvements are. The first speaker, who represents the state of New York and the federal government, is the state superintendent of Public Works. He's involved in all these main arterial improvements. The federal funds are matched with state funds. The city contributes normally half the cost of land and often a good deal more. And then the authorities, such as the Port of New York Authority and the Triborough, step in to peace out what's missing. The first speaker is the Honorable Bertram D. Tallamy, state superintendent of Public Works. Commissioner Moses, Mayor Impeletere, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. You know, we from upstate New York, as well as you people from New York City itself, have a very great pride in your metropolitan area. And I think that probably every person in the United States, likewise, has a sense of pride and enjoyment in the fact that New York City is the wonderful metropolitan area of the United States that it is. It's a great city, but like every large metropolitan area, it has terrific problems. And I'm quite sure that your officials on this stand and Commissioner Moses can vouch to that. And no doubt, one of the greatest problems that your area has is the one that confronts practically every other city in the United States, that having to do with a solution to our traffic problems. I won't bother you about the statistics relating to the traffic increases. You no doubt have heard them many times over. I find that an interesting way of appreciating, however, the amount of traffic that we have to contend with is to locate the origin of the ownership and thereby the amount of traffic in the particular area. And I find in searching the record that one third of all of the pleasure cars in the United States are concentrated in but five states. California is one, New York State two, then Pennsylvania, Texas, and Ohio. And of all of the pleasure cars that are registered in New York State, 35% of them are in your metropolitan area. And they're all jammed upon a city street system which is utterly incapable of carrying them efficiently or safely. As a matter of fact, I suppose that you had terrific traffic problems because of the inadequacies of the streets long before the advent of the automobile. Because I can recollect very distinctly a cartoon that was published in one of your great New York City daily newspapers in 1885. Not that I recall that when it was published, but I did see it republished just recently ago. And some of your officers will appreciate this cartoon, I think, because it was at a very important intersection in the city. Two traffic officers or policemen, as they were called in those days, just straight policemen, were in the center of the intersection. They had a keg of dynamite and a fuse about so long. And around them were all kinds of spectators, but all in horse-drawn vehicles. Carriages, buggies, horse-drawn butcher wagons, grocer wagons, even some dump trucks. The people were congested on the sidewalks as well, and there were a few dogs running around the outskirts. And they all apparently were observing what the officers were doing. And the one officer was just about ready to light a match to the end of the fuse. And he said, turn to the other officer and says, Mike, this is going to make an awful mess, but we've got to bring it up somehow. And that's typical then of the problem that you had in those days. And when you realize that this terrific increase in motor vehicle traffic and transportation that has taken place in recent years, all dumped upon a city street system which was inadequate in 1885, you can appreciate what the problem was. The solution, naturally, was the development of entirely new routes. We widened some and improved them in that fashion as we are doing in other cities, but that isn't the solution. The real thing is the creation of entirely new arteries of travel. And the first forward step along that line was the development of your Bronx River Parkway and its completion in 1924 under the leadership of your own Bob Moses. And to whom you in the city of New York and to all of us in the great metropolitan area of this section are deeply indebted for his vision and foresight and energy in seeing that this new type of construction was carried on. It spread to Westchester, to Long Island, and now you have, as a result, a very basic pattern of parkways in this area to serve you. Recently, we have had a change in traffic characteristics. Motor truck traffic has increased by leaps and bounds 9 to 10 percent a year over the year before. Four and a half times the amount of ton-mile haulage that we had in 1936. And so it goes. That meant that another new type of highway had to be developed. And that is the arterial route. That's a part of the arterial route system that we are dedicating today. In 1944, the state sponsored legislation, and it was passed, which made it possible for the state for the first time in its history to go into metropolitan areas to help develop these all-purpose truck and passenger car traffic arteries in the metropolitan area. The same year the federal government passed legislation permitting part of their funds to be spent on this type of improvement. Following that, we prepared plans for master plans for these systems so that as they are built piece by piece, they will all integrate into a properly coordinated whole. The state of New York has participated in this program in New York City to the extent of about $100 million since VJ Day. And we are, the federal government contributed half of that cost for construction. The city of New York contributed half of the right-of-way in the state of New York, the other half of the right-of-way costs. This project that we are dedicating today is one of the most interesting interchanges in the whole planned arterial route system for your city. It cost over $3 million. Some of those columns that you see are over five stories high, just to give you an idea as to the magnitude of this project. In passing, I want to point out that not only the federal government, the state government, and the city government is participating in this program, but public authorities are doing so as well. The New York Port Authority, who participates today in this wonderful program, and whose project we are dedicating, which connects this interchange with the George Washington Bridge, has contributed much and proposes to contribute much more to the arterial route program. The Triborough Bridge Authority is doing likewise in their vast program to help solve our overall problems. It doesn't matter who does the work, the important thing to you is that it gets done. In closing, may I say that in recognition of this program, we stand ready to contribute a program to the extent of some $20 million a year for your overall arterial route program to keep the traffic officers from that problem of dynamite ice cited a little while ago. Thank you, Bert Talby. The next speaker is the head of the borough in which this particular improvement is located, the borough of Manhattan, Borough President Robert F. Wagner, Jr. Mr. Moses, Mayor Impelletari, Mr. Coleman, distinguished guests and friends. Because of the fact that the borough president of the Bronx just arrived, I'm sure that rain may follow, because he said it's raining over in the Bronx, and I'll make my remarks as brief as possible. I know all of us here in Manhattan, and particularly in this great section of the borough of Manhattan, are deeply grateful to the agencies that have made this great improvement possible. We know that when the heavy hands of bureaucracy move under the leadership of Bob Moses and Howard Cullman, and our state superintendent, the other city agencies, things really happen, and we have a demonstration of that here today. I know those of us who are deeply interested in the prosperity of this great section of our borough in our city know that the arterial highway system is expressed here. We'll be of great aid in the prosperity of the area, get a lot of the traffic off the streets, and from this step, we'll take, I hope, a further step in working out to the satisfaction of all parties concerned, particularly to the residents and the taxpayers of this area, a good bus terminal to help alleviate that problem here. Again, I know I express the thoughts of everyone here, deep appreciation to the agencies that have made this possible. and the hope that in the future, we may further give to this area improvements which they need and will be returned to the city in a greater prosperity on the part, and greater happiness on the part of all the people here. Thank you very, very much. Thank you, Bob. The next speaker is, in a way, a very fortunate person in the program that Mr. Tallamy has outlined. Borough Perez in the Bronx happens to be sitting in a place where most of the arteries have to go. A very large part of this big arterial program, in one way or another, passes through the Bronx. Part of the work there is underway. We've proceeded in the face of very great difficulties, especially difficulties involving the relocation of tenants. The bridge here, the old Washington Bridge, not the George Washington Bridge, will have to be paralleled by another structure. The bridge here, the bridge here, will practically be duplicated in width before very long. And there's going to be a very complicated intersection involving the Cross Bronx Expressway and the Major Deagon Expressway, which will be underway before long. I take pleasure now in presenting to you Borough President James J. Lyons. Commissioner Moses, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Coleman, distinguished guests and friends. I'm very happy to be privileged to be here today to witness the dedication of this wonderful project. First, one of its greatest features is the fact that it brings the people of Jersey and Manhattan closer to the mainland of the Bronx, where you can get over there and come over and enjoy the hospitality of the Borough of Culture, the Borough of Universities. As a youngster, I was raised right across the river. I'm very happy indeed and want to congratulate Commissioner Moses and all those who had part in the development of this, which I think is one of the greatest engineering projects that has been conceived in a great many years. It will be a great convenience to the people of the City of New York and to our neighbors in Jersey. And I'm sure that the great mayor of this great city deserves great credit in the cooperation that he has given on this and other worthwhile projects throughout this city. And Mr. Mayor, I know that by your presence here today, you indicate your interest in this, as well as all the other housing and other developments for the well-being of the great City of New York. My associates said it was raining in the Bronx, but it don't rain there very often. It's like California. It stopped by now, I think, and yours is coming. So I'll give way so you'll get your speaking program through. Thank you, Jim. The next speaker is a very old friend of mine. We seem to be pictured very often as a couple of strange bulldogs. And I think that's because the press and some of the public are more interested in controversy than in achievement. And there seems to be an ever-widening field of common effort. I graduated from college a few years ahead of Howard, and I've been trying to keep ahead of him ever since. The next speaker is Mr. Coleman. Bob, we've got three bulldogs here today. Bob Wagner, you and myself. Mayor and fellow Terry, officials of the State of New York, fellow commissioners, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. In this the world's greatest land, sea and air transportation center, I can think of no greater reason for a local celebration than the dedication of facilities that will speed the flow of traffic and help relieve congestion on our city streets. The Port Authority built the West 179th Street Tunnel at a cost of some $9 million. And the State of New York, as Bert Talmy has told you, under the supervision of the New York State Department of Public Works, built the Harlem River Drive and Cross Bronx Expressway traffic interchange at a cost of $5,300,000. This joint enterprise represents the type of cooperation between various agencies that is required if responsible public officials are to live up to their heavy obligations. This new 2,400-foot, two-lane, 179th Street Tunnel for westbound traffic is a twin of a 178th Street Tunnel, which since June 1940 has carried two-way traffic between the George Washington Bridge and the east side of Upper Manhattan without touching the streets of the crowded Washington Heights section. The new tunnel and interchange are being opened simultaneously in time to meet the expected increase in the George Washington Bridge summer traffic. The five-block long 179th Street Tunnel will be able to carry 2,400 cars an hour from Fort Washington Avenue to Amsterdam Avenue at High Bridge Park. It would take the full use of two city streets of the same length to handle that amount of traffic. The 179th Street Tunnel brings to a total of some $40 million the Port Authority's expenditures on approaches to the George Washington Bridge in Manhattan and Fort Lee. And this is more than a third of the $110 million that we've spent on approaches serving the six Port Authority interstate bridges and tunnels. And I'm not unmindful that the $25 million bus terminal, with its ramps, has relieved the city of 5,000 bus movements a day. The adequacy of bridge and tunnel connections to absorb traffic brought to our city from surrounding municipalities has always been a prime factor in the design of Port Authority, vehicular, and other facilities. Thus, in our $22 million third-tube approach plans submitted to the city, as you all know, over a year ago, we fully recognized our obligation to assure a completely fluid dispersion of traffic to and through local streets. We have maintained, however, and still do, that tunnel connections and connections to all Port Authority vehicular facilities must be limited to those necessary to carry traffic generated by the facility. We've emphasized that we cannot participate in the financing and construction of facilities that are not properly within the general category of approaches to the bridges and tunnels themselves. Now, the public every day is caught in traffic jams at either end of the Lincoln Tunnel, and is rightfully and vigorously claiming for us to proceed without further delay with the construction of a third tube to the Lincoln Tunnel. Our plans include adequate and proper approaches to Manhattan streets, and we cannot, however, finance any part of a project such as the proposed but never approved Crosstown Expressway that, in our opinion, has no direct relationship to traffic flowing to or from the Lincoln Tunnel. I hope that the same kind of splendid cooperation here today between public agencies that has brought about this dedication ceremony will in the immediate future be repeated between the City of New York and the Port Authority. And Bob Moses, you, and Mayor Impelet Terry, and all who have so handsomely participated here, I sincerely hope that in the near future we will jointly celebrate the opening of a shaft to build a third tube to the Lincoln Tunnel. Thank you for being with you. Thank you, Howard. And I want to thank also the other members of the Port of New York Authority and the many engineers, consultants, contractors, workmen on the job who always seem to be anonymous on these occasions. And last but not least before I present the final speaker, I want to thank our friends in the band without whom we wouldn't be able to conduct these proceedings at all. I've often wondered publicly and by myself why anyone is willing to take on the job of being mayor of New York. It's conceded that it's the second toughest job in the United States, in some ways the toughest. We're very fortunate that we are able to find men of the type of the present mayor to take on these responsibilities. And I'm happy on this occasion to turn over the proceedings to the mayor with a statement that this represents a great deal of cooperation, represents the finding of a great deal of common ground, represents the kind of harmony we ought to have in more departments of government. Mayor Impilateri. That's very, very sorry. Thank you. Commissioner Moses, Chairman Cullman, Superintendent Tallamy, Borough Presidents Wagner, and Lyons. During the last six years as mayor and president of the council, I have watched with special pleasure the development of the comprehensive arterial system in the city of New York. It is difficult enough to put together the pieces of a complicated jigsaw public works program where only city departments are concerned. The problem is far more complicated when, in addition to many city agencies, the states of New York and New Jersey, the federal government and the public authorities are included. This job has called for real coordination. Today we stand at the junction of important traffic arteries connecting not only the boroughs of this great city, but also the states of New York and New Jersey and beyond them, New England and the great Midwest. The city of New York, largely because of its size and largely because of its preeminent position in the commercial and business life of our country, is the beginning, the main objective, and for all practical purposes, the focal point where the great arteries of the eastern states converge. The New England throughway and the Hudson River and Merritt Parkways reach out to connect with the turnpikes of Maine, New Hampshire, and Massachusetts. The New York State Thruway will stretch to the north and across the state to the Niagara frontier and the west and east into New England. The New Jersey Turnpike connects with the major highways to the south and also westward by way of the Pennsylvania Turnpike. All of these cross-country arteries connect with New York's expressways and parkways, which constitute the most comprehensive system of urban distribution arteries to be found anywhere here or abroad. The man on the street must wonder, when a great bridge or tunnel is opened, how the engineers working from both sides of a river manage to make the sections meet. There must be the original conception, then the ways and means, then the schedule and everlastingly keeping after it, the reconciling of differences, the overcoming of obstacles, and finally, bit by bit, the completion of useful pieces. The city of New York has limited capital funds and many urgent and worthy projects competing for them. In the process, we are, in fact, rebuilding the city on a vast scale, getting rid of decay and obsolescence. We must build new streets, schools, houses, hospitals, incinerators, sewers and sewage disposal plants, playgrounds, and many other works needed to service reconstructed and hitherto undeveloped areas and to give the people the modern services they are entitled to. In opening these projects today, it must be evident to all that at least as much resourcefulness and imagination were required to coordinate the various agencies and contracts involved as to the design, and just as much effort went into it as to design the dramatic roadway in front of you, sweeping overhead on single steel and concrete pedestals or the new tunnel back of you with its white-tiled walls and modern ventilation and lighting. The city will have to depend more and more upon the federal and state governments for arterial highways. We shall, of course, do our share, but the major part of the projects on the city-state federal arterial system will have to be constructed with other than city funds. The Triborough Bridge and Tunnel Authority has agreed with the mayor and the Board of Estimates to use its credit to the extent of $100 million to acquire rights of way, relocate families, and design and construct important links in the arterial system, parking, and other related facilities. Contracts for the city-state federal arterial system. Contracts for the initial projects on this program are already underway. The Port of New York Authority financed and built the tunnel we open today and is constructing, in cooperation with the Triborough Bridge Authority, new connections between the George Washington Bridge and the Henry Hudson Parkway, not to speak of other crossings and improvements. This project should be viewed as a model to be followed in other governmental endeavors involving federal, state, and local agencies. As government becomes more and more complicated, the urge for cooperation without regard to boundaries, parties, and personalities becomes irresistible. In dedicating these improvements today, I want to congratulate Borough Presidents, Lyons and Wagner for their part in the mapping, design, and construction of the Cross Bronx Expressway and Harlem River Drive. Howard Cullman, chairman of the Port of New York Authority, and his associates for the fine tunnel leading to the George Washington Bridge. Bertram Tallamy, state superintendent of public works for the construction of this traffic interchange. And Bob Moses and Bob Moses and his men for the overhead planning, coordination, and perseverance, which was so much required to expedite this part of the great Metropolitan Arterial Program. Thank you. Applause This concludes the ceremony. The torch it