Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, civil defense director for New York City, discusses with the head of a city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Robert Moses, Commissioner of the Department of Parks, who is Coordinator of Planning and Construction for the Civil Defense Organization and Construction Coordinator for New York City. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. This evening we have a distinguished city official on this program, one whose entire life has been devoted to public service. His great vision and energy and ability to get things done is well known to us all. And I, for one, am certainly glad to be associated with a man who can inspire one as he can. Now you have heard other city commissioners tell of their plans and program for the defense of the city as it affects their departments. This evening we are pleased to have Commissioner Robert Moses outline for us the program for long-range civil defense construction. Could you begin, Commissioner Moses, by telling us something of the underlying principles of the program? Well, our point of view, of course, is that of people who are working on long-range programs involving construction and necessarily very considerable sums of money. What, in the parlance of the budget is called capital improvements. As we see it, the civil defense program is divided logically into two parts. First, the immediate Red Cross catastrophe features of the program, which involves stockpiling of medical supplies and control of crowds and many other things that go with, that are necessary to cope with any disaster, whether it's atomic bombing or anything else. And secondly, the long-range construction steps, which must be taken to anticipate and meet the threat of atomic bombing. The second category, the projects, the long-range projects, are those on which we are working under the direction of Commissioner Wallander. As to the principles, the underlying principles mentioned by the Commissioner, we take this view of the situation. I want to be quite candid about it. The notion that the long-range program consists entirely of shelters to our way of thinking is just sheer nonsense. The idea that you simply dig holes in the ground and that people dive into them like rabbits when they hear an atomic bomb explode or see it explode or get some warning we think is nonsense. It's a theory that seems to have originated in Washington and Washington itself has abandoned it. We feel that the only sound basis for dealing with a threat which may be with us for years, it may be 10 years, it may be 15, it may be 20 years, we don't know whether an atomic bomb is ever going to land at all. The only way of dealing with that kind of a problem, if you're not going to spend yourself into bankruptcy, is to use whatever funds are available for the long-range program for what you might call dual-purpose or multi-purpose projects. That is, projects that are of permanent, enduring, daily use to the city that would be constructed anyway over a period of time. And what we propose is to speed them up and do them now so that they will serve for atomic defense and also serve the daily needs of the people. In that way, we avoid wasting money, throwing money away on single-purpose shelters which probably will never be used, probably are not useful, probably are not reachable. That's the basic principle on which we're proceeding. Well, Commissioner Moses, I think the listeners would like to know something about the type of projects that you envision. Well, at the top of our program, at the very top, we put the relief of traffic congestion. Now, it doesn't, we don't need to stress the fact that New York is getting choked up, strangled by traffic. That strangulation becomes most serious in time of real stress. The first thing that ought to be done to clear the way for meeting an atomic attack is to meet the traffic problem. If our streets are so congested that fire engines and police vehicles and repair vehicles can't get through, why, obviously, we can't cope with any kind of an emergency, atomic or otherwise. We feel the first thing to do is to make an all-out attack on traffic congestion. Well, I'm in complete agreement with you on that, Bob. One of the projects, there are such things as arterial highways or some other projects that you discussed some time ago, Bob. We'd like to hear that. Well, they're part of the traffic relief. One way to relieve traffic congestion is to build expressways for vehicles of all kinds, not only passenger vehicles, but trucks and buses. So far, we've been concentrating on parkways, which are restricted to passenger vehicles. Now we're building these new arterial developments which serve every kind of vehicle. And that means that without traffic lights, without crossings at grade, we can carry our through traffic, take our through traffic off the streets, the side streets, and siphon it through main arteries. By getting that through traffic off the side streets, naturally, we reduce the congestion on the side streets very considerably. Same thing applies to many other street improvements. One of the main things that we're driving at is to have a wholesale installation of parking meters, which will discourage street parking, and at the same time give us enough revenue so that that revenue can be used to sweeten the receipts from public off-street facilities, make it possible to sell bonds for off-street facilities on a self-supporting basis without involving the city's credit. Then there are many other street improvements and bridge improvements which are underway, but the general purpose is to relieve, the first purpose is to relieve the traffic congestion. Now there are many other projects that we have in mind in the long-range program. I don't know whether you want me to go into them or not. Yes, Bob, I would like that. You talked about multi-purpose construction, and I think we ought to hear from you on that score. Well, for example, let's take subways. It's been suggested that the 2nd Avenue, New 2nd Avenue subway, be built as a long, elongated ribbon shelter. Well, we regard that as nonsense, but parts of that subway could be built at this time, certain stations. The present subway stations ought to be expanded. We ought to have safe ways of getting in and out of our subways, which are probably our best bomb shelters. They exist at the present time. But we need new kiosks. We need ramps instead of steps. People kill each other getting in and out of subways if there's any kind of panic. And the improvement of access to the subways is a major feature of this program. These aren't just taken out of the air. These are things we've studied, and we know where the improvements ought to be made. In the case of hospitals and health centers, what we have in mind is to build wings and additions which will have movable partitions and will be available for the current needs of the hospitals and health centers and also, of course, for these emergencies that we're anticipating. That's the cheapest form of permanent construction you can do in the field of health and hospitals. Same thing applies to police and fire stations and many other long-range improvements which involve projects that are immediately useful, currently useful, things we ought to have anyhow. Commissioner Moses, how do you propose that all these projects and new construction are going to be financed? Well, obviously, the city hasn't the money to do them. What we're talking about is projects that are not in our current capital budget, additional projects. And the money's got to come in the first instance primarily from Washington as a secondary thing from Albany and only in a minor way from the city of New York which simply doesn't have the resources. The federal bill carries plenty of authorizations and, as you know, an authorization is not an appropriation. It has to be followed by an appropriation. But the bill is so badly drawn, it's so confusing, that nobody can understand it. It either has to be interpreted or amended so that it will work. In the meantime, the state, at the last session of the legislature, made available a totally inadequate sum for its share. As the matter stands, 50% of the cost of these improvements is supposed to come from the state. The state provides the 25 of the 50. Half come from the city. The city doesn't have half and there isn't enough appropriated by the state anyway. And as I said, the federal appropriation is in such form that it's not, at the present time, usable. Well, Commissioner Moses, do you agree with the formula of 80, 15, and five federal, state, and the rest? Yes, so that isn't the way it stands now. No, I know it. It's 50% now, 50% federal, and 50% state. But the mayor and Commissioner Wallander have proposed, as I understand it, that 80% be provided by the federal government and 20% by the state, which seems to be a very reasonable arrangement. What we have at the moment is Mexican money. It's not usable money. Are there any other problems involved which you would like to discuss at this time? Yes, one other. I just want to mention the fact that without federal priorities and without arrangements under the federal controls, under the direction of Mr. Wilson and General Clay and General Harrison and others, no money will be of any use to us because we won't be able to get the men or the materials. In other words, unless at Washington the priorities and controls are coordinated with the appropriation for civilian defense, that appropriation won't be worth anything. Well, I think you're right. That about concludes our broadcast for today and I want to thank you very much, Commissioner Moses, for joining us in this program. I'm sure it was very enlightening to the public. Thank you very much. Thank you. You've been listening to another in the important series of reports on civil defense in which civil defense director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City civil defense organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Robert Moses of the Department of Parks who was coordinator of planning and construction for the civil defense organization and construction coordinator for New York City. Next Tuesday evening at this same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you. Thank you.