Tonight, the shame of a nation. Tonight, the shame of the cities. This night, the question, what are the causes of crime? There are many who have spoken. There are many who speak now. This hour, we bring you first an eyewitness account of corruption in American municipal government. This hour, the story of Lincoln Steffens. The story of one who has spoken and recorded the shame of the cities. The year is 1892. The scene is New York Harbor. It's a leisurely age, this age of the early 90s. Young men of well-to-do families complete their cultural and professional educations in Europe. That formal education finished, they return to go into the established family business, to marry, to take up residence in brownstone city houses, or in ultra-respectable red-brick mansions. Yet, this day of this year, 1892, a rather different sort of well-to-do young American returns from Europe, and a rather different sort of conversation takes place in a stateroom, as a liner is warped into the dark. Come on, Josie, you better hurry. We're going for customs in about ten minutes. Well, aren't you eager to see New York again? Oh, yes, only your family. Maybe we should have told them about us. It'll be a terrible shock. Oh, that's silly, darling. Don't worry about it. Yes, come in. Message from Mr. Stephens. Mr. Lincoln Stephens. I'll take it, Stuart. Thank you. What is it, Steph? Hmm. It's a letter from Dad in San Francisco. What does he say? Well, some note... He writes, uh, my dear son, when you finished school, you wanted to go to college. I sent you to Berkeley. When you got through there, you wanted to study in Berlin. I let you after, uh, I let you. After Berlin, it was Heidelberg. After that, Leipzig. And after that, a year at Paris. Then you wanted six months at the British Museum in London. All right, you had that, too. That sounds bad. Yeah, listen to this. By now, you must know almost everything there is to know of the theory of life. Oh, here. But there's a practical side as well, and I suggest that you learn it. The way to learn it, I think, is to stay in New York and hustle. Oh, no. And closed, please find $100, which should keep you until you find the job and support yourself. Oh, Steph. You'd better tell him you've got a wife. A hundred dollars? What'll we do? How'll we live? Well, I'll get a job, I suppose. There must be jobs in New York. Oh, but to get a job, Steph, you've got to know how to do something. Yes. From what I hear, that's how people get jobs, by knowing how to do things. Steph, after all you've seen and learned and studied, well, you don't know how to do anything. My father was a wife. I was 26. It was time to work. I finally found a job. Became a reporter on the New York Evening Post in the autumn of 1892. I began my real education, the practical education that exploded many of the theories I'd studied in books. My new college was the New York Post City Room. My instructor, the city editor. That's about how it stands, Stephens. You're the professor on this paper. I want you to take a crack at covering Wall Street and higher finance. I covered Wall Street and discovered that it had a false front. After the panic of 1893, I watched bankers organize new companies. I saw that many of the presidents and directors they appointed were dummy officers. The bankers gave the orders. Stephens, we're moving you over to the police beat. I covered police. I discovered that the police protected the criminals and shared their loot. Saloon keepers, gamblers, burglars, and pickpockets bought the right to break the law. Steph, the reformers are saying that some of the police craft is passed up to Bors Kroker's machines. Get a statement from Kroker. How do I get it? How do I know how you'll get it? That's your assignment. Come in, come in. Mr. Kroker? Yes? What do you want? I'm Stephens from the Post. My editor wants to know... He wants to know a lot of things. I'm not saying one word for publication, and that's final. Well, uh, will you tell me something off the record? What do you want to know? Why must there be a boss, Mr. Kroker? This is a democratic country. The people elect a mayor and a council to govern them. Where do you fit in? I fit in because, well, that's the way it is. Don't you see? The way... What is, Mr. Kroker? I'm a boss because there's a mayor and a council and judges and a hundred other men to deal with. Government is a business. You can't do business with a lot of officials who come and go. Business? But I thought government was politics, not business. Government is politics, and politics is business. Yeah, but Mr. Kroker, business hasn't any bosses. Now, now, wait a minute, son. You're a reporter. You know as well as I do that Wall Street has bosses just like Tammany. Hmm. Well, I never thought of it that way. You mean the bankers who operate behind the scenes running dummy presidents. Sure. Banker bosses. They have them. Yeah, but they don't have graft in business. Bankers don't take bribes from saloons. You don't mean there's no graft in Wall Street. You mean there's no dirty graft there like police graft. Well, graft is graft, Mr. Kroker. As long as that goes, there's one thing I'll tell you for publication. I've never touched a cent of police graft myself. Never in my life. Not a penny. But you do make money out of politics. I work for my pocket all the time. Like a businessman in business. I give value for value received. Now, what's wrong with that? What's wrong? Listen, Mr. Kroker, I don't want to sound naive to you, but it seems to me that what's wrong with that is that it's plain crooked. You talk like a reformer, Stephan. No, I'm not a reformer. I'm just trying to find out what's behind boss government, bribery, graft, and all the rest of the openly crooked city governments in this country. Hold on, Stephan. Now, let me ask you some questions. Then you may have to answer them, too, Mr. Kroker. I will. Stephan, you've come to me, a politician. A politician of the sort you think responsible for bad government. Why do you come to me? Why don't you go to the people? The people? That's what I said. Why don't you go to the people? This is a representative government. If the people wanted a different kind of government than we give them, they'd have a different kind. What shocks you when public affairs is practiced constantly in Americans' private lives. Well, what, for instance? Look, is there any real difference between that pull that gets your wife into society or for your book to get a favorable review and the pull that gets a healer into office, a thief out of jail, or a rich man's son on the board of directors of a corporation? Well, I'd say that these... Now, wait a minute. You ask, and I'm going to tell you. How different is the bribe you pay to the janitor to get special consideration through him from the landlord and the bribe passed to an alderman to sell a city street? All right, there isn't any, except maybe in size. Size isn't important. You asked about fundamentals. What I've said is fundamental. The people don't want good government. So long as they get something in protection or profits or privilege from the public office holders, they don't even think twice about what you call dishonesty. Stefan, when you start looking around for someone to accuse, don't go to the politicians first. Go straight to the people. Straight to the people. You know, it's amazing, Josie. I couldn't help liking Boss Croker. Liking him? You're joking. No, I'm not, Josie. He's frank. He's honest with himself. And he believes what he says. He's smart, too. For weeks, you've been telling me how corrupt the city government is. Croker's the boss. He must be responsible. He says the people are just as responsible. What do you say? Hmm? What? Do you say it's the people who corrupt government? Do you think Croker would ever let the public know he thinks they're at fault for crooked government? Well, don't be foolish. He told me, I suppose, because he liked me, and I was smart enough to understand and sympathize with him. But no good crooked politician would ever blame the state of things on the people. That's a number one rule. I don't understand, Steph. I don't get it. Look, their best tactics are to swap the community with so much corruption that the people are sort of stunned. Then they let loose the doctrine of what's the use. It's just human nature. What can anybody possibly do about it? And they say, blame us? Blame anybody. But they never say, blame the people. Well, the people are sacred, but Croker's at least partly right. The people are not innocent. Steph, that's funny talk for you. Seems to me you're getting confused. Maybe I am, Josie. We'll find out, though. Even if we have a lifetime of work ahead of us to do it. We'll find out. Who corrupts government? It took me many years to learn that there was no answer to that question, to learn that the question itself was wrong. It was after I became what respectable people called a muckraker that I learned that you couldn't ask, who is the cause? That you had to ask, what is the cause of corruption? I became a muckraker. I began quite by accident. I was an editor on McClure's magazine in 1902. I was hunting for a story. I found one in St. Louis. It was a story of political corruption. Now, let's get the cards on the table, Joe. You're the district attorney, all right. But you don't seem to understand. These guys are part of my machine. They helped elect you. Yeah, by stuffing the ballot boxes. So what? You won, didn't you, Joe? Butler? Do you remember the day you asked me to run? You bet I do. I told you my machine would put you in. And it did. And this is the way you pay me off. I told you then I'd have to do my duty. It's my duty to break up these crooked elections. I'm warning you, Joe Folk. You're not going to wreck my machine. You're going to wreck yourself. Mark you with me and you're through. Joe Folk prosecuted the men who stopped the ballot boxes but he didn't stop at crooked elections. He dug deeper into the muck of St. Louis politics. One day he got a tip that a company had bribed the aldermen to get a franchise for a fraction of its value. But he couldn't prove it. So he decided to pull a bluff. He called the company officials together. Gentlemen, I have enough evidence here to get an indictment against you for bribery. And I promise you I shall send you to the penitentiary unless you tell me all the details of how you secured the passage of Ordinance 44. District Attorney Folk told me the whole story as we sat together in a St. Louis hotel lobby. I gave them three days, Mr. Stephens. And they fell for the bluff. They broke down and confessed. They told me all about the deal. Names, prices, places, dates. They implicated other men. Other deals. It's unbelievable. Sounds it. Businessmen have been systematically bribing aldermen for years. That's the way business is done, they said. Business? Business? Yeah. Here. I got the whole story right here in my briefcase. Look. Franchises. France. Licenses. Exemptions. Public properties. Oh. And here. Here's a list of the bribes. All here in black and white. The shamelessness of St. Louis. Read all about it in McClaws. Bribery exposed. Read all about it. Here's your copy. Here's St. Louis. I'd become a muckraker. My next stop was Minneapolis. It reminded me of New York and the days I covered police. But it was worse. The police actually invited professional criminals in for conferences. Police held little business sessions. Like this one. Say, Eddie. We're trying to figure out what it's worth for a saloon to stay open all night. What do you think of this price list? Let's see that, Captain. Oh. Oh. 500 a month for big mics. It's worth 800 bucks to them if it's worth a nickel. Yeah. 100 and a half. Two. Two fifty. The rest of this list looks okay. We figure the little joints can't pay more than a couple of hundred. Give me the schedule. I'll change the price on Mike. He can afford it. Gambling. Wide open. With the mayor and police as partners in the profits. The pot's right. Deal the cards. Texas gets a king of nothing. Trey and a pair. Jack and nothing. Nine and a deuce. A pair of aces. What do you know? Just a minute, you. I saw you slip that ace. This is a crooked game. Now, take it easy, sucker. Jimmy. Call Clancy in here. Okay, boss. Take it easy? I'm $600 out and you tell me to take it easy? I'll take it easy when I get my money back, you hear? I'll take it easy when I get my money back. I'll call a cop. I'll call a cop and I'll tell him. You calling for the police, fella? No. What's going on here? Well, the gentleman's mad because he lost some money, Clancy. Officer, these men cheated me out of $600. Cheated you, did they? And just what did you expect when you come in this place? What? I... Well, it seems to me, officer, that it's the duty of the police to keep gambling places like this under control. Oh, it does, does it? Well, gambling goes on when men like you come around and throw money in people's faces. But, officer, I... If there wasn't no gamblers, there wouldn't be no gambling. Now, you get out of here if you don't like it. But, see here, I've been cheating out of... It's enough that talk out of you. Get going out of here. But these men dealt from the bottom of the deck. I just... Did they know? And how will it help if I run in? Get going, understand? Get going out. I'll speak to your superiors about this. While I... Get going before I lose my temper and cow the wagon. Good job, Clancy. Good job. He, uh, was getting a little hard to handle. Thanks a lot. Glad to help out, Charlie. Drop in and see the boss. Um, I'll... Let him know about this. Thanks, sir. Will, uh, how's business? Oh, fine, fine. Going fine. Good. Well, anytime you need help, you know. Oh. Oh. Good. Goodbye, Charlie. Well, I'm Clancy. Oh, say hello to the lieutenant for me, will you? Read all about it. The Shane of Minneapolis. Get your new issue of the clause. Philadelphia. Corrupt and contented. Pittsburgh. A city of Shane. Read all about it. I was beginning to think that you could shoot me out of a cannon. And wherever I dropped, I'd find the same story. I'd find police graft in the underworld and all-dramatic graft in the business world. And yet, one man told me, Steph, all we need is better and stronger men in government. I said, you think so? I'm not so sure that's the solution. You see, I met one boss. Boss Brown. All right, Stephens. You've come to do a story about my machine, my graft. Answer me this first. Am I any worse than those uptown hypocrites who often need bribes? Well, I don't know that, Mr. Brown. But I do know that what you are doing is even worse than you think it is. Not bad, huh? We've been looking you over since you came to town, Stephens. I wondered how you got onto the game the way you do. You know the way things are done. Well, I should. I've made a study of it. So the reformers. But they never learn anything. You know, I'm beginning to think you're just a born crook that's gone straight. My wife would appreciate that. Stephens, something you said makes me want to ask you something. Hmm? What? I don't know. I'd better not. Oh, go ahead. What is it? Well, what I want to know is, just what is it that I do that's so, so rotten wrong? I'm loyal to my ward. I'm a friend to my own. But I'm not a good in town. I don't mean I've preached it. I've done it. I've given a lot of people a lot of things they'd never have if I didn't get those things for them. Well, I don't doubt that in the slightest, Mr. Brown. And if you say there's something extra wrong with me, then maybe there is. But what's wrong? You tell me. I think I can tell you, Mr. Brown. Let me begin by telling you straight out. This is what's wrong with your organization and with you. No, no, no. Don't tell me. I believe you can tell me, but I don't want to know yet. You see, it might make me want to quit and I can't quit. But someday, when I'm ready for it, I'm going to call on you to come and tell me. Promise me you will, Steph. Sure. Your words good with me. I promised I'd come if he ever called me. I liked Brown. The way I came to like most political bosses. You see, he wasn't like some of the cheap, two-faced, petty, honest men I met in Chicago. Men who thought they were for reform. Until they found out what it meant. Okay, Mr. Stephens. You want to know about Chicago? Sure. Dinky, I understand you're the ward leader here. Sure. Who's the boss of Chicago? The rape nun. Who owns the mayor? Nobody. Who controls the city council? The voters league. The voters league? Yeah. The floor mouth. You know the kind I mean. It was absurd. No, I couldn't believe reformers could gain such power anywhere. I went to see Walter Fisher, secretary of the voters league. Mr. Stephens, you say you can't understand how our league works. Well, let me tell you how it began. It was, well, it was more or less an accident. Some idealistic young fellows got themselves elected to the city council. And then they began making a plot for the old timers there. They were up against a rough bunch. But they didn't pull any punches. At one meeting of the city council, Alderman Kent rose to speak. Mr. Mayor and fellow citizens, this is my first meeting. Let me put my cards on the table. I'm here to fight, and I think you know what I mean. I know which of you are honorable and which have been bought by railroads or utilities or banks or saloons. Quiet. Quiet. Quiet, I said. Just what's on your mind, sonny boy? For one thing, Romy, you're on my mind. You and your rotten deals. Why, you young punk, sit down before I knock you down. Sit down yourself, Romy. He doesn't know what he's talking about. I know plenty, Romy. I know that you're the man who decided where the city would deposit its funds. I know that you're the man to see if you want to fix things with a city judge. Why, you loudmouthed little punk. Let go of me, Romy. I'll let go of you. Look out, Kent. I'll show him something. There. Okay, I've seen it. I'll try this. The right course I can learn back in the yard. It's a cold, Romy. You shouldn't have done that. There's reporters here. Yeah. The reporters told the story, Mr. Steffens. Each week, Kent and his friends put on a new show for them. The name-calling and the fisticuffs and exposés made headlines and focused the public spotlight on crooked deals. Two hundred of us business and professional men organized the voters' league. We organized the wards and got to know the people, just like the politicians. You know, Mr. Fisher, it looks as though you've found the formula. Everywhere else bosses laugh at reform. I don't know. We're losing ground. Some of our charter members quit the league last week. They told us that too much reform hurts. Hurts? Yes. Hurts them. Hurts their companies. Hurts business. Hurts. During my years as a muckraker, I met a lot of hypocrites. Nobody likes a hypocrite. But at least a hypocrite is intelligent enough to know what he is. The persons I detested most were those too stupid to know they were doing honest or dishonest things. I tried to explain this idea one day to the president of Harvard University, but he didn't get the point. Well, Mr. Steffens? Mr. Elliott, I've got an idea for a new course I'd like to teach your senior class while I'm staying here at Boston. Hmm. What sort of course, Mr. Steffens? Well, it might be called the Forms in which the first steps to bribery and corruption come to young men in all walks of life. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. That's a strange-sounding course. Uh, what sort of thing would you teach? Well, for instance, I'd tell him about a young lawyer who's sent into court to ask for a postponement of a case. He fails to get it. Another attorney goes, and he gets it. So the failure asks the success how he did it. Hmm. And, uh, how did he do it, Mr. Steffens? Very simple. Well, the successful lawyer merely tips the clerk of the court. Well, the failure learns his lesson. Afterwards, he applies the lesson so well that someday later you find him in the lobby at the state capitol tipping legislators and never realizing that he's giving bribes. Uh, practical illustration, Mr. Steffens. I like that very much. Uh, but the idea... The idea, Mr. Elliott, is that when students go out into the world, they'll recognize bribery and corruption in whatever form it comes to them. Then as I see it, it would be a course in morals. You would be teaching them those things so they'd learn not to... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr. Elliott. I don't mean to keep Harvard men from succeeding in their professions. All I want to do is make it impossible for them to be crooks and not know it. I'm afraid, Mr. Steffens, there's no room at Harvard for any course of that nature. Good day, sir. One day in 1910, I got a telegram from Boss Brown. I'm all through with politics, he wired. Come and tell me. You promised. I got aboard the next train. A doctor met me. He's dying. Maybe a couple of days, maybe a couple of weeks. Is it all right to go in? Yes, he's waiting for you. Hello, Steff. Hello, Brown. This is the end of the line for me. I know I've done some raw things, but... Now, tell me. What did I do that was so downright awful? What was it I did that was so rotten? Rotten raw? Okay, Brown, I'll give you a straight answer. Your sin was disloyalty. Disloyalty? That's not true. I've always been loyal to my friends and my party. You can say anything else you want about me, but I've never been disloyalty. Look, let me explain. Taking a bribe is a crime, isn't it? Well, it may be against the law, but breaking the law ain't disloyalty. All right. You were a born leader of the people. They trusted you and voted the way you told them to, but what did you do with their votes? You sold the people out. Week after week, you took bribes from someone who wanted a special privilege. And when you did that, you were a traitor to the people. Sounds pretty bad when you put it that way. It's happening all over the country. Greed for special privileges, for special concessions. That's what's wrecking our democracy. It's guys like me that are the cause. No, you were disloyal to the people. But you didn't cause corruption. You know, Brown, I spent a long time trying to find out who was to blame. I used to think it was the politicians who took the bribes. Then I thought it was the bribers who bought or forced through the privileges. But now I see it's not bad men. It's the privileges themselves that cause corruption. You see, Brown, some of the people say corruption goes all the way back to the Garden of Eden. Many people blame the first man, Adam, for starting it all. Well, the first man said it was Eve, the first woman. And Eve said, no, it wasn't she. It was the serpent. It was Satan. And that's just about where most people have stuck ever since. But, Brown, I say they're all wrong. It wasn't Satan either. It was, and it is, the apple. The apple. The apple. You have heard The Shame of the Cities, an eyewitness account of corruption in American municipal government by a reporter, Lincoln Steffens. Jack Curtis portrayed Steffens. Rita Lloyd was his wife, Josie. Stan Gevarts played Boss Brown. Jack Tureen was Boss Croker. Arthur Seeland was heard as Boss Butler. Bill Myers played District Attorney Joe Folk. And Paul Hurlinger was Mr. Elliott. Music and sound technician was Arthur Lee. Connie Jesselson was the production assistant. The Shame of the Cities was directed by Jerry Sandler. Lincoln Steffens has spoken of the shame of the cities. Now we hear of the shame of a nation. You will hear Dwight S. Strong, Executive Secretary, New England Watch and Ward Society. George Fingold, former Assistant Attorney General of Massachusetts. Thomas F. Fleming, S.J., Assistant Professor of Government, Boston College. Edward H. Hetrick, Dean of the School of Law and Professor of Law, Boston University. And Dr. Eleanor Pavanstedt, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Boston University. And now, once again, we ask the question, What are the causes of crime? Mr. Fingold?語 thirds Well, so far as I'm concerned, I think one of our principal causes of crime is the breaking up of the family unit. Now, Father Fleming, I have seen many instances where the thug of today and the racketeer of today comes from the family unit where there has been a lack of parental control or parental influence. Do you agree with me on that, Father Fleming? Well, I think, Mr. Fingold, it's undoubtedly true that the broken home, to a large degree, leads to the broken individual as the product of the home. That's not an exclusive consequence. No. Well, Father Fleming, from that point of view, taking into consideration lack of respect, you might find that then even in homes that hadn't been broken up by divorce. That's why I took a partial exception to what Mr. Fingold said. I think it's quite true to say that in the most desirable family situation, you will find that children will grow up, children will be products of the family, and yet they will not be people who are adjusted to community life. That is, there will be problems in the community for themselves and problems for the community. They will be, perhaps, criminals. They may not turn out to be criminals, but I don't think that is as common as to find a person who is a problem for the community, who has come out of a family background that has not been advantageous to them. Well, I believe that Dwight Strong will agree with me on this, that the racketeer of today, in order to solve his own conscience and his own feelings, will lend great financial support to his church, will be the ideal father and husband, but still in his obligation toward his community, might turn out, and very often does turn out, to be the worst offender, the racketeer of today. I wonder if you'd say he was a good family man and whether he was, as a matter of fact, fulfilling his religious obligations. If he is, in fact, would you claim him to be the outstanding racketeer? Mr. Fendel, is he protecting his conscience there or protecting himself legally? No, I believe that as one of the racket men that testified on the television before the Kefaufa Committee said that if I only had my life to live over again, having in mind that now he was a man of great wealth and all that, he would cast it all aside. And I think you may recall that he went on and said that my children will never do this. But still at the same time, those children that he refers to are attending probably our most exclusive schools, have their own checking accounts, and perhaps driving around in some of our finest automobiles. But they have that opportunity only because of his record. Only because of the ill-gotten gains of the racketeer father. Exactly, exactly. And I have seen it. Mr. Strong has seen it. And I, undoubtedly, you, perhaps, Father Fleming has seen it. Yes, sir. Right here in Massachusetts. I can name individual after individual with ill-gotten gains, who today walks in the path of righteousness, let us say, who contributes to our philanthropies, and who to many so-called decent people is quite a fellow. The fact that people achieve respect in the community by reason of having achieved a position of wealth and of material affluence, irrespective of the origins of the wealth and the affluence, has been something that's been consistent throughout our history here. I would say it is one of the weaknesses of our public standards, the standard of affluence and the standard of wealth as a norm of respect. You find that action among non-criminals as well as criminals, too, in the terms of our wealth. Yes, that's true. And that's what I have in mind. I'm not speaking of these people as being criminals, necessarily, and having violated a particular statute, but we know ourselves that the origins of some of the great New England fortunes are questionable in their source, are they not? That's ancient history. Having in mind the conditions that exist today, I feel very strongly that we can't condone these so-called decent individuals. Precisely. Precisely. I wouldn't consider them to be decent. As a matter of fact, they would not merit my respect. The only thing I'm saying is that the norm of respect, or at least the manifestation of respect in the community up to the present, has been the achievement of material affluence. Could we say that you have a problem with relation to crime in public life derived from the success of criminals in achieving positions of respect in the community? In other words, when you have young people looking around the community and finding that the people, that some people who have achieved public stature, positions of respect, have achieved that position by processes which are, and by methods and procedures and practices which are, in fact, unacceptable, criminal, therefore, it's perfectly legitimate for them, in turn, to set about the same process. I would like to ask a question of Mr. Fingold as to what does happen to the children of these racketeers, because we find that when we deal with adolescents whose parents lead an asocial existence, it's extremely difficult to help them to some more social way of living. And I wonder whether the best schools can do anything to counteract the influence of the people with whom they identify, that is, their father or their mother, in changing their way of life. Well, I think that you will find that the, perhaps the children of the racketeers, when they get out of school, they don't take up the, uh, the rackets. It's a rare exception that you'll find a racket father and son combination, although, in a neighboring city, uh, we did arrest a father and son that were engaged in the bookmaking business. But it is a rare occasion. I wonder if there's a manifestation of instability. Well, I... There's alcoholism, for instance, or drug addiction, or unhappy marriage with divorce, or lack of parental care of children, neglect of children, something of that kind. Well, my answer to you, Dr. Pevenstead, is this, that because these racketeers, who have now become financial successes, realize that they are looked at by some people as perhaps not right. They don't want their children to have to go through the experiences that they have, and they don't have to go through that because now they have all kinds of money. Uh, they can divorce themselves completely from the life of their racketeer father, take up life in some other community or some other part of the country, and go along, and perhaps turn out to be pretty decent men and women. I'd like to say this to you, Dr. Pevenstead, as long as we're discussing children, that it is a sad commentary that today our children are being brought up in an atmosphere and in an environment where they read about some of our most respected public officials and police officials being corrupt. It certainly doesn't do them much good to be hearing about all that and reading about it, but still, I'm a firm believer in making all that's wrong in government part of the educational process so that they will know what is good in our government and what is bad in our government, and if they know what is bad in their government and they are good citizens, they will take up the battle in order to rectify the mistakes and the bad things in life. We have, as a matter of fact, established a stereotype, a pattern, a cartoon, if you will, of the politician in the minds of the children. He's the man with the big belly and the plug hat and the cigar, or he's the man who is, by reason of his job or by reason of the character of his placement, necessarily an undesirable character, or he's probably a person who is disrespectful or he's a person whose origins are doubtful or whose whole position is not one to be esteemed. Now, as a matter of fact, we find that politicians themselves are not desirous of having their own families associated in politics, their own children in politics, because we have broken down a respect for the function of the politician, not only in the minds of our children and our people oftentimes, but in the minds of the politician himself. And as a matter of fact, that is a tragedy because the politician is the most important man in public life. And I would subscribe to this proposition that in my experience with men in public life, you will find as high, if not a higher, standard of honesty and integrity and general devotion to community obligation among politicians and men in public life as you will in any other aspect of the community. Now, I raise this in light of your observation with regard to education of children. I think we're deficient in continuing in our whole teaching process or in our cartoons, in our newspapers, in our jokes, this stereotype about the politician being a plug ugly for whom the child can have no respect as a child and will grow to manhood without respect. Now, I think that's a serious effect. Father Fleming, I'd just like to subscribe to part of your remarks. So far as I'm concerned, the overwhelming majority of our public office holders and law enforcement officials are decent, honest, and courageous men and women trying to do a good job. Most of them unpaid. Very little, very little pay. And they're trying to do a good job. But because of the few graph-grabbing cops, to use the vernacular, and some of your pilfering politicians, they're smattered with this brush. They don't deserve such treatment. But I wonder, Father, if you realize what the present definition is of the word politician. politician, I think it might be interesting to you. I looked it up in Webster's Collegiate Dictionary before I got here. Its first definition, this is rather good, its first definition is the classic, proper one, and I didn't read your mind either, Father. Quote, one burst or experienced in the science of government. That's the one that you were referring to. Its second meaning is, quote, one addicted to or actively engaged in politics as managed by parties. Often, and this is the interesting part, often one primarily interested in political offices or the profits from them as a source of private gain. It adds, and this is significant, politician now commonly implies activity in party politics, especially with a suggestion of artifice or intrigue. End of quote. Harold, Harold Lastwell wrote a book and the title of it is Politics, Who Gets What, When and Why. I think that's the idea. But the politician who is a partisan, who is a party man, who makes use of patronage, who uses political instrumentalities and mechanisms for public purpose, to my mind, is a perfectly legitimate and essential member of the community because that is the way party government, representative government in the American system is being and I think will be conducted. The point is, need it necessarily be corrupt? Absolutely not. That's our problem. I don't believe that myself and I think our, one of the, a part of our question here is, why have we got corruption in the process? Father Fleming, I'd like to come in here at this point. It seems to me that the recent exposures by the Kefauver Committee have revealed to us that the greatest difficulty that we're having in terms of corruption in politics, in government, are in those areas where we have concentration of population. If we were able to maintain our community life on a smaller sphere, the town meeting type of government, the people will be closer to their elected officials and because our communities have become highly urban and concentrated, there becomes a situation in which we have an indifferent citizen, an indifferent voter, and the politician is not known to him and therefore we do not have the checks and balances on these elected officials. The Catholic rural life movement of the last generation has been pointed in that direction. I was associated somewhat with that movement myself earlier, but one of the things we're faced with is that we cannot demob our metropolitan areas right now. We are faced with the fact of urbanism, we're faced with the fact of the metropolitan community, and we're faced also with the problem of how to bring to the metropolitan community public affairs the virtues of small, local government. Now that is a major problem. Yes, and I would offer a suggestion at that point because I think very much our urban dweller needs to have a civic responsibility, an opportunity to participate and express his civic interest. Now in our urban communities, we have them, yes. We are confronted with them. You can't depopulate them. They're here. They're here to stay. Therefore, let's face that realistically. Let's take our larger communities, our larger cities. We have neighborhoods in them, and let's provide the opportunity in these neighborhoods for people to get together, to know each other, to express themselves. In other words, it would be the small town meeting on a neighborhood basis in which they would exchange their views and their thoughts, their interest and concern on civic matters, and from neighborhood units, we would achieve a return to civic responsibility in government. Thank you. Thank you. I'd say that that leads us into the question of self-government, which should be practiced much more frequently in schools, and particularly in the training schools for the delinquents. I think that there's a great deal of improvement necessary in all the institutions at which we try to train delinquent youth, and the principle of self-government and nonviolence are of the greatest importance. Coming back to your statement, Mr. Strong, concerning the town meetings and the metropolitan, our urban communities, how would that, how could that be worked out as a practical matter? Well, I think that the people in this country are now aroused. They're terribly aroused, and they're alert now to the fact that they must develop a watchdog relationship to those that they elect to responsible public positions, as well as to those who may be appointed and be in public positions. Now, we have in some of our cities neighborhood centers, settlement houses, which are concerned with the problems of a neighborhood, and I feel that this movement could be extended, the churches, the youth agencies, the YMCAs, the YWCAs, the Scouts, and all such organizations could band together and should band together to develop, especially in our urban areas, this greater civic duty and civic responsibility. Well, now, Mr. Strong, as one who is born in perhaps as congested a district as you'd find anywhere in the world, the West End of Boston. I now live in the town of Conklin. I have come to this conclusion that the apathy of the decent people, the indifference of the decent people, is the cause of the racketeering and lawless conditions that we find, and you'll find that prevalent not only in your congested districts, you'll find it in your towns. For example, I can recall, and I'm now setting this example out just to show the apathy of decent people. I was sent into a little town, and there I found a man who was chairman of the board of selectmen, who had been taking money from aged people. We sent him to jail for 18 months. He no sooner got out of jail. He ran for his old office and led the ticket, and this very day is serving in the office from which he went to jail. That could not happen. You cannot have a condition like that exist except for the apathy of decent people. Yes, of course. There are men who get back in public office, and you can cite case after case. I think, too, if we checked into it, we could find case after case of men who are removed from public office. The electors do not put them back in. We had such a situation just a few weeks ago in a little town here in Massachusetts called Webster, where a selectman who had been elected a year ago had promised in his campaign that he would not vote in favor of these pinball machines, the mechanical pickpocket, which now is permissible in Massachusetts. As the year went along, the pressure was put upon him, and he voted for them. The mothers in that community rose up and said they did not want such a man in public office who would go back on his campaign promises, and they organized a campaign, and he was defeated. Isn't it basically one of the causes of the prevalence of the disrespect and the prevalence of the whole crime condition that we have separated, that we have separated the juridical basis of the legal criminal position, that we have separated the moral from the civil law? Or would you agree with that? Well, Father... That's Kant's jurisdiction distinction. Well, Father Fleming, of course, we all know that under violation of our civil law, there's punishment, fines, or incarceration and jail. Under our moral law, the only punishment that we receive is the... Personal sanctions, personal conscience, and your relations. That's right. Oh, I think there's another there. I think there's the approval or disapproval of the community that enters into it as a sanction. If we write the law to such a degree that we multiply the illicit actions to an extent that the law becomes unacceptable to the people generally, then you are tending to induce criminal practice in the people by reason of the fact that they are going to look upon the legislation as unreasonable. If we dropped this idea of right and wrong and dropped the idea of crime and criminals, spoke instead of asocial behavior as behavior which is unacceptable to the society in which an individual lives, we would have a much better way of knowing what we should hold people to. Well, even if we did that and we had laws following along that line, we would still have our criminals. I think we'd still have to go back to the educational feature that we discussed in the very beginning. And you'd still have the problem of why would you call it asocial? Well, even if our laws followed exactly our so-called moral codes that you've been speaking of, we'd still have our criminals if we didn't have the educational feature. Precisely. And even with the educational feature, I think you'd still have criminals. Because you're still going to have people who are acting in contravention to the law by reason of the fact or either being personally defective physically, medically, or morally. Now, I don't think that you're ever going to remove crime or remove the causes of crime by legislation. In fact, one of the things you can do by legislation is to make crime more prevalent. That's always a possibility. Take your income tax situation today. Now, on the other hand, you can help the community from the standpoint of protecting it against criminal action by setting up a reasonable legal base that is going to afford a system of sanctions that will make a criminal hesitate or stop an intended criminal. How could that be done, Father Fleming? by reason of having a sanction adequate to make them think twice. It's not going to be a foolproof proposition. As a practical matter, how could you enforce these things, these violations, whether they be moral or illegal? Well, how do we enforce the statutes on theft now? They're apprehended, they're punished. That, in and of itself, of course, doesn't remove thieves. No, it doesn't, but it keeps the number down and protects the community against them. Of course, in the old days, you kept the number down by hanging them. We don't do that today. I don't think either of these two methods keeps the number down. I think actually giving people, seeing that people have more is what will keep down thievery. Have more what? Have more material things. Then isn't this one of the causes that we need to direct our attention for a moment? Aren't some of your criminals very wealthy people? Yes, but they weren't in the beginning, necessarily. Only the minority. And they weren't in the beginning, as Mr. Strong says. Well, Dr. Pavanstead, won't you agree with me that today, more than ever, our people are better off financially, have more material things in life, and still there is more crime being committed today than ever in the history of the world. It may surprise you to know that as we are talking here, every 18 seconds, there is a major crime being committed somewhere in our country, every 18 seconds. Well, now we are better off financially, every one of us. I think our Department of Commerce and Labor will show that per capita we're much better off than we were, let's say, 10 or 20 years ago. I wasn't thinking of people who were at the height of a way of life and who had achieved wealth through illegal and asocial means. I was thinking more of the adolescent, of the adolescent girl who longs for pretty clothes and finery, and of the adolescent boy who wants to prove that he has more than the next boy, which is the way that so often these people begin to get into difficulty. Then they go to our institutions for delinquents where the staff is poorly paid and therefore not usually a mature group of people who find it difficult to lead the kind of lives that are the examples that these children should have. There is bickering among the staff. The children catch on to it. They have no respect for the people who are supposed to be educating them. That's the sort of thing that gradually leads to the kind of criminal career that you're speaking of, I think. One of the circumstances out of which crime arises is obviously the circumstance of material need. But I think it is, well, to some extent inadequate to explain crime by reason of material need when you can indicate that in situations where there is not in fact material need, you do have crime. Material need alone certainly doesn't explain it. On the other hand, punishment has never yet contributed to solving, to bettering crime in any way. In fact, when capital punishment was removed in several countries, murder decreased. Now, Mr. Kettrick asked a while back what incentive communities could have to really become concerned with who was breaking the law and what people we were putting into office. And we had one answer from Mr. Strong who said that it was the mothers in the community who had objected to the selectmen being put back into office. It seems to me that the appeal can go through the appeal to protect children, that that is the thing that will arouse any community and will really make them fight the kind of things that are going on that we object to. That was Dr. Eleanor Pavanstedt, Assistant Professor of Psychiatry, Boston University, concluding tonight's discussion on the question, what are the causes of crime? Along with Dr. Pavanstedt, you heard Dwight S. Strong, Executive Secretary, New England Watch and Ward Society, George Fingold, former Assistant Attorney General of Massachusetts, Thomas F. Fleming, S.J., Assistant Professor of Government, Boston College, and Edward H. Hetrick, Dean of the School of Law and Professor of Law, Boston University. This program was produced by Alan Carter and Jerry Sandler. This has been a transcribed feature of the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you.д Thank you.