Good afternoon. This is Alvin Josephi of WOR's Special Features Division, speaking to you from the Father Duffy Memorial in the heart of Times Square, New York. This coming week has been designated by the United States Army Air Corps as Flying Cadet Week, and today officers of the Army have gathered here to observe the opening of this week and its purpose of acquainting all American citizens, and particularly those youths wanting to become Army flyers, with a procedure for enlisting in Uncle Sam's Flying Cadets. Here in Times Square, a P-40, a Brown Curtis Pursuit plane, has been set up as a daily reminder to the people of New York of the role military aviation is playing in the defense of the United States. The bringing of this airplane to the heart of the city was by order of the Commanding General of Mitchell Field, Long Island, at the request of the Commanding General of the Second Corps Area. Our principal speaker here this morning was to have been Mayor LaGuardia. However, the mayor has unavoidably been detained out of town and will not be with us. To introduce the speakers who are here, and to tell us what is going to occur during the week here at the Father Duffy Monument, I am happy to introduce now a member of the Second Corps Area Recruiting Service, whom we all know, Major Ray Perkins. Thank you, and once again, greetings, fellow citizens, to you all from the finest military organization in all the world, your United States Army. All of us here in Father Duffy's Square are experiencing a real thrill in seeing one of Uncle Sam's newest Army airplanes standing majestically in such unusual surroundings. Our P-40 airplane is, in fact, standing before the statue of that great soldier priest, Father Duffy, whom many New Yorkers remember as the chaplain of one of New York's own regiments, the Fighting 69th in the World War. Father Duffy loved the Army as he loved New York, and I'm sure he's giving this Army airplane his blessing from above as it stands here at his feet. It's our hope that the Greater New York Flying Cadet Week, proclaimed by Mayor LaGuardia, will bring to the youth of the New York area the great opportunity that exists for those young men who can qualify as Uncle Sam's officer pilots. To be eligible for the Flying Cadet Corps, a young man must be, between the ages of 21 and 27, an American citizen unmarried with two years of college education or its equivalent. You know, there's been much discussion as to just why the Air Corps requires such high standards, both physically and education. The answer lies in the determination of the Army to secure for its personnel and its material the maximum of safety as long as circumstances permit. Until it is absolutely necessary, our officer pilots must be the utmost tops in efficiency, able to assume command of any size force, able to undertake any specialized technical work, and able to meet any sudden emergency. The War Department only two days ago announced that the need of pilots is increased from 12,000 annually to 30,000 annually. Now, to get 30,000 pilots a year means that twice that amount, or 60,000, must be accepted for training. And we urge all of you, all you sincere and patriotic citizens, to spread the word that Uncle Sam is calling for officers of the Air Corps. Tell your young friends to visit us at 39 Whitehall Street, New York City, to visit any local recruiting office for full information. Later, I want you to meet an officer from Mitchell Field who will tell us something about this P-40 plane. But first of all, I want to introduce to you an officer who has had charge of recruiting in the 2nd Corps area in New York, New Jersey, and Delaware for the past three and a half years. You know, the recruiting service not only enlists men for the regular Army, but has charge of induction and the enrollment of flying cadets. I'm proud to present the 2nd Corps area recruiting officer, an officer of 36 years service in the Coast Artillery Corps, Colonel L.B. Magruder. I am happy to greet the citizens of the New York metropolitan area on behalf of the commanding general, the 2nd Corps area, Brigadier General Irving J. Phillipson, whose duties unfortunately prevent his being present today. I know of no better way to explain our purpose in exhibiting this airplane here in Father Duffy Square, the heart of New York City, than to read to you the proclamation issued by Mayor LaGuardia, mayor of the world's greatest city and an able aviator of World War I. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. I read his proclamation. He has written his proclamation. He has written it to greatly increase its air corps to a size adequate to its responsibility. Whereas one of the principal objectives of our Army now is the enrollment of suitably qualified young men as flying cadets for training as commission officers to pilot the airplanes of the Air Corps and the city of New York desires to furnish its full share of this needed manpower, now therefore I, Fiorello H. LaGuardia, Mayor of the City of New York do hereby proclaim the week of March 23rd to March 29th, inclusive to be Greater New York Flying Cadet Week, and I call upon all citizens to spread the word of the importance and the honor attached to flying service in our air corps. And furthermore, I urge all patriotic citizens to disseminate by every means full information as to the qualifications, procedure, opportunities, and privileges incident to the Flying Cadet Corps of the United States Army, duly authenticated and sealed in the mayor's office. Thank you very much, Colonel Magruder, for reading the mayor's proclamation. Now, the officer whose permission we really had to get to show this airplane is the Commanding General of Mitchell Field, an officer that all of us in the service know and respect, and I'm glad to have him here to say a few words to you. Brigadier General John C. McDonnell of the United States Army Air Corps. The interest and enthusiasm of Mayor LaGuardia and the citizens of Greater New York in the Army Air Corps is deeply appreciated by all of us who are proud to be a part of that increasingly important branch of the service. I am glad to be here as a representative of Mitchell Field, the only active Army Airfield in this immediate section of the country. I am sure the Greater New York Flying Cadet Week, which we are opening here today, will serve to focus the attention of the citizens of this great metropolis and its surrounding area on the imperative need that our National Air Force be expanded with the greatest possible speed. I can assure you that the Air Corps is working at utmost capacity. Mitchell Field, like all other Air Corps bases, is a beehive of activity. All organizations are being continually enlarged and training schedules are being intensively carried out. At the present time, the headquarters of the Northeast Air District is located at Mitchell Field, together with the Air Defense Command, the 7th Pursuit Wing and the 2nd Air Base. As you have been told by Major Perkins, it is essential not only that our aircraft production be stepped up, but that the entire current of personnel to pilot our airplanes be trained in sufficient numbers. That explains why the Flying Cadet Corps, which is the training reservoir of future pilots, is being brought to your attention this week. Thank you, General McDonnell. And by the way, friends, as a part of the general program for General for Greater New York Flying Cadet Week, a special event deserves your attention. On Wednesday night, the Times Square District will assume a gala military aspect when a number of generals and other high-ranking officers from the War Department at Washington will come here to attend the opening of a new motion picture at the Aster Theater, a picture called I Wanted Wings, produced by one of the large picture companies with the collaboration and approval of the War Department and the Air Corps. Now I want you to meet an officer from Mitchell Field who is in charge of the detail that brought this airplane in and set it up here in Duffy Square. It was trucked out, dismantled, disassembled, and put on trucks from Mitchell Field early this morning in the wee small hours. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to present Captain Rusto, Captain P.E. Rusto, I believe, of the Air Corps, who is the base engineering officer at Mitchell Field, an officer of 10 years service in the Army. And the Captain will tell you something about this ship. It's a pursuit plane we know, but just what does that mean, Captain? Will you tell us something about the type of airplane this is? Yes, this is a Curtis P-40 type pursuit plane. It is powered by an Allison inline liquid cool 1000 horsepower engine. It is the same airplane with which the eighth group, the eighth pursuit group in Mitchell Field is at present equipped. Yes, well now, have you got something to say, Captain, to tell the public about the design of this plane? Uh, or any special features about it that you want to mention? Yes. The airplane is a very highly streamlined, low-wing monoplane. It is of all-metal construction and is equipped with a three-bladed Curtis electric propeller. The airplane carries one pilot and it is armed with machine guns. Two of the machine guns are located in the nose and are synchronized to fire through the propeller. The other machine guns are installed in the wings. Additional equipment is carried as oxygen equipment, which permits the pilot to cruise long distances at very high altitudes. It carries a two-way radio, which permits the pilot to maintain constant communication between, uh, with his ground base and also with the other airplanes in the air. Captain Rusdo, uh, did you mention the, uh, size of the wing spread and the overall length of the plane? No, I did not. Uh, the overall length of the airplane is, uh, approximately 32 feet and the wingspan approximately 37 feet. It's, it's really, it's not a large plane. It's a one-man job and built for, uh, speed and attack and combat rather than cruising, uh, features. Is that right? Yes, that is correct. The total... I'm not an Air Corps officer and you're the authority here, sir. Correct me if I'm wrong. No, it's a very small airplane. The total weight is, uh, approximately three tons, 6,000 pounds. I see. Incidentally, uh, you may be hearing on the air the subway running under Times Square here. That surge of noise that comes up and has disconcerted us a little bit here. Haven't you felt it, Captain? Yeah. And the grating, uh, that runs under the plane, uh, leads right down into the subway. You can almost see the trains go by there. Yeah, so the grating was more disconcerting when we were planning to putting the airplane on. Putting the plane up. Tell me, were there any, uh, uh, mishaps or incidents on the way in from Mitchell Field with this, uh, convoy here? Uh, no mishaps, I'm glad to say. We've had, uh, some experience of moving these airplanes. You know, we put, uh, two, uh, double-engine jobs in the world, World's Fair this summer, in addition to a P-40. Uh, I, I, I know that, Captain. I noticed that you had a very excellent crew of enlisted men from, uh, the airfield. There was, uh, Master Sergeant in charge, wasn't it? Yes, Master Sergeant Granner and Sergeant Thompson, the inspector. I see. They're the best. Now, there's going to be a detail here to guard the plane all week, night and day, and, uh, some of these men from Mitchell Field will be here to answer questions that any of the citizens of New York want to, uh, ask of them. And there's a platform built that goes up over around the plane so that you can climb up the platform on stairs and look right down into the cockpit. Uh, Al, I think it's time for you to take it. Well, I have, well, I have one question I'd like to ask the Captain. Captain, what is the, uh, what is the emblem on the side of this plane? We all see emblems on the side of, uh, American planes, Mickey Mouses and hats. What is this one? Uh, they're squadron insignias. The squadron has a distinctive squadron. It's designed, uh, usually by personnel of the squadron and, uh, subject to the approval of the chief of aircraft. And what is this particular one? I can't even describe it. It looks like a devil or something. Well, it's a, it's a, it's a face of some kind that's half man and half animal, I would say. Uh, I'm not being disrespectful. I mean, just what does it represent? Well, it's, uh, it's the insignia of the, uh, headquartered squadron of the 8th Pursuit Group. I see. This ship belongs to headquarters. Well, what is it? I got a big, bad wolf in a helmet. What, what, what, what is it, Captain? Well, let me, uh, tell you the truth. I'll have to take a look at it. If I, uh, it's, uh, the insignia is blocked off by the wing here and I, uh, there are several insignias. Go ahead, take a, take a fast look. Um, Major Perkins, I just want to comment on the intensely dramatic sight that this particular spot fords right now with the bareheaded statue of Father Duffy standing up above this plane and looking out over it, as it were. You people who will be down in Times Square during the coming week won't miss it, I'm sure. Well, the Captain has looked at the insignia and, uh, he says he must admit frankly that he isn't familiar with it and can't tell just what it is. Am I right, Captain? Well, it looks to me very much like, uh, Nero, the dog in the movie, he's got his tongue hanging way out. Well, you all have to come down, you listeners, and ask the men that are on duty here. Maybe they'll be able to tell you. All right, thanks, Ray Perkins, Major Perkins. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes our special broadcast observing the opening of Flying Cadet Week of the United States Army Air Corps, heard from the Father Duffy Memorial in the heart of Times Square, New York. This was a presentation of WOR's Special Features Division. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.