Here's to veterans from Jack Benny, Mary Livingston, Phil Harris, Dennis Day, and yours truly, Don Wilson. Here's to veterans, a fast-moving quarter-hour of entertainment and helpful information brought to you transcribed by the top-flight talent of radio in cooperation with the Veterans Administration and dedicated to every man and woman who served in our armed forces and who helped to win victory for freedom. And now, ladies and gentlemen, we take you back to Jack Benny's dressing room. He's getting ready for the program and Rochester is shaving him. Hold still while I lather you up. Rochester, you have to use that much. Hold still, boss. There, that ought to be enough lather. Now, where's the... Come in. Hiya, Roger. I was just passing by and I... Say! That looks wonderful. Phil, stop trying to blow the foam off. It's me. And get your foot off my knee. It's not a brass rail. What a guy. What a guy. Okay, I'm sorry, Jackson. What do you want, Phil? Well, I'd like to ask you what number I should play on the program today. I've been rehearsing two of them all week. What are they? Well, one of them's Stardust. What's the other one? That's what I like about the sound. You better play the first one, Phil. I don't think the public is ready for the second one. Hey, Jackson, we're all set. Okay, Phil, let's go. I'd like to take time out right here to tell you a true story. It's about two girls and a dream. You see, they both were graduate nurses. Well, the war came along. Both joined the Army Nurse Corps. One went to England and the other shipped off to China and India. When the shooting was over, they joined forces again in a small hospital in Texas. And this is where the dream came in. For years, those two nurses had wanted to own and operate a hospital. All of a sudden, the very hospital that we're working in was put up for sale. But to make their dream come true, the girls needed a lot of money. For all of a sudden, the very hospital that we were working in was put up for sale. But to make their dream come true, the girls needed a lot of money. For all of a sudden, the very hospital we were working was put up for sale. Don't we? It was probably possible. If that's the case, I wanted to take a look at this problem. For hours on end, they worked like beavers, studying all the angles of the proposition. They made very careful plans. Armed with these and backed by their experience, they went to a local office of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and laid the facts on the table. Their proposition was so sound that in a few days, they had a large loan backed by a guarantee from the VA. They got the hospital and they're doing swell, proving that a GI loan works out fine when it's backed up by careful planning and experience. That's why the Veterans Administration wants you to think carefully, plan carefully, and get all the advice you can before you apply for a GI loan. That's why this valuable benefit will work as Congress intended it to work, as a help to you veterans in getting a business, farm, or home of your own. That was South America Take It Away played by Phil Harrison's orchestra. And that strange click-clack in the back was his boy shooting dice. And now ladies... Thanks, Mary. I thought I was pretty clever myself. That strange click-clack in the back was... I wasn't laughing at that. What? I was reading a letter from Mama. Oh, oh, a letter from your mother, eh? Well, what does the Hildegard of Plainfield have to say? Oh, it's so funny, dear. I know, I know. After her last letter, she had to join the Radio Writers Guild. Go ahead, let's hear it, Mary. Okay. My darling daughter, Mary, I received your last note and was very glad to hear from you. As you know, last Tuesday was Election Day, so your father got up early, went to the polls, and voted for Hoover. What? He feels he owes it to him because since 1928, Hoover has been the top button on his underwear. That's what I like about your father. He's so loyal. Go on, Mary. Your sister, Babe, has become a career woman and now has a very novel job. She's a lifeguard at one of those new fountain pen companies. A lifeguard at a pen company? If anyone writes help underwater, she dives in and saves the pen. What a girl. Babe also received a lot of money from a picture studio in Hollywood. She sent a photograph of herself in her bathing suit and they sent her a check for $5,000. Your sister, Babe? They said her legs gave him the idea for the spiral staircase. I knew she could do it. Say, Mary, Mary, does Babe, does Babe still go with that slap-happy prize fighter? No, she couldn't stand it any longer. Why? What happened? Well, they'd be sitting in the living room and every time the phone rang, he'd jump up, shake hands, and give her a right hook to the jaw. Oh, well, then I don't blame her. Well, Babe didn't mind getting hit, but she had to keep him training all the time. Well, go on with the letter, Mary. Okay. Last Saturday night, Pop and I went to a big formal affair. Aunt Edie's silver wedding. Gee, has your Aunt Edie been married 25 years? No, 25 times. Oh. Now, don't interrupt anymore, Jack. Okay, okay. And Mary, speaking of Aunt Edie, do you remember little Harold, who was the ring bearer at Aunt Edie's first wedding? Well, that's the one she's married to now. Now, what do you know? Outside of that, Pop and I haven't done much. Although, last week, we went to the movies and saw Merle Oberon in a wonderful picture. Gosh, she's beautiful. Your father took one look at her, then looked at me, and when we got home, I realized what Babe went through with that pride fight. Gee. Fortunately, my girdle broke, and I wedged him into a neutral corner. Hmm. Good. Some more, is there? Oh, yes. Go ahead. Go ahead. Your mother is a riot. Go ahead. By the way, Mary, I certainly envy you being out there in California. It was so cold here yesterday that Papa's teeth chattered all night. They made so much noise, he took them out of the glass and put them back in his mouth. Mother's a car. What a family. That's all for now. We'll write again next week your loving mother, Amber Livingston. Hey, that's a nice letter, Mary. Oh, wait a minute. Here's the P.S. I suppose Jack will start writing to us again now that airmail is down to five cents. What does she mean, five cents? I can get Rochester to fly it there for nothing. Ha, ha, ha. That's a good one. I don't see anything funny about that. Neither do I, Jackson. You don't? No. Hmm. Rochester and his crazy jokes. Now, kids. Come in. Hello, everybody. What's cooking? Oh, hello, Dennis. Dennis, you're a little bit late. Where were you? Well, I'd have been here earlier, Jackson, but I stopped across the bar in a bar. You gotta live, bub. You gotta live. Dropped across a bar in a bar? That sounds like chis-swee sandwich. Oh, boy, am I dizzy. Yippee! Dennis. Dennis, you mean to say they served you a drink? No, they said I was too young, so they just spun me around on the stool. Oh. Hey, Livvy, how about you and me painting the town? Dennis. What's eating you, bub? You want to fight? A fight? Hey, Phil, how about an Alka-Seltzer? You don't need one. Dennis, what's the matter with you? All they did was spin you around on a stool. Yeah, but they held my head in one place. You mean they... I don't know whether I'm coming or Dennis. Believe me, you're Dennis, and cut out all this nonsense. Okay. He hates me because I'm head-loose and fancy-free. Dennis, nobody hates you. Now, come on, let's have your song. Okay. That kid can find... Phil, where are you going? I'll be back in a minute, Jackson. Hey, Dennis, what stool were you on? Phil, come back here! Dennis is on the scene. Now, go ahead. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Somewhere in the night there must be someone for me. Somewhere in the night who knows where somewhere may be. Across the way or maybe way beyond a distant star. I wish I knew just where and who you are. Somewhere in a dream I find her here by my side. Then when I awake, my dream drifts out with a tide. My lonely heart keeps saying to me, no, this doesn't seem right. There must be someone somewhere in the night. Before we say goodbye to all you XGI, here's a little word of advice. You know, I take an awful razzing for trying to save a penny here and there. But let me tell you this. If you're trying to save money by dropping your GI insurance, don't do it, brother. It's all right to be economical. But let's not overdo it. Get this. Congress really took good care of your insurance needs. The latest law gives you a lot of additional privileges. It gives you the opportunity to change your present National Service life insurance to any of a large number of permanent plans. But you don't have to rush to convert your policy. The main thing is to hang onto it if you have it. Or reinstate it if you let it lapse. Your mother, your wife and children need this low cost protection. GI insurance is one of the best buys I've seen. And I'm a hard man to please when it comes to spending dough. Look, why don't you visit your nearest Veterans Administration office right away? Take it from me, nobody's a fool who's thoughtful enough to spare his family future worries over money. And that's the Here's to Veterans tribute from Jack Benny, Mary Livingston, Phil Harris, Dennis Day, and yours truly Don Wilson, who with our sponsors and the American Federation of Musicians, the American Federation of Radio Artists, and the Advertising Council and this station, are sincerely thanked by the Veterans Administration for making possible this transcription in the public interest. Tune in again for another star-studded Here's to Veterans show. And remember veterans, for advice and help on your insurance, education, loans, medical care, and other VA services, write your nearest Veterans Administration office. And now a word from your local announcer. applause Thank you. Thank you.
