How do you do friends? This is Ben Grauer with a special program of significance and importance on a matter that is a vital concern to each and every one of us in New York City. You're all aware of the serious bus transit crisis facing the city at this very moment. And of the fact that by tomorrow midnight, much of the city's bus transportation system may be at a standstill. To keep you abreast of the facts and to acquaint you with some of the problems involved in the transit situation, Station WNBT is bringing you this special and exclusive telecast. Your Mayor, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletary, will convey his personal message to you and will talk with three members of his mediation committee appointed to examine the cases of management and of the union. Victor Riesenfeld, Joseph O'Grady and Joseph Curran. We will hear from them in a moment. Now we're honored to present, His Honor, the Mayor of New York City, Vincent R. Impelletary. Ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens of the City of New York, I would like to come into your homes for a few brief minutes tonight to report to you on the present crisis in the private transit industry in our community. I want you to know, because you have a right to know, the position of the union, the companies, and the city in this bus emergency situation. We are all aware that our city has grown great as a place where business can make a profit, where the rights of working people are protected, and where the public as a whole benefits from the cheapest, fastest, safest transportation in the nation. In this crisis, we want to throw none of these things away. As you were told on Sunday last, the highest hourly wage rate paid to bus workers in the entire country is paid right here in the city of New York. This rate was established July 1st of this year by a private bus company at $1.91 an hour. The second highest rate is in Pittsburgh, $1.90 an hour. And the third highest rate, $1.86 an hour, is paid here in the city of New York by our own Board of Transportation. The local transport workers union now demands rates which run between $2.25 an hour and $2.42 an hour. This rate, ladies and gentlemen, is as unrealistic as Dreamland, and could not be supported even by a $0.15 fare. To achieve a reasonable settlement, the union must lower its hourly rate demand, and bring it within the range of the going rates for the particular job. Otherwise, it will be economically impossible for either the companies or the city or both to finance a settlement. The union and the companies have been holding conferences for a long time. And for a long while, the company sat in these conferences without making a single counter-proposal. There was no true bargaining. But now the ice appears to have been broken. And now, some counter-proposals have been made by the companies. But those offers, too, are unrealistic, and were not accepted by the union. The companies can and must do better in their office. The union can and must do better in its demands. The city's position and that of every member on the Board of Estimate is plain. We recognize the seriousness of the problem. The difficulties of financing a reasonable settlement. And we are prepared to lend all assistance within our power to help finance a settlement. Let this, however, be clear. I am unalterably opposed to an increase of the basic tenth-cent fare on the private bus lines. And every member of the Board of Estimate agrees with me. To keep the fare down, to maintain profits, and to provide adequate wages for the bus workers, the City of New York has suggested enactment of an omnibus redevelopment corporation law, under which qualified bus lines would be granted exemption from city and state taxes. We think our approach is sound and reasonable. Transportation is an essential service. The law which we propose is modeled after the Railroad Development Corporation law and the Long Island Railroad Authority law, passed by the New York State Legislature in 1951 and signed and approved by Governor Dewey. Under these laws, tax exemption will be granted to the Long Island Railroad at an expense to the City of New York alone of some $3 million a year. All this, however, is primarily for the purpose of enabling residents of Nassau and Suffolk Counties to travel to and from their work at a lower rate of fare than otherwise would be required. I feel that what the State can do for the residents of Nassau and Suffolk Counties it can well afford to do for the 8 million people of the City of New York and the people of the other communities of the State. It is for this reason that I have directed the Transit Advisory Commission in cooperation with the Corporation Council's Office to prepare the necessary legislation to carry out this plan. I hope that after the Legislature convenes, this proposed legislation will receive the consideration it justly deserves in a calm and temperate atmosphere. Now to get back to the immediate problem. Day in and day out, as my personal representatives, outstanding citizens of our great city, three men of great skill and experience in labor relations have been working to mediate and settle the disputes between the companies and the union. They are Victor S. Riesenfeld, an outstanding businessman who has had a wealth of experience in labor negotiations. Joseph E. O'Grady, a former director of the City's Division of Labor Relations. And Joseph Kern, President of the National Maritime Union and a Vice President of the CIO. I have asked them to come here and report to you on the exact status of the negotiations as of this minute. Victor, I understand that the committee has elected you chairman. Will you please give the public a report on what you have been doing and how things stand as of the moment? Oh, Mr. Mayor, for weeks your committee has been working with the representatives of the companies and the union. Frankly, I have never run into such a situation as I find here. Up to this time, on the eve of a threatened strike, neither side is being realistic. The union representatives are able people, and they know what is in the cards as well as I do. So, too, the company's representatives know the facts of life. And in all the conferences, not one single company has come up with a proposal that could even be considered. There's something more in this picture than meets the eye. For 25 years, I've participated in labor negotiations. And I am now confronted with a situation where I instinctively feel that there is something wrong. There has been no basic approach to bargaining, and I don't hesitate to say so. Joe O'Grady, Joe, you are a veteran in this type of labor relations field. Will you tell us how you feel about it? Well, Mr. Mayor, I am in complete agreement with what Victor has said. You know that in the course of our weeks of effort, we have checked with the Transit Advisory Commission to ascertain the financial status of the companies. We know from our long experience that there is an area of settlement here which is fair to the union, the companies, and the city. And we know the extent to which it can be financed. In my opinion, Mr. Mayor, there is a concentrated effort being made to force the hands of the Board of Estimates government into putting into effect the 15-cent fare. And I do not think, on the basis of my knowledge of the facts in the situation, that a 15-cent fare is justified. Joe Kern, will you tell us how the National Maritime Union stands on the question of the 15-cent fare? Well, Mr. Mayor, speaking from our own union, our members ride the buses, and we are definitely opposed to a 15-cent fare. Furthermore, in my opinion, and with knowledge of the present situation, I believe that a fair settlement here can be financed without resorting to any increase in fare. Ladies and gentlemen, now you see what the situation is. There is an effort being made to force my hand and the hand of the Board of Estimates to increase the fare to 15 cents. And I serve public notice right now on all the advocates of the 15-cent fare. And this includes the companies involved in this dispute and the union, too, that we will not grant the 15-cent fare. We will not be made the victims of a squeezed play. This afternoon, the Board of Estimates joined me in publicly stating their opposition to a 15-cent fare. However, to prevent a strike and to bring about a peaceful settlement that will be advantageous to the companies, to the union, and to the public, the Board has unanimously suggested that this committee, whose members have spoken to you tonight, be formed into a committee of arbitration. This means that the decisions of this group would be binding on both parties to the dispute. In the meantime, the buses would continue to roll. A strike would be avoided. And the results of the arbitration would be retroactive to January 1st. Now, should there be a strike, your city government has taken every measure to meet this emergency, and to aid you in every respect possible. The Board of Transportation and the Police Department are on the alert. They have definite plans for any emergency that may occur. These plans will be announced tomorrow. In the event of a strike, which all of us hope and pray will not happen, be assured that all city agencies are prepared for all eventualities. Ladies and gentlemen, believe me when I tell you this is your fight. You and your families are the writing public. The money that would be drawn out in such large quantities by an increase to a 15 cent fare would come right out of your pockets, and out of your household expenses. I am on your side, and I think I will have your sympathy and support when I say that even if pressure is increased to include an unwarranted and unjustified strike. I shall not yield to outrageous demands which you and your families, the writing public, will necessarily have to pay. Your flagship station, WNBT, has been proud to present this special exclusive telecast of some of the problems involved in the bus transit crisis. We are grateful to Mayor Vincent Impelletari for bringing you his personal message, and to the members of the three-man advisory committee, Victor Riesenfeld, Joseph O'Grady, and Joseph Curran, who helped to make this telecast possible. This is Ben Grauer speaking for WNBT. well, thank you all for WNBT. for WNBT. more.