The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Should gambling be legalized? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand program in its 16th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand evaluates the proposal, should gambling be legalized? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the place of gambling in our society and the advantages and disadvantages of making it a legitimate practice. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, Director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. Three recent events have focused our attention on gambling in general and the legalization of gambling in particular. A meeting of American mayors to discuss crime, a proposed Senate investigation of syndicated rackets, and Mayor O'Dwyer's statement indicating support of licensed gambling. To answer the question, should gambling be legalized, we turn to William F. Byron, Professor of Sociology from Northwestern University. E. W. Cragen, Mayor of Las Vegas, Nevada. Francis Smith, Mayor of Reno, Nevada. And Virgil W. Peterson, Operating Director of the Chicago Crime Commission and well-known investigator of illegal gambling practices in the major cities of this country. Peterson, you direct an organization whose business it is to investigate anything that smacks of illegality. Will you tell us what the Crime Commission has uncovered in the area of gambling? Gambling, of course, is the principal source of revenue of the underworld. That has always been true, it's true today. And when the gambling interests make their alliances with the political leaders of various cities, it becomes a very important political problem and threatens the democratic processes of many places in the country. But before we get too far into this, I would like to have the privilege of reading very briefly and hurriedly from a report of the City Affairs Committee in New York some years ago in order that we may know exactly what we're discussing. The report says that gambling, fostered by business interests as well as by organized criminal rings, is with us like a plague. What gambling may be in the simple and not unamiable practices of private personal life, we are not now concerned with. What alarms us is the organization of gambling into a vast machine of public plunder. Now I assume, Peterson, that's what all of us, we here and the gentlemen in Nevada, who unfortunately are not here, are interested in today. Definitely. We're interested solely in gambling as a business as distinguished from private morals, concerning which we have no interest whatever. Peterson, you mentioned here the relationship between gambling and crime. Can you develop that a bit for us? Well, gambling has always been a principal source of revenue for the underworld. You've got to bear in mind in the first place that the criminal element are interested in anything that's lucrative. In other words, the criminal element here controls gambling. That's right. Can you name any names there? Well, on the East Coast, the big syndicate headed by Frankie Costello, Frank Erickson, Joe Adonis, and numerous others, very powerful along the East Coast down into Florida, the Capone Gang in this area and down in Florida. The gangster element, in other words, are in control of gambling. They always have been and they always will be. Well, I would like to suggest that if we're not careful, we're going to discuss this as a new problem, whereas, of course, it is a problem, isn't it, which we inherited from the mother country and in dealing with which we've had a considerable amount of experience going back into colonial times. Surely, that's absolutely right. In fact, during colonial times, we had all kinds of legalized lotteries. After a while, these lotteries got into the hands of racketeers and the criminal element. It became a very serious problem. In fact, during the early 1930s, about eight states spent, about five states, the turnover in gambling alone from lotteries was about eight times the amount spent by the entire United States government in its expenditures. And it became a very serious economic problem and has always particularly affected the poor people. And it is true, as one reads history, that the major arguments when the opposition developed to these lotteries centered around thrift and economic realism, not on the basis of theology and ethics, they had discovered that it was the promoters rather than the particular occasion for which the lottery would be putting on that made the money. That's definitely true. Gambling is a business of exploitation. It exploits a human weakness and particularly those in the lower income bracket. And the leadership against legalization of gambling or to do away with the lotteries that were legalized came from your substantial citizens, not from reform reformers and the crusaders and that sort of thing. In other words, politics, as we use that term in quotes, got into the picture a century and a half ago. And then politicians and the state legislatures decided to get in in another way and to change the laws. That's absolutely right. The evils were enormous. Legislatures were bribed. And of course, the business of gambling got completely out of hand. You can read some of the early papers going back to 1790 where the lottery business was completely out of hand and was demoralized, it was a very demoralizing effect, particularly on the poor people and the economic and social welfare of this country. Well, a number of people seem to believe that there is one group which controls gambling and another group which controls vice and these other problems. Well, it's my understanding that these problems operate together rather than apart. And that instead of asking who controls gambling, we have to ask who is controlling the great rackets. Do you agree with Byron here? I agree with that, absolutely. That's always been true. The same interests that control gambling control various other forms of criminal activity. In how many states do we have legalized gambling today? There's only one state in which gambling in general is legalized. That's the state of Nevada, which also indicates a tremendous sentiment among the people against legalizing the business of gambling. Are certain types of gambling legalized in other states? Oh, in a few states. Idaho has local option with reference to slot machines. Montana permits slot machines and punch boards under certain circumstances. How many states permit pari-mutual betting? I believe there are around 23. Well, Peterson, you admit then that gambling exists whether it's declared legal or illegal. It seems to me that we're not quite honest with ourselves when we know it exists. We pass laws against it that are largely ineffective. And on top of that, we pretend that the problem is solved. Because of technical difficulties, it is impossible to hear what a good friend of mine, E.W. Cragen, mayor of Las Vegas, Nevada, has to say on this point. But I do have his prepared statement and should like to read it at this point in the discussion. He says, and I quote, Let's take a look at Nevada itself. Nevada, the only state in the Union where gambling is legal. The legislature voted it back in 1929 after a lapse of 22 years without it. People here just got tired of hypocrisy and subterfuge and decided to be what Nevadans always have been, just themselves, and trying to make believe they're looking better or more saintly. Practical people don't kid themselves. There's gambling wherever there are towns of any size. There isn't a state in the Union, so far as I can find out, where games can't be found in most cities, or which don't have one or two communities where the games are run right out in the open. Actually, Nevada is different from any of our sister states. Here we just believe in doing things right out in the open that others try to hide and hush-hush. Here the money goes into the public treasury, which in other states buys protection, corrupts government, and helps only the crooked politicians and bosses." End of quote. What do you think about that, Peterson? Well, may I... I was going to ask Peterson a question on that point, Boren. Namely, that that seems to imply that local option with reference to this question of legalized gambling is possible. Which means, can Nevada stay out of this national racket picture, Peterson? Or have we any evidence to indicate that Nevada may be just sort of edging in a little bit? The best answer to that is the fact that Nevada has not been able to stay out of the national syndicate. Without going into a lot of names, Benjamin Bugsy Siegel was a big shot out in Las Vegas, Nevada, until he was killed in gang warfare in 1947. He was a member of Murder Incorporated. He was also the West Coast representative of the Capone Syndicate, the Transamerican Publishing and News Service, which was definitely the Capone Syndicate's wire service for bookies. Unfortunately, the criminal element does not go into an enterprise because it's legal or illegal. They go into it because it's lucrative. And, uh, heretofore it has never been possible through legalization to keep the criminal element out. If they're not in it by under their own names, they have some, they have, they operate through fronts, and they still own and control it. Peterson, I think you've been a little unfair with the state of Nevada. And to answer your argument, I again refer to the statement of Mayor Cragen. He says, and I quote, Nevada is just like any other state. The two principal cities have their fantastic clubs and fabulous hotels. They are Reno and Las Vegas. Both are tourist towns, although both have a solid background of industry and commerce. The other Nevada communities, each with industries of their own, pay little attention to gambling. They have their games of chance, of course, and they are purely for amusement and are not in the big money. Nevada people don't gamble themselves. If you're a resident, you'll find very few familiar faces at the roulette wheel, the craft table, or the slot machines. It's the visitors, the tourists, the occasional residents who populate the places of chance and build up their profits. You never read the stories here, the reformers like to tell, of the bank cashier who steals to gamble, or the store clerk who takes his employer's money to bet on the horses in the open race book. Things like that don't happen here. Local people don't gamble. In other words, their entire, their gambling industry is designed to attract tourists. Of course, that's definitely true. The same thing is true with their, with the easy divorce laws in Nevada. And certainly, I don't think that we ought to discuss solely Nevada, because I certainly have no quarrel with what Nevada wants itself. Our, uh, problem is a much broader one as to whether the general problem of legal, generally legalization, gambling should be legalized, generally throughout the country. And, uh, uh, we can use Nevada only as, with reference, as an example with reference to certain things. Of course, we aren't in a position to say that, uh, the, the bank cashier incidents and so forth occur in, in Nevada. But it is my understanding that nationwide, uh, these bonding companies, uh, consider a gambler, whether he is in a state where gambling is legal or in a state where gambling is illegal, a very poor risk. Isn't that true? That's definitely true. I made a survey of, uh, surety companies a number of months ago, and the surety companies were almost unanimous in listing gambling as the principal source of their large embezzlement. And, of course, uh, that doesn't refer to Nevada. That refers to the nation as a whole. Well, back to Nevada here for just a moment. Uh, Craig and will agree with you, I think, Peterson, that you don't solve all of your problems by legalizing gambling. In fact, he says that Las Vegas actually loses money because of the gambling there. These are his words. In 1949, the city spent $1,479,138 in providing municipal government. Of that cost, only $258,000 came from the gambling licenses. That's not very much considering the fact that because these clubs are open 24 hours a day, a vastly larger police department is needed than in other cities. That's the end of the quote. Uh, I'm sure you will agree, uh, with Mr. Cragen on this point, won't you, Peterson? That's definitely true. And, of course, another thing that should be borne in mind, virtually every effort at legalization is, uh, based on the desire for revenue. Now, revenue is incompatible with control. The more licenses, the more revenue you need, the more licenses you issue. And so, gambling, you always get mass gambling when you have legalization. That has been, I'm speaking now, historically. That isn't just a conjecture. It seems to me we've been talking about the legal angle here. We have a human element, too, don't we? Uh, because of the nature of, of people to gamble, and because, uh, it can't be suppressed, I should think that, uh, legalization would be a pretty good thing to, thing to have here. What about that, Byron? Well, some one of you said a little while ago that the fact that we have gambling, uh, seems to indicate public approval. For it. I think we have to be very careful, uh, not to fall back upon a very real discarded psychology, which says that people gamble because they have an instinct to gamble, or the people gamble because it is human nature. Some time ago, the American Psychology Association indicated, uh, that there is nothing in this thing called the biology of the human being, which dooms us to have, uh, war. If we wanted to argue, uh, by analogy, I think we could do so. Also, I would like to suggest, uh, that if we were going to argue on the, in terms of instincts, we would have to say we should legalize prostitution because of the sex, uh, instinct. Now, certainly, we've had enough experience, haven't we, Peterson, uh, with legalization of prostitution to come to some conclusion there. That's right. In fact, a large amount of, of scientific research has been in, and indulged in, engaged in, with reference to the prostitution problem. Dr. Abraham Flexner, uh, Flexner, made his monumental study in Europe. Uh, the same kind of studies have been made in this country, and it's been definitely proven that, uh, legalization, or the segregated district, with reference to prostitution, is an absolute failure. It doesn't control. It doesn't regulate. And the same thing is true when you're dealing with, uh, gambling, uh, which is, uh, an effort to sell a chance to get something for nothing. And you've got to also bear in mind that historically and basically gambling is an, is a dishonest and fraudulent enterprise. Now, it operates on, strictly, on a one-sided principle, uh, the percentage basis. The patron is a class cannot possibly, uh, get, get, obtain value received. And in any other type of enterprise, the law declares that type of an enterprise an inherently illegitimate enterprise. I'm speaking about the business now. Actually, you're saying it's no longer gambling. That's right. Because the element of chance has been taken out, and the element of certainty for the promoter has been put in. Yeah. I wonder, is there any evidence to indicate that, uh, certain people are addicted, or certain personalities fall, uh, air here to, uh, gambling. Fall prey to the gamblers, that is. I only know several, uh, of two or three studies which have been made, and there's no evidence, to the best of my knowledge, which would indicate that a particular type of personality indulges in gambling. Well, I'll stick my neck out and offer another argument here in favor of legalized gambling. I think that the present pari-mutuel setup is quite unfair. Those who have the time and money to attend racetracks have the opportunity to bet, while those who are not so fortunate are deprived of an equal opportunity, and I think should be given, uh, it by the institution of legalized gambling places. Well, that, uh, doesn't touch on the problem at all. You're talking about the individual's, uh, ability to gamble. Now, let's go back when they were trying to legalize pari-mutuals. One of the great arguments given at that time was the fact that the great evil in this gambling were, were the, consisted in the bookies, where the poor people lost their money and were exploited. And it was stated that if you legalized pari-mutuals, that then you would do away with all of these bookies, and that the, only the people who could afford would go to the track and abet and that sort of thing, and you'd eliminate this great social problem. Now the same forces, which argued along that line, are arguing along the other line. But more important than that, in virtually every, uh, form of activity, or every, uh, take, for example, in hunting. You can hunt at a certain time in a certain place. Uh, you can't hunt any time that you want to. Or certain individuals can't take advantage of, of things that are available to other people. I mean, that, that isn't the problem at all. That has nothing to do with the social problem. That's with reference to an individual concerned with, and we're not concerned with that. We have referred frequently to the situation in Nevada in our attempt to evaluate the practice of legalized gambling. To hear from a man in that state who has had first-hand experience with a municipal government that legalizes poker, roulette, 21, and all the rest, we turn by transcription to Francis Smith, mayor of Reno, Nevada. I am speaking to you from Reno, Nevada. Nevada, as I presume you are aware, legalized gambling back in 1931. Since we know gambling and have lived with it, I am happy to speak for Reno on this nationwide broadcast. Perhaps by this means I can convey something of our point of view to my listeners. We in Nevada have, in the past 19 years, met and worked out the problems of legalization and control of gambling to the point where today we feel qualified to discuss the subject with some authority. Our problems have been simplified, of course, by the small population of our state, even more so by the fact that half of that population lies in our two principal cities. The Nevadan believes in individual freedom. He has a pioneer tradition of personal liberty, and he believes in the adulthood of himself and his fellow citizen. These are basic factors in Nevada's acceptance of gambling when operated under proper licensing and intelligent controls. Our system of regulation and control of gambling, in this state community of only 140,000 people, has proved itself an adequate guard against criminal influences, political corruption, or any moral deterioration of our citizenry. We are a small population of friends and neighbors in Nevada, and whether our system would work in a large city or state, I do not know. I would hesitate to say, for instance, that our legalization would work in an area burdened with a long history of illegal gambling, based, according to the common charge, upon criminal influence and political corruption. We have not had that problem. Our controls stem from state, county, and municipal licensing powers. Regulation is effected through quarterly review of all gambling licenses, including review of operating practices, as revealed by our inspecting authorities. No license to gamble, in plain language, is good for more than three months, unless the holder of that license is strictly honest, exercises rigid control over his employees, and is necessarily protective of his reputation for fair play. Here I would like to refute, once and for all, the popular fiction that gambling is Nevada's sole source of revenue, or even its principal source. The gambling business ranks far down in dollar volume among Nevada's business classifications. It accounts for only 6.5% of our state revenues from all sources, tax revenues and non-tax revenues, supporting government on all levels. This is no royal road to riches. Gambling and gamblers neither support nor control Reno or Nevada any more than transportation, cattle, or mining interests support or control the state or city. Gambling has become part of our economy, but in no way as large a part of the economy as any one of these other business categories. The State Tax Commission, which controls gambling, is a business organization of businessmen. It is composed of our governor, our public service commissioner, and representatives of the mining, cattle, agriculture, public utilities, and general business interests in our state. It cannot become preoccupied with gambling alone. It has other, more vital segments of our economy to guide as well. There is your clue to the way we regard gambling. We would never permit ourselves to become dependent upon one main source of tax revenue. When that happens, when a single interest holds the purse strings, then the welfare of the people may very well become subordinate to the welfare of that single interest. Nevada knows gambling as a controlled and regulated business, not as a cancerous outbreak of hidden corruption. The tradition of our people is one of freedom for the individual, and of belief in him as a grown-up. If he wishes to gamble, then in Nevada he may do so openly, and under the protection of law and order. That is our way. Whether other states choose our way, or whether they choose another, must be decided by those states. Thank you. I have frequently said that legalization in itself will not remove the criminal element. The mayor had just recently just made the statement that the Nevada system has been an adequate guard against criminal influence. Now, I know that the Nevada authorities are trying to do a very good job, but let's look at a few facts. Two of the, one of the biggest racehorse swindles in the history of this country occurred out in Reno, or that was the base of operations with Graham and McKay. They were convicted in federal court in New York City. They were two of the big, big powerful influences in gambling out in Reno. Not only, just a few months ago, a few weeks ago, a former individual who was a fugitive from the state of Michigan for quite some time was shot out in Reno. Now, there have been a considerable amount of infiltration of the criminal element in Nevada. Now, that isn't the fault of the Nevada authorities, and I'm not trying to criticize. My point is that legalization in itself will not remove the criminal element. Peterson, aren't we in some danger of scapegoating with reference to the professional gamblers, the hoodlums, and so forth, because we know full well that if it were not for the backing which they get from the higher-ups, so to speak, and the demand which they are meeting with their activity, that they could not exist. Oh, that's absolutely correct, and it's the attitude of the public generally, considering a number of these things innocuous, that creates the problem. What about the churches themselves? In certain states, they seem to have actually encouraged the legalization of gambling in order that they might accomplish a good end through what we might designate as an evil means. That's absolutely correct, and of course, that's also true with other groups that pride themselves on trying to develop good citizenship. They will violate the law through gambling enterprises, which are a violation of the law, in order to help somebody else be a good citizen and to become a law-abiding citizen. Apparently, that's part of our American custom. But yes, well, historically, churches and what would be the equivalent of social agencies and educational agencies prior to 1820, very carefully put on these lotteries in order to raise money for these good programs. Well, in fact, practically all gambling always uses a charity as a front. The old Louisiana Lottery, which was one of the most vicious and corrupt institutions in the history of this country, was supposedly engaging in helping out a charity. And that's been true of virtually all of them. And we think we ought to go back again when we're talking about these charity gambling enterprises, I'm speaking legally in the early part of this country, that it did get out of hand. It got in the hands of the racketeers and the promoters, and no device has yet been, there's been no, nobody's been able to devise a scheme yet which will eliminate that element from gambling in this country. In other words, we recognize that gambling represents not only a traditional activity in this country, but one which has been nurtured by a great many forces. If and when these and other forces decide to change their attitudes and values and oppose gambling, we shall meet with gradual success. It's not instinctive, it's a part of our culture, and people argue that nothing can be done. Well, they used to argue that nothing could be done about race prejudice because it was instinctive. Every single day in this country, we are demonstrating that we can meet this problem of race prejudice if we wish to do so. Do we wish to do so? Thank you gentlemen for pulling the lid off of one of our most neglected, but most interesting social problems, gambling. Our short look at this problem has added to our consciousness of a social area often overlooked in a world of H-bombs and Senate investigations. Thank you gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion should gambling be legalized. You can secure a copy of today's broadcast by sending 10 cents in coin to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Or you can subscribe to the reviewing stand for one dollar for the next four months. Two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. That address again the reviewing stand Northwestern University Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were William F. Byron and Virgil W. Peterson from our Chicago studios. By transcription Francis Smith and by proxy E. W. Kraken. Now our moderator Leighton Bourne will tell you about next week's program. Next week Easter Sunday the reviewing stand asks four eminent theologians a question, Is a united church possible now? Our guests will be Canon Bernard Ittings Bell, consultant on education to the Bishop of Chicago. Paul G. Macy, prominent speaker on church unity. Theodore Thalassinos, preacher in the Eastern Orthodox Church from Athens, Greece. Georgia Harkness, professor of applied theology from Garrett Biblical Institute. And Henry P. Van Dusen, president of Union Theological Seminary. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.