The city of New York, you're entering into a great department. I noticed that each and every man on the floor is a veteran of one of the services, some arm of the services and served in the last Royal War. You demonstrated here tonight that you were disciplined to a great measure. You're coming into a department that requires even stricter discipline than you have up to now knew. You're coming into a department, traditionally one requiring the greatest amount, a perseverance, the greatest amount of heroism that any organization in the world is required to display. I know that you live up to it. I'm not going to take up much time. I just simply want to greet you here tonight and give you one piece of advice. You stood out there and saw many men promoted to the higher ranks, to next to the highest rank in the department, Assistant Chief Inspector Down to Captain. Each and every man that stood before you here tonight earned his promotion by diligence and hard work. And my advice at this time is for you to follow in the footsteps of those men. There's only one sure way to progress in this department. And that's by diligence, by hard work, by courage, by application, and by keeping your record clean. I couldn't let this opportunity go by without expressing in your name and in my own thanks and appreciation to the mayor of the city of New York for making it possible for us to bring out 493 probationary patrolmen at one time and 37 policewomen. I know that with the budget, the size that it is, every penny must be counted. But the mayor didn't hold back when it came to policing the city of New York. As a former policeman, he realizes that it's necessary to properly police the city. We must have the manpower. And he has willingly given us that manpower. I now present to you, his honor, William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York. Mr. Brown, Deputy Commissioners, Honored Commissioners, Commissioner Quayle of the Fire Department, Commissioner Moran, and the distinguished guests, and ladies and gentlemen. We look forward to the graduation class of the police department. That is, I look forward to it with a great deal of happiness and with many a pleasant memory. When Commissioner O'Brien told you to observe those who have been promoted here tonight and emulate them, I might spread that out a little longer and ask you to include Commissioner O'Brien himself, who one day stood precisely where you are tonight. A graduating rookie, accepting the life of the police department with all its pleasures and with all its responsibilities. And he's done it well. I got unusual pleasure over the presentation of the guns to the graduates who came before us tonight to have the presentations made. I hear something I want to tell most of you who are graduating tonight. You think that the man who won the gun is likely to be mayor of the city of New York someday? Well, the man that won the gun in my class is sitting right behind me here. He's the head of the detective bureau, Bill Whalen. He's the head of the gun, and I never thought he was lucky. I thought he deserved that gun, but now that I've been there, I know he's lucky. When I look at you tonight, your new uniforms, oh, by the way, I don't want to make it hard for the girls. When I see such beauty and intelligence, and the only gift you have to hand one of those girls is one of those ugly-looking guns, I think you ought to change that around. I don't mean, girls, that you shouldn't have the gun. You should, but the police department ought to figure something else to give you. I should think a bouquet of some kind would be a little more than all. Have we no friends in the galleries tonight? No. No. I have a few serious wishes looking at you tonight, physically trim, and that is that the mayor's office and the commissioner's office and all the inspectors were as good as you are tonight. That's a little too much to ask. Time will take its toll. But you're in trim, mentally and physically. You have accepted tonight a responsibility to enforce the law, to preserve the peace, and the law, to take care of those things that are outlined in the charter, which you have been studying in the school of recruits. You are now approaching the day when you stand alone on the sidewalk, the guardian of these things on your post. The law, around you, will come, as they came to all of us. Those who need your help and those who need your attention. You'll be called upon to exercise unusual judgment. It will be a part of your job to use intelligence and, most of all, to be kindly where your job permits you to be warm-hearted and kind. It isn't everyone who annoys you is a criminal. Look at my job. I hope that takes him. I hope that takes him. I hope that takes him. Girls and boys, you'll be called upon to use extreme patience. After all, you represent the law. Next to the ministry, you have possibly one of the most sacred duties. The respect of people for their government will start in with their respect for you. In handling your cases, I can only give you one piece of advice. The tendency to believe or to feel or permit yourself to feel that that shield which you now so proudly wear, beware, that that equipment which is given to you by law, is the right to be ruthless, to be ruthless, to be ruthless. You cannot impress upon you this fact, that there is nothing ruins the policeman like the abuse of his officers, the use of unnecessary force. Remember, please, that in our city, you have all economic levels. Starting at Fifth Avenue and going east and west. Going through any county, you have all kinds of economic levels. You have all kinds of economic levels. Now, please, remember the little ones that are likely to be most troublesome to you, or from which you may expect most trouble. Be kind to them. You be kind to them. Because life has not been kind to them. Don't rush off and lose your temper. Hold it. Because the better you hold your temper, the more respect the people will have for law and for their city government. I know that the life that you have taken on is not a pleasant one always. I know that you have a job of meeting the requirements of the department on the physical conditions that are not pleasant. Whether it's the scorching sun of summer or the cold of winter. Whether it is the problem sometimes of long hours. Whether it is, if you consider the aggravations and grievances of the judge. I know that it's not always easy. But I do know this. That after 32 years since I first became a policeman, I know that the people of this city and this state and nation and throughout the world have now today the utmost respect for the police department of the city of New York. And that tonight you have joined the greatest force of this time in the entire world. That reputation is not an idle one. It has been earned over the years through the study and the in training of the department. It has been developed because year after year, over more years than you have seen, all of us, this study has been brought to a point where any emergency that confronts any city that can give most cities almost an insufferable headache can be handled in this city. Today, thank God. Today, thank God. Because of that study and because of the programming, it can be handled just as casually as a parade. And believe me, I don't have to tell you that you must go back five or six years for an example of that. Just take a look at the taxi cab strike within the last month or six years. as we have, in this city, our police department enjoys this reputation. based upon figures which are not contained in this administration but by the FBI. In all the major categories of crime, we are the largest city, despite the fact that in this city the opportunity for crime is greater than elsewhere, despite the fact that escape brought about by the general conditions of this city is greater than anywhere else, we have the largest in every major category of crime in the nation, in this city. And of those crimes that have been committed and could not be prevented, were unavoidable as far as the police were concerned. We have the highest record of arrests and convictions and with the least loss of time. That's a great tribute to a police department as big as ours. So it is, children, tonight. I welcome you into a department that those of us who have spent a lifetime close to it have come to love. For each and every one of you, I have a prayer that your days in it will be long, that your service to the people will be great, and that your promotion will be speedy, that in your home, in your family, and with your friends, that you will find in it great happiness. And that when your day comes to stand before some future commissioner, perhaps here or elsewhere within the city, that you can step forward to receive your promotion with pride, with a feeling of happiness, that your life has been devoted to public service, and that you have been faithful to that public trust. God bless you, everyone. Amen. And now, ladies and gentlemen, benediction by the Reverend C. Caleb Moore, chaplain of the police department of the city of New York. And now, may the blessing of God, the Father of us all, of Jesus Christ, his only Son, the Savior of us all, and the Holy Spirit, the Comforter of us all, abide with us now and forever. Amen. name witnesses, Vivian Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.