Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Tonight our civil defense report is concerned once more with a very crucial subject of communications, the nerve system of civil defense. And with me in WNYC studios is Seymour N. Segal, Director of Civil Defense Communications for the City of New York. Mr. Segal, suppose you review briefly the progress of the communications division since our last broadcast on that subject. Commissioner, a thumbnail progress report would be something like the following. Two report centers are already in operation. The other 24 are in various degrees of construction but are moving along rapidly. Plans for communication systems for each of the emergency divisions have been carefully mapped out and are in the process of being approved. The bell-and-button alarm system designed for the use of hospitals, utilities, and certain key civil defense installations has been in operation for more than a month. The civil defense network of the commercial radio stations has been functioning for more than two months. And a regular program of public information is being presented each Wednesday night at 11.30 over all radio stations in this area. Approximately 350 sirens have already been installed and the installation of others is proceeding satisfactorily. What is the status of civil defense volunteers in the communications division? Commissioner, we've had several hundred ham radio operators volunteer for civil defense work and several hundred additional communications specialists who have also indicated their desire to be of help. We still need more volunteers in the communications division. And we're asking all ham radio operators to send their QSL cards to 500 Park Avenue if they desire to participate in civil defense. We're also asking other people interested in the communications division to register at 500 Park Avenue, New York City. Well, Mr. Siegel, how are you coming along with training? That's important to you now. Most of our training commission has been not performed by regular broadcast station personnel in connection with the duties they will be called upon to handle in the event of an emergency. The training of communications personnel, of course, requires equipment. We've not yet had delivery of all the equipment which will be necessary, and we're therefore concentrating on preparing written material which will be of help when the equipment is delivered. Will you review for us the functions of a communications network in civil defense organizations? We all know that effective and rapid communications must be maintained between federal, state, and local civil defense organizations and within these organizations if they are to function when needed. While New York City's communication systems are the most efficient in the world, it's entirely possible they might be severely damaged in case of an emergent situation. Therefore, every contingency must be provided for and sound, flexible plans developed so that in any emergency communications of some form will be available. Could you elaborate along this line so that the radio audience might have a better idea of the thinking behind the organization of these plans? Surely, Commissioner. In formulating communications plans, we've taken the following steps. First of all, we've identified the communication needs that would exist in the event of an emergency, and we've tried to anticipate the volume and traffic and the special problems that might arise. Secondly, we've inventoried existing communications facilities, and we're making such arrangements as may be necessary for their emergency use in accordance with the anticipated requirements. And finally, we're trying to provide in every instance secondary systems of communication in the event that the primary system is made unavailable or inoperative in an emergency. Well, that's a good overall resume of how the communications picture is shaping up. Now, let's get down to cases. As we know, the heart of any civil defense communication setup is a network of report and control centers. Would you, therefore, at this point, Mr. Siegel, review the system of precinct report centers and borough control centers? Commissioner, the precinct report centers will flash word of any emergency within their own area, a water main burst, a fire, an explosion, say, and flash it back to the borough control center. At the borough control center, specialists from all city departments will be present to immediately go into action to bring the emergency under control. And if the emergency is too great for the picked teams at borough level to handle, then what happens? In that case, calls will be relayed back to the city central control center as well as to adjacent borough control centers for assistance. Let's visualize the waste. Suppose further aid and reinforcements are required. In that case, we have special lines set up for direct contact with the armed forces, with the state and other municipalities' civil defense authorities. These lines of communication you speak of, back and forth from report centers to control centers, will they be restricted solely to telephone lines? Yes, but control centers will be backed up by additional safeguards. In order to prepare for any eventuality, in addition to telephone communication, there will be special shortwave radio communication, and that will be stressed. Good. Communication should involve the utilization of a great many amateur radio operators, shouldn't it? Definitely. Amateur radio operators will play an indispensable role here. In line with this, I might mention that in connection with the establishment of 408 units of the medical emergency division, which consists of teams of doctors, nurses, and litter bearers, amateur radio operators will play a very, very key and important role. Well, how about the establishment of alternate locations for control and report centers in case the original ones are put out of commission? That's being arranged too, Commissioner. Plans are being made to have certain centers take over the functions of others if the latter become inoperative. Are any report centers in operation already? Yes, as I mentioned at the beginning of this broadcast, two report centers are already in operation. Others are under construction and moving along to completion. And now let's turn for just a moment to another important function of civil defense communications, the network, I mean, in an emergency, the setting up of various systems for key units. Well, first of all and most important, there's the communications network of our own police department, which you know so well since 1932 has pioneered in the usage of large-scale, two-way systems of communications. That covers over 900 widely scattered headquarters and vehicles. I see. Well, how about the fire department? The fire department communications facilities have been made available for civil defense. There's a new two-way system comparable to that of the police department, which is being installed. In general, we intend to have an individual communications system for each of the emergency groups. Of course, one of the biggest functions of a civil defense communication setup is getting across to the people just what is happening during an emergency. Of course. And that brings to mind the Civil Defense Network, which is an organization of all the broadcasting stations in this area. Every Wednesday night at 1130, this network of stations has been running the program Plan for Survival, which offers informational material on emergency techniques and preventative measures to the total radio audience. And not only that, but at the same time, this Plan for Survival show, which you refer to, serves as a good test, engineering-wise, for the Civil Defense Network. Will you tell us more about that, Mr. Siegel? Well, the entire purpose of our effort along this line is to immediately, at the instant of the outbreak of an emergency, appraise and apprise the people as to the extent of the danger with specific instructions as to what to do. We don't want people running to the telephones, calling all their relatives frantically. Mind you, we can understand these instincts, but experience has shown that that sort of panic telephoning ties up key exchanges and thereby hampers the efficiency of key Civil Defense units. Thus, what we're doing is simply toward this end. In case of emergency, the citizen need only to step toward his own radio and click it on. Any station, it won't matter, because we'll be blanketing the air with the latest available information. Well, that should go a long way toward allaying panic, which, of course, is always disastrous during an emergency. In line with that, Commissioner, I might mention that a special pickup will be organized at the Central Registration Bureau of the Department of Welfare. Its function will be specifically to act as a clearinghouse for data about victims of the emergency, persons who are killed or injured by air raid or the results of air raids. The names of these people and the latest information about the extent of their injuries will be broadcast frequently over the Civil Defense Network. Again, to repeat, there will be no need to telephone any authorities for information. All one will have to do is to turn on the radio. Well, that seems clear from what you say, Mr. Siegel, and it apparently is apparent to all of us, I should say, that you are getting the full cooperation of private broadcasting authorities. Indeed, yes, Commissioner, not only as regards facilities, but in the time of broadcasting's most busy and illustrious executives. I might mention at this time the top-level advisory committee on communications, which is constantly consulting with us. The chairman of this committee, which you appointed, is Keith S. McHugh, the president of the New York Telephone Company. Well, he's a great man to have at the head of that advisory committee on communications, I can assure you. Would you mention the names of the other gentlemen on this committee? Certainly, Commissioner. I think at least we should publicly commend them, don't you think so? Very much so. Other members of this top-level committee are Major General H.C. Ingalls, the president of the Radio Corporation of America, Frank Stanton, the president of the Columbia Broadcasting System, William S. Hedges, the vice president of the National Broadcasting Company. In referring to these citizens who are devoting a great deal of extra effort to the Civil Defense Organization, perhaps you might say a few words now about the Boy Scouts, Mr. Siegel. Well, Commissioner, I'm sure it comes as a surprise to nobody that the Boy Scout Organization will be enormously helpful in the Civil Defense effort, for patriotic activity as one of the essential plus factors of Boy Scout living. The Scouts are getting ready to conduct an extensive training program to familiarize the Explorer Group, that's the highest echelon in Scouting, with the terrain in and around the city. And their function will be to be utilized as a core of special messengers in the event other means of communications are disrupted. Well, I know about this Explorer Group. I happen to be connected with the Boy Scouts, and I'm sure they're going to do a great job for us. I thank you again, Mr. Siegel, for this very illuminating discourse. Thank you, Commissioner Walden.