With the singing of the aria from Merrymount by Howard Hanson, we've concluded tonight's recorded celebrity concert featuring the voice of the celebrated American baritone Lawrence Tibbett. Tomorrow night at 9, the next in the celebrity concert series, our featured artist will be Gladys Wartow. Poesiexage The End The End Good evening, peacetime Americans. We're speaking to you from the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, where we are to bring you the ceremonies marking the climax of the official reception by the City of New York to General Jonathan M. Wainwright. His Honor, Mayor Fiorello H. LaGuardia, will be Toastmaster and official host here tonight to General Wainwright and his party. Now, His Honor, the Mayor. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in honor this evening, the presence of the first citizen of the Empire State. I'll ask His Excellency, Governor Thomas E. Dewey, to Toast the President of the United States. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I toast another man who represents to all Americans, through no fault of his own, our greatest sorrow, our greatest sorrow, and our greatest national triumph, a man who suffered for all Americans, who bore the shame for all of us, and who represents today the sorrows in his own person through which we as a nation have passed, and the hopes of our great free country for a glorious future and for peace evermore. I also toast, ladies and gentlemen, General Wainwright. Thank you. Thank you. The welcome of the city will be extended. to our guest of honor by a distinguished son of New York City, classmate of our guest, President of Commerce and Industry Association of the City of New York, Colonel Alan Pope. Thank you. Mr. Mayor, General Wainwright, Governor Dewey, honored guests, Mrs. Wainwright and ladies, fellow members of the Commerce and Industry Association of the City of New York, and guests. It is fitting that this, the largest city of our country, should today honor so distinguished a soldier. Under the leadership of Mayor LaGuardia, the people of this city have expressed to him in no uncertain terms their affection and admiration. The great state of New York pays tribute to him through the presence tonight of his chief executive, Governor Thomas E. Dewey. It is likewise fitting that there should be here tonight representatives of commerce and industry and labor who, by providing equipment and other services and transportation, have done so much to bring this war to a successful conclusion. Would that that equipment might have reached the Philippines in time. It is fitting also that we should tonight pay tribute to some of the members of General Wainwright's military and personal staff who fought and suffered as prisoners with him. May I ask these gentlemen to rise as I call their names and remain standing until all the names have called, and may I ask you please to refrain from applause until all have stood. Brigadier General Lewis C. Beebe, Colonel J. R. Pugh, Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Dooley, Master Sergeant Hubert Carroll. Applause Applause And now may I make a special request that the lifelong companion of General Wainwright please rise in order that we may extend greetings to her, Mrs. Wainwright. It is fitting that a group of members of the class of 1906 of the United States Military Academy, General Wainwright's class, should be present, and may I ask them to rise as a class and greet the General in their own way. Thank you. He was just the same man of courage as a youngster as he is today and in the years to come as he will be as an old man and long life to your skinny. Thank you, Alan. You may all remember that old soldiers never die. They only fade away. It is therefore inevitable that such a man should have been given that command in the Philippines, a command that composed as gallant and courageous a group of men as ever wore the uniforms of the United States of America. Many of those men will never come back to us. May God keep their souls in his special care forever. It may be, General, that because of your long and terrible years of isolation from the world, you may not know that the people of this country and very generally the press frequently refer to you by the nickname, the same as that by which we knew you when you were a cadet at West Point, the same as that by which we knew you were a cadet at West Point, the same as that by which we knew you were a cadet at West Point, the same as that by which we knew you were a cadet at West Point, you may be sure that so intimate a title would never have been applied to you did not hold you in great esteem. The people of this country, and very generally the press also, refer to you as the hero of Corregidor and Bataan, noble title and well-deserved. Because I was a fellow cavalryman of yours and have ridden leather to leather with you on more than one occasion, I like to think of you, and I would like you to think of him, as a two-fisted cavalry soldier who went down fighting against overwhelming odds, thereby carrying on the glorious traditions of the old cavalry service and no greater tribute than that can have paid any man. And so, General, I am extending to you the heartfelt wishes of the people of the city of New York for a happy and, above all, a peaceful life. Thank you. The greater the man, the shorter the introduction, General Jonathan M. Wainwright. Hear! Hear! Hear! Hear! Hear! Come! électster on mars za chill Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And I feel that the Wainwrights, after more than a hundred years of service in the armed forces and wandering about the seven seas, have come home at last. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Once more, we are citizens of New York. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I embrace the Great American Union. Thank you. And theね Watch is filled with a strong strength of Jai Wilson. Hi. One thing that impresses me particularly about the Japanese nation is the smallest of its way of life. This characteristic is a key to its entire point of view. The Japanese people, even in the best of years, led a parsimonious existence. Back in the 60s, when they made their great decision to move out into the world and to seek their place in the sun with the other nations, they began to imitate the way of the Western powers without absorbing any of the great spirit of progress which has made these powers great. In due course, Japan acquired an army and a navy and a merchant marine. She built up an industry and great cities, but she lacked the vision to use these things as we have used them. They were simply superimposed upon a culture, if you may call it that, and a life which is still medieval in its outlook. They are not geared to the spiritual change which has enabled us to create a modern world of our own. We know now that for years, certain elements in Japan had been planning to make war upon us, as they had already on their neighbor, China. To this end, they built up a powerful offensive force and gambled their future on a quick lunge to the south and to the east, which would put them in control of the territories that they wished to incorporate in the enlarged Japanese empire. The so-called Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, as they choose to call it, and which the prisoners of war called the Co-Poverty Sphere. I have good cause to know the power of their original offensive which engulfed the Philippines. They knew we were unprepared. A predatory power always has the advantage at the outset of being able to build up a striking force whose momentum is almost irresistible at the time. The strategy is to seek a quick decision to paralyze the opponent before he has a chance to recover his breath. But there is a fatal error in this type of plan. The German found that out, and now the Jap has learned it to his chagrin. When you plan on a quick war, you must be prepared to find a long one in case something goes wrong. You must have the ability to build endlessly and uninterruptedly to make certain that you can hold your original advantage. You must be prepared to resist the counterforce which the enemy will surely build up if you but give him time. Modern war is not one on static supply depots. It is one on production lines which can be expanded to meet even greater demands. It was our good fortune that the Japanese mine failed to take this fully into consideration. Japan had an industry, but it was a poor thing when compared with ours. When we developed the power to sweep in and seize bases from which the factories could be attacked, Japanese industry was incapable of turning out weapons and other munitions of war in sufficient quantities to protect that nation. But spiritually, Japan had long since lost the war. In the early days of my captivity, prisoners in the camps on Taiwan where I was held were permitted to read the English language editions of the Nippon Times occasionally. I recall a significant statement in one of these issues of 1943 in which a member of the Imperial General Staff, speaking for the War Office, stated, If the Axis powers do not win the war in 1943, Japan can never win the war and will repent it for 100 years. I suppose that at the time this spokesman felt that his words would stir the people to greater effort. But the statement had a prophetic quality which was comforting to me in those dark days. I knew that Japan had lost the war. I only hope he was right on the second count, that she has begun at least a hundred years of regret. Japan lacked the vision ever to take measures in her conquered territories to enlist the sympathies of the people of those on a happy land. There were a few gestures of friendship in the way of public utterances by Japanese leaders. Promises that Japan intended to give the subject nations a share in the so-called co-prosperity. But whatever slight cooperation may have been gained by these statements was immediately lost through the truculence of the average Japanese soldier who made up the occupational forces. We ought to say with pride that the American soldier is the nation's best unofficial ambassador. And it is true. The character of a nation is revealed transparently through the impression conveyed by its average citizen. But where our own men gain respect, the Japanese only breed hatred. He is a bully with all of the bully's smallness and love of brute force to impress his authority. He enjoys inflicting pain, both mental and physical, on anyone who lacks the power to strike back. He is not a coward, but he lacks the generous spirit that gives meaning to courage. Throughout my days of captivity, it was the domineering quality of both officers and enlisted men of the Japanese Army which gave us our constant torment. Thousands of Americans died under cruelty and neglect. Those of us who survived were the victims of endless indignities, both great and small, aimed at inflicting pain and humiliation. I would be less than human if I had not emerged from my experience with a deep distrust and hatred of the Japanese character as I have known it for more than three years. It is unimportant now what happened to me, but I think it is very important that the American people should understand the nature of this people we have beaten back to their poor earth. They are not sorry for what they have done to countless thousands in the populations of the countries they have overrun. They are not sorry for the tortures they have inflicted on American soldiers. It simply would not occur to them to be sorry, because they have done nothing which is at variance to their accepted philosophy. That is the point which should be clearly understood. I am a soldier, and I do not pretend to know how long will be required or by what steps the basial elements of their nature can be eradicated. But until we are assured that these qualities have been extinguished, not merely submerged, then the Japanese nation, powerless as it is today to make war, will remain a menace to this world. It would be repulsive to all of our ideas of justice to advocate the same sort of treatment for the Japs which they gave our men. I have no desire for personal revenge, nor do I believe that others who suffered with me have that feeling. I feel that we should treat the Japanese in full accord with the laws of war, as they are practiced by civilized nations. But it must not be a soft occupation, nor a soft peace. Japan must be made to realize, on every step of a long road back to acceptance among civilized nations, that a government does not indulge in the excesses she has loosed in the world these past 14 years and call it quits when her leaders have had enough. They must not be permitted for one moment the illusion that we will let them view the cessation of hostilities as merely a break and not a stop to their ambition. Before Japan is again allowed to take her place among other respected nations, she must be made to realize that her medieval ways can have no place in our modern world. She must learn that truth and humanity and righteousness, rather than deceit and cruelty and treachery, are the basis of international relations and the way of life. I have seen the Japanese as they are, with their veneers stripped off. I shall bear the scars of those years all my life, and I could not forget them if I would. I have come to know the cunning with which they conceal their true nature, and how quickly it leaps forth when there is no immediate chance of retaliation. The Japanese can be subservient. They can be pleasant and cooperative if it suits their purpose. But the men who were captured on Matan and on Perregidor have seen the Japanese character in the raw. They have seen the Japanese soldiers do when they are on top, and I think all of us who lived through torture days are determined that they shall never again be on top. You cannot believe how inspiring it is to come out of the darkness of living under the dominance of these people and into the sunlight of America. I found America first in Chongqing, China, where my comrades and I were taken soon after our liberation. In the friendliness and consideration with which we were received by our countrymen stationed there, we found the blessed realization that we were free men once more. In the reunions we have had with old friends, in the sights and sounds of the great new army we found in the Pacific, we have breathed the bigness and the spirit of America. I tell you it is an inspiring experience for a man who has been shut away to see how great his nation has become, not only in military might, but in warmth and friendliness and vision. We must keep it that way. We must remain strong and great in spirit, fixed in our determination to keep the peace of the world. Peace is a militant state which is not secured by a wishful thinking. And thus we conclude the General Jonathan Wainwright reception coming to you from the Waldorf Astoria in New York City. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Recognizes that early generation flooding their early Ghostbusters how beautiful are European residents and controversial that are prominent and serving their languages were decorated. Rabbunkerman 여러분 of the States can go to the
