This is an opportunity that I greatly prize as mayor to speak on behalf of the annual appeal of New York Catholic Charities, one of our city's great private welfare federations. I should like to speak briefly on what a private agency of this kind means to our community and also what we as citizens mean to these agencies and their work. Let me take up that last point first. The extent to which private welfare organizations can serve our community rests with us. Given our generous support, they can maintain and expand their programs to aid the homeless, the destitute, the aged, the dependent, the sick, and the delinquent. All of these are community responsibilities. Lacking our support, there is grave danger that private welfare programs will shrink, perhaps disappear, and that the jobs they now shoulder so ably will devolve upon tax-supported agencies of government. As citizens of free America, we must not let that happen. To do so would strike a deadly blow at the base of American democracy, the equal sharing of all citizens in the conduct of the community. That basic strength of the community's welfare services must not be drained away. Now to give you an idea of Catholic Charities' part in these community labors, let me just say that its services last year helped in one way or another. More than 438,000 people. Most of them were our neighbors here in New York and they included men, women, and children of every race and creed. Here's another impressive figure. More than $11 million will be spent by Catholic Charities and its agencies for new construction and modernization of its hospitals, childcare institutions, and homes for the aged. These institutions must maintain their standards of care, regardless of present-day building costs and the declining value of the dollar. With the help of Catholic Charities, they must undertake new programs to meet community needs as they arise. Among these new activities of Catholic Charities is the acquisition of a building which will afford pleasant home accommodations to more than 300 of our aged. That is a problem which grows more urgent year by year. We now have more than 300,000 men and women over age 65 in Manhattan and the Bronx, and their ratio to our total population rises steadily. Let us be grateful that most of them are strong and healthy. But let us not forget that many are without home, family, friends, or employment, looking down lives' closing years in loneliness. In a very particular sense, they require the kind of care that only an organization with religious ties can furnish. Catholic Charities is working patiently to relieve their plight. Recently, a new unit of specialized caseworkers was inaugurated to deal exclusively with their problems. At the opposite end of the age ladder, we find the homeless dependent child. Catholic Charities had more than 18,000 such children under various forms of foster care last year. That figure alone gives us an index of the importance of the private childcare agency to our city's complex welfare program. Catholic Charities brings a message of shining hope, too, for the retarded and delinquent child. Last year, it directly aided more than 4,000 boys and girls. And who can estimate the ultimate range of that work in preventing mental illness and delinquency among children? For that matter, how can any mere catalog of services truly indicate the value to our community of laborers, which protect family integrity, heal thousands of the sick, comfort the aged, guard the helpless child, provide clean and healthy recreation for a veritable army of our young people? You can't compute those values, present or future, in money. But you can figure what it costs to maintain them. To carry on its many welfare services, Catholic Charities comes each year to the public for financial support. This year, it is asking $2,400,000 to meet its budgeted needs. Catholics will provide most of that sum, of course. But every year, a considerable part of the appeal goal is received from citizens of other faiths who appreciate the community values of Catholic Charities. I ask my listeners, then, of all races and creeds, to maintain New York's history of generous giving for this most worthy charity. His Eminence, the Cardinal Archbishop of New York, has proposed that Catholics give at least one day's pay or income to the appeal. I ask all of you to make that your standard, too. Exercise your right to help your neighbor by your voluntary giving, so that your neighbor, your family, possibly yourself, may not lack for aid in the hour of need.