Here is Mr. Television himself, Milton Burrell. Milton wants to tell you about something close to him and important to you. Bad boys are sick boys. They're sick emotionally and can't think straight. They've been mistreated, raised in poor unhappy homes without affection and security. But they can be helped. They don't need to grow into criminals. You can help them while they're young by contributing right now to Wiltwick School, where neglected New York boys from 8 to 12 years old get a new start in life. Wiltwick is interracial and nonsectarian. It cares for boys of all races, all religions, but depends on private contributions for support. Don't let this humane work stop. Support the Wiltwick School. Send your contribution any amount, any amount to Wiltwick. That's W-I-L-T-W-Y-C-K. The Wiltwick School for Boys. Hotel Aster, New York City. Listen to an important message from Robert Montgomery, noted radio commentator, motion picture and television star. Robert Montgomery. Forty miles up the Hudson River, there's the Wiltwick School for Boys. A haven for those children from 8 to 12 years old. Children brought before our courts, driven by poverty and neglect, to what we call delinquency. Here, through the love and special training of people who want and know how to help them, they get the care and education they need. Wiltwick is a school, not a reformatory. Its object is cure, not punishment. Its goal is a healthy, happy child who can become a useful citizen. For this job of re-education, Wiltwick School needs funds. Your help is needed. Support this important institution and its vital work. Wiltwick is dependent upon your private donations. You may send your contribution for Wiltwick to the Hotel Aster, New York. Thank you. Let's go backstage at the Majestic Theatre to meet Mary Martin, beautiful star of South Pacific. What can they do? Where can they go? Where indeed for the scores of delinquent boys from 8 to 12 whose age or race or religion bars them from most New York institutions. For them, it's the streets, a neglected home, or the famous Wiltwick School for Boys, the institution that has done so much to give unfortunate youth a chance to grow to normal citizens. That's why we ask your help, to strengthen Wiltwick in this vital work. Your help is needed now to enable this great institution to continue its wonderful job of rehabilitation. Support the Wiltwick School for Boys. Address, Hotel Aster, New York. Please, write that address down now, won't you? Wiltwick. W-I-L-P-W-Y-C-K. School for Boys, Hotel Aster, New York. Lovely Lena Horne would like to borrow a minute of your time. Here she is now, Miss Lena Horne. 4,123. That is the number of juvenile delinquents who passed through New York City courts in 1949. Hundreds were between 8 and 12 years old. What happens to them? Where can these youngsters go? The Wiltwick School for Boys helps children of all races, all religions. Gives them a home where through love and understanding they learn to become normal citizens. But the Wiltwick School needs funds. Buildings cost money. Teachers cost money. Food and clothing cost money. Psychiatric help costs money. Support the Wiltwick School. Campaign office, Hotel Aster, New York. Give some child new hope. A chance to start over again. That's Wiltwick. W-I-L-T-W-Y-C-K. Hotel Aster, New York. Ladies and gentlemen, meet one of the most popular MCs in radio and television, the man millions listen to, Bert Parks. What he has to say is especially worth listening to. Robert is only 10 years old. That's young to be brought before a judge and tried for delinquency. But there are many children like him from the slums and broken homes of our city. Unloved, neglected, and deserted. There's no place for them to go except back to their broken homes or eventually to a reformatory. The Wiltwick School, however, gives haven to these unhappy children. There, a trained and skillful staff cares for them, educates them, teaches them to become good citizens. They come back home better equipped to face life. The Wiltwick School must have funds to carry on this important work. We all can help. Support the Wiltwick School. That's W-I-L-T-W-Y-C-K. School for Boys. Hotel Aster, New York. One of Hollywood's most popular and best loved stars is genial George Murphy. He's done a great deal to help American kids. And right now, here is George Murphy to tell you about some special kids right here in New York. How often do you hear such stories about juvenile delinquency? Then just forget about it. Well, now is the time to do something to help. Mayor O'Dwyer has proclaimed this week as Wiltwick Week. Because at the Wiltwick School for Boys, neglected New York boys from 8 to 12 get a new start in life and have a chance to grow into strong, useful citizens instead of criminals. Wiltwick helps these kids with understanding and guidance. It helps boys of all races and all religions. But Wiltwick depends upon private contributions for support. Send your contribution today, any amount, to Wiltwick School. W-I-L-T-W-Y-C-K. Hotel Aster, New York. The whole world loves Mary Pickford. We'd like you to listen to her now as she tells you about something that's close to her heart. Here she is, America's sweetheart, Mary Pickford. I've seen a wonderful thing, a miracle of the soul. Little boys, 8 to 12 years old, judged by the children's court to be delinquent, living together without bars, being made over from potential criminals into normal children. Where does this happen? At Wiltwick School on Hudson. It is interracial, non-sectarian, supported by private contributions. Right now, during Wiltwick Week, send your contribution, any amount, to Wiltwick School, W-I-L-T-W-Y-C-K. Hotel Aster, New York. Help save a boy's future. Help a boy become a good man. Remember, Wiltwick. Hotel Aster, New York. Elsa Maxwell, internationally famous celebrity and newspaper woman, knows everybody who is worth knowing, and a lot of things that are worthwhile. Listen to Miss Maxwell as she tells you about one of them. The Wiltwick School for Boys, the only school in New York State where any neglected boy between the ages of 8 and 12 can go, regardless of race, creed, or color, is in serious need of support. What happens to a small boy cut adrift from decent, normal home life is a vital concern to each of us. And what the Wiltwick School for Boys does about it is an investment in a safe life for all of us. Your share in that investment, however modest, is urgently needed now. Support the Wiltwick School for Boys. Hotel Aster, New York. W-I-L-T-W-Y-C-K. Hotel Aster, New York. New York. Here is one of New York's most distinguished women, Judge Justin Wise-Polier of the Domestic Relations Court, who wants to talk to you about our children. In court, we see again and again little boys, 8 to 12 years old, who are brought in as delinquent children. They are small children, almost always deeply unhappy and frightened. These are children who have never known what home, parents, feeling loved, means. They need not punishment, but help. Wiltwick School, truly non-sectarian and interracial, is one of the few bright hopes for such children. It is supported by private contributions and now is badly in need of funds. I hope more and more citizens will become interested, so that Wiltwick can continue to do this terribly important work. Wiltwick, W-I-L-T-W-Y-C-K, has its campaign headquarters at the Hotel Aster, New York. Here is an official proclamation from Mayor William O'Dwyer. Whereas the state's facilities for rehabilitation of delinquent youth are extremely limited, and are provided only for children who are 12 years old and over. And whereas children under 12 who need treatment and rehabilitation must be cared for by private agencies, many of which shelter only children of a single religious group. And whereas certain individuals have banded together to form non-sectarian, interracial institutions where children can learn how to live constructively. And whereas one of these institutions, the Wiltwick School for Boys located at Esophis, New York, performs an inestimable service to the community in caring for children referred to it by our city's courts and welfare department. Now, therefore, I, William O'Dwyer, Mayor of the City of New York, do hereby proclaim the week of March 11th through 18th as Wiltwick Week, and call upon the citizens of our city to give freely and generously to the Wiltwick School for Boys, and thereby render a worthwhile service to the community.
