This station is proud to present at this time a special program dedicated to the 1951 March of Dimes, featuring Miss Dorothy McGuire, world-famous young dramatic actress, and Basil O'Connor, President of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, who will speak on the subject, Freedom from Infantile Paralysis. I now take pleasure in introducing Basil O'Connor. Mr. O'Connor. For all of us, for every man and woman in this country, these are crucial days. The state of the nation today is one of emergency. The shadow of war is much bigger than a man's hand in the sky, and we are on the alert now for anything and everything. America is demonstrating again a side of its character that some nations do not understand, namely that when a state of emergency is declared, Americans automatically band together, work together, and fight together. And there's another facet to this character of ours, and it's this. The more work we have to do, the more work we take on and take on willingly. Faced with one tremendous job, our country's defense, freedom's defense, we do not whimper or complain if another call comes to mobilize our strength for a good cause. And there is another call, a call from the children of America. For within the national emergency, another state of emergency exists, the threat of infantile paralysis, whose shadow follows every American child. Infantile paralysis, you know, is on the increase in this country. For the past three years, we have had the highest incidence in America's history, more than 100,000 cases. We who work so closely in the fight against infantile paralysis were shocked in 1948 when the report of polio victims gave us the figure 28,000 cases. We entered 1949 with the hope, born of compassion, that the visible crippler would spare us another blow. But you know what happened. In 1949, we suffered the greatest infantile paralysis epidemic in all recorded history, more than 42,000 victims. And when last year began, even the childless and the very old hope with the parents of the country that polio polio had had its fill of violence and destruction. We lived through six months of 1950 with what turned out to be the hopelessness of hope as far as polio 1950 was concerned. Polio struck late last year. The crippler had apparently laid low during the summer, as if resting for a surprise attack in the early fall. And then it came swift and almost overwhelming when we least expected it. 33,000 victims were hit by infantile paralysis in this country in 1950, the second largest infantile paralysis epidemic in the history of this country. And as that record was being written, another report was being made. But in red ink. Now it's this red ink report that I must give you. With the heaviest caseload in your National Foundation history, all your March of Dimes contributions, earmarked for patient care and treatment, are gone. And we're $5 million in debt. Throughout the country, the polio wards of the hospitals are almost filled to capacity. Throughout the country in polio clinics, thousands of children are just beginning to learn how to walk again, to break a piece of bread again with fingers made helpless by infantile paralysis. To thousands of homes the trained physical therapist calls each week. This is the care for which your dimes and dollars pay. Now to continue that care, lest one child somewhere be left to limp his way through the rest of his life, because there was no one to help. And to be prepared for the unknown story of polio 1951, we must raise in this year's March of Dimes campaign $50 million. That $50 million will make it possible not only to pay for care for the epidemic victims of the past and the future, but it will also keep the light bright in the research laboratories of the country, where scientists will some glorious day find the answer to that question in your heart. Why? The why that every mother whose child has been visited by the visible crippler asks a thousand times a day. Yes, scientific research must go on, unhampered by an unbalanced budget. Now we're not so poor in spirit that we expose our children to crippling because our hands become small with selfishness as we open our wallets for March of Dimes giving. No, not we, not Americans. Your National Foundation knows that. We know that all you need to be told is that the emergency exists. The emergency of money, or the lack of it, rather. Now this I've told you. And this too I must tell you. That with the changing pattern of polio, that with the history of the past three years before us, we just cannot, must not, begin 1951 with hope alone. We must be prepared to aid the needy victims to be, and they may be as many as last year, they may be as many as suffered in 1949, the worst epidemic of the terrible trio, 48, 49, 50. No one knows. No man in the world can foretell the future course of polio in this country. Your child may be marked. My own daughter was one of the 1950 victims. We do not know how many will be hit this year, or who they will be. But this we do know, that we must be prepared to help an unknown number of victims wherever they fall under the blow of polio. These are days dedicated to giving. These are the March of Dimes campaign days, marked on your calendars the days for proving that Americans never falter in any fight. The red ink on the books of your national foundation will give way to black ink, as your voluntary contributions are noted on the pages recording American generosity. All Americans will do the best they can, and no man can ask for more. It's always been that way in this country. You know, in this country, we have heart as well as know-how. And the time to listen to your heart is now. This very day may well be your day to mentally inscribe your name on a life-saving iron lung by joining the 1950 March of Dimes. And the time is now for you to listen to one of the truly great young actresses of the American stage and screen, and also the mother of a little daughter. You've heard her voice. You've seen her glowing, clean-cut American face. And she will bring to you now one chapter out of the personal history of another young American woman. The chapter entitled, Infantile Paralysis. Miss Dorothy McGuire. Miss McGuire. Thank you, Mr. O'Connor. When there is something you want to do, there never seems to be enough of it. When you are bored, it never seems to end. It is so important that you worry and run to save it, tiny fractions of it. You resent using it up on little things. Yet you measure everything by it. And it is your master. Yes, time. Time is your master. And everything you do is done in relation to it. Here is a story I'd like to tell you. It's about time. There comes a morning in your life when you are awakened to awareness of time by the call of your little daughter in the next room. In the warm comfort of your bed, you stretch lazily. You decide to lie there for just an extra minute. Then your nose itches. You try to think the itch away. The itch intensifies. You have to rub it. Rubbing your nose takes two seconds. And you have to get up. You have so many things to do. You hurry. Your fingers button five buttons in ten seconds. You zip a zipper in less than a second. Then you hurry downstairs. Nineteen steps in six seconds. You are late. Breakfast. You pinch the handle of your coffee cup between thumb and finger and bring it to your mouth in one second without thinking. A full morning with work to do. You sign your name to a letter with a pen held between your thumb and two fingers. Four and a half seconds. The seconds all add up. And you're late for lunch. You run to catch a bus. It's around noontime that the backache begins. But your afternoon is crowded with appointments and errands and time-consuming things to do. You keep going. When you get home, the backache is much worse. Your head aches, too. Oh, you can't really afford the time. But you lie down, just for a few minutes. Something happens to time, then. You lose track. The night which follows becomes a blur to you. You're hot. Then you're cold. The aching reaches every muscle of your body. In the morning, you get up. And suddenly, you're collapsed in a heap on the floor. You do not know when it is you first see the white-robed figures with white masks across their faces. You do not know what's the matter with you until somewhere in time you hear a voice say the word polyomyelitis. You do know, then, that a terrible fear crowds in with all that pain. Somewhere, in this timeless time, something else happens. Something's wrong with your breathing. You try to take a breath. Nothing happens. You're desperate. You try to struggle. But not a muscle of your body will move. A great purple light tears at your eyeballs. You are whirled off into nothingness. Something sucks your chest out and your lungs fill with air right down to your toes. And then you feel a push. And you breathe out the wonder, the beauty of it. You're alive. And you're breathing. You learn that you are in an iron lung. You learn that you have infantile paralysis. And you begin to learn that you are in prison. Yes. That iron lung is your prison. You live in it for eight months. Eight months of watching the world through a little mirror just above your head. Eight months of listening to the rhythmic wheezing of the lung. Eight months with nothing much about you able to move except your thoughts. Your nose itches. How do you rub it? You don't. Unless you wait for a nurse to have time to rub it for you. And on that day when it all began you were in a hurry. Eight months and more than six thousand seven hundred dollars later you are out of the respirator and able to live in a wheelchair. Another thirteen months and another twenty five hundred dollars later you're home again. Home again. Once you used your thumb to button five buttons ten seconds zipper zipper one second hold a cup of coffee one second hold a pen to sign your name four and a half seconds. Since then it has taken you six months almost sixteen million seconds just to learn to wiggle that thumb. now you can take as many as fifty steps with aid. And that's wonderful. Ladies and gentlemen this is a true story. this all happened to a young woman named Marjorie Millam. She's living in Atlanta Georgia today. How is she? She's fine. Today she's very happy. She's always wanted to paint and now she's well on her way to becoming an illustrator. She's hand painting ties and blouses and stuff like that. But it's very nice. Now you can take as many as fifty steps with aid. Now you can take as many as fifty steps with aid. And that's wonderful. Ladies and gentlemen this is a true story. This all happened to a young woman named Marjorie Millam. She's living in Atlanta Georgia today. How is converts? She's fine. Today she's very happy. She's always wanted to paint. And now she's well on her way to becoming an illustrator. She's hand painting ties and blouses and scarves. And although it is a hobby she's getting paid for it. She lives in a wheelchair but she helps keep house and cook. She goes everywhere and her daughter Peggy and husband Bill are wonderful to her. They never spoil her. They never pity her. Because she doesn't need pity. About that almost ten thousand dollars her hospitalization and treatment cost. The National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis paid most of it. With March of Dimes funds. Imagine what you would have done. What any infantile paralysis victim could do when faced by such bills. Without the help of the National Foundation. Marjorie Millam says that in all her life to come there will not be time enough to thank them. Right now ladies and gentlemen. Time as you know it is a meaningless thing to thousands of people. To grown ups like Marjorie and to teenagers and especially to little children. They are the thousands who are making the struggle from the infantile paralysis depths. Back to independence and a normal life. Have you time to help them? Time to hold a pen between your thumb and fingers and write a check? Time to put a dime or a dollar or more in an envelope? Have you time to join the March of Dimes? You have been listening to a special program presented by the 1951 March of Dimes and this station featuring Basil O'Connor, President of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and Miss Dorothy McGuire, brilliant young star of the American theater, screen and radio. This is Jose Ferrer reminding you to join the March of the 1951 March of Dimes today. The fight against infantile paralysis in 1951 needs your fighting dimes and dollars. The more you give, the sooner we will vanquish forever your child's enemy, infantile paralysis. Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. The time to give is now. The 1951 March of Dimes is on the air with Paul Weston and his orchestra. Welcome to Music with Paul Weston, chairman of the Dance Band Leaders Division of the March of Dimes. It's music for listening or for dancing, brought to you on behalf of the March of Dimes and the fight against infantile paralysis. Here's Paul himself. Thanks, Dave, and hello, friends. We've got a musical surprise package for you today, full of your favorite top tunes, wrapped up in plain and fancy rhythms. I'd like to say first, though, how happy I am to lend a hand to all those brave youngsters who are putting up such a terrific fight against infantile paralysis. Now let's get the ball rolling with a rhythm number fresh out of our musical band box, This Can't Be Love. lot of people who may be only with them ETFs, someaffactive Chuck 05 Hanover 501athers two-day働king, but, don't care. Many players are all right. They can see each other guysixer as well. So, please. Hey, Sean. Aese asked as support a simple song with Michael Dimes, They can see para food collectionied on the looks we move from the vantage point. The End The End The End That was a real pretty package you wrapped up for us, Paul. Now have you got one for us to dream by? Sure thing, Dave. And it's been tops on my list ever since it started climbing a couple of weeks back. Here it is, nevertheless. Maybe I'm right, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I'm weak, maybe I'm strong, but nevertheless I'm in love with you. Maybe I'll win and maybe I'll lose. Maybe I'm in for crying the blues. But nevertheless I'm in love with you. Somehow I know at a glance the terrible chances I'm taking. Maybe I'll live a life of regret. Maybe I'll give much more than I'll get. But nevertheless I'm in love with you. Maybe I'll give you a little bit. I'm in love with you. Even though I know at a glance the same way. Even though I know at a glance the same way. Maybe I'll live a life of regret. Maybe I'll live a life of regret. Maybe I'll give much more than I'll get. But nevertheless I'm in love with you. The next number is a real oldie. One that teenagers have danced to at many a high school prom. Junior in his first tuxedo and the girl next door in her first white organdy. Boy, what a picture. But you know there's another picture. The one we don't see. The boy and the girl who never got to dance because they had infantile paralysis. Mother, father, think of them the next time you're up in the gymnasium balcony looking down on your dancing daughter. It might strike her. But don't wait. Strike back first. Our all out weapon is the march of dimes. And this year we've got to make that weapon stronger than ever. Why? Because the last two years have given us the two worst polio epidemics in history. And it's going to take almost 15 million dollars this year to continue the care of those victims. And that doesn't include the money that will be needed for the thousands who will be attacked during 1951. And remember this. For those who will never dance again, there are many more who've been helped back on their feet. Thanks to the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis. Those are the ones I remember from the hundreds of school proms where I've played. As one little high school senior put it, Mr. Weston, once I thought I could never walk. Now you don't know what it means to me to know I can dance. But now for that boy and girl who didn't dance because they couldn't, let's play that oldie these foolish things. Remember, oh my darling, remember. Remember, remember. Remember, remember. A cigarette that bears a lipstick's traces. An airline ticket to romantic places. And still my heart has wings. These foolish things remind me of you. A tingling piano in the next apartment. If ... There's aным way. There means a minimum. There couldn't bend my heart and some quiet. In the next apartment. There's no one. Can I never find you. Than I think. I learned one. That you seek. It's a full death. Foolish things remind me of you. You came, you saw, you conquered me. When you did that to me, I knew somehow this had to be. The winds of march that make my heart a dancer. A telephone that rings, but who's to answer? Oh, how the cost of your claims. These foolish things remind me of you. These things are dear to me. They seem to bring you near to me. The winds of march that make my heart a dancer. A telephone that rings, but who's to answer? Oh, how the cost of you claims. These foolish things remind me of you. Something old. Now let's have something new. How about your latest release just off the presses? Coming right up, Dave. Here it is, In Your Arms. In your arms, to be in your arms Is all that I ask of love When you've gone How grey is the dawn And cold is the moon above But tonight it's on fire And my courage is strong And my courage is strong And I'm weak with desire To be where I belong To be where I belong Hold me closer Closer Closer Closer Closer Hold me always Hold me always Closer Closer In your arms In your arms In your arms In your arms Out hip hate At lost In your arms When you go home There's no door Oh, but tonight The moon is on fire And my courage is strong And I'm weak with desire To be where I belong Hold me always closely In your arms Friends, at some of the college dances I've played I've seen thousands of happy couples dancing by And the happiest looks From the ones who've had infantile paralysis Are thanks to you For helping those folks dance again By joining the March of Dimes Do it again, won't you? Fight infantile paralysis Join the March of Dimes Now goodbye And thanks very much Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters And mail your dime cards today You've been listening to music by Paul Weston In a special program brought to you by this station On behalf of the 1951 March of Dimes This is Dave Ward saying Remember, lend a hand Help children walk again By joining the March of Dimesп phat