The 1949 March of Dimes is on the air. Hello, everybody. This is Alec Templeton. And standing by to assist Alec is Alan Roth and his orchestra, with Kay Armand as vocalist, and yours truly, Ben Grauer. Alec, woulds tell the people the reason for this extra special get-together? I woulds, Ben. With songs and chats and rhymes, we hope to fit the times. We'll do our best to swell the chest of this year's March of Dimes. That's a swell bit of rhyming, Alec. Thank you, Ben. Now, do you like steak? Do I like steak? Why, for goodness sake. Well, here's some medium rare, I promise. All cooked up by Amboise Thomas. Ah, from Mignon. Could that be the gavotte? Sure, it's the gavotte. But, well, so what? Those old gavottin' days are gone. Today, we started jumpin' with the filet mignon. one, two, the three to quem is a real big rum. Finally, we get clean run. kicked out the spleen. beleza, as if you do his inaudium, we'll put it down on the ridge. See? Myimana? See? Hey? Hi. My参né lord postpaid work on my twitter show, excuse me, Well, show you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, Alec. Now, how about our battle cry? Right you are, Ben. For Mr. Crippler we're gunning. For Mr. Crippler we're gunning. For now is the time to join March of Dimes and keep our kids in the running. Now, here are some actual facts that we are about to show. Some dreadful, alarming, frightening facts on that Crippler polio. Do you know that last year, over 26,000 men, women, and children were victims of the Crippler? Do you know that 1948 saw the greatest polio epidemic since 1916? Do you know what next year will bring? No one knows. Let's be prepared. So, for Mr. Crippler we're gunning. For Mr. Crippler we're gunning. For now is the time to join March of Dimes and keep our kids in the running. And Alec, I'd like to add just a word to that. Friends, be extra generous this year. Join the March of Dimes. The 11th letter in the alphabet could be made to sound quite charming. K is the letter that I mean. So, here's our guest, K. Armin. Thanks, Alec. While you boys are speaking in poetry, let me say mine in song. One of Alec's songs, so with Alec at the piano, with Alan Roth and his orchestra, here's Mountain Whippoorwill. There I go again On the wings of a dream that never came true There I go again To a place that I love And a song I knew Mountain Whippoorwill I heard you singing In the hills of Caroline Mountain Whippoorwill My heart goes winging to a love That once was mine In my dreams We wander so high Up a trail So near to the sky While you sing While you sing While you sing We listen and sigh I love you Love you Mountain Whippoorwill We heard you calling Calling when the moon When the moon was on the rise Mountain Whippoorwill Mountain Whippoorwill Her tears were falling When we said Our last goodbyes I wonder if she's waiting there still Waiting there still If you find her Won't you please remind her Mountain Whippoorwill I miss the mountains And that old sweet heart of mine In my dreams As we wander so high Up a trail So near to the sky While you sing We listen and sigh I love you Love you Mountain Whippoorwill Mountain Whippoorwill We heard you calling When the moon Was on the rise Mountain Whippoorwill Mountain Whippoorwill Mountain Whippoorwill Her tears were falling When we said Our last goodbyes I wonder if she's waiting there still If you find her, won't you please remind her? Mountain Whippoorwill, I miss the mountains and that old sweetheart of mine. Mountain Whippoorwill, I miss the mountains and that old sweetheart of mine. Mountain Whippoorwill, I miss the mountains and that old sweetheart of mine. Mountain Whippoorwill, I miss the mountains and that old sweetheart of mine. Mountain Whippoorwill, I miss the mountains and that old sweetheart of mine. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Well, we'd better be going along now. So, by the right, quick march. March on, ladies and gents. March on, march on, ten cents. When the dime becomes a dollar, Mr. Crippler starts to holler. All the kids will be in clover when their polio days are over. Now, before we all disperse, let us join with heart and purse in the all-important March of Dimes. Friends, bear in mind that it's your child the March of Dimes is trying to protect. When you give, you're giving for the well-being of your own child, so give generously. Send your dimes and dollars to your local March of Dimes headquarters. Do it now. Join the March of Dimes. For Alan Roth and his orchestra, Kay Arman and Alec Templeton, this is Ben Grower saying goodbye and good health. The March of Dimes The 1949 March of Dimes is on the air. Oh, that makes life seem worthwhile dwells in your eyes and the spell of your smile The 1949 March of Dimes is proud to present the versatile star of screen and radio, the lad who can afford to work for Jack Benny because he has a show of his own, Dennis Day. Hi, everybody, and hello. It's good to have you here, Dennis, and it's going to be good to hear you sing. What's your first number going to be? Oh, I'll sing in a minute, Vern, but first I want to say that I hope everybody will join me in joining the March of Dimes to help protect all children from the crippling effects of infantile paralysis. I'm sure they will, Dennis. I'm sure they will, Dennis. And now I'm sure everybody is joining me in wanting to hear you sing. Well, I'd like to do two numbers, Clancy Lowered the Boom and Because. Now, Clancy was a peaceful man, if you know what I mean. The cops picked up the pieces after Clancy left the scene. He never looked for trouble, that's a fact you can assume. But nevertheless, when trouble would press, Clancy lowered the boom. Oh, that Clancy. Oh, that Clancy. Whenever they got his Irish up, Clancy lowered the boom. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. O'Leary was a fighting man, they all knew he was tough. He strutted round the neighborhood, shooting off his gut. He picked to fight with Clancy, then and there he sealed his doom. Before you could shout, O'Leary, look out, Clancy lowered the boom. Oh, that Clancy. Oh, that Clancy. Whenever they got his Irish up, Clancy lowered the boom. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Oh, Clancy left the barbershop with tonic on his hair. He walked into the pool room and he met O'Reilly there. O'Reilly said, for goodness thanks, now do I smell perfume? Before you could stack your cue in the rack, Clancy lowered the boom. Oh, that Clancy. Oh, that Clancy. Whenever they got his Irish up, Clancy lowered the boom. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. Oh, Houlihan delivered ice to Mrs. Clancy's flat. He'd always linger for a while to talk of this and that. One day he kissed her just as Clancy walked into the room. Before you could say the time of the day, Clancy lowered the boom. Oh, that Clancy. Oh, that Clancy. Whenever they got his Irish up, Clancy lowered the boom. Boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. The neighbors all turned out for Cato Grady's wedding night. McDougal said, let's have some fun. I think I'll start a fight. He wrecked the hall, then kissed the bride and pulverized the groom. Then quick as a wink before you could think, Clancy lowered the boom. Oh, that Clancy. Oh, that Clancy. Whenever they got his Irish up, Clancy lowered the boom. Oh, that Clancy. Oh, that Clancy. Whenever they got his Irish up, Clancy lowered the boom. Oh, that Clancy lowered the boom. Ooh. I think I could say, ClancyШ90. Cause I want to fly to La Cat де. And it had to be very cheap, Inc.атьysimist. And you were not devoluted. I find the roses waking round my feet, and I am led through tears and joy to thee, because you speak to me. Because God made thee mine, I'll cherish thee, through light and darkness through all times weep, and pray his love may make our love divine. Because God made thee mine, through light and darkness through all times weep, and pray his love may make our love divine. Because God made thee mine. And I will pledge with mine. I will pledge with my love, and pray his love may make our love. I of Jove's nectar soft, I would not change for thy. I sent thee late, a rosy wreath, not so much honoring thee. As giving it a hope, that there it could not withered be. But other on it's only free, and sends it back to me. Since when it grows and smells, I swear, not of itself, but thee. Here's Dennis to sing the new hit from the score Pale Face, Buttons and Bows. West is East and West is West, and the wrong one I have chose. Let's go where you'll keep on wearing those brills and flowers and buttons and bows, rings and things and buttons and bows. Don't bury me in this prairie, take me where the cement grows. Let's move down to some big town where the love of a gal by the cut of her clothes. And you'll stand out in buttons and bows. I love you in box skin or skirts that you've homes fun. But I love you longer, stronger, where your friends don't tote a gun. My bones denounce the buckboard bounce and the cactus hurts my toes. Let's vamoose where gals keep using those silks and satins and linen that shows. You're all mine in buttons and bows. Dennis with It's a Grand Night for Singing. It's a Grand Night for Singing. The moon is flying high. And somewhere a bird who is bound, he'll be heard. Is throwing his heart at the sky It's a grand night for singing The stars are bright above The earth is aglow and to add to the show I think I am falling in love Falling, falling in love It's a grand night for singing The stars are bright above The earth is aglow and to add to the show I think I am falling in love Falling, falling in love Thank you Thank you Thank you Thanks, Dennis Oh, I'm not through yet Oh, no? No, because I want one more chance to remind everybody How important it is to help all children Yours and your neighbors Who might need the March of Dimes when polio strikes So give from your heart Join the March of Dimes Thanks again, Dennis, and goodbye for now This is Vern Smith reminding you to send Every dime and dollar you can spare To your local March of Dimes headquarters Join the March of Dimes today The March of Dimes John, thanks to allez to swoją Ganghhh A Good Dice predisposition It's a grandfather A Great Dimes It's a grandfather A Great Dime Thank you Doesn't hit you Elames A Great Dime And Wildlife Dragon Inкой A Great Dime Limited A Great Dime finer Dime On your native A Great Dime and agriculture A viel imp A God In Care