We're speaking now to Mr. Edward T. McNally, Superintendent of Border Transportation in the City of New York, who has some information of interest to the residents of New York City in regards to the current situation. Hello, Mr. McNally. Yes. Would you give us briefly the substance of your report? I'll be very glad to. Conditions have improved since our last report. But on the Manhattan-bound Sea Beach line, trains are being operated over West End Line due to a large tree blown to the tracks at 20th Avenue. The Brooklyn-bound service on this line is normal. The Brooklyn-bound BMT tunnel trains have resumed operation through Montague Street Tunnel. Manhattan-bound tunnel trains are being diverted to the Manhattan Bridge. A shuttle service is being operated from Whitehall Street to 57th Street. On the IRT division, the White Plains line is not operating north of 180th Street due to obstructions blown on the track at Allerton Avenue and at 233rd Street. The service on the independent division is normal. That is all. Well, that sounds fine because the service seems to be picking up all along. That is right. And where we have these obstructions now, we expect to have them cleared within a half hour. Well, that's fine. Do you have any information at the moment or will you be able to get it for us later concerning bus service, particularly in Queens? Well, the bus service in Queens, we are operating on all of our roofs. But there are numerous diversions due to obstructions. In addition to which, most people have been notified that they should be at home. Well, that is right. And they are complying with the request because the writing is very light on all services. I see. Well, that's very fine. I think you rounded off the picture rather well for us. And the details of the subway service seems rather good. And we hope it keeps improving. And we hope to hear from you during the course of the evening, too, for further reports. We'll be very glad to call again. Thank you very much, Mr. McNally. You're welcome. Come on. Now let's have a few words with Dr. Marcus Kogel, commissioner of hospitals. Dr. Kogel, could you tell us the situation in your department today? Well, the situation right now is pretty good. It started off in a rather hectic way with City Hospital early in the morning where we had to evacuate a children's building and take the patients into a male medical ward because of the rising water in the basement which sort of inundated our electrical lines. And the electric boxes became rather hot. And we were worried for a little while. But the evacuation was one of the most extraordinary because in a matter of eight to ten minutes, more than 70 patients were taken out of the building and moved elsewhere. And during the day, we also had to evacuate wards at Kings County Hospital because there was a danger from falling trees. But otherwise, it was just a matter of taking care of roofs that were coming off. And we also had a lot of trouble at Willard Parker Hospital. You know, it's right near the water. And we had power failures there. And we had to maintain the respirators. And we had to maintain services to other communicable disease cases. But by excellent work on the part of the police department and the fire department and our own people in the engineering service, we were able to maintain activities as usual. Dr. Kogel, I know you've been putting in a busy day because I've been attempting to call you now for the last couple of hours. And you've been from one hospital to the other. You've told us about the evacuation procedure and the success it has been. How about the admission of new patients? Has there been very much of that due to the storm? Well, we've had more than our usual number of cases due to more than our usual number of injuries from lacerations, you know, from glass and from the missile effect of debris. In fact, I'd say that in the period since this afternoon up to about 6 o'clock, we had more than 100 such cases brought into our emergency wards, which under ordinary conditions we would never have seen. There were a lot of head injuries and a lot of glass splinters. I just came back a few minutes ago from Seaview Hospital where we had, you know, Seaview Hospital is our tuberculosis hospital that we were always complaining is crumbling down. It's in Staten Island. Seaview Hospital is now host to approximately 300 evacuaries. It just happens that Seaview Hospital has its own power plant, so it's able to maintain the power facilities and we were able to put up these people in the auditorium at the hospital and we're now making ready the nurse's home auditorium and the children's school and the children's building so that we'll be able to, and also some space in Palm County, which is right opposite Seaview, so we'll be able to take care of approximately 700 evacuaries. So Seaview Hospital is now actually buzzing with activity, taking care of normal men, women, and children who have no homes. Let's see, you were out to Staten Island just, I'd say, about a half hour to an hour ago, isn't it? That's right. That's right. What did it look like to you while you were out there? Well, it's fairly dark. Here and there in spotty areas, you can see some lights, otherwise it seems as if there's a good deal of power failure, and we had to make quite a large detour because of a big tree on one of the main highways and some power lines that went down. And you went over by ferry then? No, no, no, no, we didn't go over by ferry. We had to go over by Jersey, by way of the tunnel and by way of the Bayonne Bridge. Oh, in connection with Seaview, I'd like to pay particular tribute to your own WNYC because, you know, they helped us out a great deal with communications at the beginning. We had to maintain communications between Seaview Hospital and the other hospitals on Staten Island, and for a little while we were in difficulties until WNYC came to our assistance. Well, thanks a lot, Dr. Cogel. I think you've given us a wonderful picture of what this storm has done to your department and what your department has done now that the storm has more or less abated for a while. You know, we were set up on the basis as if this were a civil defense emergency, and we had headquarters, for instance, in New York, our headquarters was right here at central office, and in Brooklyn, our headquarters was at Kings County Hospital for all medical emergencies. In Queens, Queens General was the headquarters, and we set up a sub-headquarters at the Ponset Beach Hospital to take care of the Rockaway Group, and at Staten Island, of course, the headquarters would Seaview, and everything worked out very nicely. Well, from this standpoint, it's absolutely right because the civilian defense setup has proved due to this storm, and it's all set, ready to go. We've been talking to the Commissioner of Hospitals, Dr. Marcus Cogel. Well, thanks a lot for talking with us. We're on.