There is another similarity between then and now in this international army that you hear about and is known as the Atlantic Pact. It is essential that we mold together the men and the divisions and the air and the navies of these various nationalities of Western Europe who have banded together peace-loving countries who are determined that they will keep their democratic ways of life. It reminded me of the difficulties that I had in the Italian campaign, where I had 12 different nationalities working under me. I had the French and the British and the New Zealanders, some Australians from your country, sir. I had Indian troops. We had our nieces, 5,000 of them from Hawaii and the West Coast, colored and white American troops. I had 25,000 Brazilians, 100,000 Poles, four Italian divisions and some others that I have not mentioned. All of them team-played in order that they might do away with the aggressor that we had then. That is the challenge now, to build again one of these hodgepodge armies that has different characteristics, different customs, different gods and different languages. I am sure that that also can be overcome. I well recall in Italy the necessity when we had the Indian troops of keeping herds of goats right behind the line in order that we could feed goat meat to those fellows because they couldn't eat other kinds of meat. I remember the Brazilian troops with their small feet. Our shoes wouldn't fit them and we had none small enough. They had to stuff paper in their shoes. I remember with the Brazilians that we had to get fellows who spoke Portuguese to put into the tanks and the airplane and the artillery liaison officers who supported them. And I well remember with the French gumiets, the Arabs from the mountains. They had no hospitals and when they were wounded in action, they came to our hospitals. And I recall the consternation of our nurses when they issued them pajamas and they wore the pajama pants as turbans. Those are some of the problems that one must be confronted with in building this new international army. But again, I say that will be done. As a part of my mission to determine combat readiness, I went back to Europe a few weeks ago in order to see the troops in Germany and Austria and Italy. The troops are well trained, but they are hopelessly inadequate in numbers to do the job that may confront them. I'm delighted that the President of the United States has indicated his determination to reinforce those troops over there. And we're working hard on that at the present moment. I went to Austria and I'm reminded of two incidents. Rita asked me to tell these. One, when I landed at Salzburg the other day, the troops were lined up as a guard of honor. And out in front was a sergeant holding a great big police dog. That dog was Mike. He was in command of these troops. And I'll tell you about Mike. When I was in North Africa and we were going to Salerno, I had Mike as a little pup. Here's the way Mike came to me. One Sunday when we were trying to enforce discipline in North Africa, I was driving around and I saw a soldier who obviously had had too much to drink. He was a sergeant. He had this dog on a leash, a beautiful police dog. I pulled up alongside of him and I said, Sergeant, you're a disgrace to your uniform. You know we're trying to make you noncommissioned officers set an example. We had quite a conversation. He rather stiffened up and sobered up a little bit. All the time he had this dog on the leash. Finally, I said, can you get home? And he said, yes, sir. And I said, well, you go home. Go to bed. Never let me see you in this situation again. He saluted and as he did so, he said to the dog, don't bite the general. That big police dog had pups a couple of weeks later and I was given Mike, who served with me all through the war. And the other little incident had to do when I was in Vienna and Georgie Patton, with whom I had been associated for many years, one of the finest soldiers that this country ever produced. Georgie was in Germany at the time. He telephoned me on the day of his accident. I couldn't get through to him. But finally, my aide came in when I said, get him back and said, General Patton is on the phone. I picked up the receiver and I said, Georgie. And the voice on the phone said, Georgie who? Well, I said, I'm after General Patton. He's tried to phone me. He said, get off the line, this voice did. Good American. Well, I said, now, wait a minute. This is an important call. I've got to get it through. You get off the line. He came back. He says, get the hell off the line. Well, I said, now, wait a minute. I'm trying to get through to General Patton. And I said, who are you? And he said, who are you? I said, I am General Clark calling General Patton. I said, what is your name? This voice says, wouldn't you love to know? And up went the receiver. I can still hear that voice ringing in my ears. And someday we're going to meet up. Now, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that my experiences put me in very close touch with our Soviet colleagues. I went to Austria as the high commissioner. I went with Mr. Burns to London as his deputy for the Council of Foreign Ministers and with General Marshall to the last Moscow conference. In an effort to get together with the Soviets on the various treaties for Austria and Germany, every constructive move we put up, as well as those for two years in Austria, was vetoed and blocked by the Soviets. They know what strength means. They despise weakness. It was the courageous act of our president when he catapulted our troops into Korea a few months ago that I think showed these aggressive leaders that we mean to be determined, that we mean to have strength. I think it was the thing that they appreciated in the way of strength that caused them to reappraise the situation and to stop, look, and listen. A course of rearmament has been set for our country, for the national military team of the Army and the Navy and the air. Let us go full steam out and to get some of these blue chips that impress the leaders of aggression in order that they will know that we do not intend to continue to be cheated at this poker game which we've been playing for the past five years. We must keep on going. We must not be lulled to sleep by phony peace feelers, be anesthetized, or given a shot in the arm. We must get this strength blue chips in the form of divisions and battleships and airplanes. We must give notice to them, to the world, and to anyone who would take our freedoms from us, that by the grace of God we intend to keep these privileges and the freedoms and the blessings which we hold so dear in our beloved America. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. or 11, moved from Muncie, where they were significant, as Mother put it, to Chicago, where they meant nothing to anybody. The experiences of the Kimbrows in the big impersonal city are both funny and painful. From the inauspicious first arrival at the exclusive family hotel, when brother gave one hoop and lost his lunch before the eyes of dozens of outraged guests, to the end, five years later, when Emily was crushed temporarily by learning that though she had passed her Greek and Latin, she had failed her college entrance examination in mathematics. The pages are filled with incident, mortifying, hilarious, poignant, and absurd. There was the time when Mother, hoping to instill culture into her children, took brother to hear Casale's play. A gentleman in the next box, attracted by the child's apparent enthusiasm, called loudly, Pablo, encore! The gentleman was Fritz Kreisler. Or the creepy horror when Emily's 38 cocoons, fastened one evening to the screening of father's and mother's newfangled sleeping porch, hatched out, and awoke them as 38 enormous fluttering malls. But read for yourselves. You'll find that Miss Kimbrows' adult sense of humor in looking back on childhood scenes never fails her. Once more, it gives me great pleasure to introduce to you the author of that most entertaining book, The Innocents from Indiana, Emily Kimbrows. Thank you very much, Mrs. Vandola. It gives me great pleasure to be here today, and I think it only fair to admit a selfish pleasure on my part, and a very deep sense of gratitude to Irita for asking me, because her invitation has to be a certain wound occasioned by my own twin daughters. And though it happened some time ago, the uncomfortable memory lingers. I returned from a lecture tour and went to see them, then at boarding school. And after the first few moments of rapturous reunion, detected on their parts an overhanging cloud of apprehension, which I hastened, I thought, to dispel, I told them I had already spoken to the headmistress of the school and learned from her that both their academic standing and their conduct were adequate. And since this exceeded our fondest hopes, I could not understand the reason for their apprehension. To my astonishment, my happy announcement seemed not to dispel the cloud, and so I asked outright the cause of it. And then the twins sidled close to me, and one of them said, in a hoarse and anguished whisper, Oh, mummy, it's only that even if they should ask you, promise us you won't speak here. Well, I have been asked, and I am speaking here, and I'm indeed grateful. Since the book, The Innocence from Indiana, is in the vein of reminiscence, the memory of that too, fresh in my mind, leads me to become somewhat nostalgic and reminiscent here. I am rather forcibly aware of the contrast between this occasion and my first lunch in a city hotel. The first place in a city hotel was shortly after I moved to Chicago, and my parents took brother and me to the Congress Hotel for lunch, preceding our first appearance at an opera. We were to see that afternoon a performance of Carmen. The whole day was ablaze with excitement for us, and not the least of it was this first, as I say, meal in a large city hotel. Added to that excitement was the announcement on the part of our parents that we could order anything we liked. My brother turned happily to the waiter and in clear and penetrating tone said, I would like an alligator pear, chocolate ice cream, and baked beans, preferably out of a can. I like those best. I wished I were dead. I begged to be taken home. I was not taken home, however. We did go on to the performance of Carmen, and on the way went through the passage connecting the old Congress with the auditorium, and came into the crowd of theater, opera goers, at which brother announced in loud tones that he would like to see the sideshows first. The performance itself of Carmen, though exciting, was a little bewildering because of the very refined version of it Mother had told us in advance. She had described Carmen as an ardent bullfight enthusiast. And what she was doing up in the mountain fastnesses I could not imagine. Brother was equally confused and more vociferously disappointed because her stress on the bullfighting had made him feel that one would take place on the stage. And when this seemed not to be occurring, but instead crowds gathered outside the arena, he rose from his seat and plunged up the aisle with the purpose of going around back where the fight seemed to be going on. There is another performance in this train of memories that seems to me, as I look back on it at this moment, to have somewhat a similarity with the occasion here today. This was a performance in which I took not one, but two parts. It was a school production of Midsummer Night's Dream. And in that, I played both the rustic, a very old man and frail, I should think, both physically and mentally, who says that this lanthorn does the horned moon present. But I was also a fairy, one of Titania's train, and in that role I was to do a solo dance. My life has never since then scaled quite such an alpine peak. The night of the performance came round and I whisked from one part to the other. First, I was the rustic and then the fairy, the rustic and the fairy, until at last came the great moment from my solo performance. Clad in palest green chiffon and the strains of the Mendelssohn Midsummer Night's Dream music, I tiptoed heavily out across the stage, pirouetted and embarked on the first step, only to hear from the front row the voice of my mother, raised in agitation but authority. Emily, it said, leave the stage. I recognized the voice and the authority behind it, but I felt that this was a moment when I must make my own decision. And so, with more determination than aplomb, I planted a foot again on the first step, only to hear her injunction repeated more forcibly and simultaneously a ripple of sound in the back of the auditorium that increased in volume until the abrupt descent of the curtain before my face mercifully cut it off from me. And then, willing and eager helpers rushed on from the wings to do what in the exigencies of the rapid changes they had neglected to do, which was to remove the bald wig and beard of the old man. So, at this occasion today, between these two speakers, one of them, a great figure of our day, and the other, a great writer whom I have admired for so many years, whose, I think, if not, perhaps not every word I have read, but certainly many of his words, I have learned, I have taken to heart, I have no place as a solo performer. I am indeed the rustic. Thank you very much. Thank you, Ms. Kimbrell. Our last speaker today, we are particularly honored to have here, because he doesn't make many appearances, and it is only rarely that we have the pleasure of hearing him. Somerset Maugham has become perhaps the most controversial literary figure of our time, and as Glenway Westcott points out in his excellent introduction to the new Maugham reader, the controversy, as such things go today, has a certain distinction. It is not about politics, nor morals, nor ideology. It is entirely about literary art. Mr. Maugham himself, quite aware of the opinion of his work among the so-called intelligentsia, has summarized it neatly. In my twenties, the critics said I was brutal. In my thirties, they said I was flippant. In my forties, they said I was cynical. In my fifties, they said I was competent. In now, in my sixties, they have said I was superficial. The critics, with a capital C, cannot forgive the apparent simplicity of Mr. Maugham's stated creed as a writer. The purpose of art is to please, and he has compounded his offense by pleasing millions. Can such a man be taken seriously as an artist? To someone said more, to write was an instinct that seemed as natural as to breathe. In his teens, he began to educate himself to be a writer. He kept notebooks of experiences and ideas. He read earnestly all the great men of English letters. He studied science and philosophy. He learned languages. He even made lists of words to increase his vocabulary. He discovered that still invaluable guide, Fowler's modern English usage. The writer in him was exhilarated during the five years he spent in training to be a doctor, not because he was greatly interested in medicine, but because the duties of that profession brought him into contact with almost every emotion of which man was capable. With extraordinary ability to analyze his own talents, he came to the conclusion that he had no lyrical quality, but that he had acute power of observation, clarity, a logical sense, and a feeling for the sound of words. So he began to strive for three things, lucidity, simplicity, and euphony. Probably no writer in the English language has worked harder and with more clear-eyed self-direction to develop his particular skills. He never lacked material for his pen. I always had more stories in my head than I had time to write, he tells us, in that extraordinarily revealing and illuminating autobiography of an artist, the summing up. His first novel, Liza of Lambeth, based on his experiences as a medical student, shocked the English public, somewhat, by its picture of slum conditions. Other novels followed, and in seven, a period of seven years, he wrote ten plays. These brought him praise, social recognition, financial independence, which he wisely valued. Money was like a sixth sense without which you could not make the most of the other five, he explained. After his long stretch of playwriting, he turned again to fiction. Into a human bondage, an autobiographical novel which has become a classic in his own lifetime, he poured, he says, all the pains and unhappy recollections of his difficult youth. And when it was done, he found himself freed forever of them. When World War I broke out, he went into the ambulance service and later into intelligence. Illness sent him to the South Seas and gave us the moon and sixpence. Then came an assignment to Russia which he could not resist though he had contracted tuberculosis of the lungs. He returned very ill and spent the next two years in a sanitarium in the north of Scotland. In the last story of his new picture, Trio, you will recognize him in those invalid years. Well again, restlessness and a desire for new scenes sent him to the Far East. It was not till four years later that he began to write the short stories which were the meat of his travels. Rain was the first. His novels, plays, and stories, too numerous to name here, in fact, numerous enough to create a warm world, are for the most part familiar to us all. For half a century, we have joyfully greeted each new book from his pen. The sense of ease we feel as we read him, he has given us only by strenuous effort. The stories he tells us, however various their appeals, seem always satisfyingly right. He has, beyond any other writer of our time, fulfilled his own definition of the purpose of art. He has pleased. And as for his standing as an artist, I am honoured to be able to introduce to you a master of the world's oldest art, the art of narration. Somerset. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, you have listened to two very good speeches, and I've heard you laugh a great deal, so I think I ought to warn you right away before I begin that I haven't got anything to say that in the least mutual. If you have listened to, as attentively to General Clark's speech as you should have, you will have realised that we are living in troublous times, and we are all called upon to make great sacrifices in order to achieve security, to maintain peace, and to assure our liberty. You may well think that this is not the proper moment to say what I'm going to say. I dare say it isn't. But this is the last time I shall ever speak to you, and I must take the opportunity while I have it. I have been invited to come here by Mrs. Van Doren, presumably because I am an author, and it is an author that I propose to speak to you. But my course is run, and it isn't about myself that I wish to speak to you, but about the writers who are just starting on their careers. The costs of production are now such that it is hard for a young author to get a chance of publication. The publishers are anxious, as they always have been, to encourage a talent, and they are prepared to take certain risks, but the risks they are asked to take now are too great. When I was young, a publisher could at least come out even if a novel sold 2,000 copies. I think I am right in saying that now to do this he must sell something like it to 10,000. Of course, there is a chance that he may do this, there is a chance even that he may sell many more, but it is a slim chance. The publisher will only take it if he thinks the young author is likely to be a source of profit to him in the future. You can't blame him for this. Like all the rest of us, he has to make both ends meet. The result is that the young and unknown author finds it more and more difficult to get a hearing. And even when he does, how is he going to live on the royalties of a book that has just paid the expenses of publication? He can't. He must add to his income by journalism, by writing for the radio, and by writing scripts if he is lucky enough to have attracted the attention of the talent scouts in Hollywood. That means that he must give the best of his energies not to creative writing, which is his proper business, but to work, which may well destroy his creative faculty. All of us who are interested in literature can recall the names of quite a number of clever young men who showed a promise which, owing to these unfortunate circumstances, they have never fulfilled. You may ask how all this concerns you. I'm proposing to tell you. You are now the greatest and most powerful nation of the world, and not the least of the glories of the great nation is that it has produced a great literature. I think history shows that a nation produces this when it is at the height of its power and vigor. I don't want to depreciate the merits of the politicians, the generals, and the admirals, who, with a willing people to back them, created the greatness of my own country. But when you look back on the past, is it of the admirals, the generals, and the politicians who think of, of the writers, what is the glory of the days of Queen Elizabeth, the defeat inflicted on the Spanish Armada by the English seamen or the players of Shakespeare? And when we look back upon the beginning of the 19th century, do we first think of Nelson's victory at Traffalgar or Wellington's at Waterloo or of Coleridge, Wordsworth, Shelley, and Keats? Of course, Nelson and Wellington were great men. Their victories influenced the course of history for a hundred years. But Coleridge, Wordsworth, Shelley, and Keats were great too, and their works live still to inspire and delight us. It has always seemed to me that this vast country of yours, with its mixture of races, has the potentiality of producing forms of art which the world has never known. We British have never produced painters and composers that are more than meritorious. Our glory has been our literature. But there is no reason why you shouldn't produce great and original artists in all branches of the arts. I'm coming to the gist of what I wanted to consider. The artist needs help and encouragement. Without it, however strong his urge to create, he may waste much precious time or the artist in him may be destroyed. Now, you do something for painting and musical composition, but what you do for literature, precious little. Of course, you know about the Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation. It does an admirable work and it doesn't altogether neglect the creative writer. I have had the curiosity to count the number of fellowships which were granted during the year 1949. 1949. There are 137 of them and of these, seven were given to poets, writers of fiction and dramatists. It provides an author with a sum of money so that he may be at leisure to write a certain book. The candidate for this grant must submit a record of his or her entire career as a writer and a list of his publications. This, of course, implies that the writer in question has already acquired a certain standing. The committee of selection are not satisfied with promise. They demand performance. A young author with perhaps but one imperfect book to his credit would have very little chance of receiving the grant. There is another institution which is designed to offer certain advantages to young artists. This is the American Academy in Rome. It was created in 1905 by an act of Congress to promote the study of painting. Later, fellowships were endowed for landscape architecture and later still a department of musical composition was added. The fellowships are awarded to men and women of high intellectual and personal qualifications who have already demonstrated unusual capacity for productive scholarship or unusual ability in the fine arts. The fellows live in Rome and I have no doubt benefit greatly by their contact with the artistic or riches of Italy. But as you will notice, the fellowships are not granted to the creative writer. It seems very hard that he should be left out in the cold. By creative writers, I don't mean philosophers, historians, or economists, however much you may think their productions are akin to fiction, but to poets, novelists, short story writers, and dramatists. It is for them that I should like to see an institution started on the same lines of the American Academy in Rome. And I wouldn't ask if the fellowships should be awarded to them for their high intellectual and personal qualifications and because they have already demonstrated unusual ability, but only because they show promise. I'm going to ask you to have patience with me while I tell you something of how I think such an academy as I have in mind should be conducted. I should like it to be installed in a chateau within a few miles of Paris, and as a director, I would appoint a man of letters still young enough to be receptive to new ideas or a professor of English literature in one of the colleges. I don't think it would be necessary to have more than about a dozen fellowships. They should be awarded to persons still under 30, for if by that age they haven't shown a certain amount of promise, they are unlikely ever to do so. and they should be given the opportunity to stay at the academy for three years and besides board and lodging a sufficient salary to make journeys not only in France but in England, Germany, Italy and Spain. In fact, wherever in Europe they make expect together experience and acquire knowledge. You will ask what use this can be to them besides allowing them to live for two or three years in economic security. In the first place, such an experience can only enlarge their mind and their sympathies. By giving them the chance of becoming acquainted with the art, the culture, the literature of Europe, it will develop and increase their personalities and when you come down to brass tacks, all an author has to give you is just that, his personality and the richer, the fuller his personality, the more he has to give. Of course, the business of the American writer is to write about America. No author really knows enough about a foreign country and its inhabitants to write about them convincingly. The point I want to make is that in order to know your own country, you must know other countries as well. Many years ago, Kipling asked the rhetorical question, what can they know of England who only England know? The answer is not nearly enough. I suggest to you that changing the word America for England, the same answer may be made. Such an academy as I have in mind, by giving young writers this great advantage of learning what a value they can from a subject in foreign countries would enable them when they came home to observe the American scene from a fresh point of view and with a Catholicity of outlook which, given their talent, would make it possible for them to write works which would permanently enrich the literature of this great country. Now I want to digress for a moment, a very short one. I'd long been struck by the fact the popularity of English countries in this country as of late years enormously diminished. Whereas 40 years ago there was a whole group of English writers who were widely read here, I think it is no exaggeration to say now that you could count on the fingers of one hand the English authors who were read at all. One reason, of course, is that during the last 40 years you have produced a number of authors of greater talent and it is very natural that American readers should prefer to read about the American scene and their fellow Americans. But there is another reason for the decline in the interest taken here in English writers. They have dealt with matters that can only be of interest to English readers. Too often they have abandoned the subjects of common human interests to concentrate their attention on the parish pump and the vicar's tea party. I formed the impression that they were becoming not only insular but provincial and I conceived the idea that something might be done to remedy this if young authors of promise were given the chance of spending a period abroad so that they too might acquire freshness of vision which would enable them to see their country from a wider standpoint. I am not a multimillionaire and not even so far as I know a millionaire but I was fortunately able to provide the author society with a sum sufficient for them to hand over every year to a promising young author man or woman a sum of money large enough for him or her with thrift to spend the best part of a year abroad. No strings are attached to this award. It is left to the good sense of the recipient to make the best use of it. I was well aware that the judges would sometimes make the award to someone who wouldn't be able to do this. I was also aware that sometimes the recipient would not profit by the experience. As we know you can take a horse to the water but you can't make him drink. I didn't think that mattered. If once in ten years the experience enables an author to produce a work which is an enrichment to our literature I think the money will have been well spent. Now this is a very small thing I've tried to do. I only tell you about it because it's an indication of the much larger and important thing I should like to see you do. The American Academy in Rome which is the model of the institution I have in mind is paid for in part by the government and in part by funds provided by private bodies. Now for a long time the government will doubtless need all the money it can get out of us taxpayers in order to meet the pressing demands made on it for more urgent purposes. Such an academy as I am proposing can be brought into being only by the munificence of a private person. We all know that the wealthy men of America have never been niggardly of their riches. They have created universities provided vast sums for research built hospitals handsomely subsidized music erected magnificent picture galleries and furnished them with collections of pictures of great beauty but on their whole they have done precious little for literature. Yet a great literature as I said before is not the least of the glories of a great nation. I think it could be created and endowed to found such an institution as I suggest wouldn't require a great deal of money. I think it could be created and endowed for the utmost three million dollars. I am told that in Texas multi-millionaires are as thick as the leaves of the velum brosad.