Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents by special transcription, the reviewing stand. Today, the reviewing stand asks, is the United Nations the best hope for world peace in 1951? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the pros and cons of the United Nations as an instrument for peace. And now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Clark M. Eichelberger, Director of the American Association for the United Nations, George Fielding Elliott, Military Analyst, Author, and Commentator for the Mutual Broadcasting System, Abram H. Feller, General Counsel and Director of the Legal Department of the United Nations, and Chesley Manley, United Nations Correspondent for the Chicago Tribune. Now, in opening the discussion, gentlemen, I suggest we speak directly to our main question. Is the United Nations the world's best hope for peace in 1951? How do you answer that question, Eichelberger? Well, I think it is. I have in my office an autographed photograph of Aristide Briand, in which he says there is not one peace for Europe or one peace for America, and I think today he would add Asia, but only one peace for the entire world. The United Nations was created. The concept that peace must be indivisible, that there must be a collective will of the world community, strong enough to beat off aggression if it occurs, and wise enough to try and find a means of conciliation to avoid conflict. To make possible the economic and social adjustments, so that men would be more willing to defend what we call the free way of life. I'm granting all the hard going that these concepts have today. I can't see any other answer to the problems of the world but those concepts. The United Nations is the organized expression of this community will. Because it is the only organized expression, I believe, that is not just the best hope for peace, but the only hope for peace in 1951. Well, that certainly is an emphatic yes to our question. What's your view on this, Manly? Well, I don't think the United Nations offers the best hope for peace in 1951 or at any other time. It seems to me that the United Nations is a self-evident failure. The UN was organized to maintain international peace and security, in the words of the Charter. According to the Atlantic Charter, it was founded to relieve mankind from the crushing burden of armaments. And what is the situation today after five years of the United Nations? We have virtually all of our available military power committed in a war in Korea, and fear of another world war is universal. The United States alone is projecting armaments expenditures of more than $50 billion a year. It seems to me, on the basis of that record, that anyone who calls the United Nations a success has an astonishing capacity for self-deception. Now, we have a clear difference of opinion, certainly, between Eichelberger and Manly. Feller, where do you come in on this? Well, what Mr. Manly has told us is that the world is suffering from a very serious disease, and since that disease has not been cured, we ought to shoot the doctor, which is the United Nations. I don't think there's any question that the United Nations is operating now in a very, very troubled world, and that it is far from succeeding in attaining the objectives which were set down in the Charter. But those objectives are the real hope of mankind, and the United Nations is the only instrumentality to obtain it. I think that we will never get to those objectives unless we work through the United Nations and display all the fortitude and patience which is needed in a situation as difficult as the one we face today. Are you suggesting that we might be in worse shape had it not been for the United Nations? I'm not merely suggesting it. I am saying it most emphatically. I think by this time, if the United Nations had blown up or if we had not had it, we would be right in the midst of a gigantic world war. Elliot, what do you think about this? Well, confining myself to the question, is the United Nations the best hope for peace in 1951? I can only say that I think that the only hope for peace in 1951 is the rapid buildup of military power by the United States and its allies. I believe that the deterrent effect of such a buildup on the Russians is the only chance of avoiding a war in 1951. However, I am very far from saying that the United Nations has no part in this. I think the moral force, the collective will of which Michael Berger referred, finding its authority in the Charter of the United Nations, its expression there, is of tremendous value. I don't believe that free peoples fight readily without some kind of moral authority. I believe the moral authority just given by human conscience and Christian decency on the British people is what destroyed Napoleon. I believe the same thing is true on a larger area for the destruction of Hitler. I believe that communist tyranny will only be destroyed by such a collective action on the part of the free peoples of the world, or such of them as can give effect to their desire to destroy it through armaments. That's principally today the United States. What do you think of the moral authority exerted by the United Nations, Manley? I don't think the United Nations exerts any moral authority because it has no moral principles. It has no moral courage. It doesn't even have the moral courage that the old League of Nations had. It has never expressed one word of condemnation of the Soviet Union's crimes against humanity. It hasn't condemned communist China's aggression in Korea and in Tibet, and it wouldn't do so. Well, now, just a moment. I must say that that's going pretty far. Let's start, first of all, with the question of moral principles. The statement of principles in the Charter is the only international statement of the ultimate values for which decent, civilized people who desire to live in freedom have ever had in an international document. I think that the principles of the Charter are principles which nobody can contradict, certainly nobody in that part of the world which we call the free world. Secondly, with regard to moral courage, I think the action of the United Nations with respect to Korea was a demonstration of moral courage, of international solidarity, the like of which we have not seen before. As regards the other points which Mr. Manley has made, the attitude of the United Nations with regard to China and the Chinese intervention in Korea, those matters are still under discussion. And I think it's much, much too early to say that the United Nations does not have the moral courage to stand up in that situation. In other words, Mr. Feller, I think perhaps you would say that we're going through a long period of struggle just as we did, as the British did against Napoleon, as we and the British and the French did in the face of Hitlerian aggression, in which there was a lot of backing and filling and running away and displays of appeasement in one thing and another, and yet in the end we came through. So maybe it'll happen again. Well, Mr. Feller mentioned the statement of moral principles in the Charter. I was talking about the practices of the United Nations, not its professions. It's quite true that it has very lofty ideals and principles, but as the delegate of Norway, Mr. Arn Sunday, stated in the political committee two weeks ago, if the United Nations should attempt at this time to carry out its responsibilities under the Charter, its very existence would be jeopardized. Michael Berger, do you have a defense there? Well, the United Nations has a very considerable number of political disputes, a settlement of which are to its credit by a combination of the use of moral principle and a consolatory agreement, an investigation commission such as Indonesia, quite a considerable record as to the credit of the United Nations, where moral principles plus the proper techniques of settlement were used. You can't judge the United Nations entirely by its ability to call people names, but as a matter of fact, I should say that about half of the resolutions which the United Nations has passed, of resolutions by implementation, by implied criticism of the Soviet Union. Well, I think there's a good deal to be said for what Mr. Eichelberger has just stated, but we are asked a specific question about the preservation of peace in 1951, and I still maintain that the preservation of peace in 1951 rests on the creation of adequate force to deter the Soviet Union from making war, and that that rests very largely, so far as the material elements are concerned, on the efforts of the United States, and to a less degree, on such efforts as may be put forth by the nations of Western Europe. Well, now, would you accept that as the United Nations position, Feller? Well, I think that there can be no disagreement with the proposition which Major Elliott has stated, that we are now in a situation in the world in which it is necessary to build up strength, to build up strength as a deterrent to aggression, and to build up strength in order to be ready to meet the ultimate test if aggression should strike. I think that where I would differ with Major Elliott is simply on the question of emphasis. I think we are agreed on fundamentals. I believe that the United Nations can play a part in the building up of strength, both moral and, to a certain extent, physical. And more important than that, the United Nations offers the Western world and the free nations in other parts of the world the basic positions which give them a reason for opposing aggression and give them an ultimate hope of remaining free. And I think one of the mistakes that many people have made over the past years is to underestimate, to sell short, precisely those elements of international solidarity which lie at the very basis of any attempt to build up physical strength. Well, I think the fatal weakness of the United Nations, getting away from the moral question, is its reliance on collective security. In the modern world, I don't believe there can be any such thing as collective security because modern arms and modern armies cost so much that they can be produced in adequate quantities only by a great industrial country such as the United States or a great totalitarian slave country such as the Soviet Union. And that was demonstrated, I think, in Korea. For almost three months after the war began in Korea, the United States was the only member of the United Nations with troops engaged. And six months after the war started, we have about 200,000 troops over there, and all the other United Nations members combined have about 20,000. I think we must all agree that Mr. Manley has put his finger on a situation which needs a great deal of work and which must, I think, be corrected. There are all sorts of reasons to explain this discrepancy between the contribution of the United States and other member nations during the Korean affair. But at this last session of the General Assembly, the Assembly adopted a plan for creating armed contingents to be held in readiness at the call of the United Nations organs precisely to cure the defect in organization which Mr. Manley has referred to. And one of the things I think I should like to emphasize most is that in this whole effort to build up strength of which Major Elliott has been speaking, we must not forget that part of it is work to build up the collective strength of those areas of the world which can make a contribution to the United Nations effort and not merely, not merely, the effort to build up strength in the North Atlantic or Western community. Well now, is this building up of strength that Elliott's been talking about identical with the kind of collective security you're talking about? How about that, Elliott? I thought we were talking about the year 1951. Mr. Feller will hardly maintain that any efforts undertaken under the resolution of the General Assembly to which he refers can be effective in preserving peace in 1951. There are, after all, just so many tons of steel produced in the world, there are just so many skilled man-hours of labor, and those nations which can produce armaments, and these are limited in number, are producing all that they can. Therefore, any United Nations contingent would merely be a subtraction from efforts now already proceeding with the purpose of preserving peace by deterring Soviet aggression, if that is possible, and of winning a war if it isn't possible. I do think, however, that there are other things that members of the United Nations which are not capable of producing armaments on any large scale can do. I give you as an example the maintenance of United States air bases in the Mediterranean, which the Portuguese islands, the Azores in particular, are an extremely valuable stepping stone. That's merely a small matter but just one contribution, that Portugal, which adds very little to the strength of the Western powers in Europe, can make and does make. Michael Berger wants to get our word. Well, I was shocked at the moral implications of the Mr. Manley statement, that given modern weapons and scientific achievement in war what they are, that there were only two countries today that could produce the material to wage war, the United States as a democracy or a slave state such as the Soviet Union. That, in other words, if carried out, means that the world must be under the domination of the United States, and I don't think it would be willing to accept its benevolent dominance forever, or the dictatorship of the Soviet Union seems to me the only answer, the answer that Major Eliot implied a moment ago, that despite the fact that much of the technology and the machines at the moment must come from the United States, the free people can make a very considerable contribution. They will want to make, in the long run, that contribution, because they won't want the United States to do it alone. So it seems to me that the logical conclusion is that every nation possible must make a contribution to the force of free peoples, and that the United States can neither deter Soviet aggression alone or win over that aggression alone. Now, some of the arguments you men are presenting sound a bit more like an argument of an alliance, of the free people, rather than an argument for the United Nations. Possibly you have a point there. The Soviet Union and some of the nations that we haven't been mentioning, who are the Soviet satellite, are members of the United Nations. If for a moment you want to swing this into a discussion of conciliation, I do not believe that the war that we have been talking about rather glibly is inevitable. I believe that the situation is very serious. But I believe that the only opportunity for a collective agreement that would mean that war would not occur, the only possibility of an agreement for conciliation, staving off China's aggression in the Pacific, or potential aggression, is through the conciliation processes of the United Nations. I'd like to have Mr. Veller's views on that. I'd like to swing this a little bit from the military side of this discussion. Do you think that's a realistic hope, Veller? Well, I think it's a hope. I think it is a hope which we cannot possibly afford to give up. I think, however, that to be perfectly realistic, we must all realize the very great handicaps that we are under in trying to achieve this, and the very great difficulties in the way. What I think we sometimes tend to forget is that the contest now going on between the two great systems in the world is a contest which has been waged to only a very slight degree by military weapons. It is a contest which in the main has been waged for the minds and the allegiance of peoples in different parts of the world. Now, we stand in the United Nations as one of the great bulwarks and pillars of the belief that eventual peace is possible, and that eventual peace is possible through the process of reaching adjustment, reaching adjustment on a sound, durable, and just basis. Now, so long as the United Nations remains in the position in which it is the only instrumentality for reaching that adjustment, it still is the best hope for peace. Mr. Feller, do you seriously believe that it is possible to reach an adjustment on a sound, durable, and just basis with the present government of the Soviet Union? That's a hard question to answer. That's a very hard question. That's a very hard question. It's a very serious question. It is perhaps the hardest question of our time, and I don't think it is possible for anyone to give a quick answer to it. I think that our task is to keep on trying, and to keep on trying by utilizing all the instrumentalities we have, which include, in addition to the United Nations and its processes and its moral basis, the very things that Major Elliott was talking about, namely the building up of sufficient strength to make sure that we start negotiation from a position of strength and not from a position of weakness. How would you answer Elliott's question, Manley? Well, I think he is quite right, and I think the United Nations conciliation efforts have also failed in respect of Communist China, which has just contemptuously rejected the United Nations truce proposal. And also, I think the fact that we are relying now on this old system of power blocks and alliances is additional evidence of the failure of the United Nations. After all, the United Nations was founded on the principle of great power unanimity. Franklin Roosevelt gambled everything on the proposition that the United States and the Soviet Union could cooperate peacefully after the war for the maintenance of international peace and security. That cooperation obviously does not exist. We are going back to the old balance of power system, putting our hopes in a military alliance with the peoples of Western Europe. Well, you take a pretty dim view, I take it, of any possibility of working out a reconciliation of some kind with Russia without too much appeasement. That was really Elliott's question. Yes. I think it's absolutely impossible. If you reach any agreement with them at all, it would be worthless. They wouldn't respect it. I couldn't agree more. Well, now then, Manley, what kind of a program do you stand for? Well, it seems to me that the United States is the only power in the world which can counter Soviet power and can possibly deter the Soviet program to conquer the world. It seems to me that the United States can remain strong militarily only if it remains strong economically. And I don't see how we can maintain a sound economy in this country indefinitely if we resort to deficit spending at the rate of $25 billion a year, which is the projected deficit for the fiscal year 1952. If we fritter away our national substance trying to build up what Mr. Atchison calls the areas of strength all over the world, and if we start planning a mass land army in Europe with the ultimate purpose of invading Russia or even defending Western Europe against a Russian attack, it seems to me that would be a suicidal program. I think the only hope lies in some such program as former President Hoover recommended, which would base our defense system on the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans and the island approaches thereto, relying primarily on overpowering air and naval force. Well, Mr. Hoover, I think, has been wrong in this as he's been wrong in all of his public approaches to military subjects in my judgment. I think that he misunderstands the nature of air power and sea power, which have mobility as their life essence and therefore the offensive action as their principal means of operation. I don't believe we ought to just give up Western Europe and give up the vast industrial production of Western Europe to the Russians without firing a shot, if we can possibly defend it. I quite admit the possibility that we may not be able to defend it. That's very largely a matter of timing, a matter of the volume of effort that the Western European countries put forward, but I think we ought to make the effort. I think it's of vital importance to defend Western Europe and the approaches to the North Atlantic area. What do you think of Hoover's proposal, Eichelberger? Well, I think that instead of preserving peace, they would make the Third World War inevitable. I think that that... Why do you say that? Simply because if we are willing to tell the nations of Western Europe that we're no longer concerned with their security, or consider them a factor in our own security, except Britain, which Mr. Hoover rather cavalier says could be our outpost of security if they were willing. If with the same gesture he writes off India and a great many people in Asia that are aspiring to be free and to get out of colonialism and take their... be part of the world community, I should say we've thrown away all the moral forces that we need in our side. Say nothing of the uranium mines of the Belgian Congo. Right, right. Our principal source of atomic energy. Right. And Mr. Manley is going in the argument that we can defeat a potential aggressor all by ourselves more effectively than as if we had a lot of allies. There's a very sensible piece in the paper this morning that Paul Van Zeeland now has a plan for the pulling of the arms industries of Western Europe, a rationalization of their exchanges and so on, which would make the contribution that we'd have to make to Europe very much less. He's going with a theory that the rest of the world has nothing to contribute, that their alliance is a liability. Therefore, we're better off alone. It seems to me that that's one way of writing all the world off, which would be as morally a disastrous thing as has ever been done in history. And all by ourselves waiting until the aggressor had absorbed everything that we wanted to give up. And then based upon their strength, would take us alone. Well, I'm not here to interpret Mr. Manley, but I understand him to... No, I was talking about Mr. Hoover. I wasn't talking about Manley. Don't get me wrong. To be concerned lest we fritter away our resources in Korea and more Koreas and more Koreas. And in that way, lose our own strength. Is that your view? That's exactly what I think would happen if we tried to build up a force of say 60 or 100 divisions in Western Europe. It would be a provocation and it would serve no useful military purpose against a Soviet army of say 175 or 200 divisions. I think you get a slightly out of balance on that one. The Soviets can't deploy 175 or 200 divisions in Western Europe. They can deploy initially there about 50. And if you can hold on any well-selected defensive zone with 35 or 40 divisions initially, you can do quite a good job of delaying and cutting up. They can't...they can't...they have 175 divisions. They can't move them all into Western Europe at once. I don't pretend to be a military expert, but I read quite a bit...quite a bit about World War II. And I know that the Germans used a maximum of 200 divisions on the Eastern Front and they couldn't take Moscow. So what do you think we could do with 60 or 100 divisions against the Soviet Union on the continent of Europe? I'm only thinking of General Patton's formula for making war in which he said that the best way to make war was to hold the enemy by the throat with one hand and beat his brains out with the other. We have in our strategic air force possibly the means for beating his brains out. We lack anything to hold him by the throat while we're doing it. And I don't think anybody now is thinking of anything more than the terms of defending a comparatively short front in Western Europe or at least until help can arrive from elsewhere. We have been talking for the last few minutes about a military problem. And I'd like to bring the discussion back, now that we're nearing the end of our time, to the question with which we started, which has to do with the United Nations. And I'd like to leave these thoughts behind. The major effort which is being exerted by the Soviet Union has been to try to convince the peoples of the world that they are for peace and that the United States is for war. I think we will all agree, all Americans will agree, that the United States is for peace and that the programs which the United States is now embarking on, even though they involve large military expenditures, are for the purpose of preserving peace. Now, in the minds of the peoples of the world, the United Nations and the support for the United Nations is the symbol of peace. And I want to leave this one thought as my contribution to this discussion, that no matter where we choose to draw our defense line and no matter how much of our resources we expect to spend in the military way, it will amount to nothing. Unless we convince everybody in the world who is open to conviction that we are doing this for peace. And the best way to do that is to stand behind the United Nations. Well, on this question of convincing the peoples of the world that we favor peace and the communists favor war, I'm not sure we're doing a good job in the United Nations with the Asiatic peoples particularly. I'm not sure that the Soviet Union propaganda isn't very effective. They use the United Nations solely to disseminate their poisonous propaganda, to obstruct the peace efforts of other countries, and to screen their evil purposes which contemplate destruction of the whole world. Thank you, gentlemen, for a frank discussion of what I am sure is one of the most important questions in our time. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the transcribed Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Is the United Nations the Best Hope for Peace in 1951? Our guests were Clark M. Eichelberger, George Fielding Elliott, Abraham H. Feller, and Chesley Manley. Next week, the reviewing stand will present a discussion of the question, How Should Christians Look at War? Our speakers then will be the Reverend Edward V. Cardinal, Director of the Shield School of Social Studies of Chicago, the Reverend G. Eugene Durham, Director of the Methodist Student Foundation at Northwestern University, and James O'Neill, Chairman of the Department of Speech at Brooklyn College. We invite you to listen next week for a discussion of this interesting question, How Should Christians Look at War? The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Your announcer is Frank Babcock. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.