With all the pageantry that the City of New York can involve today, or invoke rather, and involve in this reception, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent M. Pelletieri, and the members of the Mayor's Reception Committee have turned out to honor the delegates to the 1950 Inter-American Press Conference here at City Hall. The various services, the Army, Navy, Marines, our own armies of blue, the Fire and Police Department are lined up here in the square in front of City Hall, and the magnificent bank of silk flags, which is always a decorative effect created by the Fire Department, and these 24 flags certainly give a magnificent background of color and pageantry to these occasions. In just a few moments, the buses now will pull in, and the guests who are getting their first view of Broadway, we believe some of them especially coming from foreign lands as they do, will get their first impression of this Grand Canyon that has been famous for its snowstorm of ticker tape, and other little items that are thrown down in the way of confetti and decoration when a parade passes up through the Grand Canyon of Broadway. The Police Department Glee Club are entertaining and have entertained the audience here in City Hall Park, previous to the formalities, and the band of the Department of Sanitation, Maestro Celebrate Conducting, have been entertaining as well. This plaza lends itself very beautifully to this sort of an affair. It has a complete stretch from Broadway to the old Boston Post Road, which we now call Park Row, of course, but in the colonial days, it used to start from the porch of St. Paul's Church, just at the foot of City Hall Park, and it ended in Boston, that other great patriotic spot in the history of America and its development as a nation. St. Paul's is going through a complete rejuvenation. It's not being rebuilt in any way. A great many things that were added to it in the past years have been eliminated, and the beautiful structure of the building itself is being restored to its pristine beauty and colonial grandeur. And very soon the chapel will be opened again, and it's important that it should, because it was there that George Washington and the members of Congress and Senate, both houses in fact, marched from Wall and Nassau Street to invoke the blessing of God on that particular occasion when the government of the United States was organized. The delegates are now taking their place here on the east side of City Hall Plaza, right under the windows of the mayor's office. And in only a few moments now, the Honorable Vincent Impeleteri, Mayor of the City of New York, Mr. Whelan, and the distinguished members of the committee who are here to receive the delegates will be here to bring you the regular order of reception. The City Hall itself represents quite a united nations attitude this morning because the flags of all nations are flying from the palustrade here at City Hall, mingling, of course, with our own stars and stripes, and the decorations and the lineup in the plaza itself is very beautiful. And now the band of the Department of Sanitation is playing a number. Maybe you'd like to listen. Mr. Whelan is now conducting the mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeleteri, and the distinguished delegates to their place on the stands here. To the music of the Department of Sanitation band, Maestro Celebre conducting. The weatherman has been very kind for holding off that threatened rain when the schoolchildren were here receiving the fire prevention awards at 11 o'clock. It was very threatening. But after all, the weatherman was very kind to the youngsters, and we got through that reception at 11 this morning. The mayor has been kept very busy this morning here in front of City Hall. Might we remind you that this is Fire Prevention Week, and it's very important that we take into consideration that 120 lives were lost last year, 25 of them children in casualties, fire casualties here in our city. And that leads to the fact that the City of New York and Fire Commissioner Quayle staged the Fire Essays Awards here in front of City Hall this morning to bring to your minds and to impress you with the awareness of the youngsters to Fire Prevention Week. And that's very important. When you realize that 985 firefighters were injured, some mortally, in service to their city last year, and that in some of these cases, the tragedy was all the more lamentable because they were false alarms. So it's to avoid all that and to cooperate with your city in making it a safe city that we ask your cooperation as good citizens while we have your attention on this great civic event here when the delegates of the foreign press are being received by Mayor Impelitari. Mr. Whalen is all smiles and his genial self here on the stand now as he's setting the stage for the entrance of the mayor and the members of the Board of Estimates and City Council who turn out to honor this occasion. No city in the world likes to acknowledge those who do things as much as the City of New York, a city that represents every facet of accomplishment in its conglomerate entirety, one of the greatest engineering cities in the world where some of the greatest engineering feats have been carried through. We only have to realize that when we look back on that dedication last Saturday of the sky away over those shelves there on Furman Street where the arterial highways leading from the main highways of Long Island and vice versa from New York State and through will pass through on those shelves with the beautiful promenade above it. That's only one of the engineering feats of your city. And now Mr. Whalen has just called for the band and the anthem. The band and the anthem is called for the band and the anthem. For the American Goodness and City Council who join the gentlemen on the same day in the winter and night near the Royal virtually Desert Nelson The occasion, ladies and gentlemen, is the mayor's reception to the delegates to the 1950 Inter-American Press Conference at City Hall. Mr. Whalen. The delegates of the International, American International Conference of 1950, it's a great honor for me to serve in the capacity of representing Mayor Impelitari at this time. Unfortunately, his schedule was such that he was not able to wait until our arrival, but he will catch up with us at luncheon so that you will not be denied the opportunity of meeting and hearing from him at that time. But here in this stately City Hall, where so many distinguished guests have been honored, it is a rather unusual situation to find that we are honoring not only our distinguished gentlemen from, of the press from South America or the Western Hemisphere generally, but also our own press representatives. It is the first time in my memory, at least, anyway, that the press has been honored by an escort up Broadway. They write a great deal about what happens during these gatherings, but rarely have they had an opportunity to see it themselves. And so I am sure that we welcome them here with a heart full of hospitality and gratitude for the fact that they have come to this city to hold their conference, the Inter-American Conference. The other cities in which the conference has been held have been Washington and Mexico City, Havana, Caracas, Bogota, and Cota, Ecuador. These places, these countries, have had the privilege of entertaining our distinguished guests over on these occasions. But New York has been selected this time, and I am sure that the conference will find the world city prepared to give them everything that it has in the way of cooperation, it can rather, and everything in the way of hospitality that they can offer. To introduce the president of the conference, I am privileged to introduce a distinguished publisher of the city of New York, a young man who has followed in the footsteps of his father and his grandfather and has brought to life that great editorial ability which we frequently find runs in families. But in this particular instance, many of the editorials that you read in his newspaper, he personally writes. I know that of my own knowledge, and it's a great thing to see a young man come through and do a job as well as Whitelaw Reed. And over yonder is the Tribune building, which used to house the Tribune in the olden days, before it went up to 42nd Street, is it? 40th Street, 41st Street, where the building is now, the New York Herald Tribune. The president of the New York Herald Tribune, Mr. Whitelaw Reed. Thank you very much, Mr. Whalen. As a representative of United States newspapers, I want to join with Mr. Whalen in saying how glad we are that the Inter-American Press Conference is meeting this week in New York City. It's been more than 20 years since the organization first gathered in Washington, D.C., and it seems high time that we had a return engagement in this country. In a day when grim problems beset the world at large, it's a good moment for the Americas to stand shoulder to shoulder. And in my opinion, there could be no more significant group for knitting this hemisphere together than that composed of those who record their country's events and are responsible for writing current history. The man who has done as much or more than anyone to work out arrangements for this meeting is the newspaper man who has long been known as a force in building inter-American understanding. In 1945, he was one of three to receive from Columbia University the Mariah Moore Cabot Gold Medals for efforts in behalf of Latin American friendship. More recently, the American Foundation gave him their America's Award for outstanding achievement in promoting understanding among the Americas through his association with North and South American newspapermen. He is the able editor emeritus of the Louisville Times, editor of this newspaper from 1930 until his retirement in 1948, a man who has been close to the world of ideas and who, in addition, has been close to the natural world and his Kentucky farm, Mr. Tom Wallace. It is a very great pleasure to me, a Kentucky farmer, as I have been described rightly, to be one of representative editors and publishers of a hemisphere who have the happiness to receive the hospitality of the greatest city of two hemispheres. I thank you. The spokesman for the visiting newspaper men this morning is the distinguished editor and owner of El Comercio in Quito, Ecuador. As in the case of Mr. Wallace, his efforts on behalf of Inter-American Solidarity have also won recognition from Columbia University. It was back in 1944 that he was awarded one of the Mariah Moore Cabot Gold Medals. Long a leader of the South American press in furthering the development of better relations between the two American hemispheres, he last year had the difficult assignment of steering the Inter-American Press Conference as its president. It's fine he has now come north, and it is indeed an honor to introduce Mr. Carlos Mantilla. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the visiting delegates and in the capacity of President of the Inter-American Press Society, I wish to express to Commissioner Weiland, to the Mayor of the City in particular, our deep appreciation for the very cordial welcome they have given us today. We are going to meet here in a great city. A great city not because only of its size, but because it is the center right now, where in open and free discussions, some of the most important decisions for the future of mankind are being taken. A city formed by people who have come from the four corners of the earth, the country with only one objective, under one banner, under one banner, to seek the freedom to have liberty, freedom and liberty of expression and of thought, freedom of opportunity and freedom of enterprise. We have come from different countries all over this hemisphere, also with the same aspiration, united under the same thought. To see how we can preserve those liberties that you and we enjoy so much in America. I do not think there could have been a better place chosen for these deliberations that we are going to start from today on. And I am sure that besides the great reception we are having today, of which we thank the mayor of the city so much, we shall also have the inspiration of the principles by which this nation has been the greatest that is right now on earth. We think that here we will have the best opportunity to defend what we think is the greatest aspiration of a newspaperman, that is the freedom of the press. In the name of the visiting delegates, therefore, I wish to express the deep appreciation we have for this very cordial reception and welcome. Thank you. Mr. Mantella's speech was a longer one than the one from Kentucky. Mr. Wallace, I'm sure, when he wrote his editorials, they were much longer than the speech he made here. We're going to entertain you for a moment and ask you to listen to the police glee club over there before we start for the Waldorf Astoria. Thank you. Voice and sing breath and breathe On the street, in the home, in a crowd or alone Come on and shout wherever you may be I am an American I am from the heart of me Rich or poor, young and old Let this message be told Just give a shout wherever you may be I am an American I'm proud of my liberty In the factory, in the mill Through each valley, from each hill Raise your voice and give America a thrill On the farms, in the schools Let's have one set of rules Come on and shout wherever you may be I am an American I am every part of me From Alaska's snowy pink To the stuff that muddy creeps Listen in because America now speaks America now speaks On the street, in the home, in a crowd or alone Come on and shout wherever you may be But you might keep ringing I am an American I am from the heart of me Rich or poor, young and old Let this message be told Just give a shout wherever you may be I am an American I am an American I'm proud of my liberty Oh say can you see How we love liberty On the farms, in the schools Let's have one set of rules Come on and shout wherever you may be I am an American I am an American Thank you Thank you. We want to make acknowledgement to the participation of the United States Army and the Navy and the Air Corps band, fire and pulleys, and sanitation. We thank you all for providing the escort for the conference to reach City Hall in safety and without too many traffic delays. We will now play the recessional and ask the ladies and gentlemen of the conference to return to the vehicle that they came down here in. Thank you all. The meeting adjourned. We brought you the reception from City Hall by the Mayor's Reception Committee, where the Honorable Groveray Whelan, Chairman of that committee, acted for the Mayor, the Honorable Vincent Impelle Terry, in receiving the delegates of the 1950 Inter-American Press Conference at City Hall. Mr. Whitelaw Reed, the distinguished young son of a distinguished father and publisher of the New York Herald Tribune, acted as chairman in introducing the guests of the Inter-American Press Conference and is chairman of the Inter-American Press Conference Reception and Hospitality Committee. The Honorable Vincent Impelle Terry, Mayor of the City of New York, will meet with the delegates at the luncheon at the Waldorf Astoria because his heavy schedule prevented his being here at City Hall at the moment because of a previous engagement and the delay of the delegation in arriving at City Hall. That is all now from the steps of City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. I'm joined by- Black Americans with the Co-C susrell hurting the match and jabping the system!