The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. What is happening to the American Theater? I think the American Theater is in a relatively unhealthy state and there's a great deal of room for improvement. I believe motion pictures have run theater out of almost every community in the United States. And has run the theater into the University Theater and into the Regional Theater. There are more plays being produced now in community theaters at any time in the past 15 years. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. A program in its 15th year on the air. Today the Reviewing Stand, transcribed, presents the third in its series on American Arts. We ask, what is happening to the American Theater? Our unrehearsed give and take discussion will center around the development of new actors and new writers. What the public prefers in drama and musical comedy. And comparison of the American Theater to that of other nations. Now our moderator, Robert Buchanan, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Buchanan. At this season of the year, a strange mixture of youth and maturity, of tradition and experiment, of countryside and city affects the American Theater. The summer theater, the straw hat circuit as we may call it, is now in vogue. And here the stage struck amateurs have a chance to act alongside Broadway veterans. And a new play might be able to try its wings alongside a tried and tested favorite. This summer activity brings to mind several important questions about our American theater. What chance have young actors and young playwrights? What are the tastes of our theater going public? And is the theater growing or dying out in America? To answer these questions, the Reviewing Stand welcomes two stars of the Chicago production of the tremendously popular Mr. Roberts, John Forsythe and Jackie Cooper. Mr. Forsythe has also been seen on Broadway in Winged Victory and All My Sons. And Mr. Cooper, of course, we all remember for his many motion picture roles. And to represent a different aspect of the theater, we welcome Miss Claudia Webster, instructor in dramatic production, and Edward Crowley, instructor in theater, both of the Northwestern University School of Speech. Now, Mr. Forsythe, you seem to view the American theater with anything but optimism. Why do you think that the theater faces such a dark picture today? Well, briefly for a couple of reasons. The theater seems to be, unfortunately, centralized in Manhattan. And while the regional theaters are growing, they're not growing fast enough to shoot me. And, of course, I feel very strongly about young talent, young writing and acting talent having places to develop. And I don't think there are really enough places that they get. We were stock theaters, and now we are completely dependent on community and university theaters. Mind you, while they're good, they're still limited. And we, in this country, with enormous resources, don't seem to have any real cultural need in our theater. We, uh, we have no subsidized theater, for one. Those things, I think, are the beginnings of a good, sturdy argument, anyway. I think we can get into that in just a moment. Well, Mr. Cooper, you believe that the movies have been very instrumental in adversely affecting the theater. Why has that effect been so vast as you picture it? Well, the movies, first of all, can produce pictures on such a larger scale. They can charge, consequently, a much smaller admission. And, uh, they can give four or five shows a day. And, uh, they're making a lot more money. Uh, they can, uh, spread their movies out, uh, further. And they can advertise, of course, much, uh, in, uh, a much bigger way. They can afford much more advertising than the very, the largest scale Broadway production that is on tour in the country. Or anything that might spring up in a city like Chicago or Cleveland or Detroit or any one place else. Well, the other side of the penny seems to interest you, uh, Miss Webster. You think that the, uh, movies might have driven the theater into the university theater, as you picture it. Is that good? I think it's very good. Mr. Forsythe spoke about the cultural lag in America in the theater. I think, probably, the cultural heritage that we're going to look back upon is the cultural heritage that comes from students in the university theaters, who have had good, sound, academic, and theatrical experience there. And then have gone on to New York or to, uh, community theaters, university theaters, and have, uh, become our own best competitors because of their, uh, heritage in intelligence and in cultural equipment. Well, on the other hand, Mr. Crowley, I might almost accuse you of being, uh, Pollyanna with regard to the theater today. You seem to think it's flourishing, it's wonderful, it's great. It is. It's all that, but I'm not being too Pollyanna-ish about it, because the records prove now that we have about 50 million people going to the theater annually, that is the living theater, and 80 million people going to the movies every week. And Mr. Cooper's argument there might hold some water. On the other hand, in the past 30 years, we had no little theaters at all 30 years ago, and now in almost every community of any size at all, and perhaps that means from 12 to 1500 small towns in the United States, are seeing live theater skipped by the road shows. In the old days, they used to play one-night stands, and now we have almost no good-sized touring show playing these small communities. And the community theater, or the local theater, is making good that way, and people are staying away from the movies in those small towns to work on their community theater. Staying away from the movies in the large towns. Well, what then does this auger for the future? What do you think is going to happen to our theater? Are we going to have more people attending, Mr. Crowley? No more than has happened in the past 3,000 years. Nothing has interfered so far to keep it from being a live activity, an interest to not only the bald-headed, tired businessman, but people go to the theater as they always did, because it was, well, propaganda, education, entertainment, and everything, and it's still doing that, in a smaller scale. It is the only one of the entertainments, even the movies, television, none of them have the three-dimensional quality that you have on the stage when an audience surrounds an actor, and he is, as they said in the Army, in the round. A round actor, isn't that what they called them, rather than... In the Army? A flat actor. Did they call them that in the Army? Sure, didn't they? When the live actors came to the various Army camps, they said they were going to have round actors, and... Well, I might say that most of the people I saw in the USO were round, more than a sense of slang terminology. Well, we seem to have this argument that you were looking for, Mr. Forsythe. How would you answer these two who seem to think that the future of the theater is rather bright? Well, I'm not going to hedge it all. I really am not. And I agree with a great many things that you say. And remember that in my opening statement, I said there was a great room for improvement. I didn't say that the theater was dead, nor fatally diseased. Particularly, I feel... I must harp on that one point, you know, the fact that we are the richest country in the world, do not have any sort of subsidized national theater, as a growing place for young writing talent, you know, and young acting talent. That seems to me unforgivable. We can build roads, you know, endlessly, and dams, of course, and they're very important too. But we have what I call a national contempt for culture. And I don't like to see that. You see, abroad, when I was abroad, the artist is a tremendously dignified, respected man. Not only the actor, but all artists. And here, the actor is just kind of a guy who's looking for a job, that's all, most of the time. And I find that most unfortunate. Well, I can see that, but how would you meet, then, the argument of Mr. Cooper? What would Mr. Cooper say to this dignity and so forth? The movies are certainly a commercial enterprise. Doesn't that enter the picture, where they must have the money, regardless of culture or stature, Mr. Cooper? What do you mean, they must have the money? I don't understand. Well, I mean, to produce a play. Mr. Forsyth is talking now about the artist being well-respected. Yes. Well, in this country, it seems to me the one who makes the most money is the one who has the most respect. Yes, unfortunately, that's the way it does go. But even the highest paid motion picture actor is, while some of the public looks at him in awe, the fine family would frown on their daughter going out with this actor, no matter how fine a reputation he had and how good a family he was supposed to have come from. They do look down on the actor in this country. They certainly do. I don't know why. I've never been abroad. But I know from reading and from what I've learned from the theater and the movies, that they do treat the artist differently in Europe. And because of their attitude toward him in this country, that there is this sort of, as John puts it, national contempt for culture here. It's not purposeful. I don't think that a lot of the country is aware of the fact that there is no government-subsidized theater. I really don't think they are aware of this at all. I don't... Miss Webster, what about the history of the theater here, especially in America? It must be much younger than that in Europe. Do you think that would have something to do with the view we have of the cultural side? Yes, I suppose so. The present history of the theater, however, is the most important to us. The regional theaters where, such as in Dallas, in Cleveland, in Seattle, where individual professional people have taken hold of a community enterprise and have gotten the backing of the community, have gotten professional actors to come in and help to organize a group. Those are the communities where there is no need for government subsidy because the community itself feels the necessity for subsidizing. I agree perfectly that there has to be some financial backing, but if the backing can be a community backing rather than an individual or a government backing, perhaps that would be the ideal consideration. Well, I assume that we might worry about political control in the case of a national theater, such as you mentioned, Mr. Forsythe. How do you meet that argument? I think that's a time-honored thing. We've always been frightened of political control. I think we ought to meet that when it comes. And I certainly do think that we should have enough faith in the democratic processes here in this country that would allow people to accept for themselves what is good for them and bad for them, certainly in the way of national theater. If they... I remember when I was a child, they talked about the authorities, and that was a big bogey with me, the authorities. And people seem to think that the government is an authority, too, and a big bogey. And I don't think that's... The government is us. And certainly in the way of national theater, if we find things that we don't find representative, well, then certainly we can do away with them. Let's get the national theater, and let's meet these problems. Mr. Crowley, you were talking about the WPA theater. Well, I was going to jump in on Mr. Forsythe then, with the audience demanding certain productions, which we couldn't have because the government said no, hands off. And while people were flocking to the theater in many cities all over the United States, asking for more of the same kind, the government said no. And Hallie Flanagan, who shall be nameless, backed the WPA theater to such an extent that she was perfectly willing for a long time to go into communities that have never even had a movie, to give people the kind of theater she thought they would maybe learn to grow on. And the government and a few of the senators who investigated the WPA project found that, aside from the pick and shovel, the federal theater was also spending much too much money and accomplishing nothing. But the people in those communities demanded more of Hallie Flanagan and her theater, but the government said no, we've accomplished nothing. Who in the government said no? The Senate. Ah, well then they're not representative of our wishes then. Is that not? Then we change the Senate. No, we in the audience can't say we want more of these things because they're free and you're paying for them. When the Senate says no, we're not paying for them, we don't get the performances. Well then we must demand that the Senate says that they pay for them. Because the Senate really is our voice, is it not? Right. Well then let's change our voice if it goes against our wishes. But Hallie Flanagan has gotten awfully tired of waiting. And she was the one inspiration, I think perhaps next to Winslow Ames and even Clayton Hamilton years before, who tried to establish a national theater in this country. Hallie Flanagan was the first one to put it into real action. And it was thrown back in her face and she gave it up. What of the Arts Council in England, what is that about Mr. Forsyth and how would that work here? Could we apply that to a national theater? Oh certainly we could. That's, the Arts Council in England, Mr. Crowley will bear me out on this, and he'll add to it too because we had a small discussion about that. As a subsidy granted by the British government, controlled by a small group of really distinguished people of the community. This, this council then passes on the requests sent in to them about the financial backing of various theatrical enterprises. Deems the cultural worth to the community and then decides yes or no. And it's been a tremendously successful thing there because they have put money into productions and they've chosen so well, that as a result these productions that they put money in have made money and so swelled the coffers, and now they have a great deal of money with which they invest widely in cultural things, you know, community culture. So then it isn't political at all because it is governed by your distinguished group from the community, not from the Senate at all. That's the important thing about it. Yes, yes. Well, it's, the Senate didn't even, didn't control the, uh, uh, in the case of the WPA, didn't control the nature of the productions. Oh no, but they voted the whole thing out. The appropriation. Right. Yes, yes. Well, that's the difference between the arts council and the Senate in this case, you know. Well, I'd like to turn to something a little different. Mr. Cooper, uh, I'm gonna put you on the spot. Do you ever meet people who wonder why you shifted from the motion picture field to the stage field and what is the reaction there? Oh yes, every day. Every day. Um, so I can give you an example. Riding in a taxi to work the other night to the theater, taxi driver was looking in his rearview mirror at me and, uh, finally said, uh, you're, uh, Jackie Cooper, aren't you? And I said, yes. And he said, uh, uh, what are you doing here in town? And, uh, I was a little surprised, of course. And I said, well, I'm in Mr. Roberts and playing one of the roles in Mr. Roberts downtown. He says, oh yes, that's that show down there. He says, I heard all about that. It's a good show. He said, um, uh, well, aren't you making any more pictures? And I said, no, no, I'm in the theater and I like it very much now. He says, oh gee, that's too bad. Well, you see, this, this fellow took it that I've come down a great step from the movies, you see. I've lowered myself in his eyes. Now this, this has happened many times. Excuse me. I've, I've, oh, this has happened with, uh, uh, the, all types of the public that I've encountered. Uh, they, they, they seem to look up to the movies as something, uh, more than the theater. These are people that are not educated to theater. These are people who, uh, who can afford to go to the movies because they are cheaper. And they can afford to send their children to the movies because they are cheaper. And when they come into a town like this, uh, the first thing they see on their, getting back to the advertising I brought up, are these great big ads, maybe, uh, mighty Joe. Mighty Joe. 30 inches wide, uh, or square, you see, or a half a page on, on some, uh, some picture coming from the coast, maybe with, uh, starring some people who are actually featured players in, in major productions out there. And, uh, they can't even find the space of advertising that Mr. Roberts has, or Inside USA, were it here, or Death of a Salesman when it comes. Because they can't, uh, afford that kind of advertising. Well, then we come down to a very commercial basis. What does the university do with that, uh, thing in mind, uh, Mr. Crowley? For instance, commercialism. Does the university theater have to make money, or can it portray whatever it wants? No, we sell out a whole season in advance, we say we're going to give you six plays, and you buy your ticket for the entire season, and we'll give you the six plays we think you should have. The theater guild does the same thing. Oh, political control. No, it isn't. No. The same as your arts council. The so-called distinguished people in your community pick what should go out to the community. We, on a staff, because we're employed to produce plays, are considered intelligent enough to choose good plays. Mm-hmm. So we pick six good shows, and it may be that Jackie Cooper, Jr. Mm-hmm. Isn't going to know three-penny opera from There's Always Julius, or the Inspector General from Dr. Knock, but he's going to know a great deal more about theater when he comes to one season of our theater. Mm-hmm. And he has spent his money, I think, rather wisely. Mm-hmm. And the theater guild will come to Chicago, or any other large city, and sell you a season of four shows. You don't know whether the lunch are going to come or not. It might be even a galleon in the cherry orchard. We're going to give you, says the theater guild, four shows. You take it and like it. In other words, reputation in both these instances, with the arts council and with the theater, you know you're going to get a good show so that you go to it, regardless of the advertising that Mr. Cooper talks about. Ms. Webster? Mr. Cooper spoke of education, that the public wasn't educated to the theater, it was educated to movies. I think that's certainly true in this generation. But the public needs to be educated, of course, to the theater, not only as a place to go and watch a peephole show, as they now do, but to watch this round actor I spoke of. I think not only do we need to get a healthier respect about the theater, from the standpoint of playwriting, play directing, play acting, but the very fact that the theater building itself needs to be changed in construction. So long as we look at a theater through a proscenium arch only, the playwrights and the actors and the directors and the scene designers will only have that one medium with which to express themselves. Frank Lloyd Wright and Norman Bel Geddes, for instance, are both trying to promote theater construction in what they call flexible theater styles, using such style as theater in the round, proscenium theater, outdoor theater, various constructions, which will make possible... Well, I'm a little lost with this expression, theater in the round. What do you mean? Well, it's something the Greeks knew about a long time ago, and it's something that has become perhaps the most vital community theater advance in theater construction. It's happening right here in Chicago right now. Yes, at the 10th Theater. They're packing them in out there. I think the most famous one now is the one down in Dallas called Theater 49. It was begun, I think, in Seattle some years ago in the Penthouse Theater. A means of getting the audience in a complete circle around the actors so that you get a more intimate approach. It's a smaller circus ring is what it is. Yes, exactly. Yes. A wonderfully exciting... ...establish wonderful contact with the actors and the audience. Contact. Yes. And the audience is in constant... I mean, the actor and the audience is in constant contact with each other because there is no turning upstage... The actor can't hide. Upstage... Upstage... Upstage... Yes. We were talking about that the other night. It's pretty frightening. The first time you come out in the theater in the round... Yes. ...and you see people all around you say, now where can I go? Well, you have to dive off the side, I take it, to get out the wings. Well, I think the plays that Mr. Miller is writing, for instance, and some of the plays such as the Thornton Wilder things and the others, are trying to find a way of expressing themselves wider and perhaps this architectural means will help too. Well, now you talk about established plays. I think we mentioned many of them here. What about the young playwright who wants to break into the theater game, Mr. Crowley? What chance does he have at all? I think perhaps the regional theater or your university theater is perhaps his best out. Certainly Broadway isn't going to gamble on him. It costs something like $50,000 to $75,000 to raise the first curtain on a very simple one-set production, including the actors. And it takes at least 20 to 25 weeks to pay the nut, the so-called operating expense, before you make a penny. So only an established author is good for Broadway. I'm not defending motion pictures while I'm not trying to offend them, but... Oh, we're a politician. Excuse me. But no, no, it isn't that at all. I've been much happier in the theater for the last two years. But there is a story department on every major lot. And there is, I believe, nothing like this in New York City or wherever your theater center would be. Let's say yours is in Chicago. There is no story department back here. Out there in every major lot, I'll take an example of Metro-Golden-Mare, where there is a story department. There are six or eight men in there. While this may not be the fairest sort of thing in the world, at least it's going on. It's a step for the young playwright. These men read everything that is brought in there. Any boy, any waiter, any truck driver, any banker, any lawyer, any millionaire. Anybody can bring a story in there, and these boys read them. Now, these boys are supposed to be qualified readers. They are sometimes writers with nothing to do, and they are sometimes not qualified readers. But they are supposed to be. At least an elimination is made of these things. Of course, something by Arthur Miller wouldn't go through the story department because he would have no trouble getting rid of that, and the studios would be out looking for it, or Thornton Wilder, et cetera. But at least this waiter's script, we'll say, or this taxi driver's script, is being read. A moderator's script, perhaps? A moderator's script. A moderator's script. This is being read, and at least it is being, uh, in, it is in competition, where it is brought down to an elimination, and of a number of, say, a hundred this boy has read, ten or eight or whatever the producer wants, is brought into the producer. Each producer has his representative and has started a play. I think he might have turned down Arthur Miller, though, in the beginning, before Arthur Miller became a success. He might, I... Because of the nature of the thing that Arthur Miller writes. Well, I know that they... What they want out there. The, uh, John, I'm not defending them. I am saying that there is at least a story department. There is a central reading room. There is no reading room in New York for, for this waiter's script. There is none here in Chicago, and I don't probably, there isn't one right in Northwestern University. That brings up that, that point about, uh, a living theater with, which playwrights have to work. They, uh, there was a big, big, uh, discussion about that in New York at a writer's forum, and they said that they demand a living theater. It's the only way that they can ever improve on themselves and work and constantly grow, and, and, uh, widen their talents. They said in the days of the Globe Theater, Shakespeare became a great writer because he had the living theater to work with, and the Abbey Theater with, with, uh, Yates and O'Casey, and even the group theater with, uh, Sidney Kingsley and Odette's, and that's what we need today. We need a living theater, and that's why I go back to the National Theater again, and, of course, with, with, uh, uh, depend strongly, of course, on the regional and community theaters and university theaters. Well, that's an economic problem, don't you think, John, is in the way of all of that of a living theater? These boys can't work. I talked to a boy on the beach, um, today. Um, today, this boy couldn't go out and work out here because they were only paying scale, and he had a chance to work on five or six plays this summer, and he could do better than working for actors, uh, equity minimum out there. Now, here he could be seen out there, but he couldn't afford to go out there. He has a mother to support, and he can do better. Jobbing in town, I don't know exactly what he does, he drives for some concern or something, but gets paid by the hour and can do better. And in order to support them, uh, he has to do this other work. An actor in New York now has to be able to have other means of support. The cost of living in this country is up to him. And especially what about the young actor that you and Miss Webster are training, Mr. Crowley? What chance does he to get into the theater? One in ten thousand, I think. I don't think any greater than that. And yet they continue to come to the theater and want to be actors and actresses? Every year there'll be ten thousand more. And there should be opportunity for them to act, too. That's right. They should try to prove themselves. They should not be turned on before they get a chance to prove themselves. Well, what about television and how it's going to make it possible for more actors to act? And is it going to, um, do anything to this three-dimensional quality we're talking about? Oh. You're a veteran of television, Mr. Forsyte. What do you think? Well, television is by far the most difficult medium for the actor at this point, that combines all the difficulties of stage acting and motion picture acting and inadequate rehearsal. A lot of extra noise. And all the real problems. More distraction than an actor could face under any other medium. I did a stint in television backstage last year and was amazed at the distraction and the lack of rehearsal time. Valerie Bettis and I were dancing. We had a scene from Holiday in the last television show I did. We were supposed to waltz. You know, that lovely scene in the playroom on New Year's Eve. Yes. And here, and she's a magnificent dancer. And, and she was leading me around. And here people were pulling cables, you know, from underneath. Wow. That was a feat. Well, at least it should give more jobs to these actors, though, shouldn't it? It very definitely will. They very definitely will. The local television stations are springing up all over the country, are they not? And in these they're going to put on plays. This here is a little room for playwrights and also for actors to come up. Well, I think that no matter what stage it's in, it's at least developing. And that certainly is important to the situation. But what future do you see, Mr. Crowley, now for the theater? I think the same 50 million people who've been going for the past 20 or 30 years will go on for the next 20 or 30 years and no more. I'm glad to agree with you on that point. I don't think it's as unhealthy as I thought. Ha ha! Talked you out of that one. Yes, you did. I think the theater is in a wonderfully healthy condition. When such plays as Streetcar Named Desire can have the group performance, it is having the sense of unity of the theater, which is what we all would like. Well, your ideas on the future of the theater, after all, seem pretty hopeful, it seems to me. But your warnings about the work and toil of the theater instead of the glamour which attracts so many of us toward one side or the other of the footlights should also be heated. I hope, though, that we may all look forward to as much development in the American theater in the future as we've had in the short time that it's been operating here. Thank you. You've been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, What is Happening to the American Theater? Today's program, as you probably know, is the third in our series on the so-called American arts, music, literature, and theater. You'll find the printed copies of each of these discussions stimulating reading. And the list of books and articles about each of these arts provides extensive reference material if you wish to read more about these three program subjects. Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin, one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today, heard on transcription, were Jackie Cooper and John Forsythe, famed stage personalities, who are now appearing in the Chicago production of Mr. Roberts. Edward Crowley and Claudia Webster, both of the theater department in Northwestern University's School of Speech. Now our moderator, Robert Buchanan, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand observes the birthday of the famed German author and philosopher, Johann Wolfgang von Goethe. We will discuss the surprisingly modern ideas of Goethe in our discussion, Goethe 200 Years Ago and Today. Our guests will be C.R. Goethe and Harold Janz, both of the German department at Northwestern University, and Helmut Rader, head of the University of Illinois German department. We invite you then to listen next week for Goethe 200 Years Ago and Today. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Frank Sweeney speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.