From the Board of Estimate Chambers in City Hall, WNYC and WNYC-FM bring you the celebration ceremonies of the 247th anniversary of the birth of Benjamin Franklin. These celebrations are held annually in cooperation with a host of printing educational and civic organizations. We have many distinguished speakers here today. Representing the city are the Honorable Charles Horowitz, Deputy Mayor, and Dr. William Jensen, Superintendent of Schools. Here now is our Master of Ceremonies, Harry J. Friedman, Sales Director of the Cary Press Corporation. Mr. Friedman. Will you please rise for the Pledge of Allegiance, led by Leonard Tashman, student of the New York School of Printing, to be followed by the National Anthem, played by the New York School of Printing Orchestra. I have the allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and the true republic for which it stands, one nation, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all. I'm sorry. It depends. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Your program calls for the chairman of this meeting to be my father, Commissioner William H. Friedman, who is chairman of the Graphic Arts Educational Commission. He is out of town today, and the commission has asked me to substitute for him, for which I am deeply honored. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, faculty, and students of the New York School of Printing. One of the most brilliant sides of the many-sided Franklin was his talent as a publisher. Running through all accounts of his life, from early teens to old age, are innumerable references to his publishing activities. And in most instances, he didn't go very far to find an author whose works to publish. He was his own author. In Franklin's day, travel, and hence communication, was slow. It took three weeks to make the round trip from Boston to Philadelphia by the fastest means of transportation. I might add that if any of you had been in New England this morning, you would think that three weeks from Boston to Philadelphia might be a pretty good town, because the roads out there are completely impossible, and I think it would take a good week if you had to use the methods that they used in those days. In spite of this communication problem, Franklin was able to shape public opinion through all accounts by his published writings. Those writings were among the most valuable cargo that the stagecoats and the packet coats carried from town to town. It is interesting, then, to speculate on what Franklin's power would have been today as a publisher. Let's briefly review, in chronological order, a few of the many phases of his publishing. His ballads, published in his early teens, when they were hawked in the streets of Boston, were the colonial version of today's Tin Pan Alley and American popular songwriting. When he was fifteen, his brother James started the New England Courant, the fourth newspaper in America, and friends shook their heads, lamenting that one newspaper would certainly be enough for 400,000 pounds. It would be all they could support. But the paper flourished, and largely because of the articles which appeared by the younger brother, Benjamin, writing under the pseudonym, Silence Do Good. Two years later, at an age when today most journalistically inclined young men are either entering college or are starting as newspaper copy boys, the self-educated Franklin became publisher of the current. Seven years later, he was sole owner and editor of the Pennsylvania Gazette. The Gazette, a most profitable enterprise, achieved the largest circulation of any periodical in the colonies with distribution from Virginia to New York. It continued publication until 1821. In 1732, Franklin started a paper in Germany, and in the same year he put out his first issue of Poor Richard, his famous almanac, which per capita was the leading bestseller of all time. It reached the amazing circulation of 10,000 in 1748, and besides the American editions, there were 75 English, 56 French, 11 German, and 9 Italian editions. What a testimonial to the universal appeal of Franklin's thoughts in a day when even the most broad-minded of the colonists were kept by their isolation to an unappealing narrow provincialism. Franklin's books, the way to wealth, and his biography are the best known of his writings. And as Carl Van Duran put it, they have been taken for the essence of his wisdom. In those days of long distances, primitive printing methods and slow distribution, Franklin was the first chain publisher in history. It shopped in Philadelphia, New York, Charleston, New Haven, Boston, and even in few places in the West Indies. It would take too long to relate all the other highlights of his publishing. Despite, however, the versatility of his publishing interests, he published writings in book form by Cato, which were the first Latin works to be translated and printed in America. He published the earliest American medical treatise. He brought the postal system of the colonies to a new high in efficiency, probably to improve the methods of circulating his own publication. He started the first circulating library, thus providing another outlet for his publishing. He even invented a device such as the one you see in grocery stores today to take things off the top shelf, which would enable library patrons and librarians to reach easily the products of his publishing and other people's publishing. Franklin's publishing, with its remarkably wide range, appeals to all. To the young, because of the balance. To businessmen, because of the almost complete financial success of his publishing enterprises, which had a lot to do with the fact that he was able, when he was in his 40s, to retire as wealthy man. It appeals to scientists, because of the clarity and soundness of his scientific writings, and even to those who enjoy touches of revelation and humor and find them frequently in Franklin's Almanac and other of his writings, as material. Truly the power of the published word in all history has had no greater practitioner than Franklin, who hardly ever needed to seek an author nor a market for the products of his own publishing genius. Benjamin Franklin prided himself on being a craftsman in his trade. It is quite fitting that we have the president of the New York Club of Printing House Craftsmen due honor to Benjamin Franklin. Benjamin Franklin. I am pleased to present Mr. Edward C. Sanna, Production Manager of Arco Manifold and Company, who will speak on Benjamin Franklin, the guardian of the free press, Mr. Sanna. Mr. Chairman, honored guests, faculty, and students of the New York School of Printing. Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. D'Boh, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, Mr. Sanna, and journals. Without freedom of thought, there can be no such thing as wisdom, and no such thing as public liberty without the freedom of speech, which is the right of every man as far as by it he does not hurt or control the right of another. And this is the only check it ought to suffer and the only bond it ought to know. Whoever would overthrow the liberty of a nation must begin by subduing the freedom of speech, a thing terrible to trade. Benjamin Franklin, through this experience, had learned at first hand something of newspaper censorship, and through it he was taught to value the freedom of the press. Years later, in an apology to war printers, which he published in his own Philadelphia printing house, he clearly stated his attitude. It is a remarkable statement, one in which the writer's firm underlying principle is provoked in expressions so practical and business-like as to be almost jockeys. He said, to begin with, that people's opinions vary, and that it is the business of the printer to print them. The printer's are, he wrote, educated in the belief that when men differ in opinions, both sides ought equally to have the advantage of being heard by the public, and that when truth and error have fair play, the former is always an overmatch for the latter. Hence, they cheerfully serve all contending writers that pay them well, without regarding which side they are of the question and dispute. If all printers were determined not to print anything until they were sure that it would offend nobody, there would be very little printing. Franklin's life was a long one. It was long enough, fortunately, for him to see the realization of some of his dreams. Toward the end of his life, when the freedoms in which he believed were taking shape in the new United States, he wrote to a friend. God grant that not only the love of liberty, but a thorough knowledge of the rights of men may pervade all the nations of the earth, so that a philosopher may set his foot anywhere on its surface and say, this is my country. In these terrible days, when the rights of man continue to be violated, through Franklin's prayer, we can only add, amen. One of the greatest contributions that Benjamin Franklin has made towards the encouragement of good habits has been his enthusiasm for thrifts and savings. Our next speaker is the president of the International Benjamin Franklin Society and president of the Central East Federal Savings and Loan Association. He will speak to us on Benjamin Franklin, the Apostle of Thrift, Brigadier General George L. Bliss. Good morning, friends of Franklin. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, everyone. Wherever in this world he may go and ask of people who is the outstanding exponent of the value of thrifty habits, the odds are very much that the response will be Benjamin Franklin. Now, it's interesting to observe in that connection that in Franklin's day there were no savings institutions such as we have today. Savings institutions didn't come into existence in this country or I believe anywhere else for more than 50 to 75 years after Franklin's busy life. So that when Franklin was preaching the habits of thrift, he was talking in the broad sense, not in the strict savings habit of which we speak today. I think that Franklin had three things in mind when he spoke of the values of thrift. He spoke of conservation of money for what it might do, conservation of things that they might last, and conservation of time that it might be well employed. Now, the fashion in which Franklin achieved this reputation as being the apostle of thrift is an interesting one. Particularly, as I said, in light of the fact that he wasn't thinking in terms of savings institutions, which we commonly associate with the thrifty habit today. Franklin achieved his reputation by writing and publishing. and publishing. Wise mottos and maxims. Some of them he undoubtedly gathered up as household phrases of the day. Many or most of them he invented and devised himself. The method by which he got these maxims into common use, though that we like to refer, they're so well established that we like to refer them today, that method he describes in his autobiography. Writing there, he says, In 1732, I first published my almanac, under the name of Richard Saunders. It was continued by me about 25 years, commonly called Poor Richard's Almanac. I endeavored to make it both entertaining and useful. Observing that it was generally read, I considered it a proper vehicle for conveying instruction among the common people, who bought scarce any other books. I therefore filled all the little spaces that occurred among the remarkable days in the calendar, with proverbial sentences, chiefly such as inculcated industry and frugality, as the means of procuring wealth and thereby securing virtue. I think the next phrase is particularly pertinent these days in the newspaper headlines when he observes, it being more difficult for a man in want to act always honestly. I'm going to share with you for just a few minutes, some of these proverbs and maxims that he wrote and placed in Poor Richard's Almanac, as he has described, which have a particular bearing upon thrift and the virtues of thrift. First is one which is so well known that it should hit any such list as this. For age and want, he said, for age and want, saith while humane, no morning sun lasts the whole day. Then there is another one of equal force. A penny saved is two pence clear. A pin a day is a grody year. Saved and half. The money of the day was the pound, not the dollar. It had not come into use. The next two that I'm going to repeat to you speak in terms of pounds as the circulating money of that day. For six pounds a year, said Poor Richard, for six pounds a year you may have the use of 100 pounds if you are a man of known prudence and honesty. Then he spoke of the value there is, the character, by the practice of thrifty habits, when he said, after getting the first hundred pounds, it is more easy to get the second. Now, running through the thread of Franklin's maxims was the point that the important thing is to make the start. At one place he said, every mickle, every little makes a mickle. And at another place he wrote, beware of little expenses. A small leak may sink a ship. I have here another one, considerably longer, but in which a whole sermon is contained in four lines. Said Franklin, writing as Poor Richard, he that idly loses five shillings worth of time, loses five shillings into the river. He that loses five shillings, not only loses that sum, but all the other advantages that might be made by turning it in dealing. Which, by the time a young man becomes old, amounts to a comfortable bag of money. Now, thrift, as Franklin saw it, and as we should see and know it today, lies not only in saving money, but also in spending wisely, in conserving what we have. And on that score, Franklin wrote this. Buy what thou hast no need of, and ere long thou shalt sell thy necessities. And at another time he wrote this very pungent phrase. If you would know the value of money, go and try to borrow some. Reverting to the theme of saving, he said at another time, if you'd be wealthy, think of saving more than getting. More than getting. And then, and still another one. All things are cheap to the saving, dear to the wasteful. And here is one that, if you forget all of the others, this is a short one that you can carry with you. You see, and, and, and, and remember it, because, uh, there's a terrific amount of meat in it. Necessity never made a bad, as you were, necessity never made a good bargain. I'm going to close by reading you two more. One which I think we, uh, might all, all of our young people at least, might take to heart. Ne'er take a wife, till thou hast a house to put her in. And finally, and finally, I'm going to read one which I think, uh, probably belongs in any review of Franklin's writings on this subject of thrift. Because I want to emphasize to you and leave with you the note. But he spoke of thrift, not for the sake of thrift, but for the things that it would do to people in improving their character and their method, style of living. And so, as a final quotation this morning, let me read you this from poor Richard's Almanac. The use of money is all the advantage there is in having money. Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker to pay honor to Benjamin Franklin represents the great advertising industry in New York City. He is the president of the Advertising Club of New York and is also vice president in charge of sales of Bristol Myers Company. Mr. George S. McMillan, who will discuss Benjamin Franklin, the publicist. Mr. McMillan. Mr. Chairman, gentlemen, the recent election of General Eisenhower is attributed by some, in no small measure, to the effective use of the power of the publicity. Now, whether it be to elect a president of a country, to espouse a worthy cause, or to promote the sale of merchandise and service, the influences of publicity and public relations are now recognized as being essential in today's way of business life. Benjamin Franklin recognized this fact, too. While the techniques and the media of advertising and publicity were limited in his day and time, nevertheless, he made considerable conscious effort to use publicity in all manner, manners, and for all purposes. For example, just about 200 years ago, Franklin designed the first American cartoon. It appeared in his Pennsylvania Gazette, to which you have heard reference, and the legend below the cartoon was Join or Die. The primary object of this drawing, accompanied by an appropriate notation, was to influence the leaders of the several colonies toward a recognition of the need for unity. The same sketch with revised copy was often reprinted at the outbreak of the Revolution. So we see that Franklin and his contemporaries not only used a good publicity device, but repeated it as often as possible, so that it would produce the greatest results. From the vantage point of the mid-20th century, we look back and wonder how he arranged and managed to actuate the type of response he achieved through his publicity. There was no television, radio, or other electrical devices to help him put over a smash advertising campaign in conjunction with the printed word. Yet with his ingenuity and flair for the unusual, Franklin performed wonders. Franklin and the Gazette was willing to take the stale trickle of news that came to it and rewrite it into more expressive language. Then, editorially, he presented the pros and cons of each article. And thus, the news items became both informative and educational. The public soon came to notice the difference between the Gazette and the other publications of those times. But Franklin helped to form and to mold public opinion. With his publicity device as a springboard, the Gazette achieved the largest newspaper circulation in America. In his paper, he encouraged local and regional advertising. Franklin solicited publicity items, wrote the copy himself, and then arranged it in a typographic style where its appearance quickly distinguished it from the general reading matter and thus brought attention to itself. Franklin's attitude seemed to have been that of a man of superior intelligence and good taste. He used the printed word as a medium for stirring up his fellow citizens to the need for certain improvements and innovations for their betterment. On one occasion, Franklin was his own ghostwriter. He addressed letters to himself under an assumed name and published them in his newspaper for the purpose of stimulating public interest in fire prevention and the establishment of a firefighting corps. And this device, as a matter of fact, as you know, has lived to today. For extended discussions in political and economics, Franklin resorted to pamphlets. Add another facet to the many-sided Franklin, that of a pamphleteer. Here is the title of one of his pamphlets. A Modest Enquiry into the Nature and Necessity of a Paper Currency. It might have been written last year. The publicity engendered by Franklin's discourse focused attention on him, while the discussion itself was considered to be among the ablest writing on the subject. Incidentally, and by no means insignificantly, Franklin was rewarded for his efforts by the receipt of a contract to print the paper money for the colony of Pennsylvania. An aroused public Franklin knew could only function successfully and continuously if it were aided in assimilating and using knowledge. Leaders had to be made aware of their responsibilities and the public needed enlightenment and encouragement. The young Franklin organized a group of friends to prepare discussions and debates on morals, politics, natural science, philosophy, and the like. Ultimately, this group grew into a philosophic society, the potential leaders of American thought. Franklin followed up this idea when, some years later, and with accumulated wisdom, he published proposals relating to the education of youth in Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania. His campaign of publicity strategy, in this instance, led to the founding of what is now known as the University of Pennsylvania. Franklin felt that this was an excellent means for the interchange of ideas between the men of learning and for publicizing their best thinking. Today, we would call such an educational program, philanthropic publicity, or institutional advertising. Franklin did not confine his publicity efforts to the internal problems and affairs of the colonies. He worked perseveringly to interpret his country to the motherland as well as to France. He attempted new forms of propaganda with which to acquaint the English rulers and their parliament with the issues affecting British-American relationships. When Franklin went to France, he continued his energetic writings on publicity before the court of France. And so he helped to win over that kingdom toward an alliance with the American colonies. As a publicity campaign manager today, Franklin would be among the top-notch men who would and could help our nation to maintain its preeminent position in the world of free nations. He surely exemplified the necessity for influencing people through publicity and good public relations. We know that this is so because the documents, activities, and organizations which bear his name or his imprints attest to the fact. All of these bear witness to Benjamin Franklin's immortality, which we recall today on this, the 247th anniversary of his birth. Thank you. Only those who have time to study the operation of New York's public schools can appreciate how large and complex is the task of administering this great educational system. Those who are familiar with these problems, as well as the development of the carefully prepared program on printing vocational education, know of the fine work being done under the supervision of our next speaker. No one is better qualified to discuss his topic, Benjamin Franklin, the educator. I am deeply honored to present Dr. William Janssen, Superintendent of Schools, the City of New York. Dr. Janssen. Mr. Sounds as if I have a clack here. Mr. Friedman, honored guests and faculty members and boys of the printing school. Although I am down on the program to speak on Franklin the educator, I'm going to depart a little bit from that subject this morning to bring out another trait because almost everything that the previous speakers have said, uh, shows in some way what a great educator Franklin really was. Mr. McNally spoke on the working man and you boys who are in a vocational high school know how closely work and education are related in your school. Mr. Walling spoke about Franklin the publisher. He mentioned that for the first time some books had been printed on medical profession and that in itself was a great educational step forward. He also mentioned what Franklin had done in the way of public libraries, a powerful educative force in the days preceding the organization of our school system. General Bliss has again emphasized thrift and we know how important thrift is in the education of the youth. Mr. McMillan mentioned the use of visual aids like cartoons and he mentioned how important it is to use the right kind of language to say what you really want to say in terms of the people who are reading it. Mr. Sanna mentioned the importance of the free press because like Mr. Sanna I feel that the free press is one of the most important things in our whole civilization. Mr. Sanna mentioned the use of visual aids and the education of the free press would be pretty poor. Mr. Sanna mentioned the use of visual aids like this. There are countries today in which the education in the schools and the education of the adults is hampered by the fact that the things that they are allowed to read and to hear are severely limited. Mr. Sanna was a great believer in the freedom of the press. Franklin was a great believer in the freedom of the press. But he added one other factor which we don't mention too often and that is why I want to mention it this morning. Namely, Franklin had very deep religious convictions. He would say that even if it were possible for a man to read all that comes off our presses, he still would not know the final answer because that can come only from omniscience. When we had the Constitutional Convention in 1787, Benjamin Franklin made his belief in God very clear. For he said to the assembly that was setting up our Constitution the following, I have lived, sir, a long time. And the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth that God governs in the affairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice, is it probable that an empire can rise without his aid? And he went on to say, We have been assured, sir, in the sacred writings, that except the Lord build a house, they labor in vain that build it. I firmly believe this. And I believe that without his concurring aim, we shall succeed in this political building no better than the builders of Begley. We shall be divided by our little partial local interests. Our projects will be confounded. And we ourselves shall become a reproach and a by-word down to future ages. And what is worse, said Franklin, mankind may hereafter, from this unfortunate instance, despair of establishing governments by human wisdom, and leave it to chance, war, and conquest. Printing week in New York is of great importance because it sends us all back to search the treasures of Benjamin Franklin. We meet here annually to commemorate his birth. And each year, new aspects of his life are brought out by the speakers. Each year, we are inspired anew by the almost unbelievable abilities of this great man. Thank you. Our next speaker has unusually fine qualifications to speak with us today. His background as a lawyer and public servant is one of continued interest in the betterment of our city administration. Representing the city government, we are honored to have the deputy mayor of the city of New York, who will discuss Benjamin Franklin, citizen and patriot. It is a pleasure to present to you, honorable Charles Horowitz. Thank you. Mr. Chairman, distinguished guests, faculty and students of the printing school. As the official representative of Mayor Impeletere, it is a privilege and a pleasure for me to participate in these ceremonies, marking printing week in New York City, and observing the 247th birthday anniversary of Benjamin Franklin, patron of printing. I should like to read to this gathering the official proclamation of the mayor designating the period of January 11th to 17th as printing week in New York City. The official representative is a proclamation. Whereas since Johann Gutenberg in 1440 shortened the labor of copyists by the divisive movable type, printers have been leaders in the cause of peace and freedom and the spirit and soul of culture, knowledge and religion for the benefit of humankind. And whereas printing is a strong and effective voice today in spreading knowledge and understanding, and is the herald of tomorrow. And whereas New York City is the nation's greatest center for the creation, production and purchase of printed matter of all kinds, employing many thousands of our citizens. And whereas it is proper that New York City participate in the nationwide observance of printing week, an annual event commemorating the 247th birthday of Benjamin Franklin, patron of American printing arts. Now therefore I, Vincent Arm Pelletari, mayor of the city of New York, do proclaim January 11th to 17th, 1953 as printing week in New York City, and urge our citizens to join the members of the more than 70 graphic arts, advertising, educational, trade union, consumer and civic associations, and the programs and activities of the city of New York City, and the programs and activities of the citywide celebration of printing week in our city. Signed and sealed by Vincent Arm Pelletari, mayor. May I now discuss briefly the role of Benjamin Franklin as citizen and patriot. Benjamin Franklin was a patriot, but a patriot with a difference. For all his patriotism, all his idealism, all his democratic philosophy might have gone for naught had he not been endowed with hard-headed practical ability. Just as he had harnessed the lightning, so Franklin harnessed his ideals to the common will. He was a genius of many gifts, and all of these gifts he turned to the service of his community and of his country. When at the age of 17 Franklin came to the city of Philadelphia, he found the streets muddy, sanitation non-existent. It was unsafe at night. There was no way of checking fires efficiently. The poverty-stricken sick were ignored, neglected, and the insane wandered at large. Worst of all, the city administration was apathetic. Like the good citizen he was, Franklin took upon himself the responsibility for changing all this. Through his Junto Club, the great-grandfather of our civic betterment leagues, and through his newspaper, Franklin turned Philadelphia into a safe, comfortable, and organized city. In the young, growing metropolis, he instituted paved streets, better lighting, and a system of street cleaning. He organized the first fire department, the first fire insurance company, and he reformed the police force. He established the first library, the first college, and the first hospital in the city. So great a genius as Franklin was bound to find a wider field for his activities than just one city. This came about during the French and Indian War. After making a survey of the defenses of Philadelphia, Franklin decided that they were far from adequate, and he awakened his fellow citizens to the fact. As a result, an association of volunteer militiamen was formed throughout Pennsylvania. It was during this war that Franklin embarked on the diplomatic career that was to bring him great fame. He was sent as a commissioner to talk peace with the Indians. The first mistake in public business, said poor Richard, is the going into it. Franklin's attitude toward civic service, however, was in practice not so cynical as that might indicate. Upon accepting his first important government post, that of Deputy Postmaster General, he announced that his rule for public office was, never ask, never refuse, nor ever resign. Up to the time of his taking this office, the mails had been uncertain and irregular. The colonists could hardly be blamed for not placing much confidence in their own postal system. There was, for instance, only one mail a week between Philadelphia and New York, and that only in good weather. One of his most valuable contributions was to make the postmasters and postmen from New Hampshire to Georgia, aware of the importance and unity of this new postal service. By improvements in the speed and safety of the mails, he led them to be increasingly used. This unified postal service, Franklin's handiwork, was at the time of the Revolution one of the strong factors which gave the colonists a sense of national solidarity. It was a great force in holding the colonies together. Franklin's activities during the Revolution, his work for the repeal of the Obnoxious Stamp Act, his drafting of the Declaration of Independence, his diplomacy which won the support of France, and his role of elder statesman at the Constitutional Convention, all these are too familiar to warrant more than passing mention. They are part and parcel of the main steam of American history. The life and career of Benjamin Franklin and his many contributions to our country are indeed a source of great inspiration to every American. It is therefore fitting and proper that as we observe Printing Week, we continue to be mindful of this rich heritage, and in commemorating, in commemoration of the birthday of Benjamin Franklin, rededicate ourselves to those high ideals and principles which made him a great citizen and patriot. And I want to take this opportunity of congratulating the printing school and the allied printing trades and all of the participating organizations for this annual pilgrimage that you make to City Hall to commemorate the memory of this great citizen and patriot, Benjamin Franklin. Thank you. At the termination of these exercises, after the singing of the National Hymn America, we will all adjourn to the statue of Benjamin Franklin in Printing House Square, where wreaths will be placed by the following organizations, Advertising Club of New York, George S. McMillan President, Allied Printing Trades Council of Greater New York by Lewis F. Donato, Executive Secretary, Benjamin Franklin High School General Organization by Anthony Nappe, President, Bookbinders and Machine Operators Union Number 25 by Jacob Neumeier, Business Representative, International Benjamin Franklin Society by Brigadier General George L. Bliss, President, International Graphic Arts Education Association by P. Francis Edgar, New York Club of Printing House Craftsmen by Edward C. Sanna, President, New York Employing Printers Association by William H. Walling, President, New York Photo Engravers Union Number 1 by Dennis M. Burke, President, New York Press Assistance Union Number 23 by Charles Alexander, New York Printing Pressmen's Union Number 51 by Walter A. Curran, President, New York Typographical Union Number 6 by Abe Wisotsky, Printing Teachers Guild of New York by Robert W. Sinar, President, New York School of Printing General Organization by Clarence Holmes, President. We would like to thank Mr. Ferdy J. Tegel, the principal of the New York School of Printing for the arrangements of the program, the orchestra under the direction of George F. Waldman of the New York School of Printing for their part in this meeting, and Mr. Seymour N. Siegel of the Municipal Broadcasting System for the courtesy of the radio facilities. Will you please rise? The meeting is adjourned. Thank you. Meeting is adjourned. Thank you. From the Board of Estimate Chambers in City Hall, WNYC and WNYC-FM have brought you the celebration ceremonies of the 247th anniversary of Benjamin Franklin's birth. Representing the city were the Honorable Charles Horowitz, Deputy Mayor, and Dr. William Jansen, Superintendent of Schools. This has been a public service broadcast of your city station. We return you now to our studios in the Municipal Building. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System.
