We're speaking to you from the New York International Airport at Idlewild, where the program of formal dedication of this great airfield is about to get underway. We shall hear addresses by the mayor of the city of New York, the governors of New Jersey and New York, and the president of the United States. The next voice you hear will be that of the chairman of the mayor's committee for the commemoration of the golden anniversary, Grover A. Whalen. Mr. James Mellon of the Metropolitan Opera will sing the Lord's Prayer. Mellon. Mellon. Our Father O Lord in heaven Hallowed be Thy name Thy kingdom come Thy will be done On earth As it is In heaven Give us this day Our daily bread And forgive us our debts As we forgive our debtors And lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil For thine is the kingdom And the power And the glory Forever Were never Especially on earth Amen Amen Amen Josephine D후 He A Mr. President, Governor Dewey, Mayor O'Dwyer, distinguished members of the Cabinet, the Board of Estimate, the Commissioners of the Port of Authority, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to dedicate the New York International Airport. The ceremonies are a part of the commemoration of the golden anniversary of the City of New York. These exercises would not be complete without this International Air Exposition. Air power is vital to our national security. It is so necessary to our national economy. New York, the world capital, would have lacked vision and courage if it had failed to develop its air facilities to meet the requirements of peace and war. Fifty years ago, the shadow of an airplane had not yet fallen across the New York skyline. New fleets of planes, some as fast as speed of sound, fill the sky. Idle while occupies an area half as large as Manhattan Island. The growth of aviation has been spectacular. We are on the eve of an era in which air power will play a more vital role in the lives of all of us. The opening of this airport is New York City's dramatic answer to the challenge of the future. It is evident that the pioneering spirit which prompted the city fathers to create the greater city of New York in 1898 still inspires its people and their leaders. The vision, imagination, and forthright action required to consolidate the five boroughs went into the creation of the New York International Airport. In Mayor William O'Dwyer in New York City, he's fortunate to have a leader in whom these qualities are outstanding. The President of the United States is here to lend the dignity of his office to these ceremonies. The Governor of the State of New York is here to lend the prestige of his office. The New York International Air Exposition is international, in fact, as well as in name. The President of the United States will take the first presidential air review in American history. The significance of this event must be clear to all. Air power is our first line of defense. World distances have shrunk under the impact of high-speed planes. It is imperative, therefore, that we look forward to the future development of air power as an instrument for bettering the conditions of human life. In this spirit, the greater city of New York is making and marking its 50th birthday by dedicating the New York International Airport to the service of mankind. It is the hope of the people of the City of New York that the New York International Airport will be an aerial crossroad for men of goodwill from all nations. It is a great privilege for me to present the man who has made this great occasion possible through his wisdom and in his desire that New York stop long enough to celebrate 50 years of its existence. It is a great honor for me to present his honor, Mayor William O'Dwyer. William O'Dwyer, President, Governor Dewey, Cardinal Spellman, distinguished visitors who have come to help us today to celebrate this occasion. Fifty years ago, we were just coming out of the bicycle period. The automobile was just coming in. Now we have air transportation as a challenge to the future. This city has always met its challenges, and this airport is our answer to the challenge from the air. Of course, there were circumstances that compelled us to make a contract with the Port Authority to complete the building of this airport. And the contract says that 50 years from today, the Port Authority shall have built the airport, financed it, paid off its debts, and is ready to give, on that date, this airport as a going concern back to the city. I don't expect to be mayor that long, but I would like to be here 50 years from now and thank the Port Authority for the presence of this finished airport to the city. Ladies and gentlemen, we hope that this airport will meet every challenge of 50 years of peace, and if it's called upon to meet the challenge of war, New York City will be proud to place it at the disposal of the nation. Mr. President, we are deeply happy, privileged, to welcome you here today, sir, from your busy hours in Washington. And Governor Dewey, you, sir, are a busy man too. We're happy to welcome you, and thank you for giving us the privilege of that wealth. To all of you, I hope you will enjoy the greatest air show on earth and the greatest air field in the world. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. It's a pleasure for me to present the chairman of the Port Authority of the state of New York and the state of New Jersey, the Honorable Howard Coleman. Your Excellencies, President Truman, Governor Dewey, Mayor O'Dwyer, Mr. Whelan, distinguished guests of the International Air Exposition. On behalf of the commissioners and staff of the Port of New York Authority, I want to welcome you to the dedication of New York International Airport, the world's greatest airport. We regret exceedingly the absence of the distinguished Governor Driscoll of the state of New Jersey, and we extend to him our very best wishes for a prompt and speedy recovery. The creation of the Port of New York Authority was made possible in 1921 by the close cooperation and foresight of national, state, and municipal governments in finding a solution to the regional, land, sea, and air transportation and terminal problems of our bi-state port. It is therefore most fitting that this air terminal be dedicated by the heads of these governments. Today, this great airport, one of three operated by the Port Authority in the New York and New Jersey metropolitan area, stands as a monument to democratic action between neighboring governments. Governor Dewey, Governor Driscoll, and Mayor O'Dwyer have played significant parts in making possible the development of New York International Airport. When completed, approximately five years from now, it will be an airport city with a great world's fair type of terminal building area. The city of New York has an investment of about $60 million in this airport. Over the past year, the Port Authority has spent about $10 million on it. By the time it is completed, it will cost about $200 million. Foreign flag lines now occupy all available terminal space here. By the end of 1949, we will be ready to accommodate the American flag overseas lines. When we are in full operation, our seven runways will be able to handle a thousand plane movements a day. I want to invite all of you to come back to visit the airport as our construction and program goes forward. And now, I have the great honor and privilege to present to your excellencies, President Truman, Governor Dewey, Mayor O'Dwyer, and Mr. Whelan, medallions commemorating this dedication which you have so graciously attended. President Truman, Governor Dewey, Mayor O'Dwyer, and Grover Whelan. Thank you. Thank you a lot. Thank you, Mr. Coleman. The state of New York is represented here by its chief executive who, as you may know, is the appointing power of the commissioners of the New York State Port Authority. Governor Dewey, as an old New York city boy, is welcomed to his hometown once again. It's a great pleasure for me to present to you, His Excellency, Governor Thomas E. Dewey. Mr. Whelan, Mr. President, Mayor O'Dwyer, Cardinal Spellman, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the people of the Empire State, I am happy and proud to participate in dedicating this magnificent peacetime project, the New York International Airport, to the commerce and peace of the world. With an unequaled natural frontage of 771 miles of waterfront, the Port of New York long ago became a leading factor in world trade by sea. Free human enterprise developed this frontage with 350 miles of docks into the greatest seaport in the western hemisphere. Then came the air age. And again, opportunity and destiny have joined happily together in the achievement of this center of world travel through the air. It's none too soon. For too long now, the existing facilities for air transportation in this area have been saturated. Air passengers sometimes have circled drearily and then nervously over this airport or airports nearby for over an hour. I once did it myself and I can tell you that by the end of the hour you get very nervous indeed. The lack of airfield space became a bottleneck in New York and even worse. It was an obstruction to the free flow of ideas of people and of goods both in the United States and throughout the world. By great good fortune there was already in existence an instrument which had the credit the credit which has just been referred to to raise 200 million dollars and the supreme technical skill needed to build this monolithic airport. The Port of New York Authority was that instrument and it exists by reason of one of the finest examples of voluntary cooperation between the great states of New York and New Jersey. With the cooperation of the City of New York the legislative and executive branches of the two states and overwhelming public support the New York International Airport has now been brought into being. With the completion of this airport we may hope for an even greater growth in air traffic both at home and with the rest of the world. Here is a working demonstration of the idea of voluntary cooperation between two sovereign states and a great city. It's a working demonstration of what men of goodwill can do surmounting technical obstacles local prejudices and even suspicion and obstruction. As we dedicate this air field to the peace and the commerce of the world I say we have a right to hope that we are also dedicating ourselves to a broader employment of the techniques of hard work and give and take between peoples and governments through which similar achievements may be made on a larger scale. This airport is more than just a place to land airplanes. It's a symbol of peace and at the same time a powerful implement for peace. For centuries we've known that peace follows trade and mutual understanding. Among the earliest users of this new field were the Peruvian airlines and then Air France on Bastille Day, the birthday of the freedom of the people of France. Today this airport stands open to the air commerce of all the peace loving peoples of the world. May their citizens and ours use it in increasing volume, exchanging their goods for ours and exchanging their ideas and ours. No iron curtain stands here as a barrier to people or to goods or ideas. Here instead there's a wide open welcome for all men and women of goodwill to come and go freely, to wipe out unfounded suspicions and to nurture and develop the growth of goodwill and greater international cooperation. this airport is not only an invitation to goodwill, it actually is a compulsion upon all of us to see more of the other citizens of the world. I hope it will lead them and us to learn to know each other better as the ordinary decent peace loving people we are. All of us in this shrinking world must learn and the sooner the better to understand our superficial differences and to know our fundamental similarities as human beings. We must learn courtesy and mutual understanding while repelling and rebuking intolerance on the part of any. This airport is a monument to successful cooperation between sovereign states. Its facilities are used by the agencies of many governments all over the world. As it was born of interstate cooperation, may its use serve well the cause of international cooperation. May it grow in usefulness and effectiveness. May we all learn that in the service of the common cause of all, there are the greatest rewards of peace and happiness for all. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the United States. Mr. Chairman, Governor Dewey, Mayor O'Dwyer, Mr. Coleman, and distinguished guests. It's a great pleasure for me to take part in the dedication of this splendid airfield here in the city chosen by the United Nations to be its permanent home. I am happy also to be present for the review of the United States Air Force, the first review since the Air Force became an independent arm of our national military establishment. The demonstration of air power held here today, consisting of claims of the Air Force and the United States Navy, is convincing evidence of our determination to remain strong in the cause of peace. peace. The New York International Airport is a sign of confidence of the American people that we shall have lasting peace in the years ahead. This is a field built in the conviction that peaceful air travel and air commerce will expand in volume and in importance. peace. But the kind of peace, the peace of free men, which this field represents, will not come easily. We must work for it. Three requirements must be met before we can have world peace with liberty for all. The first of these is confidence. confidence together with firmness and courage among the peoples of the world who are striving toward peace. A good many people in the world today seem to have lost their hope for peace and their courage to work for it. They seem to have forgotten that courage and the determination to stand up for what is right are essential if peace and liberty are to prevail. When they look around them, they see only trouble and danger. It is our job, the job of the American people, to help restore confidence all over the world that peace is not only possible but inevitable if the peoples of the world work together. It is our job to restore the courage of those who are so worried about today that they've lost the heart to work for tomorrow. The basis of our national effort to restore confidence and courage must be unwavering support of the United Nations. We're proud of the fact that we played an active part in founding the United Nations. We are glad that the United Nations has chosen New York as its permanent home. Now, we must search constantly for ways to strengthen the United Nations and build it into a world organization which can maintain permanent peace with liberty under a system of world justice. I'm convinced that the United Nations can become and will become the instrument for the peaceful settlement of all international disputes. This airport can aid directly in the work of the United Nations. It will be the front door of the United Nations. Men and women from the far corners of the earth will land here in their search for peaceful solutions to their country's difficulties. representatives of the United Nations will take off from here for troubled areas to make peaceful on-the-spot settlements. We welcome the dedication of this field for the contribution it will make to the success of the United Nations. A second requirement for world peace is mutual trust and understanding among the plain people of the world. We in the United States believe that the way to get along with your neighbor is to know him well. We want to know our neighbors all over the world. We want them to know us. We welcome full exchange of information and ideas. We favor the greatest possible freedom in international travel and communication because we know that knowledge leads to understanding and never has been and never can be war between nations when their peoples have known and understand each other. This airfield will help us to know our neighbors better. Planes will land here bringing newspapers printed only a few hours earlier in Rome or Paris or London. Papers printed in the morning in New York will be on the streets of European cities at night. Of course the best way to get to know our neighbors is to meet them. We all know how the airplane has made it easier for us to travel and how quickly we can go great distances. When I was a boy it would have taken President Grover Cleveland nearly three weeks to go to Rio Janeiro Brazil. But I was able to fly down to Rio last year in 18 hours of actual travel. I'm only one of many thousands of Americans who have become acquainted with other countries because of the airplane. Every year more and more world travelers come to the United States to find out what we Americans are like. Because Atalwild Airport will encourage foreign travel it will promote international understanding which makes for peace. We welcome this field for that important reason too. The third requirement for peace is world economic recovery. The American people are doing their best to bring about recovery by sharing the products of our factories and fields and by lending the money necessary to revive industry and agriculture in other countries. We welcome Idlebild Airport because it will help so greatly in the free and rapid exchange of goods. This is the essence of international trade and prosperity. Once the devastation of war has been repaired the countries of the world can produce enough for everybody. With the knowledge we now have about medicine and agriculture and the many other sciences the danger of war which comes from mass poverty should vanish forever. In all three ways in restoring confidence in encouraging mutual trust and understanding and in promoting economic recovery the American people are meeting their requirements for lasting peace. In all these ways the New York international airport is both a symbol of our faith that we shall have peace and a contribution toward achieving peace. The Statue of Liberty only a few miles from here has long symbolized the liberty of our democracy to all who come by sea. I hope that this field will symbolize our devotion to peace to all who come by air. We just heard the program of the formal dedication of New York International Airport and opening of the International Air Exposition. President Truman has just spoken and this was all part of WNYC's vast coverage of this great exposition which will be continued now for nine days. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Together on any airfield at any time in the history of aviation. New York City has seen the development of aviation in its own three airfields Floyd Bennett Field LaGuardia Field and finally Idlewild New York's International Airport. Commander Capehart and the stout pilots who have carried this great show and its description has had the facility of the loudspeaker systems of WNYC at the instance of the mayor so that every person present as the guest of the mayor of the city of New York and Grover A. Whalen chairman of the Golden Jubilee Committee would hear in detail the descriptions given by the pilots so that you would understand why these planes are in the air what they're doing what services they represented and the audibility and visibility were tied together through the PA systems of your municipal station. And now the man who knows better how to present New York in the New York manner because of his love for his city and the great potentialities of that city was the great creative genius of this air exposition here at Idlewild Airport. And now it is our privilege to present the busiest most thorough man in the city of New York the Honorable Grover A. Whalen. Thank you Tommy. You know what Tommy said about the great station WNYC is quite true. For years a lot of folks thought that WNYC's voice should be stilled. But since I was the father of it I felt that one of the things that was most important to New York that there should be a station that didn't have to follow the dictates of any commercial sponsor in order to use the air for the benefit of the people of this great city. You know few of us have a voice in the affairs of a great country or a great city. But through the municipal radio station WNYC I have heard youngsters given an opportunity to show their talents and to demonstrate whether they should have an opportunity to go on in the world of opera song or drama as well as the services of the people having an opportunity to tell the people about the health situation what the fire department police department sanitation department and all the services of our city are rendering in our interest. Because when you think of this city of 8 million people with 2 million daily visitors you are thinking and living in terms of a great country. We are 33 in population and size of all the countries in the world. 33. And that this great city of ours which we today celebrate its golden anniversary that was conceived in 1898 is one of the achievements that we can be well proud of. The consolidation of the five boroughs of the city of New York. And it took the man Green who spent 30 years of his life trying to convince the politicians those of influence in business and in the affairs of the city that the consolidation was the smartest thing that the city of New York could do. And so after 30 years of labor this great man remember the name Green brought about the consolidation of the city of New York. He also did something else. He is the man that conceived Central Park. What would we do today without Central Park? In the midst of a very narrow island there he carved out 50 years ago Central Park. Andrew H. Green will live in the memories I hope of the people of the city for generations to come. Then it came to an immigrant boy to feel the necessity of calling attention to these facts. Mayor William O'Dwyer and he asked let a committee be appointed and he asked me to serve as chairman. The committee was appointed and it was asked to submit a program for the commemoration of the consolidation of the city of New York. That program had five facets. The first was the New York at work demonstration on June 12th which showed the strength of New York services in a visual way so that the man who runs may read and understand. A million of our fellow citizens came out and saw that demonstration. The second phase of our commemoration is this unforgettable international air exposition. I wish it were possible for me to marshal all the adjectives that Webster has in his dictionary in order to tell you my feeling today of what this has meant not only to the people of the world but to the people of the United States and the city of New York as well. We were on the lips by we I mean New York City was on the lips of everybody in the United States last Saturday. Every radio was tuned into this platform where the President of the United States Governor Dewey Mayor O'Dwyer and half of the Congress of the United States were present so that you'll find that these moments of recording the record is important to us all to you and to me and so as I say farewell to this greatest of all demonstration demonstration I bow in humble supplication to the Lord that he was able to allow us to have this great demonstration without a serious accident you know as I know that the dangers that lurked in the sky and that lurked all around us were very great but no serious accident has been recorded no injuries on the highway have reported except the small one we had the other day here in the helicopter the number of people treated by the hospital department was only from overcome of heat and exhaustion no serious accidents of any kind the studies that were made to make this strip that you are on