The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. Is World Trade the Pathway to World Peace? Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand faces the question, is World Trade the Pathway to World Peace? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the development of world trade and its relation to peaceful relations among men. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, director of the Reviewing Stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Boren. War in Korea makes us look in two different directions. Into the future to ask, did we see the beginning of World War III at the 38th parallel? Will we win in Korea? And what will be Russia's next move? Into the past to ask, what might have been done to avert the Korean crisis? In an analysis of this last question, the economic relations between nations loom as significant. Foreign investment, foreign aid, and world trade. Today, in cooperation with the first United States International Trade Fair, we present four men who will consider world trade and its relation to world peace. We welcome as our guests, Rabbi Louis Binstock of Temple Sholem, Chicago. Maxwell Fisher, British economist with the European Trade Fair Board. Jacques Kunstanar, director of foreign affairs for the first United States International Trade Fair. And George C. Robinson, professor of government at Iowa State Teachers College. Mr. Kunstanar, in looking at our question, is world trade the pathway to world peace? We see two important phrases, world trade and world peace. Take the first of these. What do we include when we talk about world trade? I think we can define world trade as the physical interchange of goods between nations. Do the rest of you gentlemen agree on that definition? Yes, we would agree. Let's move on then and consider the next very important phrase, world peace. Rabbi Binstock, what do we mean by world peace? Well, I should say that world peace would mean essentially the absence of a shooting war and a violent attack upon the life of nations. Let's be quite specific now. Do we have world peace today with the crisis in Korea and all? I should say we do not have world peace because there is a shooting war. Then you consider world peace to mean a condition in which we do not have a shooting war. Is that true? Exactly. All right, back to our first question. Is world trade the pathway to world peace? Mr. Fisher, how would you as a Britisher answer that puzzler? Is world trade the pathway for world peace? Well, it's a very difficult question, but I'd like to start by saying that in my opinion, it isn't the pathway for world peace, but rather a pathway and a very important one. I've heard it argued throughout the world that should every country break down its protective trade barriers and allow free trade, that this would immediately set off a firecracker of mad competition, resulting in economic warfare, which in turn would ultimately lead to a shooting war. I cannot believe this argument would in any way be substantially true, should this world state of utopia even be achieved. There is even now, in spite of the somewhat archaic customs and tariff regulations, the fiercest competition amongst the countries of Europe for the American market. However, it doesn't appear to be even remotely likely that this competition will precipitate a war. Healthy competition in trade or in anything else can only help to stimulate individual enterprise. One doesn't have to kill the other fellow in the process. Even here in your United States, there's tremendous competition between the states for trade, but there's no evidence of recurrence of the events of 1861, not even by Texas. I have noticed wherever I've been that individuals in the countries of this world who haven't travelled or met people of countries other than their own are the most likely ones to have antipathy towards foreigners. Quite obviously, everybody in this world can't travel. However, world trade could, to a large extent, be a medium to promote better understanding. An instance of this is the very fact that France and Great Britain haven't been to war since they signed what was tantamount to a trade agreement, and that was a long time ago. In Germany, for instance, where trade between the eastern and western zones has been virtually to standstill since the war, the same has been the position between the north and south and Korea which you've just been talking about. If these people would allow their satellites to trade freely with the world instead of cooping them up and disseminating their insidious propaganda against the western civilizations, this propaganda which can only propagate and breed a desire for mistrust and calumny, our fellow travellers would have been vastly different people. I think world trade is a pathway to world peace. However, it's a pathway which has suffered the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune in the shape of customs, tariffs and individual interference. I say individual interference because I'm coming into this magnificent building just now. I saw written up in front of me a painting of a man, and it said underneath it, Matthew Lyon imprisoned for criticism of government. And underneath that was written, Mr. Kunznar, do you agree with Mr. Fisher here? Well, I wholeheartedly agree with every word he said. I assume that when we ask the question, is world trade the pathway to world peace, we mean by world trade the maintenance of a substantial flow of goods across frontiers, or even better, an increase from the present level of international exchanges. If this is correct, I will certainly state that world trade is one of the most important pathways to world peace, though I am fully aware that it is not the only one. I will even go further and say that an increase in world trade must be accompanied by many other measures of a political and moral nature in order to be successful. But I cannot visualize world peace without a high level of world trade. While our own high standard of living would be sensibly affected by a reduction of the trade volume we carry on with the rest of the world, it would cause the living conditions of the peoples of many foreign countries, who are even more dependent on international trade than we are, to drop to a dangerously low level. Dangerous because people who are insufficiently fed and closed and who are denied even the small luxuries of life become desperate and an easy prey to foreign political ideologies. That is the reason why certain countries are strenuously opposed Marshall Plan Aid, which strengthens the nation friendly to us by allowing them to build up their production machinery and to buy from us the goods they vitally need. Communism was thus stemmed and peace got a better chance than in a world with a majority of the countries hostile to us. By aiming at an increase in world trade, our government is simply following its traditional policy of maintaining the peace. By bringing together buyers, goods and manufacturers from over 14 nations, the first United States International Trade Fair, which will be held in Chicago from August 7th to 20th, is contributing its modest share to the cause of world trade and world peace. I should like to start with the proposition that it is not good for a nation any more than it is for man to live alone. Trade, like travel, opens the doors of knowledge and understanding to people's ways of living and wishes for life. Trade makes for intercourse between nations and the interchange of ideas as well as goods. The more that peoples get together to trade as well as to talk, the chances are the happier they will be. It is because world trade breaks through the iron curtains of isolation and ignorance, of conceit and complacency, that it fashions one of the soundest and surest pathways to world peace. Its purposes are so necessary and valuable that they far outweigh its perils. The results that it can achieve more than balances its risks. World trade always helps in the development of nations' respect for each other, in cooperation between nations, and also enables the have-nots to become haves, so that they will be happier and more peaceful. A continuing decline in world trade will start to trek back to the darkness of the Stone Age. Mr. Robinson, what's your position on this question? Let's get back to the main question, the precise question presented to us. Is world trade the pathway to world peace? I have very serious doubts. As a political scientist, I must recognize other approaches to the attainment of world peace. As an internationalist, I am hoping that a way may be found. If world peace is used in the political sense rather than the economic, the subject is somewhat narrowed. Let us agree on that restriction. Can we agree on the meaning of world trade? Free trade? No. Very limited import duties for revenue and regulatory purposes and all other restrictions removed? Perhaps yes. Are all countries of the world involved or just the nation-states outside the Russian orbit? I prefer the former, but we must be practical if the latter, will removal of restrictions on the states of the West strengthen or weaken them? If strengthened, will they be able to break down in due time the suspicion and distrust of the Soviet Union, causing a revival of large-scale Russian trading? Perhaps, perhaps, if weakened, will they crash as healthy economies and fall prey to the advance of the East, the consummation so devoutly wished by some high in authority in the Soviet Union? It seems very likely. What assurance have we that the removal of tariff barriers in protectionist countries like Britain, France, and America will not result in lowered standards of living, unemployment, industrial collapse, and economic hardship? Has it not happened to a limited degree in America under the reciprocal trade program where duties have been lowered by the President? Is there not a better pathway to world peace? Gentlemen, let us implement the Havana Charter and draw Russia in by cautious operation. Is that hopeless because after two years the Charter has not been ratified? Or, let us strengthen the United Nations, our one world organization, and open up trade relations in the name of all, not a few states. Enforce sanction opportunities in the name of organized world opinion. Is the veto barrier insurmountable? In any case, let us have increased world trade as a part of a program of more frequent contact between peoples, better understanding, and better living, but not at the expense of a nation's defensive power, and not in the name of material advancement of any power. The former would arouse the anti-capitalist states, the latter would confirm their suspicions. Neither reaction would assure peace. You gentlemen have made your positions in this discussion quite clear, but before we see wherein you agree and disagree, it might be wise to examine the world trade situation today. Kunsten, are nations trading more than they did before World War II? Well, I think the question which interests us most here, I cannot go into statistics of all the trading nation, is whether the trade between the world and the United States is larger now than it was before World War II. and if you want me to answer that question, I can say most definitely so. The average for 1936 to 1948, the yearly average, was three billion exports and two and a half billion imports into the United States. Well, in 1949, the combined figure of exports and imports was four times as high. We exported for about 12 billion dollars worth of goods while we imported for about 6 billion dollars worth of goods. Isn't it true that part of this trade is artificially stimulated in the Marshall Plan and foreign aid and foreign lending? Well, I don't think the trade is artificially stimulated in that sense that it's an artificial trade. This trade was very much necessary but because there is such an imbalance between our exports and imports, we had to give foreign nations the means with which they could buy our goods which they've so vitally needed. Will the time come when we will not need artificial stimulation in the form of Marshall Plan or foreign aid of various types? I think that time may come if we put an end to many of the barriers which oppose a healthy import program into the United States. In talking about world trade, are we trading with all nations of the world? Can you help us there, Fisher? You are at the moment. You are even trading with Soviet Russia. In 1949, you actually imported... When you say you, you mean United States? I mean the United States. I'm sorry. I keep forgetting I'm British. You did import from Soviet Russia 86 million dollars worth of goods and you actually exported to Soviet Russia just about 40 million I think it was, Jack. But we're not trading as much as we might with Russia. Is that true? You're not trading as much as you like. As much as Russia likes. Who knows what Russia likes? What are some of these inhibitors to world trade? We talk about a restricted trade with Russia and not as much world trade as we'd like to have. What are some of the barriers that stand in our way? Can you help us there, Rabbi Binstock? Well, I should say there are a number of barriers, of course, at the present time. There's that iron curtain which is discussed so much which consists, of course, of certain suspicion, antagonism, fear. And there's the impoverishment of various nations who are unable to buy when they should like to buy. And then there's the incapacity of many people to produce goods they have the potential to produce because they haven't yet attained the know-how and the machinery which we, the American people, could supply and I hope someday will supply. May I add a few things to the statements by Rabbi Binstock? I think that one of the greatest impediment to the healthy expansion of foreign trade is our lack of balancing our exports and imports. As I mentioned before, we are exporting for $12 billion worth of goods while we are only importing for $6 billion worth of goods. well, the Marshall Plan 8 has to come to an end someday and what is going to happen then? Either we have to cut down on our exports and that would be very bad for our own standards of living because hundreds of thousands and even millions of people live from our exports or then we have to import more and that is the solution I recognize. I believe we can easily import more and everybody will profit because every dollar that we spend on imports is coming back into the United States for exports. Mr. Kunstner, you seem very much afraid of a reduced world trade. Why is it important that we keep quite a high level of world trade? What happens when we reduce it to, say, a minimum? If we reduce it to a minimum you may be sure that the standard of living is going to go down drastically. Well now, how does that happen? How does it happen that we get a reduced standard of living when we reduce world trade? Well, I can tell you that there are many countries who need especially the highly industrial products which the United States produce. If they cannot buy them it is obvious that they cannot keep their production up at the level which is necessary for a decent living and obviously the standard of living is going to go down. When you curtail production, employment, unemployment occurs and you get a lower standard of living. That's correct. All right, back to a statement made by Mr. Fisher earlier in the discussion. You spent a number of years in Germany, Mr. Fisher, and you mentioned the fact that in Germany there were tensions created because of restricted trade. Can you tell us a little bit more about that? Well, it's again the question of the eastern zone and the western zone. like, as I said before, in Korea. There is virtually no trade between those two zones and the main reason for that is the fact that the east mark as opposed to the west mark has far less value. Therefore, if the western zones wish to do business or trade with the eastern zone or the eastern zone they've got to try and buy or get the people in the eastern zones to buy their stuff with eastern marks which have about a quarter of the value of the western mark. That is the main idea. But apart from that there is no contact between the two zones. You cannot, a western zone man, if he wants to go to the eastern zone to do business, he's got to go through all sorts of most difficult situations to get there. He's even got to go through what they call the green belt and slip across and he stands a very good chance of being shot in the process. But the main idea is the fact that there is this eastern and western mark. Now if we could assume for a moment that that barrier was broken and we could have uninterrupted trade between the two areas, would you see a prosperity in both zones that you don't see now? I think you would. To move back for a moment in our discussion to another statement, Rabbi Binstock had said that trade is a sound pathway to world peace. I'm wondering just what happens in the process of trading with others that makes for peaceful relations. Well I'd like to say first of all in following up what Mr. Fisher stated to indicate just the opposite of what has happened in another country before the Second World War. Mr. Fisher stated that because there was this barrier between the west and the east zones in Germany, the relationships between the two areas was made more were made more difficult. I may indicate that when I had the privilege of visiting Russia before the Second World War in 31 and 33 and 37, I found that because the Russian people had been observing the materials and the machines that they obtained from America, that they developed a great respect and admiration for our peoples. And even those two feelings of respect and admiration were leading to friendship and I believe ultimately might have developed a more peaceful relationship between the two countries. And I'd like to elaborate upon that point by reading to you a passage which I recently obtained from Carl Sandburg in his life of Abraham Lincoln. In that passage he stated about Lincoln, geography he studied without knowing he was studying geography. The store had calico prints from Massachusetts, tea from China, coffee from Brazil, hardware and stoneware from New York and Pennsylvania, products and utensils from the hands and machines of men hundreds and thousands of miles away, the feel of other human zones and a large world to live in connected with the offered grocery stock with which Abraham Lincoln worked. And then there was another statement that I read some time ago, a very brief one of Mark Twain where he, speaking of travel and I'd like to substitute the word trade for travel, said, travel or trade is fatal to prejudice, bigotry and narrow-mindedness and many of our people need it solely on these grounds. Broad, wholesome, charitable views of men and things cannot be acquired by vegetating in one little corner of the earth all one's lifetime. Up to this point in the discussion, most of what has been said is in support of the proposition that world trade makes for world peace. I noticed, Mr. Robinson, that you said you had very serious doubts about increased trade leading to world peace. Will you develop that position for us very briefly? I see doubts in two ways. first, if we have that world trade, it means the reduction of protective tariffs, especially American protective tariffs. And doesn't protective tariffs because we are pacific of data all right. Don't forget. But they are reduced and as a result, there'll be a reduced, the standard of living will be reduced, unemployment, factories will be thrown out of operation, and I can quote figures on that, so don't disagree too soon. Yes, I can quote figures too. That, therefore, we would be, this is my first point, that we would be weakened. And when we are weakened as a great industrial power, then we may, we jeopardize our position from a possible attack. The second reason is that world trade, trade between countries, stimulates competition between countries, between companies, between cartels. And that competition can get pretty fierce. And that competition may result, as I think it has in case of some earlier wars, may result in the outbreak of hostilities. Well, I, let me just take up the last point, Mr. Robinson. I think we all agree that in the United States we have become a great nation because we have free competition. And I don't think that because of all the fierce competition we have, we are having civil wars in this country. Well, it's the same with the world. I do not believe, as a matter of fact, I argue against the statement you made that competition, a healthy and decent competition, leads to civil war or general war. Moreover, I also want to disagree heartily with the statement you made saying that increased trade would weaken us. Increased trade on the contrary will strengthen us, Mr. Robinson. That's the economic theory, but can you back it up as a hard, cold fact? I want to tell you I have been for 25 years in the foreign trade promotion field and I'm not looking at it academically. I know only one thing, that if we have to import because there are so many things which we need, and although I know that if we give the other nations the possibility to buy from us by providing them with more imports, with more dollars through our imports, we only strengthen our own position. On the contrary, if we do not do that, then our position will be weakened. Well, I agree entirely, of course, with Kunsthner on this subject as you've heard before, Dr. Robinson. And he's almost taken the words right out of my mouth. I want to, before we end this discussion, I'd like to ask the $34 question here. How can we increase trade with the Russians? Mr. Kunsthner, you support that, but I see that you probably don't want to answer that question. Rabbi Binstock, do you have an answer for us there? Well, I should say that we can increase world trade with the Russians primarily, first of all, through dissipating the prejudices that we already find existing and creating avenues of communication and interrelationship which do not exist. But these things first must be developed before we can increase world trade. Yeah, I agree with Rabbi Binstock on that. I think, I think it's, we all would like to have more trade with Russia, but there are certain other reasons why we cannot trade with them. William, pardon me, sir. Go ahead. Now, I was only going to say that that is about the most difficult question you could possibly ask in this world today. Do you have anything to add, Mr. Robinson? No. All right. Thank you, gentlemen. It is evident that you agree that commercial intercourse between nations is a vital factor in maintaining world peace. Two of you look at increased trade as the first and most important step in a constructive program pointed toward better relations between nations. We've seen the problems you face in implementing such a program. The dangers in a greatly increased world trade have been pointed out. Other pathways to peace, emphasizing political and social reforms have been suggested either as alternative or supplementary proposals. Thank you, gentlemen. You have been listening to the Northwestern University reviewing stand discussion, is World Trade, the Pathway to World Peace. Why not send now for printed copies of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed. Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs just one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Rabbi Louis Binstock, Maxwell Fisher, British economist, Jacques Kunstanar, officer with the First International Trade Fair, and George C. Robinson, professor of government from Iowa State Teachers College. Now our moderator, Leighton Boren, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand, in cooperation with the National High School Institute, will present four students who will have a chance to tell us what they think of America's future. Last year, these students told us in certain terms what the younger generation was thinking about important social and political questions. If you want to hear a refreshing discussion by the younger generation, students from Florida, Missouri, Indiana, and New York, you will listen to the next week's reviewing stand discussion. What do our teenagers think of America's future? The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. This time, we'd like to thank you for the many letters you've written us. If you have any suggestions about the program, please continue to inform us. Listen again next week for the Northwestern University reviewing stand over this same Mutual Broadcasting System.