If atomic attacks should come, what is your plan for survival? Do the sensible thing and list in civil defense right now both where you live and where you work. This is the 10th in a weekly series of programs called Plan for Survival broadcast over the Civil Defense Radio Network. This network links virtually every radio station in New York State and operates entirely by air. It can function even if regular communication lines are destroyed to bring you essential information and instruction to tell you what has been done and what still needs to be done to protect us in the event of atomic attack and what you can do to help. Each week at this time we present officials and specialists who speak with authority on the various phases of civil defense. And now here is Bill Leonard. This week our topic is aircraft warning and we'll answer some of the questions on that subject that you have asked in your letters. Also, as is our custom, this program will be in two parts. First, some answers on aircraft warning by Brigadier General Clement H. Wright, retired, Chief of the Aircraft Warning Service Section of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. And then local stations will be given an opportunity to talk about aircraft warning in respect to their individual communities. First of all, General Wright, I've heard some people say that we don't really need aircraft spotters at all because our country is well protected by radar screens. How about that one? Those people are completely misinformed, Mr. Leonard. Radar alone is not sufficient. It has a line of sight restriction that prevents its covering areas which are blocked out by hills or mountains. Radar often cannot detect aircraft flying below 5,000 feet, especially in hilly country. Therefore, observation from the ground is vitally important to the defense of the nation. In other words, General, radar alone can't do the job. It certainly can't. In aircraft warning service, as in every other branch of civil defense, our greatest security lies in properly trained civilian volunteers. Another question. A woman in Peekskill writes, How much advance warning will we have if enemy planes are on their way to attack us? That's impossible to answer. You might have two minutes, two hours, or no warning at all. Well, one man wrote to ask what a sneak attack is. If we had no warning at all, that would be a sneak attack, wouldn't it? That's right, Mr. Leonard. Well, General Wright, let's face it squarely. Is a so-called sneak attack on this country possible? Certainly it is. Given exactly the right route and covering weather conditions, it is conceivable that enemy craft could get through to their targets undetected, although we don't think it's likely to happen. Well, now here's a question from a listener in Albany, and she mentions the recent statement of General Hoyt Vandenberg, Chief of Staff of the Air Force, to the effect that if the enemy sent ten planes with A-bombs, seven might get through to their targets. And then she asks, Can't an air attack against the U.S. be entirely prevented? I'm afraid we must accept General Vandenberg's statement at face value. With all our precautions in the last war, several German planes got through and actually threw around above New York City. But the effectiveness of any enemy attack can be reduced by providing strong air and anti-aircraft artillery forces and getting information of enemy threats in time to use interceptor planes and to permit civil defense organizations to take protective measures. Every enemy A-bomb plane brought down short of its target means hundreds of thousands of civilian casualties avoided. That's why aircraft observers are so essential to our defense. Well, by aircraft observers, General, you mean men and women trained to detect and report unfamiliar planes of any kind. I think we usually call them plane spotters, don't we? Yes, sir. Technically, however, they are members of the Ground Observer Corps of the Aircraft Warning Service. Well, General Wright, what is the setup of the Aircraft Warning Service in the state of New York? We have 618 observation posts, generally eight miles apart, covering the whole state, four filter centers, and 15 key point air raid warning centers. We have about 16,000 civilian volunteers in the Ground Observer Corps, but we need about 4,000 more. To those of our listeners who are enrolled in observation posts or filter centers, we would like you to know that we think you did a fine job during the Ground Observer Corps exercise last month, and we are counting on you to do an even better job in the next exercise. General Wright, are women eligible to join the Ground Observer Corps? Indeed they are, Mr. Leonard, especially those with clerical ability. In addition to the main job of plane spotting, as you call it, there are numerous reports to be made and transmitted. Here's what happens. Within 15 seconds after the team at a ground observation post has sighted a strange plane, the information is telephoned to filter centers where it is plotted on a map. After enough information has been received to indicate the track of a flight of planes, that information is telephoned to the Air Force. There, the air defense commander combines it with information obtained from radar. He then decides what interceptor planes to send out and what air raid warnings should be given. The point I'm trying to make is that this whole chain of events started with a civilian team at the ground observation post and was carried along by other civilian volunteers trained for this special kind of civil defense work, women and men alike. General Wright, if an enemy plane is intercepted, isn't it likely to drop its bomb wherever it happens to be? If not likely, it is at least possible, and that brings up a very important matter. However, we have designated certain obvious strategic points in the state as target areas. These are the places an enemy would like to destroy because of their manufacturing plants, communication centers, and concentration of population. These are the places where the enemy could do the greatest damage with the least equipment. All other parts of the state have been designated as non-target areas. However, it would be completely unrealistic for people who live in non-target areas to assume that no bomb will fall on them. If an enemy plane found that for any reason it couldn't get through to its target, it would drop its bomb rather than waste it. Therefore, communities must not let themselves be lulled into a false sense of security because they lie in so-called non-target areas. No matter where you live, your best plan for survival is to enroll for training to meet any kind of disaster both where you live and where you work. That's the whole purpose of civil defense. Thank you, sir. That was Brigadier General Clement H. Wright, retired Chief of the Aircraft Warning Service Section of the New York State Civil Defense Commission. We'll have more information about civil defense in just a moment. This concludes the New York State portion of this civil defense program. This is Bill Leonard again. Aircraft warning is a subject of great interest to New York City, which has been designated as a primary target area. And here with me is Dr. Morris Seamus, professor of physics at New York University to answer questions about aircraft warnings sent in by you New Yorkers. Dr. Seamus serves the civil defense program in a voluntary capacity as citywide director of training and information for all air warden service. First of all, doctor, a man in the Bronx writes that he's much more concerned about a guided missile than he is about an A-bomb. He's heard that a guided missile could be launched from a submarine 140 miles offshore, and he wants to know what we've done about it. How would you answer that fellow, doctor? Mr. Leonard, I presume that this man is concerned over the possibility of a guided missile carrying an atom bomb. This is a very definite possibility, although I do not believe that the present state of development of such missiles permits very accurate bombing. The question of what has been done is primarily a military problem. The Coast Guard has certain defenses, and the air patrol is also on guard over the ocean. However, it is unreasonable to expect that the armed forces can intercept every plane or guided missile. Some will reach the target. That's why we need civil defense. Dr. Seamus, we know that observation posts throughout the state are located on hills commanding a view of several miles in each direction. Where are observation posts located in this city? We have three observation posts in New York City, located about eight miles apart. These are situated atop tall buildings which were selected for good visibility in all directions. A lady who lives on the east side in Manhattan says she was not able to hear the sirens the last time they were tested. She wants to know what's been done to improve the system. Because of shortage of materials, there have not been enough sirens to cover the city adequately. Recently, the Office of Civil Defense procured the scarce material, and more sirens are being installed. When they are installed, we're sure that all citizens will be able to hear them. Dr. Seamus, another lady, this one from Brooklyn, wants to know how long it will be between the alert warning and the all clear. That's impossible to answer, Mr. Leonard. The red alert, both sirens and radio warnings, will be given as soon as we're sure that enemy planes are headed in this general direction. The all clear will be given only when we're completely certain that the danger has passed. As General Wright pointed out, the interval in between could be anywhere from several minutes to several hours. He will be kept advised on the situation by radio. One thing is certain. Nothing could be more foolish than leaving your shelter once you've gone there, before the all clear is given, no matter how long it may be. Dr. Seamus, General Wright described the way the aircraft warning service would operate up to the point where cities and communities would take over the responsibility of alerting the people. Can you take it from there? What will happen here in New York City when the air defense commander decides that enemy planes are probably on their way to attack us? It's a rather complicated process, Mr. Leonard, and some of it is top secret. First, key personnel would be notified immediately and the warning signal would be sounded. Civil defense department heads and their staffs would report to their posts and be ready to go to work at once, keeping in touch with other civil defense groups by means of specially installed private telephone lines. Radio stations would drop their regular programs to bring people whatever bulletins could be issued without giving aid and information to the enemy. Well, now, here's a card from a young man who recalls that barrage balloons were used in London during the last war and he asks if they were effective and whether anyone's thought of surrounding this city with barrage balloons. Dr. Seamus, what's your answer? Unless used in very large numbers, barrage balloons are not very effective. Even if this city were surrounded with thousands of balloons, they would not be effective against high-flying planes. The degree of protection afforded would not be worth the enormous expenditure. A former air raid warden writes to ask if people are going to be told to use blackout curtains again. It is not very likely that we will use blackout curtains since conditions are somewhat different today. Aircraft instruments have been improved considerably, making it rather easy for enemy planes to find their targets without lights to guide them. In view of this, it would seem that extreme blackout precautions would not be very practical. A lady in the Bronx wonders if it wouldn't be a good idea for every person to be told to report any strange planes he might see. Mr. Leonard, the suggestion is completely fantastic. It takes extensive training to be an aircraft observer. It's not likely that an enemy would paint its planes so that they could be distinguished easily. More likely, their aim would be to make their planes look as much like ours as possible. Therefore, the basis of aircraft observation is to report any planes, regardless of their appearance, which have no known reason for being where they are at a particular time. Amateur plane spotters, no matter how good their intentions, would only clutter up communication lines and cause needless confusion. I would rather invite this lady and all men and women of the listening audience to register with the local civil defense office and take the first step toward being a trained aircraft observer. Thank you, Dr. Mara Seamus, Citywide Director of Training and Information for the Air Warden Service. Next week, our program will be called Question Box, and we'll answer questions you've asked about civil defense in general. Our speakers will be Mr. Martin Caden, the A-bomb specialist, and Mrs. Austin Tobin of Director Wallander's staff. Try to be with us, won't you? This is Bill Leonard reminding you that Plan for Survival is your plan for survival. You've been listening to the 10th in a series of programs called Plan for Survival, brought to you over a special statewide emergency broadcasting network. Next week, we shall answer a wide variety of questions you listeners have sent us. Our address is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Send us your questions and we'll answer as many as we can on future programs. Remember, the only address you need is Plan for Survival, Box 22, Murray Hill Station, New York 16. Be sure to listen at this same time next week when we'll open our question box. This is the Civil Defense Radio Network.龍 categories, which is the ANSW 35-2016 Daily Library.