I hope all you children have been having a happy holiday, and I'm so pleased to be with you today to talk to you about children of other countries who we hope are having a happy holiday too. Do you children know what the word UNICEF means? Well, it means United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund. Now, that's a lot of words, but what it really means, it means milk for children in countries where they can't get milk. It means clothing for children who've dreamt for a long time of having a new pair of shoes or a new suit. I've seen some of these children, and I'd like to tell you about a little party I went to, a party in a little town in Poland outside of Warsaw. You know, Warsaw was a large city in Poland and was completely destroyed during the war. So at the end of the war, little children were taken and given a chance to have vacations and parties in the country. I went to a party in a little town of about 50 children. The children were singing songs and were playing games, not hard games, because you see they weren't strong enough to play tag. They had to play games sitting around a table. And at the end of the party, they were each given two pieces of candy to take home with them when they went back to their ruined homes in Warsaw. They got together and they were whispering in a corner. And of course, I told them about my two little boys, because I have two little boys, some of them the ages of some of you here. And they came back and in Polish, they said to me, we want your little boys to have a present from us. And each child at that party had taken one of their two pieces of candy and had given it to me to bring back to my boys in this country. I wish two of you children could have been with me and seen the little boys and girls a year ago last summer running through the streets of Vienna in Austria with a tin cup or an empty tin can in their hand. You know where they were going? They were going to get something that they hadn't seen for a long, long time. Maybe you won't believe this because you see milk every day. You get milk at your schools. You get milk at home. Well, these children hadn't had milk for a long time. And although it was summer and vacation time, they were running through the streets with their little tin cups to get a cup of milk at school. And their teachers, instead of going away on vacation, stayed on that summer so they could give this milk to these children. Well, besides the milk in their tin can, they were given a little soup. And I noticed many of them making strange faces. And it was because in that soup there were pieces of meat. And they hadn't seen meat for a long time either. You see, these children, too, had lived in a country that had been overrun by war. And then they took me into their school room and they showed me posters and drawings and paintings they had made. I know all of you draw and you draw well. I've seen some of your paintings and your drawings in exhibits in the libraries and around the city here. I wish you'd seen these drawings. These weren't drawings of tall buildings like our buildings in New York City. These weren't drawings of farmland. These were drawings of cups of milk, of ships sailing across the sea. Because, you see, all the countries in the world got together after the war and decided that the children should be made strong again. And they all decided that they would give meat and milk to children of countries who didn't have meat and milk. They would give leather to countries where there was no leather so that children could have shoes. And when I was in Italy, I saw little boys making shoes out of this leather that had been given to them by the United Nations Children's Fund. So I hope as you children sit together in your school room, as you have your glass of milk every day, or as you eat your sandwich with a little piece of meat in it, you'll remember the excitement on the faces of these children I saw when they were given a glass of milk or a piece of meat. And the excitement of getting new clothes. Because for many of them, clothing has been but a dream for many, many years. And I wish you all a very, very happy new year. And thank you again for having let me come to your party today.