Good afternoon from the steps of New York City Hall. Your city station brings you the award presentation ceremonies for the winners of the citywide fire prevention essay contest. The student winners from New York's public and parochial schools will receive their awards from Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere before this group of city officials, fire department representatives, and guests. Presiding at the ceremony will be the Honorable Jacob Grumet, who is fire commissioner of the city of New York. In just a minute we're going to hear the national anthem played by the fire department band, but now I see that the winners, the young boys and girls from the various schools throughout New York City, are posing for the photographers. The boys and girls, I'd say there are roughly 150 of them, are each holding American flags and they're waving it and all their friends and relatives are assembled here too, anxiously looking to see if they can find their winners. Mayor Impeletere and Commissioner Grumet have come up to the platform now. The fire department glee club will be heard later in the program too. They were performing before we went on the air for the assembled guests, the friends and relatives of the boys and girls. Photographers are asking for just one more as that is their custom. The boys and girls are getting a very big thrill out of this. For many of them this is their first time at a mayor's reception. We're right here on the steps of City Hall. It's a very clear and beautiful day. They're continuing to take pictures now and in just a few minutes the ceremony should start. This presentation of the fire department essay awards is an annual occurrence here at City Hall and it is a highlight of the school year for many boys and girls. They write these as a feature of Fire Prevention Week which is being held all this week. You may have heard on your city station various officials of the fire department asking you to observe Fire Prevention Week and take the precautions that have been asked for all year round, not just during Fire Prevention Week. Well the photographers are still taking their pictures and we hope to get underway in just a moment. After the photographers conclude, I understand that the children are going to pledge allegiance to the flag and we may be able to pick that up on the microphones. I hope so. The speaker's platform is draped in red, white and blue bunting and it's a very festive occasion for these boys and girls. Right before we came on the air, they marched up right behind the fire department band and of course the proud parents looked on, each looking for their own offspring. Now the boys and girls are waving their flags. really, uh, living it up for the photographers, as the band marched up before the program, it was realised the Gambian Band 190 The speaker's platform is draped in red and blue bunting Lesley. The speaker's platform is draped in red, white and blue bunting and it's a very festive occasion for these boys and girls. Right before we came on the air, they marched up right behind the fire department band and uh, of course, the proud parents looked on, each looking for their own offspring. Now the boys and girls are waving their flags, really, uh, living it up for the photographers. As the band marched up before the programme, The band was followed, as I said, by the boys and girls. And then there was a fireman carrying the medals on a special placard, showing the medals to all the people who have assembled here in front of the City Hall steps. Many of the people who work in the downtown area here at City Hall have gathered to see the boys and girls and watch the presentation of the awards. Now I see the photographers have concluded, and in just a moment or two we should be getting started. The fire department band is seen very frequently at these mayor's receptions. Of course, other bands have also played at these receptions. Depending upon who is being received, really. The sanitation department band also very often plays here, along with the first army band. Very often if a dignitary comes from another country, the first army band will march up the avenue here right near City Hall. And this is a very happy occasion for the employees around here, because it gives them something interesting to see during their lunch hour. Now I see that the fire department glee club is going to sing in just a few moments. Could you sing something else? What? Are you singing America? No, I don't know. No, I don't know. No, I don't know. No, I don't know. No, I don't know. No, I don't know. Now we are to hear definitely a selection from the fire department glee club. Can't believe that , If we're driving, we're running away. Military clothes, where do we battle for? Nobody knows how .排 artists subdivision Make sacks of rung Customs Committee 48 que portes of rung Fort receives rung Equational flags that he brass as high as這個是 And to who wants to discussahi That has come with the Ona very Good positions With the Amanhari Hipさん Pooh fields inputs Even though we're short of dough, we've got a lot of pep. Nothing to wait for. We're ready to step. We're ready to step. Where do we go? Where do we go? What do we care? What do we care? Gotta be off. We don't care where. Marching along together, sharing every smile and tear. Marching along together, whispering till the skies are clear. Swing along the highway, over the road that's wide. Without a deal, without a problem, we're here to chase the takes. Rumply diddly, here we come with happy hicky dicks. Marching along together, life is wonderful side by side. Marching along, marching along with a song. Rumply diddly, here we come with a joyful song. Side by side. Without a deal, without a drum, we're here to chase the takes. Rumply diddly, here we come with happy hicky dicks. Today, marching along together, life is wonderful side by side. Here's another selection coming up now by the fire department glee club. They're going to sing Auf Wiedersehen. Today, passing by side.? Auf Wiedersehen! Auf Wiedersehen! We'll meet again, sweetheart. This lovely day has flown away. The time has come to a part. We'll kiss again like this again. Don't let the tear drop, stop. With love that's true, I'll wait for you. I'll feel it's ain't, sweetheart. I'll feel it's ain't, I'll feel it's ain't. We'll meet again, sweetheart. This lovely day has flown away. The time has come to a part. We'll kiss again like this again. Don't let the tear drop, stop. With love that's true, I'll wait for you. Auf Wiedersehen, sweetheart. That was the Fire Department Glee Club singing Auf Wiedersehen. And now here is Fire Commissioner Grumet. We shall now have the salute to the flag. Will you repeat with me? I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for which it stands, one nation indivisible with liberty and justice for all. With liberty and justice for all. Will you see by the dawn's early light? What so proudly we hailed at the twilight's last gleaming? Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight. For the ramparts we watched were so gallantly streaming. And the rocket's red glare, the bombs bursting in air, Gave proof through the night that our flag was still there. O say does that star-spangled banner yet wave O'er the land of the free And the home of the brave The brave and the brave Reverend clergy, Mr. Mayor, Ladies and gentlemen, and children of the public and parochial schools. You are all acquainted, I am sure, with the havoc that is wrought by fire. And you also know how important it is to prevent fires from ever starting. It is the considered judgment of experts in fire prevention and fire fighting that nine out of ten fires are due to carelessness and consequently can be prevented. We had in this city last year over 44,000 fires. So all of you can readily figure out how many of these fires could have been prevented. In these fires, 124 men, women and children. Civilians all were killed. Also a brave member of our city's police department and five of our courageous firefighters made the supreme sacrifice in protecting all of us from fire. You can readily understand how needless these 130 deaths were with all the ensuing pain and sorrow. And now let us consider the monetary loss of these fires, which was $21,882,530. But a fire means more than a loss in dollars and cents. For only too frequently, a burned out home means a homeless family in this period of housing shortage. And as in all other years, as some of you wrote in your excellent essays, the careless smoker was responsible for the largest number of fires. Many dwellings, factories, and places of business have been destroyed by thoughtless persons who tossed away cigarettes without putting them out. And they often paid for their thoughtlessness with their own lives. Some of you described in your essays the dreadful consequences caused by children playing with matches. Last year, these children started 617 fires. And three of these match-playing little ones perished in the fires they started. In all, two infants and 16 children between the ages of 1 and 10 years were killed by fire in 1951. Fire prevention is not a matter of observance for one week only. It must be observed every day of the year. Fires can be prevented only by constant vigilance. And now we shall have a song by the Glee Club, America. This is going in potentially possible with a mild 땡. Andrea Calhoun Eldonsism Diaz My country tears of thee, sweet land of liberty, on thee I see. Land where my fathers died, land of the pilgrims' pride, from every mountainside, let freedom lay. And now it is my privilege and honor to present to you our mayor, his honor, Vincent R. Impelletari. Commissioner Grumet, Reverend Clergy, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, and of course, you medal-winning essay writers. More than 250,000 boys and girls in our city's public and parochial schools made a perfectly splendid contribution during the past school year in writing their essays on the fire-safe home. To each one of these future citizens and to their self-sacrificing teachers, as mayor of our great city, I extend the heartfelt thanks of its grateful citizens and my own, of course. For you have helped immeasurably in making this a safer city for all of us, and you have contributed in no small way to our national defense. For you have helped us, this essay contest, this essay contest meant that a quarter of a million homes, where these civic-minded and patriotic children live, were made familiar with the imperative need of ridding their dwelling places of fire hazards. We know this because attached to each essay is the assurance signed by the student and the parent or guardian that their home was inspected, that they eliminated all fire hazards as far as possible, and that they would do their very best at all times to prevent fire in their own homes or any other place. This is indeed citizenship at its finest in action. In the very nature of things, a pronounced civic consciousness was created in you, my young friends, by your hard work in assembling material for your compositions on fire prevention. You and I well know that this will make for good citizenship, for you learn the importance of responsibility, not only to yourselves, your families, and your neighbors, but to your own country. You heard Fire Commissioner Grumet describe the dreadful toll taken by the merciless claims in lives and property in this city of New York last year. And in the same 12 months throughout the nation, as President Truman related in his proclamation designating Fire Prevention Week, approximately 11,000 of our fellow citizens were killed by fire, and the loss of irreplaceable materials, facilities, and resources totaled in the last year nearly $1 billion. Let me say to you medal winners, and to your quarter of a million classmates, who also wrote meritorious essays, that in the work you did, you were doing your share in molding your own character. In doing this, and I can't emphasize this too strongly, you were guided and otherwise aided by your learned and devoted teachers and by your fond parents and guardians. And I need not tell you that your great debt to them for all that they have done for you can never be fully repaid. And in turn, the good people of the city of New York are in your debt. So in their name as mayor, I extend their grateful thanks and my own to each and every one of you. These medals that I am now going to present to you are tokens not only of your service to our magnificent metropolis, but of your love of this great and glorious nation of ours. Thank you very much. You have just heard an address by Mayor Impeletere at this award presentation ceremonies. You've been listening to a broadcast of the presentation of awards to the winners of the citywide fire prevention essay contest. Mayor Vincent R. Impeletere is presenting the prizes now to the student winners from New York's public and parochial schools. This has been a public service feature of your city station brought to you directly from the steps of New York City Hall. We return you now to our studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal broadcasting system.