Thank you. The traditional ruffles to the ranking officers of the United States Army, who are here in the reviewing stand with the Honorable Vincent of Military, Mayor of the City of New York. Now the parade is in full review, and I'll be indebted to Corporal Joe Knight for the assistance in identifying these divisions, because we haven't very much insignia to go by. And where are we now, Corporal? This is the 1st Battalion of the 8th Infantry Regiment. Just a moment ago, the Honor Guard with Colonel August E. Chauncey, he's the Regimental CO from Leavenworth, Kansas. Lieutenant Colonel Milton Maskellier, Major Wallace Earl, and Major Andrew B. Maloney just came by. Regimental S-1, S-2, and S-3, respectively. Now the 1st Battalion is passing, sir. That's Lieutenant Colonel Lanell Green, Battalion Commander from Pryor, Oklahoma. Passing in review with Major General Henry G. Anderson, the exec officer from Clarksville, Indiana. Lieutenant Colonel Smith and 1st Lieutenant Martin Devens. Thank you very much, Corporal. And now the different divisions of the United States Army 4th Division, which is being reviewed by Merrim Pelletarius, passing in review. And now, Corporal, will you identify this group for us? Yes. This is Company B of the 8th Infantry. The 8th being the first regiment to pass in review. Company B. Just a moment ago, Colonel August E. Shanzi, regimental commanding officer from Leavenworth, Kansas, passed by with Lieutenant Colonel Milton J. Maskellier, executive officer, and Major Wallace H. Earl, regimental S-3 from Salerno, Florida, accompanied by Major Andrew B. Maloney, regimental S-2 of Bennington, Vermont. The 1st Battalion officers, which you will see today, Lieutenant Colonel Linnell W. Green, Battalion Commander of Pryor, Oklahoma. Major Henry G. Anderson, executive officer of Clarksville, Indiana. Captain John J. Smith, Battalion S-3 of Detroit, Michigan. First Lieutenant Martin J. Deaver, adjutant from the Bronx here in New York. Second Battalion officers are Lieutenant Colonel David R. Ramsey, Battalion C.O. from Charlotte, North Carolina. Major Harry R. Bright, Battalion S-3 of Silva, North Carolina. Major Sewell Fisher, executive officer of Alexandria, Virginia. And Captain Stanton A. Morgan, Battalion S-2 of Doria, Texas. The color bearers are Sergeant First Class E. F. Quinlan, Methuen, Massachusetts. And Master Sergeant B. D. Muravitz of Ely, Minnesota. Right now, there's a little lag in the parade, might we say, that the square is beautifully decorated. And one of the real touches of color is the magnificent silk flags of the fire department, which completely dress the top steps here of City Hall. And now, Corporal. That's the 2nd Battalion passing. Lieutenant Colonel David L. Ramsey, once again the battalion commander. And we have E Company, or better known to the boys as Easy Company, passing in review. Making the traditional eyes left. Bayonets are fixed, incidentally. And they're wearing the full cartridge belt. Left the packs on that ferry, which I'm glad the boys had to do today, instead of carrying them all this way. Next, uh, Company that we see coming up in a moment, we'll present eyes left. And we'll be able to tell you a little better who they are. The provisional battalion, of which incidentally I'm a member, uh, will pass a little later. This is F Company. Major Wilbur J. Begley, some of the, uh, he's the commanding officer from Fort Wayne, Indiana. Captain Robert F. Emmerich, Columbus, Ohio. First Lieutenant Sidney Smith, Albuquerque, New Mexico. And from Knoxville, Tennessee, uh, Second Lieutenant Jack L. Williamson, the regimental staff. Now here are the colors. Master Sergeant J. M. Levy of Appanock, Rhode Island. And Sergeant James Carmody of Providence, Rhode Island. The colors are now passing. It'll take just a moment or two to tell you who this next one is. As soon as the guidon bearer makes the, uh, eyes left, presents arms, raises the guidon, and then lowers it, we'll be able to tell you this company. This is Company G. Companies are now halting around the square, and there'll be some presentations of colors. I guess the regular order is coming through now, and in just a moment we'll hear the voice of the Honorable Grover Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception. The square is dressed now with the various detachments of the United States Army 4th Infantry. This is the security platoon to our right with the music, and, uh, this is from Provisional Battalion, 8th Infantry. Headquarters and Headquarters Company, Drum and Bugle Corps. I just made a left face, and are now standing at Parade Rest, directly in front of City Hall. Have the presentation of the colors in just a moment. The plaza itself in front of City Hall presents a very interesting and military picture at this moment. The colors are being presented. We're just waiting now. We're just waiting now. For the benefit of those who may have tuned in late, the Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent de Mara Impeletere, and a distinguished committee with the ranking officers of the United States Army are here to greet the United States Army 4th Infantry Division. In the course of these ceremonies, three outstanding men who have received the Congressional Medal of Honor will be honored by the Mayor of the City of New York, and they are taking their place on the reviewing stand at this time. Two of the young men, a Master Sergeant and a Sergeant, are from the 2nd Infantry Division that have just, uh, dealt such a terrific blow to the enemy in Korea. And then, uh, a Lieutenant from the 24th, a First Lieutenant from the 24th Infantry is also among the middlemen. We'll give you more particulars later when they are greeted by the Mayor. There's just a few moments now before we'll have a regular formal ceremony for you while the entire square here is addressed by the, uh, members, the different, uh, divisions of the United States Army 4th Infantry. We might mention at this time that, uh, right next to the, uh, national standard there, we have the 8th Infantry Regimental Colors. Another thing, uh, we might mention also, the 29th Field Artillery Battalion undoubtedly will follow. We don't know the order of the parade though, yet. We'll let you know in just a few moments. The Honorable Groh-Ray Whelan, Chairman of the Mayor's Committee of Reception. Mr. Mayor, I have the honor to present to you the commanding officer of the, uh, 8th Regimental Combat Team of the 4th Infantry Division. Colonel Shunzi. Mr. Whelan, Colonel Shunzi. Our distinguished members of the Armed Forces. Reverend Clergy. The officers sitting here on the platform representing all of the Armed Forces of the United States of America. And today I'd like to call to your particular attention the fact that we have on this platform two distinguished soldiers of our Armed Forces who have been awarded the Congressional Medal of Honor for their exploits in Korea. Master Sergeant Kumar and- Master Sergeant Pitman. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd also like to call to your attention, ladies and gentlemen, that seated on this platform today are represented all the great nations who are allied with the United States of America in the North Atlantic Pact. We have represented on this platform Great Britain, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg, Norway, Denmark, Iceland, Italy, Portugal, and Canada. Fellow New Yorkers, today we greet Colonel Shunzi and the other officers and men of the 8th Infantry Regimental Combat Team of the famous 4th Division. We join the United States Army in honoring them as the first troops to go to Europe under the terms of the North Atlantic Treaty. These combat soldiers will be part of the forces of the Supreme Commander of the Allied powers in Europe. And as we saw them march through the streets of New York today, they certainly look to us as real combat soldiers. They will stand ready with our allies to defend the Western European democracies and the United States against aggression. To this heavy responsibility, they bring a great military tradition born during the First World War when the division was first organized. The men of the 4th Division fought through the decisive Ein Mann, Saint-Mahill, and the Mose-Argonne campaigns that brought about the defeat of Germany in 1918. In the last war, the division was reactivated and again faced the armies of Germany on Utah Beach in the Battle of the Bulge and in the Ardennes forest. Its men then cut through the Siegfried Line and aided in the liberation of Paris. Now, once again, its soldiers returned to the continent where the division's reputation was built. Once again, the famous force goes to the defense of the people of all of Europe and all of the European nations that believe, as we do, in freedom and democracy. Once again, its honors won in the great battles that have been fought for the preservation of human liberty are on display before the admiring peoples of the free world. As they leave our city, all of us wish them Godspeed. We shall remember them for their deeds of the past and the present, and we shall watch eagerly their progress. We join their wives, their fathers, their mothers, their children, and their many friends in praying for the success of their mission, the preservation of world peace. For their task is the protection of all of us who believe in democracy. To each of you young men, I say, God be with you. Your nation, and this, its greatest city, salutes you. The response for the United States Army will be made by General Crittenberger, commanding the First Army. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Mayor, Colonel Shanzay, distinguished guests, and men of the 4th Division. On behalf of the United States Army, may I thank you sincerely for the honors paid today by the city of New York to the fighting men of the 4th Infantry Division. The people of this greatest city in the world, by their demonstration here today, have showed that their hearts are even bigger than this magnificent metropolis. Mr. Mayor, your official proclamation designating this day as 4th Division Day is a document that the Army receives with the full understanding of its significance. Men of the 4th Division, I now have the signal honor of transmitting to you a farewell message from the Chief of Staff of the United States Army, General J. Lawton Collins, who deeply regrets he is prevented from being present today in person because of urgent, last-minute duties requiring his presence in Washington. General Collins, you men of the great 4th Division are going to Europe to serve in one of the most important and at the same time one of the most difficult assignments ever given to American soldiers. You go to Europe as a symbol that the United States stands with the rest of the free world in the great struggle to preserve freedom. Freedom for you and for your loved ones. You will be serving in the front lines of democracy. But where American soldiers in the past have gone there to fight and win wars, you go there to win friends. And we fervently hope to prevent another dreadful war. We have confidence in you. There is no doubt in the minds of us here that you will serve well and be as successful in your missions as those other American soldiers were in theirs. I wish you Godspeed. J. Lawton Collins, Chief of Staff. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. This, Mr. Mayor, concludes the ceremonies. And, Colonel, I presume that your regiment will move on to its destination at 14th Street and the North River. The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. M. Pelletere, has just concluded the formal ceremonies of greeting, Godspeed, and good wishes to the United States Army 4th Division, which is leaving immediately to join General Eisenhower's North Atlantic Treaty Organization. You've just heard Mr. Whelan's remarks that they are leaving immediately from 14th Street and the North River. And now the different detachments of the regiments are forming up for the march out of the square here in front of City Hall Plaza. And we'll ask you to bear with us just a moment. If there's anything of color or interest to bring to you, we'll be glad to do so. Just a moment now for the bands to get in order and the marching. An interesting commentary on this event. A school bus was passing up Park Row, which was the ancient old Boston post road that used to lead directly from the ancient settlement at the tip end of Manhattan Island to the colonies up in Massachusetts in the colonial days. And the youngsters' patriotic fervor was visible right across the square here as they were praising and cheering the soldiers who were standing at parade rest while the ceremony was in progress. Corporal Smith, what are we doing now? Corporal Knight, I beg your pardon. Knight's easier to remember than Smith, huh? Well, I just talked to him. Well, we have the battalion commanders calling the companies to attention just a moment ago. And they're marching off now. The fireman's band, I believe. Is that right? Down here to our left? That's the fire department band. That's right. I see. Company G is just passing right now. The color guard, which made a left face and came to attention right in front of the reviewing stand, is marching off. Company G is just now passing. We're into the 2nd Battalion right now. Company H. The guidon flashing smartly down in front of the reviewing stand. 2nd Battalion, Lieutenant Colonel David L. Ramsey, battalion commander. Just to our right, we have the security platoon from headquarters and headquarters company. It's the drum and bugle corps. Let's pick a bit of that music. Let's pick a bit of that music. Let's pick a bit of that music. Company commander of the regimental headquarters company. Doing a smart left face and saluting the reviewing stand. This is headquarters company of the 3rd Battalion. They'll be followed by Company I and KL&M onto headquarters of the 3rd Battalion. Company I and KL&M. I'll hold this one. I'll hold this one. I think company I is just now coming forward. Probably a lot of you are interested in some of the phonetic alphabet that they use. They use for the I item company. Making a left face now. Lines are very straight as they pass the reviewing stand. They're not wearing packs. They're wearing a B uniform. That's an OD, dark OD shirt. Olive drab shirt with olive drab trousers. Boots. The trousers bloused. Combat boots. Trousers bloused. Combat boots have two buckles. Buckle to the left and right respectively on the boots. And the left flank, which is the one nearest the reviewing stand. All are non-commissioned officers. Non-comps corporal, two master sergeant. The first three grades are sergeant, sergeant first class, and master. They're all on the left. The various company commanders are in the front rank. This is L company going by right now. They have fixed bayonets. The front rows, probably the front 10 or 12 ranks, are carrying the M1 rifle, which replaced the O3 recently. And the next rank, and this is a heavy weapons rank, are carrying the BAR, the Browning automatic rifle. The shorter men are armed with the carbines. Going by is company M. First, the rifles are speeding up the cadence a little bit now. And then the carbines. Don't get me wrong now. It isn't a fact that the smaller men are armed with those shorter weapons. It's just, uh, looks a little better in a parade. And I think the folks are enjoying it around here immensely, too. We have a reserve section just down to our right. Here is the provisional battalion. Major Robert Bagley there at the front. This is headquarters company of the provisional battalion. Headquarters and headquarters company, of which I'm a member, incidentally. Very proud to be so. And their lines look awfully straight, too. I'll have to tell them about that when we get on the ferry. All the boys, I believe, are doing a wonderful job. And I certainly hope the folks enjoy it out here today. Next in this provisional battalion, that was regimental headquarters just passed a moment ago. The next group to make that usual left face, guy down, will come down, will be heavy mortar company. There at Fort Benning, heavy mortar and headquarters company were right in the same company area surrounding regimental headquarters. That's usually the way you'll find it. Then the battalions bearing off to the left or right of regimental headquarters company. Next, we'll see who this is now. This is medical company. Medical company coming by right now. We'll be followed by service company, all of the provisional battalion. There are four battalions in an infantry regiment. First, second, third, and a provisional battalion. There are five companies in each battalion. A headquarters and four letter battalions. Here's medical company passing in review right now. The first rank is the only one that salutes. The rest give eyes left, all except the left file. We'll continue looking straight ahead. Notice the newsreel camera coming by. Here's the fourth division band. Let's get a listen. Fourth division band. Let's get a listen. Let's get a listen. Let's get a listen. It's a flag on a staff about seven and a half, eight feet long with a silver tip. The flag is a rectangle with the V shape, rectangle with a V cut right in the very end of it. It has the name of the company and in letter form, of course, like I, J, or K. Then also, it has the crossed rifles for infantry, crossed cannon for artillery. The colors are just passing by now. These are the division colors. This is B battery. Instead of company, it's battery with the artillery. B battery passing in review. Major Arlo L. Miller of Ames, Iowa, on the division 29th field artillery battalion staff, along with Major Thomas C. O'Connell, executive officer of Anniston, Alabama. Probably Major O'Connell, exec officer, was very happy to be stationed at Fort Benning because his home, Anniston, Alabama, is very near. In fact, about 85 miles away. We notice that on our roster list here, we have several of the officers and enlisted men from Alabama and Georgia in that area. Another increment of the division band passing in review. They were divided up into sections for the parade, going around and around the square. Let's pick them up. The benefit of those who may have tuned in late, the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable Vincent R. Impella Terry, and a distinguished company of citizens with the ranking officers of the United States Army, the Navy, the Marines, and all services, are here greeting the United States Army 4th Division, which is on its way to Europe to join General Eisenhower. And now, Corporal Knight is describing for us the various divisions and the facts about the subdivisions of the 4th Infantry. Corporal Knight. Thank you. This is the 4th Reconnaissance Company, which is just passing the reviewing stand. Reconnaissance Company, which is called upon for sorties into the enemy lines and interior. And they just passed to our left with their yellow flag and the green trimming. Here comes the 4th Medical Battalion right now. This is Lieutenant Colonel Frederick J. Haas, the battalion commander from Detroit, Michigan, who is leading. He's followed by Captain William J. Smith, Jr., adjutant from Beckley, West Virginia, and Captain James R. Kenny of Ozone Park, New York, and Captain William M. Edwards, who is S-4 and that staff from Dundee, Mississippi. This is the 4th Medical Battalion. Their color guard is Sergeant Claude F. Jackson from Canton, Texas, Master Sergeant Newell L. Taylor of Brooklyn, New York, Sergeant Joe W. Smith of Dallas, Texas, and Corporal Ruben DeMorales of Bronx, New York. Texas and New York boys there carrying the colors. 4th Medical. Don't forget Brooklyn. No, we don't want to forget Brooklyn. We might never leave the reviewing stand if we did that, I'm afraid. It's quite a turnout here. Most of these boys probably, as they were stopped there for the ceremonies, or were at parade rest, which is a form of attention, but they probably looked around. Let's pick up this band music to our right now as the firemen have moved in a little closer. Fort Re Spa. Defense Black Solomon только från attpegging debt, Whereas拿來å, мешade någonzensат, ces hanata, Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. What? What are you going to do? Yeah. Oh, I see. And now the party is breaking up here in front of City Hall, and one of the picturesque touches to this parade is the magnificent bank of flags, which are carried by the fire department of the city of New York, these beautiful silk flags which decorated the top step of the City Hall and displayed so magnificently in a mass effect the stars and stripes of our great country, the United States of America. And now with the firemen marching away as the final part of this ceremony, we take leave of you from City Hall and join the program now in progress at the station. WNYC, the voice of New York City, and WNYC-FM.