The City of New York, Vincent R. Impelletary, Acting Mayor, in cooperation with television station WPIX, presents At the Mayor's Desk. Every other Thursday at this time, we bring you a program of informal discussion between Acting Mayor Impelletary and members of the city government. Now, ladies and gentlemen, here is your Mayor, Vincent Impelletary. Ladies and gentlemen, during the past few weeks, we have met on this television program and talked about something that is extremely important to all of us who live in the City of New York, specifically what your city officials are doing in order to protect all of the people of the city in the event of a threatened bomb attack. Tonight, we are reporting to you on some of the things that we are doing at the present time. On previous television broadcasts, I have had members of my cabinet here explaining to you just what we in city government are doing for your protection. On previous broadcasts, I have had at my side Dr. Marcus D. Kogel, the Commissioner of Hospitals, Colonel Sidney Bingham, our Director of Transportation. I have also had our new Police Commissioner, Thomas Murphy, our Welfare Commissioner, Raymond Hilliard. And tonight, we have many others of the top officials in the city government who have considerable to do with civilian defense. On my right, I have Commissioner Arthur Wallander, who heads up the city defense setup. On my left, I have Dr. John Mahoney, our Commissioner of Health. Next to him, on his left, is Commissioner Fred Zermullen, who is the Commissioner of the Department of Public Works. All of these gentlemen are key figures in the Civil Defense Organization for the City of New York. You'll notice that the commissioners of the city and the mayor tonight are garbed in different types of outfits. Commissioner Wallander and I are dressed in evening clothes. That's not because we ordinarily do that on this program. We are working in your interest. However, tonight, Commissioner Wallander and I are scheduled to appear at the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Dinner at the Hotel Waldorf Astoria, and that accounts for our garb. Commissioner Wallander, in an emergency city-wide civil defense organization such as yours, I know that communications are what you might call the nerve system. Will you tell us just how communications work? Yes, Mr. Mayor. I'd like to refer to this chart in doing so. As a matter of fact, all the services tie in with communications. And here we have a chart that sets up the civil defense organization for the city. You'll note that here is the block that refers to communications. And it's tied in with everything you can see, running down this way to the operating level, across here, and then across here again, transportation evacuation, and even coming around here to liaison with the various government agencies, city departments, and public utilities, etc. It ties in with the planning commission. And I want you to notice particularly that it ties in with the control and report centers. And this is where the real nerve center is that dispatches services. It keeps the operating level moving. And the level that sends the rescue squads out and does things that will more or less cope with any particular emergency situation. We have telephone, teletypewriter, radio, and we even resort to messenger if necessary. Because these agencies are used to report damage, to dispatch services, and to make progress reports, Mr. Mayor. Commissioner, when you receive what is known as an alert signal from what I believe, I think you said was the Air Force Command, how does our civil defense organization go into action? Well, Mr. Mayor, it first is an alert from the Air Defense Command, which is standing to remain controlled within our city. And that elates all our key personnel. As a matter of fact, we get what is known as a yellow signal, a red, and a white. On the yellow signal, that's used to elate key personnel. These key personnel, it being a confidential signal, no one else but the key personnel gets it, and they immediately go to their stations. Then on the red, that means that the alarm is to be sounded, the air-rate alarm. At that time, everybody runs for cover. And then when the white, all clear is sounded, then the services are mobilized, and they report to their stations wherever they are to go, and commence to cope with whatever the damage might be. Commissioner, in the event that an atom bomb should explode over the city of New York, and necessarily widespread damage would ensue as a result of it. How does your civil defense set up operate? Well, we expect first, Mr. Mayor, that we will receive that report from the air wardens, or someone around the damaged area that has seen what has occurred. And their job will be to report into the report center, and give a brief account of what has happened. Acting on that report, the controller in the report center, he will immediately send out a reconnaissance team from the Public Works Division. The monitoring teams that Dr. Mahoney operates to detect radioactive rays, and of course the rescue squads will go out, and the incident officer, all go out at the same time. Acting on the reports that received back from those air teams, then the controller in the station, he uses his own good judgment in evaluating what the damage is, and he dispatches additional help. That's about the way that works out, Mr. Mayor. Well, Commissioner, in a situation as complicated as this, I would imagine that there would be a considerable overlapping of the various agencies involved. Now, just how do you propose to control that? Well, I'll have to refer you back to that incident officer we spoke about. He goes out with the first teams, and in going out with these teams, he takes a station and sets up an office, preferably where there's a telephone. If there's no telephone there, he resorts to some kind of a mobile radio that might be about. It maintains contact with the reporter control center. And as the services arrive, he directs them to the scene of the damage that affects their particular service. Of course, if it's a fire, everybody can see it. If it's some people that are in the debris and need rescue, why, he directs the teams to there. And he's been working across all this while. He's making progress reports back to the station and requesting additional information if it's necessary. He maintains records, logs and such, and generally coordinates the entire situation. Well, who is this fellow that you refer to as the instant officer? Well, he's going to be, and he is now, designated as a matter of fact, a lieutenant of police or a captain of police. We'll have a man who is skilled in that sort of handling and knows something about coordinating. Dr. Mahoney, as health commissioner, your primary duties are to prevent disease, to immunize people, particularly children, and to control sanitation and the wholesomeness of the city's food supplies. Now, in the event of an atom bomb attack, what happens to these very necessary services of the city of New York? Sir, the work of the health department will break down into three distinct phases. In phase number one, before the bomb arrives, the health department will devote itself to its usual peacetime activities, accentuating them to the point where the city will be maintained as free from contagious disease as is possible. This is going on at the moment. We are stepping up to immunization work and controlling as many of the contagious diseases as is possible. Now, at the time of the explosion itself, of necessity, all of the peacetime functions of the health department will cease. The medical, dental, and nursing personnel of the department will be turned to the medical emergency section for assignment of duty. And they will use the skills, professional skills, in the care of the wounded and the injured. And we will play it by ear. After the disaster is over, the need for the city will again be re-surveyed. The health department assume it's normal function, altered to fit the things that we find, which are present after the disaster has happened. Dr. Bohony, New York City, as I understand it, maintains 23 health centers and more than 100 child health stations and clinics. Do all of these services fit into these civil defense plans? Very closely, the actual field medical work under the emergency medical section has been turned to the health department. It will be under the guidance of our district health officer. Each one of the facilities which you mentioned will form a basis for operation of this group of physicians, nurses, radio detection teams, and similar units which will work out from the various units and do the type of work within that limited area which they are assigned to. These teams will be mobile and they will be ordered from one station to another as the demands are made manifest and as Commissioner Wallander's information service brings us the information. Doctor, what about your force of health inspectors? Doctor, what about your force of health care and health care and health care and health care and health care and health care? That group will play a most important role in the post-disaster period in that it will be necessary for them to determine what foods are safe for human consumption, where the food stocks are, can they be moved from one area to another, and in general serve a very highly useful purpose in maintaining the nutrition of the city until the stage of the disaster has passed. Doctor, say that one of these rescue squads moves into an area of the city that's contaminated with radio activity. How does your department fit into this civil defense program? This is the one new feature of the present emergency. In previous national emergencies we were not faced with the atomic detection needs. The health department has been charged with the development of radio detection or radio monitoring teams. These people are being trained at the present. The training courses have already started. We will draw as largely as possible from the science teachers in the high schools and colleges of the city. They will be instructed in radio detection. They will be assigned to the various units throughout the city and they will move out with any other city department who are actually engaged in rescue work, demolition or decontamination. Doctor, I think the people listening in and looking at this program would like to know about these courses that are being given by your department at the present time to train people for this kind of work. Will you tell us about that, please? It was not too difficult to set up in that we have in New York a number of men who are entirely capable of doing this type of work. A group of them have been brought together in the form of a technical committee. A curriculum has been worked out. A group of them have been worked out. The number and the type of classification of students has been determined. And the first courses, which will involve largely employees of the health department, are already under way. Are they doing this, doctor, on a volunteer basis? It's entirely volunteer, sir. Now, Doctor, in the event of an attack, would you tell me whether the personnel of your Public Health Emergency Division will work with the police rescue squads, with the firemen, or with any of the agencies that are otherwise engaged in this effort? We will train and supply the monitor, radio detection monitors for each of those units. So you'll work with all of these units? All of the departments. Doctor, in the event of a disaster that might follow a bombing, I imagine from what I've read in the newspapers that it might be necessary to get considerable amount of blood. Have you made any plans to take care of a situation of that kind? No, sir. That particular function does not, has not been assigned to the health department. We have assisted in the work, helping the Red Cross get their work started in the city, and we will be in a position to blood type any citizen of the city of New York and supply them with the information as to what their type really is. But as to the collection of blood, its storage, or its preparation for use in an emergency, that still remains with the medical emergency section. Well, as I remember, Commissioner Wallander, the Red Cross is actively engaged in cooperating with you in this blood donor program. That's right, sir. Commissioner Zermullin, as Commissioner of the Department of Public Works, the normal functions of your office, as I well know, are vitally important to our city. Now, will you tell the people watching this program just what kind of work your department is engaged in? Well, Mr. Mayor, my department is in charge of all the design, construction, and maintenance, and operation of all public buildings. We operate in the city some 62 public buildings. We are also charged with the design, construction, maintenance, and operation of all the bridges. As I've said many times, Mr. Mayor, this city is a city of five islands, and our bridges are one of our most important projects. We have 49 of those bridges connecting those five so-called islands. All under your jurisdiction? Yes, they are all under my jurisdiction and all maintained 24 hours a day, every day of the year. Now, Commissioner, may I interrupt just for a moment? You referred to 62 public buildings. Now, I know what they are, but maybe some of the people watching this program do not. Will you tell us, generally speaking, what you mean by 62 public buildings? Well, what I mean by the 62 buildings under my jurisdiction are those which are occupied mostly by your department, Mr. Mayor. That is the city hall, the municipal buildings, the borough halls, the health department buildings, the courthouses, and the like. Now, they do not include hospitals, they do not include schools, which are under other department jurisdictions. Well, your department is really the engineering arm of the city government. It is. It designs all of the buildings aside from the buildings of the schools. It designs hospitals, health centers, police stations, firehouses, and the like. Now, there's the sewage treatment plants are also under your jurisdiction, are they not? Our department also designs, constructs, and maintains, and operates all the sewage treatment plants in the city, which now number 13, with four more now being constructed. You say we have 13 actually in operation? We have 13 in operation at the present time of various types. And those sewage treatment plants are vitally important to the health of the people of the city of New York? Well, they are important in taking care of something more than a billion gallons of human waste every day. And when they're treated in those sewage disposal plants that you operate, that raw sewage does not go into the waters around our city? No, the effluent from our sewage disposal plant is 99% pure of any bacteria, and is fit for bathing purposes along with any other water. Now, Commissioner, are all of these things under your jurisdiction coordinated with Commissioner Wallander in the overall setup of civil defense? They are in this respect, Mr. Mayor. All our public buildings, of course, will be used. They are manned, practically all of them are manned 24 hours a day, and will be used as far as they are possible as centers and as shelters and the like. So that these public buildings can all be coordinated and used in the event of an emergency? Certainly shall. Now, what are the functions, really, of your public works division in the civil defense program? Well, the first instructions we had from Commissioner Wallander as to our functions cover principally the clearing the way to get to the disaster. As Dr. Mahoney spoke of the work of his division, it is our duty and function to clear debris after the blast. One might try to use his imagination as what the streets of New York would look like if the buildings began to fall down. We are charged with the responsibility of doing a heavy construction job of removing debris from the street so that they may come to a place of disaster. Thank you very much, Commissioner Zemullen. Ladies and gentlemen, in bringing you these programs to inform you about what we are doing in civil defense to protect the city of New York in the event of an atom bomb attack, we don't mean by the slightest bit of imagination to be alarmists. We don't look forward to an atom bomb attack. We do want you to know that as the responsible officials of your city government, we have an obligation. And we are trying to discharge that obligation by doing everything humanly possible to make the proper kind of preparations. So on these broadcasts, we bring you, or at least I try to bring you, the key men in the civil defense setup, who come here to tell you what they are doing for you in trying to protect the city of New York. Thank you for letting me come into your home again to tell you and let my commissioners tell you what we are trying to do to protect the city of New York. Thank you very much. At the Mayor's Desk is presented every other Thursday evening at this time, and the next program will be November 2nd.