The Mayor of the City of New York, the Honorable Vincent Impeliteri, is receiving an ovation as he acts as host of the 77th Division, New York City's own. We remember their triumphant return after the First World War, where they gained more ground than any other division in the service. And now, Mr. Vincent Murphy, another Vincent, former controller of the State of New York, has just announced the anthem. The Mayor of the United Kingdom estuviert since July narrative in this period of marching. Every second period of health, the government completes the critical playwrights, which is known as the in-person Thank you. And now the Honorable Vincent Murphy, Chairman of Mayor Impelitari's reception to the 77th Division in the Plaza in front of City Hall on this beautiful November day. Mr. Murphy. Mr. Mayor, Mr. Russell, General Bruce, Springer's guest, comrades of the 77th Division, World War I and II, ladies and gentlemen of New York. Your old division of the 77th, which is known as New York's own, is meeting here at a reunion of World War Veterans I and II. And it is most fitting that we should meet here at this old historic City Hall with a grand mayor that New York has just returned to office in a brilliant manner. Mr. Mayor, I now want to introduce the President of the Association, Mr. Russell. Mr. Mayor, and I don't mean acting. Mr. Mayor, and I welcome the 77th Division. He's here today. The reunion of the 77th Division, which gets underway with this reception, marks the 33rd anniversary of the activation of the 77th Division as part of the National Army of the United States. The Division was formed and trained at Camp Upton, Long Island. Some of the men down here may question my use of the word trained. When we reached Camp in September 1917, we found a wilderness inhabited only by deer, rabbits, skunks, snakes, and the like. And our so-called training consisted of felling trees, pulling stumps, grading landscapes, and building roads. However, we did get in a few hours of squads east and west. And shortly before we left for France, the artillery actually saw and handled a field piece. The Division sailed for France early in the spring of 1918. And thus became the first National Army Division to leave our shores for foreign service. The 77th was the first National Army Division to go into action. It was the first division to take over a sector of its own and it advanced more miles against enemy opposition than any other division in the whole AEF. Time does not permit a play-by-play description of its activities or accomplishments. I don't think it's necessary for a matter of national record. In March of 1942, at the beginning of World War II, the 77th Division was reactivated at Camp Jackson. And after training there and at Hyder in Arizona, it was sent off to the Pacific Islands, where almost immediately it went into action. The splendid record of this World War II Division is well known to all. And its numerous heroic episodes have added many new pages to the already glorious history of the 77th Division. I've always felt that these boys of World War II should have been sent back as a division, so that they might have received the acclaim that was due them. The first commander of the World War II Division was Lieutenant General Eichelberger. The general is ill at his home in Maryland and unable to be with us. The second commander of the division was General Woodruff. He today is addressing a new group of men, dentists, and doctors who are leaving for Korea and sends his regrets. He will be with us at every other function during the reunion. The third commander of the division, the man who took it through all of the actual fighting of the war, is with us today. And I want General Bruce to just stand and take a bow. We have another 77th Division. When Washington decides that they want to bring this pair in Korea to a close, they're going to call on the 77th. Well, we're ready. We have a new 77th Division, Reserve Division. The Division of the Organized Reserves, I guess they call it. And that is commanded by Julius Ox Adler, Major General. Mr. Mayor, by receiving this delegation today, you are not only honoring the men who are attending the reunion, you are honoring the division's dead, the men who gave their lives that you and I might be here today. You are honoring the 77th men of both wars who are recovering from the ravages of war in hospitals throughout the land. And we are, who are here today, able to get here today, are grateful to you and to the City of New York for all of these honors. I wish through you, sir, to thank the members of your staff who have so graciously assisted our committee in making this reunion a success. Thank you. Now it's my great privilege and a great honor for me to introduce the Mayor of the City of New York. Chairman, officers, and members of the 77th Division, General Bruce, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the people of the New York City, I am happy to extend the most cordial welcome to the members of the 77th Infantry Division on the occasion of their 30th anniversary reunion. Our city is proud of the distinguished record of the 77th Division both in World War I and in World War II. The Statue of Liberty Patch, worn on your shoulder in two world wars, has brought everlasting honor to our city. From all walks of life and from every section of this city, from our famous East Side, Hell's Kitchen, Park Avenue, and Riverside Drive, your membership represents a great cross-section of our people, Catholic, Protestant, and Jew, native-born and naturalized citizens of every nationality. You are the proud product of the melting pot we call New York. The 77th was the first National Army Division composed of untrained recruits from civilian life to arrive in Europe. The accomplishments from that time on are legion in military history. When one thinks of the 77th Division, there comes to mind the drama of the Argonne, the Lost Battalion, the famous come-and-get-us words of General Whitlessy, the landing at Guam, the Iwashima, and Okinawa campaigns. Even the gifted words of Ernie Pyle, who died in action while serving with the 77th Division, could not possibly match your heroic record. What I say here today will soon be forgotten, but you can rest assured that the gratitude and pride of our city in the 77th Division will be remembered forever. If there is anything I can do as mayor of this city to make your stay here more pleasant, I hope that your chairman will call upon me. I know that I speak for all the people of our city in bidding you a hearty welcome and in saying to you a very, very hearty thanks for your wonderful participation in in preserving the democracy that this city and this country stands for, both in World War I and in World War II. That will close our meeting. The first army band didn't wait for Mr. Murphy's announcement and here they are. Welcome everyone. Dr. Murphy was aPS band. The first army of lord inods. I am speaking. But we decided to close ourой councilor魂 a fellow man who was going to walk the airport against a new map at Estudio on the peak of a 70th century in the Stat." He was a proud leader. I am the first of hand. I am the Edwards alone. That was a studio in Arc Speed. A part of his barbecue酒 would be very Utah. There was a studio in therine Wales Police. That was a studio in le JES Police Civic'sant. We actually had a studio here. Good evening. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. our great and wonder city, New York, a city that has everything to offer, that is good and fine, cultural and beneficial and inspiring to the American and the world mind. That's all from City Hall. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. You are tuned to WNYC, the voice of New York City. We now rejoin the facilities of WNYC FM and the program now in progress, Famous Artists. Thank you.