Welcome again to the Society of the Institute for Psychotherapy. I think we're very lucky to be here at all tonight. All the things that happened looked like we were not going to have the Lear complex. Herster X. Herster X. Herster X. Herster X. Short notice. Had an unexpected theatrical engagement. And Shakespeare. With all this happening, WNYC called up and said that they were going to have a Shakespeare festival. And would we mind very much if they came over and took it off on tape? At this point, the phones began ringing in all directions. So I said, we've just got to get somebody. Well, it all worked out all right. And here we are. I have an announcement to make first about the discussion groups, which we have running over at the Institute on alternate Wednesday nights. As you may have read in the program, we have three vacancies in the Wednesday night group. And we just recently formed a group on Thursday to accommodate the committees of the Society. And we have about three vacancies there. So if any of you who are members would like to join these discussion groups, which most of our members find very interesting, if you will see Anne Hirsch at the membership desk on your way out, I'm sure it can be arranged. Some of you may feel that you have missed two discussions already, but we will see that you get the full amount that is coming to you. Now, our speaker tonight, Dr. Thomas Hora, most of the members of the Society and the guests who have been coming here for the past two and a half years know him very well. They remember his stimulating lecture on jealousy last year and the year before that on hypnotherapy. And just two or three lectures ago, he lectured on the difference between psychotherapy and psychoanalysis. And tonight we're very, very fortunate to have him pinch hitting for Dr. Arpad Pounce. We know him as a very good friend in the Society. The committees who work here have considered him their friend, counselor, aide-de-camp, so on. And he's one of the most popular leaders in the discussion groups. On the professional side, his credits are a staff psychiatrist at the Postgraduate Center for Psychotherapy. He is a member of the American Psychiatric Association, the Association for the Advancement of Psychotherapy, and the New York Society for Clinical Psychiatry. Our guest reader tonight, whom I'm sure you will all recognize as I did, I had not met him. But as soon as he walked in the auditorium in the back, his face looked very, very familiar to me, and I realized that I had seen him many, many times on television. And I'm sure that when you see him, too, you will recognize him. He last appeared in St. Joan with Uta Hagen. He was seen in Counterattack and Land of Fame. His radio appearances are too numerous to mention, and he appears quite frequently on the Philco Hour, Lights Out, and on the Goldbergs. He also is a featured artist on Children's Record Guild. This is Mr. Norman Rose, and you will meet him in just a few minutes. Now, I'd like to introduce Dr. Thomas Hora to you. Thank you. I thought it appropriate to start out by attempting to clarify the term complex itself. The word complex is derived from the Latin complecto, complectere, which means to weave together, to intertwine. Thus, complex means a maze of symptoms woven, so to speak, out of the same thread. In psychiatry, the term complex denotes to us the sum total of abnormal behavior attributable to a certain point of sensitization existing within the unconscious of an individual. By a sensitization point, we mean the existence of an emotionally charged idea or thought in the unconscious, which is kept in repression because of its socially or morally unacceptable nature. In other words, we may have certain cravings and desires which we are consciously aware of, but we refuse to gratify because of social or cultural considerations. On the other hand, we may have cravings, impulses, desires, and instinctual drives which are so objectionable that we do not even permit them to enter into our conscious awareness. Of these we say that they are kept in repression. They are in our unconscious. Be it as it may, however, these desires and impulses are there. They exist and they exert a dynamic pressure upon us. They influence our fantasies, our dreams, our thinking, our decisions, and our behavior. Since one of the most potent drives is the sexual drive, and since one of the strictest prohibitions imposed upon us by civilization is the incest taboo, it is understandable that it is the repressed sexual craving which constitutes the most frequent nuclear conflict in neurotic disorders of mankind. The term Oedipus complex is very well known to you all, I am sure. It is concerned with the sexual drive of the child toward his parent, specifically the son's craving for his mother and rivalry with his father. The concept of the concept of the Lear complex endeavors to throw light upon certain problems that adults and parents experience due to the existence of a sexual yearning for their children of the opposite sex. Notably, it concerns itself with the relationship of the father to his daughter. The name Lear complex was originated by Dr. Pons from the interpretation and understanding of Shakespeare's tragedy, King Lear, in a quite analogous way, as the term Oedipus complex was taken from Freud's interpretation of Sophocles' tragedy, Oedipus Rex. Both these plays revolve around the problem of incest-oriented sexual drive. In Oedipus Rex, the son kills his father and marries his own mother under the pressure of unalterable forces of faith. In Shakespeare's King Lear, it is the father who is driven by forces within himself toward his youngest daughter. Dr. Pons, in whose place I have the honor to speak here tonight, made a thorough study of 13 significant literary works dealing with the problem of parental and adult libidinous attachment to their daughters or daughter representatives. That is to say, he analyzed literary works dealing with a problem similar to the one expressed by Shakespeare in his King Lear. From this exhaustive study, I have selected three samples, and I shall read them to you from Dr. Pons' manuscript, in the hope that these will be sufficiently representative of the problem. As the first selection, it is essential to start out with Shakespeare's King Lear itself. And it is indeed a great pleasure for me to call on Mr. Norman Rose to introduce us to this famous literary work by a recitation chosen especially for this purpose. Mr. Norman Rose. Thank you. The scene. A room of state in King Lear's palace. Enter Kent, Gloucester, and Edmund. Kent says, I thought the king had more affected the Duke of Albany than Cornwall. Gloucester says, It did always seem so to us. But now in the division of the kingdom, it appears not which of the dukes he values most, for equalities are so weighed that curiosity in neither can make choice of either's moiety. Kent says, Is not this your son, my lord? Referring to Edmund. Gloucester says, His breeding, sir, hath been at my charge. I have so often blushed to acknowledge him that now I am braised to it. Kent, I cannot conceive you. Gloucester, Sir, this young fellow's mother could, whereupon she grew round wound, and had indeed, sir, a son for her cradle, ere she had a husband for her bed. Do you smell a fault? Kent, I cannot wish the fault undone, the issue of it being so proper. Gloucester, But I have a son, sir, by order of law, some year elder than this, who yet is no dearer in my account. Though this knave came something saucily into the world before he was sent for, yet was his mother fair. There was good sport at his making, and the horse son must be acknowledged. Do you know this noble gentle man, Edmund? Edmund replies, No, my lord. Gloucester says, My lord of Kent, remember him hereafter as my honorable friend. Edmund replies, My services to your lordship. Kent says, I must love you, and sue to know you better. Edmund, Sir, I shall study deserving. Gloucester, He has been out nine years, and away he shall again. Ah, the king is coming. Trumpets within. Enter Lear, Cornwall, Albany, Goneril, Regan, Cordelia, and attendance. Lear says, Attend the lords of France and Burgundy. Gloucester, Gloucester says, I shall, my liege. And he goes out with Edmund. Lear begins, Meantime we shall express our darker purpose. Give me the map there. Know that we have divided in three our kingdom, and it is our fast intent to shake all cares and business from our age, conferring them on younger strengths, while we unburdened crawl toward death. Our son of Cornwall, and you, our no less loving son of Albany, we have this hour, a constant will to publish our daughters several dollars, that future strife may be prevented now. The princes, France and Burgundy, great rivals in our youngest daughters' love, long in our court have made their amorous sojourn, and here are to be answered. Tell me, my daughters, since now we will divest us both of rule, interest of territory, cares of state, which of you shall we say doth love us most, that we our largest bounty may extend, where nature doth with merit challenge? Conorill, our eldest born, speak first. And she says, Sir, Sir, I love you more than words can wield the matter, dearer than eyesight, space, and liberty, beyond what can be valued, rich or rare, no less than life, with grace, health, beauty, honor, as much as child, e'er loved, or father found, a love that makes breath poor, and speech unable, beyond all manner of so much, I love you. Cordelia, aside, says, what shall Cordelia do? Love and be silent. Lear says, of all these bounds, even from this line to this, with shadowy forests, and with champagnes riched, with plenteous rivers, and wide-skirted meads, we make thee lady, to thine and Albany's issue, be this perpetual. What says our second daughter, our dearest Regan, wife to Cornwall, speak? Regan says, I am made of that self-metal, as my sister, and prize me at her worth, in my true heart, I find she names, my very deed of love, only she comes too short, that I profess myself, an enemy to all other joys, which the most precious square, of sense possesses, and find I am alone, felicitate in your dear, highness love. Cordelia, aside, then poor Cordelia, and yet not so, since I am sure, my love's more ponderous, than my tongue. Lear says, to thee and thine hereditary, ever, remains this ample third, of our fair kingdom, no less in space, validity, and pleasure, than that conferred on Goneril. And now, our joy, although the last, not least, to whose young love, the vines of France, and milk of Burgundy, strive to be interest. What can you say, to draw a third, more opulent, than your sisters? Speak! Cordelia says, nothing, my lord. Nothing? Nothing. Nothing will come, of nothing. Speak again. I'm happy that I am. I cannot heave my heart, into my mouth. I love your majesty, according to my bond, no more, nor less. How, how, Cordelia? Mend your speech, a little, lest you may mar your fortunes. Good my lord, you have begot me, bred me, loved me. I return those duties, back as our right fit. Obey you, love you, and most honor you. Why have my sisters husbands, if they say they love you all? Haply, when I shall wed, that lord whose hand must take my plight, shall carry half my love with him, half my care and duty. Sure, I shall never marry like my sisters, to love my father all. But goes thy heart with this? I, my good lord, so young, and so untender, so young, my lord, and true. Let it be so. Thy truth, then be thy dower. For by the sacred radiance of the sun, the mysteries of Hecate and the night, by all the operation of the orbs from whom we do exist and cease to be, here I disclaim all my paternal care of propinquity and property of blood, and as a stranger to my heart and me, hold thee from this forever. The barbarous Scythian, or he that makes his generation messes to gorge his appetite, shall to my bosom be as well-neighbored, pitied, and relieved, as thou, my sometime daughter. Kent interposes and says, Good my liege, peace, Kent! Come not between the dragon and his wrath. I loved her most, and thought to set my rest on her kind nursery. Hence, and avoid my sight. And he says to Cordelia, So be my grave, my peace, as here I give her father's heart, from her. Call France! Goosters! Call Burgundy! Cornwall and Albany, with my two daughters' dowers, digest the third. Let pride, which she calls plainness, marry her. I do invest you jointly with my power, preeminence, and all the large effects that troop with majesty. Ourselves, by monthly cost, with reservation of an hundred knights, by you to be sustained, shall our abode make with you by due turns. Only, hmm, we still retain the name and all the additions to a king. The sway, revenue, execution of the rest, beloved sons, be yours. Which to confirm this coronet part between you. And he gives him the crown. There's a flourish, and Gloucester re-enters, accompanied by France and Burgundy. Gloucester says, Here's France and Burgundy, my noble lord. Lear says, My lord of Burgundy, we first address toward you, who with this king hath rivaled for our daughter. What in the least will you require in present dower with her, or cease your quest of love? Burgundy replies, Most royal majesty, I crave no more than hath your highness offered, nor will you tender less. Lear says, Right noble Burgundy, when she was dear to us, we did hold her so, but now her price has fallen. Sir, there she stands. If ought within that little seeming substance, or all of it, with our displeasure, peace, and nothing more, may fitly like your grace, she's there, and she is yours. I know no answer. Will you, with those infirmities she owes, unfriended, new adopted to our hate, dowered with our curse, and strangered with our oath, take her or leave her? Pardon me, royal sir, election makes not up on such conditions. Then leave her, sir, or by the power that made me, I tell you all her wealth. And he turns to France. For you, great king, I would not from your love make such a stray to match you where I hate, therefore beseech you to avert your liking a more worthier way than on a wretch whom nature is ashamed almost to acknowledge hers. France says, this is most strange, that she who even but now is your best object, the argument of your praise, balm of your age, most best, most dearest, should in this trice of time commit a thing so monstrous to dismantle so many folds of favor. Sure, her offense must be of such unnatural degree that monsters it, or your forefouched affection fall into taint, which to believe of her must be a faith that reason without miracle could never plant in me. Cordelia says, I yet beseech your majesty, if for I want that glib and oily art to speak and purpose not, since what I well intend I'll do it before I speak, that you make known it is no vicious blot, murder or foulness, no unchaste action or dishonored step that hath deprived me of your grace and favor, but even for want of that for which I am richer, a still soliciting eye and such tongue that I am glad I have not, though not to have, hath lost me in your liking. Lear says, Better thou hast not been born than not to have pleased me better. France says, Is it but this? A tardiness in nature which often leaves the history unspoke that it intends to do? My lord of Burgundy, what say you to the lady? Love's not love when it is mingled with regards that stand aloof from the entire point. Will you have her? She is herself a dowry. Burgundy says, Royal King, give but that portion which you are self-proposed and here I take Cordelia by the hand Duchess of Burgundy. Lear says, Nothing. I have sworn I am firm. Burgundy says, I am sorry then you have so lost a father that you must lose a husband, says he to Cordelia and she replies, Peace be with Burgundy. Since that respects of fortune are his love, I shall not be his wife. And France says, Fairest Cordelia, that art most rich being poor, most choice forsaken and most loved despised. Thee and thy virtues here I seize upon. Be it lawful, I take up what's cast away. Gods, gods, tis strange that from their cold snickleck my love should kindle to inflamed respect. Thy darless daughter, King, thrown to my chances, Queen of us, of ours, and our fair France. Not all the dukes of waterish Burgundy can buy this unprized precious maid of me. Bid them farewell, Cordelia. Though unkind thou losest here a better where to find. And Lear says, Thou hast her, France, let her be thine, for we have no such daughter, nor shall ever see that face of hers again. Therefore be gone without our grace all of our benison. Come, come, noble Burgundy. Thank you. In his analysis of Shakespeare's King Lear, Dr. Pounce writes the following. One of the most important driving forces in the play is Lear's attachment to his daughters, particularly to the youngest. And that the drama is essentially the tragic unfolding of this attachment through the emotional storms and earthquakes which Lear is weathering. Although Lear reveals early in the opening scenes the true nature of his absurd demand upon his daughters, he is thunderstruck as are the others when the impossibility of its fulfillment is realized completely. He reacts with unjust violence and aggressive display, banishes his most devoted adherent, humiliates and disinherits his favorite third daughter. He hurts those most who are nearest to his heart. Subsequently, he provokes the ingratitude of his two elder daughters and ends up in the wilderness bewildered and perplexed, haunted by mental and spiritual darkness. Thus he reaches the depths of human despair and endurance until he finds his peace in death as, quote, a small bridegroom, unquote, in blessed union with his youngest daughter as the bride. The second example from the literature is Dr. Pound's analysis of Henry James Washington Square. Those of you who haven't read it, you must bear with me for a while. It is also a father-daughter relationship in which, again, the factor is made the center of attention. The key to the understanding of the father's character is his ambivalent attitude toward his daughter. He wanted to love her, but she did not have a trace of her mother's beauty. He wanted her to be clever, but she fulfilled none of the expectations he had held for her. Still, she was his daughter. Before his death, about 18 years after the beginning of the story, he made Catherine promise never to marry the former lover, and when he fell ill, he requested her to nurse him on the hypothesis that he would get well. Finally, he died, and in his will, he reduced Catherine's share to a fifth of what he had first bequetted her. Thus, he kept his grip over his daughter even from his grave, as if confirming and reasserting. Catherine is a simpleton, weak-minded, of low spirit, unattractive, who can never marry for her own sake. Anybody's interest in her is really an interest in her wealth and inheritance, therefore, such a union must be prevented by all means. Hence, the father became victorious in his death, not by being united with his daughter, but by preventing her from being united with anybody else. True, this is a negative victory, but it calls our attention to the complexities and vagaries of the Lear complex, the knowledge of which may be a formidable weapon to decrease misery and increase understanding and harmony in father-daughter relationships. The third example is not an analysis of literary work, but rather the life experience of Goethe, himself a world figure of literature. The elderly Goethe, at the age of 76, falls impetulously in love with Ulrike von Levitza, age 17. 17. This moving love story furnishes further evidence for the omnipresence and intensity of the old man's yearning for the young woman. Of course, not all such relationships are as well known and as thoroughly analyzed as the case of Goethe, but that doesn't prove the absence of it in other elderly men by any means. Goethe's infatuation is of exceptional interest for many reasons. Ulrike is the daughter of his former mistress, and thus Goethe's love is actually transferred from a mother to her daughter. We see here a unique transfer of emotion, which is perhaps more frequent than generally admitted. In the year 1821, in Marienbad, Goethe met the beautiful widow, Mrs. von Levetzau, and her charming daughters, Ulrike, Amalie, and Bertha. While in the past he had been enchanted by the mother to such an extent that he compared her with Pandora, he became extraordinarily fascinated by the oldest daughter, Ulrike. Though she was only 17 years of age, the old maxim was confirmed, quote, that the younger the woman, the better is she for the old man, unquote. At the beginning, Goethe calls himself the loving father in relation to Ulrike. He addresses her as his little daughter, he appeals to her daughterly sentiments, and once says that he wished to have a second son to get this lovely child for his daughter-in-law. At the end, he is anxious to marry her himself. This example is of unusual interest in its multiformity. The love story of Goethe displays in a condensed sort of way almost all possible manifestations of the adult libido and leer complex. First, his original love of a woman is transferred to the daughter of this woman, creating the impression of a man in love with his own daughter. Second, the beloved daughter is supposed to become the wife of his imaginary second son, thus becoming his daughter-in-law. an eventuality which, third, does not prevent him from wanting to take her himself as his bride. Thus far, Dr. Ponce. Personally, I consider this example unusually significant because it demonstrates the positive aspects of the Lear complex, inasmuch as Goethe, inspired by his love for Ulrike, sixty years his junior, wrote one of the most beautiful of all literary creations, the Marian Bader Elegy. We have succeeded in securing a translation of this beautiful poem, I would like to say beautiful in original, but unfortunately the translation does not live up to the level of the original, and Mr. Norman Rose has the difficult task now to present us this poem in spite of the handicap of the inadequate translation. Mr. Norman Rose. What hope were there in yet another meeting, when once the blossom of this day uncloses, heaven's gate and hell's gate for an hour fleeting, while the irresolute spirit still opposes, begone all doubt, she is at the skyy gate and lifts me upward to her own estate, and so thou wert received, of paradise's beautiful life deemed worthy, the eternal wherein no wish, hope, nor desire arises, of all that throng the heart in hours diurnal, and having that one beauty to adore, the spring of tears and longing flowed no more. How irresistibly the day went winging with minutes like swift courses forward driven, the good night kiss, a seal of union, bringing promise of sunshine in as kind the heaven, the delicate hours trod with a single gate, like sisters, yet none quite the others mate. That kiss, the last, cruelly sweet, dividing exquisite webs of tenderness that move thee, then the foot halts or hastes as though a chiding and fiery angel from that threshold drove thee. To the dark path the eye turns in dismay and gazes back, the door is closed to stay. The sullen heart now shuts, as though the flying immortal ours had not unlocked it ever, as though with every star in heaven vying, beside her it had radiated never, and spleen, rue, self-reproach and heavy care, in sultry circumambiance it must bear. Is not the whole world left me? Do the mountains no longer wear their crown of sacred shadows? Are harvests no more gold? Rivers and fountains do they no more make green the fruitful meadows? Does not the vaulted and divine creation transform the formless in renewed formation? Exquisite, light, and delicate floats hither, seraphically from the cloudland there, so like to her along the azure ether, a slender image wrought of light and air. Thus was she seen in happy dances moving, loveliest of all the lovely made for loving. But only for an instant darest thou bind her unto a fancied image, light and airy. Look in thy heart where better thou canst find her, for there she stirs in many shapes that vary, her single self in shifting shapes grows clearer and each new form is than the other dearer. How at the door to welcome me she waited, on rising rungs of happiness to bless, after night's last kiss hurried and belated, more ultimate one upon my lips to press, so clear and mobile does her image start from flaming letters writ on my true heart, that heart which like a battlemented tower, itself in her, her in itself has guarded, blessed for her sake its permanence and power, and by her revelation is rewarded, finding its freedom in that dear and faithful service of her for which each throb is grateful. If potency of love, if the attention to answering passion had been quenched, had faded, how was my soul to hope and blithe invention, to daring and to deed anew persuaded? if ever love the loving did inspire, it was on me proved by a rekindled fire, through her, through her, heavily dread and terror dulled soul and body with a hard frustration, dire phantoms dimmed the eye with hate and error in wastes of empty-hearted desolation, new dawn of hope upon that threshold waited where she glowed in the light she had created. The peace of God which upon earth is able to bless us more than reason, as is proved, to love serena peace is comparable in presence of the one who is beloved. There rests the heart which now no discord stirs in the deep certainty of being hers. Pure in our breast there dwells an aspiration unto a loftier power still the same, to give ourselves in grateful dedication, unriddling us to that which has no name. Call it devoutness if you like, that height blessedly I attain when in her sight. Under her glance, like summer sunshine glowing, before her breath, like airs by springtime bidden, melts for so long in icy hardness growing, the sullen self in wintry caverns hidden. No avid greed, no stubbornness remains, her coming scatters them like vernal rains. It is as though she said, in friendly fashion life grants its measure to us hour by hour, perished of yesterday, the grief or passion, and or tomorrow we have little power. If ever evening's coming did affright me, the setting sun brought something to delight me. Do as I do, with happy resolute glances look in the moment's eye, let no delaying thy courage curb as blithely it advances, whether for act or joy or love or play. Move simply as a child, where'er thou be, and the whole world will yield itself to thee. How true of thee, I thought, thy motion guiding, a very God grants thee each moment's grace, and fortune's favorite near thee abiding, hourly beholds the heaven of thy face. To go from thee leaves me in fear and pain, for that high wisdom seeks me out in vain, and now I am afar. The desolate minute, that's mine, what of its fate, I cannot say. Though much of beauty and of good be in it, it is but a burden to be cast away. Restless with bitter longing, I consume my heart, and boundless weeping is my doom. Flow then, resistless tears, flow without rest, even though the inner fire you cannot quench, for death and life in my tumultuous breast, in fatal combat, each the other clench. Ah, there are herbs the bodies hurt to still, the spirit can command no deed nor will nor the idea how to sustain this loss. Her likeness rises in its very seeming, here and yon my thoughts her image toss, now dim and faint, now with true radiance streaming, but there's no comfort in this ebb and flow of vain appearances that come and go. So leave me here, true comrades of my faring, leave me alone with crag and moor and time, the world is open to your spirit's daring, wide as the earth and heaven's arch sublime, contemplate, seek and gather the rewarding secrets which nature in her deeps is guarding, together with my whole world I go under, who seemed the darling of what gods there are, they tested me, lent me Pandora's wonder, so rich in gifts, in dangers richer far, they offered me the cup of all delight and dashed it down and plunged me into night. applause In conclusion, we may ask, what practical implications can be derived from the understanding of the existence of a leer complex? In an article published published in the American Journal of Psychotherapy, Dr. Pounds writes the following, psychoanalysis teaches us that the Oedipus complex or the child's parent fixation is a regular stage of the libido development. In turn, it can be stated that the leer complex or the adult's child fixation is also a natural stage of the libido development of a later period. If this conclusion is accepted, it follows that the leer complex is effective among civilized people, not only when it breaks through, say, in the form of an incest crime, but that it is present and effective just as the Oedipus complex is even when its adult libidiness manifestations is not quite so apparent. The leer complex is just as regular and ever-present effector in the psyche of the grown-up man as the Oedipus complex is in the psyche of the child. Thus, according to Dr. Pounds, the leer complex is second only to the Oedipus complex. From the clinical standpoint, we can say that the leer complex may lead to a great variety of emotional disturbances in the lives of adults and those of advanced age. It may manifest itself in specific forms of disturbed interpersonal relationships, from perigalacies and rivalries all the way to serious destructiveness toward the self and toward others. Perhaps a short example from clinical experience will help demonstrate the whole problem better. I'm going to quote a case that I treated not so long ago, but in this case it is the problem of a mother in relationship to her son, which is really the same problem as the leer complex, except in its sexual counterpart. A 45-year-old mother of two children enters psychiatric treatment complaining of severe depressions, inability to get along with her family, suicidal tendencies, fears of going insane. Her history reveals that her condition became acute when her son, having been accepted to college in this city, returned from California and moved into the country. The boy was away, our patient was extremely resentful of the separation. She demanded a letter from her boy every day and made her husband move heaven on earth to get him accepted in a New York college. After her son's return, however, our patient began to get very sick. She became agitated, developed severe attacks of hostility against her son, began to feel very jealous of her husband for having a good relationship with the boy, and the whole family suffered a complete disorganization. In the course of her treatment, the patient discovered that indeed she felt a strong sexual attraction to her son, and since these feelings were objectionable and unacceptable to her, she tried to repress them, but found it hard to live with herself. her inner conflict resulted in a serious emotional illness and a disruption of the family peace. The treatment had a beneficial effect both on the patient and the entire family. The Lear complex may further lead to criminal acts against children, and it may be the dynamic force behind some adult perversions. on the other hand, if successfully channeled into sublimation, it can lead to creative achievements that enrich the lives of the adult individual and his environment, as we have seen in the example of Goethe. Thus, the Lear complex represents a very significant and useful theoretical concept in modern psychiatry. It is a key that frequently unlocks the secret doors to some of the most baffling problems of adults and patients of advanced age. We'll give Dr. Hoar a few minutes to collect his thoughts, and then if you will write your questions down, Lou Solon, and I guess you're going to have Tom help you, we'll pick up the questions, and I'm sure Dr. Hoar will be glad to answer them. So we'll give him a few minutes to rest. Thank you. . .