The following program is transcribed. Each Thursday afternoon at this time, your city station presents Betty Stamm, interviewing an interesting personality who's new in the news, and now Miss Stamm. Thank you, Fred Handrich, and good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It seems to me that many persons of the theater, particularly dancers and choreographers, those who create the dances, are more often seen than heard. For that reason, I have invited a dance creator here today, so that we might learn what makes ballet tick. He is choreographer of the ballet of the New York City Center Opera Company, and an extremely charming person, Igor Shvetsov. Thank you, Betty, for the very nice introduction. Well, I'm very glad that you are here, because I know that you're a very busy man. But I would like to know how ballets are created. Who does it, and how is it done? Well, the ballets are created by the choreographer in his mind. Sometimes he is inspired by the music. Sometimes he is inspired by a poem or a literary work. And that goes through his mind, and he begins to put it into movement forms. That takes some time, I imagine, doesn't it? Yes, sometimes the preparation takes months and months, till it's quite ripe in one's own mind. And then you work it out with your dancers and the musicians. Is that the way it does? Sometimes by oneself. One works in a studio and creates the patterns, dancing around to the music and memorizing them. Because there is no dance notation found yet that one can put it down into kind of things that you can read, like you read a book. You can't put it on a blueprint or anything. No, that's impossible. Well, what do you feel has caused the recent great interest in ballet? In, well... We Americans are just mad about ballet at the moment. Why? I think that is a growth of the cultural life of a country. More the country grows in culture, more it begins to appreciate fine arts. And ballet is one of the last things that we got. Is that the point? Because usually ballet was considered as a minor art. Oh, yes. And now it gets into his own rights. And is becoming... Because of that, it's becoming more popular and popular. Mm-hmm. It's one of the greatest arts that actually exists in the world. How old is it? Because it comes... Oh, it's a century old. The first... What was actually the first expression of joy of a man? A dance, I suppose. A dance, movement. Surely. It was a movement. It's already the beginning of a dance. Yes. There you are. That's ballet, isn't it? Yes, that's ballet. Well, then, it's very old indeed. Well, do you find that men or women are better ballet dancers? Is there a difference in the quality of their dancing? Yes, sure there is. And one can't say who is better and who is better. They have two different functions completely. If you can say that the man is the left hand on a piano, the woman is the melody, the right hand on the piano. That's a very interesting way of putting it. Now I think I understand it better than I ever have before. The man is the driving force. Yeah. And the woman is the supplementary and the graceful and the decorative movement of the dance. Well, of course. Well, now that leads me to ask you another question. What do you feel, as a choreographer, that one should see in a ballet? What should we look for? Well, there's so much to see. And I think one should see everything together and hear everything together. When it takes quite a time to get used to a ballet performance. Yes. Because there's too much things going on at once. There's costumes, the scenery to see, there's to listen to the music. And at the same time, to see the movements and the plot or the story that would fit with the music, with the painting, with the action. Well, that's probably like anything good, then. We should see it more than once to fully understand and appreciate it. Do you feel that so? Yes, I think to see and to appreciate ballet, one has to know something about it. You see a little something first and then the second time you see something else and the next time you see something else. Yes, it gradually grasps you because it's a difficult art. It's not simple. It's very complicated. The more you begin to know about it, the more you begin to appreciate it because you know what means what. Well, I can understand that now and I have a much better idea of what ballet really is. But now, how about Shvetsov himself? What are you going to do next after your season is over here? Well, after the season of the city centre is over, I think I will form my own company. I had an offer already. Oh, wonderful. I have an offer to do so and I will take all young dancers who are very good in this country and very strong and who are not seen just because they are dominated by big names who are publicised right and left. If they have the right to be publicised or not, that's another question. Surely. But the young generation is completely dominated by these few names who just don't let them go through. Well, I think that's a marvellous idea. You are going to give the young artists, that is, the people who you feel really are artists or potential artists, an opportunity to show what they can do in your own ballet company. Yes, that's my idea. I think that should be done because there are plenty of talent that's completely hidden and not seen. Igor Shvetsov, I think that you are rather a marvellous person. And I want to say thank you so much for coming down here today and all sorts of good luck to you and your new company. And I do hope I'll have an opportunity of seeing a performance of yours very soon. Thank you so much. Thank you, Betty. Join us again next Thursday afternoon when again Betty Stamm will interview an interesting personality who's new in the news. This programme came to you by transcription. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. Thank you. Lamazeera Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.
