Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand. Northwestern University is celebrating its centennial year, 100 years of service to the nation and the great Northwest. Today the Reviewing Stand discusses the question, why music? Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the role of music in American life and culture. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. In recognition of National Music Week, we welcome to our Reviewing Stand microphone, Dr. Rudolph Gans, internationally known pianist, conductor, and president of the Chicago Musical College. Ralph Martiri, popular orchestra leader, Mercury recording artist, and trumpeter. And Louis G. Lemaire, president of the American Music Conference. Now tell us, doctor, why music? What is your reaction to this question? Will you excuse my being very frank in saying, I think this question is unfortunately put. It is negative. Why didn't you ask, why not music? Because music is here. In fact, in our dear United States, it is so decidedly here that the rest of the world is accepting, or has to accept, our cultural leadership, especially in music. How do you react to the question, Lemaire? Well, I don't agree with the attitude of the eminent Dr. Gans. I believe the question is a positive question, and that it can be answered in a positive, constructive manner. We have music as a means of self-expression, as a means of satisfying a native, inherent hunger that exists in all human beings. A hunger that can be satisfied only by music, and it provides an outlet for our emotions, and it satisfies our spiritual wants. What is your position, Martirio? Well, I think music is universal, and everyone has a certain amount of music in their soul. Some exploit that musical talent, and of course, some don't. You think it's true that people have this innate hunger for music to which you refer, Lemaire? Oh, certainly it's true. There is evidence of its existence all around us. There is evidence that it has existed since prehistoric times. The excavations in ancient Egypt and the primitive peoples in the jungle participate in music in their own crude ways. They dry skin, stretch them over empty tree trunks, or in some other manner, develop a means of producing musical sounds. They also participate in their chants, in their own native singing. That is their way of expressing themselves in music. I remember now having heard a record taken at the festival of the crowned kings somewhere in West Africa. And that was a record featuring five different drums. And I had the pleasure of presenting the record to Mr. Stravinsky, and after hearing those five drums, he grew pale. And I said, you don't know how much I enjoy this, because this is the first real competition that you have made out of West Africa. Well, what kind of satisfactions do people get out of music anyway, Lemaire? Well, they get all kinds. They get emotional satisfaction, they get intellectual satisfaction, and they get spiritual satisfaction. Music provides a satisfaction for all types of human wants, and provides it as no other subject or commodity or thing does. Well, I find that people, they get into moods. And you'll find music has, it has a reaction such as, well, you'll find some people will react and relax to, say, a Dixieland-type group music, which is jazz form. And you'll find other people, such as myself, I may want to hear a few string records, sit down and relax that way. And on the other hand, you'll find the boring girl that want to hear a real hot record. That's their form of relaxation. Of course, in a way, you're describing an emotional response. That is emotional. That I can understand, but how about this intellectual reaction to which you refer? When people listen to you play the piano, Dr. Gons, is it an intellectual response and an emotional response? Well, I try to reach everyone. I usually play to a person, a fairly finely musical person, who understands music. And I address myself in my standard to that ideal person. But I'm very careful in trying to please everyone, even those who do not understand what I'm doing. This should get some reaction from my playing. But can you please both in the same performance? Yes, because my program should be varied enough to reach everyone. That's what we learn through years and years of experience in conducting and playing. You have to please everyone in that audience once during the performance. I think that we could truthfully say that a person who is studying music wants to learn how to sing or how to perform on a musical instrument or how to read music is satisfying an intellectual quality, just as one satisfies their intellect when they learn literature or the drama or the dance or other forms of learning. Well, in performing for all these colleges that I have been playing the proms for, we stand up there and we play and we try to satisfy everybody in that crowd. But they understand. They come up there with a definite knowledge of what they want to hear. They'll request a particular arrangement and bring out a particular bar. They say, well, where are your violins in this particular spot? Well, I have to explain to them. We just cut all the slings out of my band. And they're understanding. They know. They buy those records and they study them pretty well. Do you think that's a new thing in this world? You suggest that the listeners to your popular music are a pretty sophisticated crowd, that they know something about music, know what they want. I think they understand very much what they want. They just don't go out and buy any records today. They walk in a store and they'll listen to a recording two or three times. And they'll buy them from two or three different artists. And they will pick their artists. They won't always pick the same thing either. They have a variety of appetites to satisfy in music, just as they have a variety of appetites for food for their physical body. Not two people will agree on an impression made by a new piece, for instance. A thousand people vote to the concert. When they leave, not two agree exactly. No, I have to disagree with you, Dr. Gons. In just one respect, we have, they have clubs that they form. Now, it's not a case of where you have to like something because you're a member of the club. But you'll find today that people will come and request a particular song, such as a thing, say, across the wide Missouri. And why? It just can't be. I mean, there'll come one, two, three, up to maybe 50 people and request the same thing. They all like that particular. There are 50 people that have agreed on the one particular thing. Sure, but there are 50 people going to buy hamburger for lunch, too. So that doesn't prove anything. No, but you'll remember dear old Rachmaninoff, you know. When he had played for two hours and then came a few encores, and then the audience demanded the old prelude. And let's say there were 3,000 in the house and they liked it. The only one who hated it was Rachmaninoff himself. Well, now, you've been suggesting the broad sweep of music and the universal character of music. I think if you want to make a case for it, you ought to discuss its values, as I see it, in more general terms. Maybe this will give you a lead, Le Maire. In the kind of tension-wrought society in which we live, do you think that music plays any special role? Oh, sure. You're talking about music as a means of satisfying the emotion. Music will arouse or dissipate any emotion. By way of example, you can think of military marches, you think of lullabies, you think of love songs, you think of music to meet any particular mood in which one finds themselves. How about the difference between a wedding march and a funeral march? Well, what do you mean the difference? The one is the beginning and the other one is the end. Do you think, doctor, that music has any therapeutic values? Oh, indeed. May I quote just one sentence which I read yesterday, written by Mrs. Gilliland, one of the national authorities? Few of us realize the amazing curative powers of the universal language of music. And then she mentions how at Downey Hospital, these men and women, apparently irrational in attitude and speech, became completely reasonable when under the influence of music. Now, I take it you haven't given serious consideration, Frank, to the therapeutic values of your music? Well, I have. Speaking about that... These kids want something else out of it, don't they? They certainly do. Well, we do perform out at the hospitals, and it really is a pleasure. They're very appreciative, and they have their requests, and they have their likes and dislikes, but they never show you their dislikes, but they're very appreciative, and believe me, the majority of them are very, very musical. A grand audience, I take it. A real grand audience. You won't find them any better. The mayor, do you think that music has any special value for youngsters, for children? You mean... I'm not thinking about Frank's prom listeners now. Ralph. I'm thinking about the kids. You mean as part of their education? Yes. Oh, yeah, sure. Because of the contribution that music does make to development of the mind to the complete education of a child, I think that each child should have instruction in music, in school, during regular school hours, as part of their normal, everyday means of attaining a complete education. I think that we're too prone to pay attention to so-called talent or aptitude when we think of giving a child an opportunity to become familiar with music. They should have that same opportunity as they have in all other subjects. Some children will assimilate instruction to a greater degree than others, but that is equally true of other subjects in school. You see, naturally, my experience in playing for children, symphonic concerts for children, I can't think of anything more precious than the immediate reaction of a young audience to modern music, even. You see, children are unwritten music pages, and whatever is good, I have always held the best is just good enough for the children. And when I think of all these audiences that I've had the privilege to play for and conduct for, it is such remarkable, from four-year-old ones. In the artist's room, they come and shake your hands, a four-year-old one, led by a grandmother, and says, I like your concert, and I'm coming again. I recall a time that I took my nine-year-old son to a piano recital of Horowitz, and he sat there with his pencil and graded each number that Mr. Horowitz played. Will you tell us what he did? And he came pretty close to being right, too. Did he grade him all right? Well, he passed that test. He may be a musical critic, then. Going back to the one question you asked Mr. Lemire, I was under the impression that there were, ma'am, I might be wrong, that they have a musical education program in grammar schools. They do in many schools, but not inadequate music instruction. And in too many schools, music is available, but after regular school hours, so that instruction in music infringes on what the child regards as his private time. Well, I have children, they're both piano players. One is 12 and one is 8. And they have markings on their cards from school, and I would say very good markings at that. They're not partial because they come from a musical family, or if their music ability is well already marked. The best public school system that I had been able to meet was in Modesto, California. They have an elementary school orchestra. From there they graduate to the high school orchestra, and from the high school orchestra they graduate into the symphony orchestra. I play Tchaikovsky concerto with them with a remarkable cooperation. Therefore, the three there are immensely constructive. They can graduate to a dance band too, can't they, Doctor? Well, now I don't hear enough of that. which reminds me of Artemis Schwartz saying, he said, really, what I'm seriously concerned about is the ignorance of the educated. That includes me. I do think that you'll find in the popular field your real wonderful instrumentalists basically are all real good, legitimate musicians. And I think to play any instrument well in any field, you have to have your basic, legitimate experience. Well, we mustn't leave the impression that instruction in music is not available in schools. it is in many places. But it's also true that in many places it isn't adequate. And I think that it's a part of the responsibility of the parents of the children in school to familiarize themselves with what type of music instruction is available in their school and then see to it that adequate music instruction becomes available. Of course, when you talk about music instruction, are you talking about instruction in participation in music, that is, learning how to play an instrument, to play the piano, or are you talking about appreciation of music? Both. One goes right in hand with the other. You can't separate them. By instruction, I mean that the child should become familiar with the musical symbols, with rhythm, with harmony, with melody, learn to read music so that he becomes... Well, can't the man who knows absolutely nothing about music in a technical sense enjoy it and appreciate it? Oh, sure. Indeed, let me suggest this possibility. Might he not appreciate it in a more real sense than the fellow who knows it technically? Now, am I right or wrong? Well, you're right. I'll bring out a good question. If we do a program, say, of five or six arrangements and you were doing these particular tunes just for the man who, say, a man who has a score in his hand who knows that particular arrangement, you're definitely under attention. or if you were working for an audience, a general audience, they still love music and they have a great musical knowledge in themselves and still not being able to play or write music. It's sort of an intuitive knowledge. Right. I'm very much in favor of the man who doesn't know anything about music but gets a marvelous reaction. But I would say he is unconsciously happy. But he's happy. He definitely is happy. You ask a question, are you right or wrong? I think you're wrong. If a person has a knowledge of music, they will be able to appreciate music much more than if they have no knowledge of music. Of course, what disturbs Dr. Gans and Mr. Martiri and others who play in public, a portion of their audience is there evaluating the standard of their performance and they don't always like that. But we're not talking about those people appreciating music. We're talking about them evaluating how well the artist or the orchestra performs. But no one will ever agree on that. You see, you have to read two papers in the morning and the one says it was good and the other one says it wasn't. That's correct. Now, who knows? The person who was in the audience and heard the performance will appreciate it and pays no attention to what the critics say or think. Well, now, may I tell my little story? I wish you would. You see, after a symphony concert in a small town in Texas when everybody was gone from the green room, that awful place where all the lies are told, naturally, man stood there, rather simply dressed laborer. And when he said, are you walking back to the hotel? I said, yes. And here, he told me, this is the first symphony concert that I have heard. And I can assure you, I'm a better man after it. Of course, that's a magnificent story, doctor. Yes. Well, and I mean, I consider that the best compliment I had in my career. When you play, let's make this a bit specific in terms of the instruments you play so magnificently. When you play the piano, what do you, what kind of reaction do you hope for? What do you want people to get out of it? I want them to appreciate the masterworks I perform. I'm the messenger to deliver the music of those who wrote great music. And I'm simply the missionary. The most modest man in our profession, Mr. Toscanini, says, when somebody said to him, you are the great Beethoven man. And so he said, my dear, you see, first Beethoven, and second Beethoven, and third Beethoven, and there'll a long time afterwards comes little Toscanini. You see, that's the integrity of the artist. And that's why we admire him. What do you think of the piano as an instrument? What are its potentialities? Well, the piano expresses the entire range of the orchestra. And a good pianist can imitate practically even a trumpet. I sometimes play the trumpet on the piano. Well, I want to hear that. You should be jealous because it sounds nearly as good and as loud. Oh. For you, then, the piano is the king of the instruments, right? Oh, indeed. It has to be disputed. Single instrument. Single instrument. The trumpet is the king of the instruments. I believe it is. It looks to me like we got three kings here because the organ is the king of instruments. Oh. Now, may I say, you see, there is a psychology of the concert hall which is marvelous. You see, of the conductor, they only see the back. Of the pianist, they only see the profile. And Casals, when he sits in front of the audience, looks the other way because he didn't want to have his face seen. And naturally, the singers, man like John McCormack, he understood every word. He said, that was easy. That's why he got $5,000 for a concert and had audiences up to $8,000. The organist, of the organist, I have never seen anything except the top of the head. way up there. Of course, think of the versatility of the organ and the loudness of the trumpet. Where does your king come in? Oh, no, the trumpet is a single instrument, a personal instrument. And the organ is a combined instrument of musicality and contraptions. It's a marvelous instrument. A marvelous instrument. It's the most majestic of instruments. I think the trumpet is. It is imitative and it is genuine. It has its own sounds that are native to the organ and it also imitates accurately other musical instruments. But our crescendo is in our heart. With the organ, it's in the foot. We'll give you the last rebuttal on this. Perhaps we ought to declare they're all kings. Who knows? Quite an army. Of course, I am interested in asking about the status of music in America, Doctor. How do you regard it? Well, now I admit my age. I came to this country in 1900 and I have seen 50 years of evolution and I think I should be permitted to talk about it. And I think the evolution in our country in these 50 years has been the same, if not even quicker and greater than the 250 years that made Germany great, a great musical country. Today, when I say American music went around the world with the Sousa marches. Then it went around the world with jazz. Today, it is going around the world with symphonic music. That's an evolution that can hardly be matched by any other nation. So, I think that we have reached a point where in assuming a global responsibility, we are standing at the head in musical culture, in teaching, in the high school orchestras, bands, in children concerts. These are all American inventions and Europe is beginning to imitate us in some of these. I think I'll have to agree with Dr. Gans on that. You'll find that in the popular field too, today. All your orchestras are, as I said, are going to Europe. And, the one thing they're doing today, they're not allowing the artist to take their orchestras over to Europe. Just, the leader is allowed to go and he organizes an orchestra in Europe, which, of course, gives him a chance to play his American arrangements in different type of music he brings from here. And, they seem to be going over real great. Do you think that popular music in America is changing? Do you notice any trends there, Martelly? Well, this is, I would say, my opinion, being an orchestra leader and making records. We seem to find a way. We have to find a way to please the people. And, we're finding out now that, I go back to your school children, such as your high school and college students. They're very, they're intellectual. They know music. And, they're not buying things such as, well, I go according to my own recordings. Well, they're buying Good Night, Irene, and the Tennessee Waltz. Is that what you're talking about? Well, I would say they're pure American folk songs. That's pure American music. How about the federal interpretation of the Missouri Waltz? Let's say across the white Missouri Waltz. White. Well, what you're saying in substance is that, by and large, you're facing more sophisticated audiences. Let me explain it this way. In my first recording, I recorded a thing called Truly, which is a pretty slow piece of music and it involved quite a few men, in fact, 34 men. And I used 18 strings on it and oboes and horns and a lot of trumpets and trombones, never thinking that the people or the kids would buy that. Well, believe it or not, they're still buying it and it's two years and they've accepted it and all my recordings have been patterned with my strings and choral group and things like that. And once in a while, we feature the trumpet. Do you think that radio and television, La Mer, have been a factor of some importance in spreading music, in spreading the trends that Martieri has been talking about, in developing the influence that Dr. Gahn spoke about earlier? Oh, definitely. Radio and television provide an easy means of communicating music to millions and millions of people. And one of the nice things about music is that the more one hears, the greater becomes their desire to hear more. And it's the type of appetite that can never be thoroughly satisfied. Well, when it comes to music, I'll take radio. Believe me. I don't think television, and I say this very honestly, I don't think that television has done music any good myself. Why not? Well, you don't get a chance to play any good music on television except vaudeville music. But on radio, you do a little concert music and a little dance music and all types of music. But in television, I seem to find that we're stymied. We just play nothing but... Well, naturally, I couldn't talk about television. But in principle, I think there aren't enough good-looking people in the United States to fill all the hours. But may I say, now that I've heard the conversation which we have had here, I come to the first question again. According to what we have heard here, music is very much in evidence in the United States. and we shouldn't say, why music? It is here. I think that Dr. Gahn's story about the man in the concert hall in Texas provides the best answer that anyone could give to the question, why music? It made him a better man. Do you suggest that the general nature of music, the general interest in it, is such that the federal government, the state, ought to give more attention to it, doctors, as they do in some of the countries which you know much better than I do. Yes, surely. I do believe that the Secretary of Fine Arts is about as necessary. Millions of people have been asking for it. All the great organizations, musical organizations of the country have been asking for it. And maybe someday Congress will see the light. you really think that kind of a move would make sense? Yes, indeed. I think your G.I., Bill of Rights has given a lot of boys a chance to go to school and learn music. They've always wanted to learn music. Of course, don't you have to be awfully careful with the kind of thing we're talking about? It suggests subsidy for orchestras. It suggests public support. Are you fearful of that at all? I wouldn't mind having a Democratic conductor or a Republican conductor if he's good. I see. And you wouldn't mind having a little public money to help you along? The government changes. It's owned so many times. Eight years and then it changes. I'm sorry gentlemen, but our time is up. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, Why Music? Why not send now for a printed copy of this broadcast with a list of books and articles about the subject discussed? Copies may be purchased for ten cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand costs only one dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today were Dr. Rudolph Guns, Louis G. LaMare, and Ralph Martiri. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, McBurney will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand will discuss a very different subject, the struggle for oil in the Middle East. Our guests will be E.B. Espenshade, Jr., Associate Professor of Geography at Northwestern University, Gustaf E. Von Grumbam, Professor of Arabic at the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, and Robert E. Wilson, Chairman of the Board, Standard Oil Company of Indiana. We invite you to listen next week for what we regard as an important discussion of the struggle for oil in the Middle East. The Northwestern University reviewing stand is broadcast coast-to-coast every week as a public service feature of Mutual. Remember, printed copies of these broadcasts may be purchased for 10 cents in coin. A subscription to the reviewing stand is $1 for the next four months, $2.50 for an entire year. Your announcer is Jerry Koffer. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.