Now, just a minute, Doctor. We have health laws in this country. You ought to know that. Why, that's why there are customs officers like me. We're trying to stop people from bringing diseases into this country. But I've been trying to tell you this isn't anything dangerous. It's a vaccine to help stamp out tuberculosis. Stamp out tuberculosis. Science's age-old goal might be closer to realization. Because a French veterinarian, a French physician, and the University of Illinois doctor had helped to bring a miracle of modern medicine to the world. In the public interest, we present one in a series of transcribed dramatizations of research accomplishments of the University of Illinois. Research which enriches life, improves health, and pays dividends beyond teaching. Tuberculosis has always been a major problem to the human race. And science has always searched for a cure. But long before a vaccine for humans was discovered, a means of inoculation was developed to prevent tuberculosis among cattle. Does that finish the herd, Camilla? Yes, Albert. That is the last. We've done a good day's work. Camilla, have you ever stopped to think and perhaps wonder about our process of vaccination? Why, what do you mean? In order to prevent tuberculosis in cattle, we've been using a weakened strain of bacilli from humans who had the disease and inoculating the cattle with it. Why, yes, but there's nothing wrong in that. The bacilli merely helped the animal build up immunity against the disease. I know, I know that. You don't see what I'm getting at. What I mean is, do you suppose it would be possible to reverse the procedure for vaccination for tuberculosis? Some other means of inoculation? No, no, no. Develop a strain of bacilli from cows and immunize humans. I see. Perhaps it might work. And just think, someday it might stamp out tuberculosis. And so, Camilla, a French veterinarian, and Albert Calmet, a physician, began their new work in France in 1906. The process they developed was really a simple one, but their work was long and difficult. Calmet and Goran took the bacillus from the milk of a tubercular cow, and for 13 years they worked with it, weakening it. Then, in 1919... Camilla, have you looked in the laboratory? No, not yet. Come in. What is it? Have the guinea pigs died? On the contrary, look at them. They seem healthy enough. If there were going to be any signs of tuberculosis, it should have appeared by now. Evidently, these guinea pigs and the rabbits, too, are immune. Yes. They seem to have developed a strong resistance to dangerous infections of tuberculosis. Perhaps this is what we've been looking for, Camilla. The world soon heard about the work of the two Frenchmen. In 1933, their experiments came to the attention of Dr. Frederick Tice, a professor of medicine at the University of Illinois. Dr. Tice became interested in the work and wrote a letter to one of his former interns, Dr. Saul Roy Rosenthal, who was at the time in Germany, completing his work for a PhD in pathology and bacteriology. Dr. Rosenthal read his friend's letter with interest. I am extremely interested in the work which Calmet and Guirard are doing, and I think there may be great results from it. My suggestion is this. That before you return to Chicago, spend some time in France studying the work the two men have been doing. Through this, you may have the opportunity to help eliminate tuberculosis in the United States. Let me know your reaction to this suggestion. I hope you decide to do it. Sincerely yours, Frederick Tice. Work with Calmet and Guirard. I'll write Dr. Tice right now. Breiberg, August. Let's see. Today is the 21st, 1933. Dear Dr. Tice, your proposal has aroused my interest in regard to the work of Calmet and Guirard. I shall contact them and make all arrangements to go to France immediately after I complete my work for my degree. That same year, Dr. Rosenthal went to the Paris laboratories to meet the French doctors and work with them. Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Music Calmet death left Garand to carry on the research in the Paris laboratories, and he was pleased that Americans had taken an interest in his work. Dr. Rosenthal studied with him and his associates, working with experiments on animals and in the culturing of the bacillus, which became known as B.C.G. The bacillus of Calmet and Garand. During his association with Garand, one particular problem interested the American doctor. One of our greatest problems is in finding a satisfactory means of vaccination. The methods we have now are not good enough. We must find a method that will produce a great enough degree of immunization and at the same time not cause the patient discomfort. When Dr. Rosenthal left the Paris laboratories in 1934, this problem still remained unsolved. But he was nevertheless convinced of the value of B.C.G. In fact, cultures of the bacillus were prepared for him to take to the United States so that he might continue his studies to the United States. But when his ship dropped anchor in New York, he was in for a shock. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Bring the bags over here, will you, Porter? Thank you. Name? Rosenthal. S.R. Rosenthal? That's right. Let's see. Your declaration papers seem to be in shape. Oh, a doctor, eh? Why, yes. What's this, doctor? What? This right here in your declaration form. A culture. B.C.G. Oh, that's a culture of bacillus of Calmet and Gerard. Bacillus? Do you mean germs? Well, not exactly germs. It's a... Look, I don't care if the stuff isn't quite germs. It's close enough for me. You cannot take it into this country. But look, this is a new discovery. It's to be used in the prevention of tuberculosis. I don't care what it's to be used for. You can't take any germs through this gate. But... Now, just a minute. We have health laws in this country. You ought to know that. We're trying to stop this. We're trying to stop people from bringing diseases into the country. Of course I know that. But this isn't... You see those metal discs on the mooring lines of those ships? Well, those are rat guards. To keep rats from crawling ashore and possibly spreading bubonic plague. Ever treat any bubonic plague in this country, doctor? No, but I don't... Well, because of those rat guards, you haven't. And a lot of other things like that, too. But I'm not bringing in any plague. I'll say you're not. Why, even a dog or a cat has to be quarantined for two weeks before it can be taken in. I've been trying to tell you that this isn't a dangerous. It's a vaccine to be used to prevent tuberculosis. There isn't any vaccine like that. Do you know Dr. William Park? Park? Who's he? He's the man in charge of laboratories for New York City. Oh, yeah, yeah, I've heard of him. Call him up. If he tells you this culture is harmless, will you let me take it through? Yeah, I guess so. Dr. Park cleared BCG for entry into this country. And for three years, Dr. Rosenthal and other university of Illinois scientists checked and rechecked their findings concerning this vaccine. Carefully, they tried various methods with animals to make certain of the safety of using it on humans. At the end of three years, the researchers were convinced that the bacillus was safe. Now came the most exhaustive phase of the study. Actual vaccination of humans and careful checking of results. Compiling case histories of subjects, checking and rechecking to see that methods used would give accurate results. Tiring as the work was, every detail was given a complete study. This is called the tuberculin test. It's just to see if you have any of the tuberculosis germs in your system. Now, if you'll just- Has there been any record of tuberculosis in your family? You see, it's very important- Chest x-rays show no traces of tuberculosis. Have you ever had tuberculosis yourself, or symptoms of the disease? Those and many other questions were asked every subject who was vaccinated. But the study was also applied to children. Newborn infants, infants born of tubercular parents, student nurses and medical students, children at federal housing projects and those of inmates of state mental institutions. Persons who had had contact with tuberculosis, but had not contracted the disease, were vaccinated as well as persons in whose background there were no traces of it. During the next ten years, eleven thousand cases were studied. And in the number of vaccinated, more than 95% showed that the vaccine had taken. And thus showed a definite degree of immunity to tuberculosis. This take lasted as long as four to five years without additional immunization. Dr. Dr. Rosenthal developed a multiple puncture method which he found to be equally effective and much more comfortable for the patient. It involved thirty punctures in the skin rather than one injection and spread the vaccine over a large area. With this process, the subject scarcely knows that he has been vaccinated. Dr. Dr. Rosenthal developed a lot of the vaccine. The prevention of tuberculosis by BCG vaccination is now a proven fact. But so often doctors doing the research have heard this story. Dr. Rosenthal, I've heard about the word BCG and I thought maybe you could help me. Dr. Rosenthal, perhaps what's the difficulty? Well, I have tuberculosis and I thought maybe you could give me some of the medicine. Oh, I'm sorry, but BCG isn't a cure. It's merely a preventative. Dr. I thought you could give shots to cure it. Vaccination doesn't cure. Then you mean there's nothing that can be done? Dr. Of course something can be done, but not with BCG. The existing methods of treating tuberculosis, rest, drugs and care in a sanatorium. It's by no means hopeless. BCG is merely a preventive measure. By merely, I don't mean to minimize its importance, for it can be effective in eliminating the disease, somewhat similar to the way that vaccination against smallpox has been. Dr. But in your case, I would recommend treatment of another. And the research continues, to perfect even further the preventative for tuberculosis. Because of the early work at the University of Illinois, this state is taking the leadership and stamping out the dread white flag. The University, the state, the Chicago Municipal Tuberculosis Sanatorium, and a group of leading medical men and lay supporters have planned and are ready to carry out a joint plan for BCG production, research, education and distribution. A new organization has been formed, the Research Foundation, which will serve as an administrative coordinator for the several agencies. The institution for tuberculosis research has begun production of BCG in quantities large enough to distribute throughout the country. In one year's time, the laboratories of the institution will produce enough vaccine for thousands of vaccinations in areas or jobs where there is a greater chance for tuberculosis to strike. Throughout Chicago and the state of Illinois, BCG will be made available to public health groups. In addition, 30 agencies will be regularly supplied in other states and territories. The United States Public Health Service is currently working on seven major projects to which BCG will be supplied. Yes, the work with BCG continues and will continue until tuberculosis, public enemy number one of young adult diseases, is brought under complete control. Another milestone in the unending research which goes beyond teaching. First of all,沒有 detail rappelle at williamotonea. Without HIV, herramientanya that the being of the only Streнеad, COPY, educational for− shoutout Return of course. The End