This is Robert Mann, first violinist of the Juilliard String Quartet. This is Robert Koff, second violinist. This is Raphael Hillier, violist. This is Arthur Winograd, the cellist. I think it's a very excellent opportunity for us to become acquainted with a much larger audience through the medium of radio, and one of the best ways we could get acquainted is to perform for you on record the 4th Quartet of Bartok. These records were made about three years ago, and we completed the 6 quartets of Bartok. I believe it's the first time that the 6 quartets were recorded by the same group. This 4th Quartet that we're going to play is in five movements, and the two skerzi are among the most extraordinary movements that Bartok has written in. I think one of the extraordinary things from the point of view of the player in making and hearing a recording is getting away from the group as a fifth person can, and hearing the complexities form one unit. One isn't aware when you make the recording of the impact of these complexities, and they're sometimes a little frightening. No, because when you're playing you're very often involved in creating the details yourself, and then when you get away you hear the larger units, and it's very much more exciting, I find. Actually, it's an exciting thing now, three years after the things have been made, to sit down in one's own living room, if one has a living room, and to listen to these quartets with the ear, as Arthur says, of a fifth person. It's very exciting to hear the music with the worry of making the thing out of the way. Listen, I think that we better play this record before we drive all of our audience away. This is Arthur Winograd, the cellist of the Juilliard Quartet. We're in the midst of an informal discussion of our recordings and experiences. Every once in a while, someone asks us about the origin of the quartet, how and why and under what circumstances we were formed, and how come the name Juilliard. The, uh, three of the four of us were in the Army, and, uh, on many occasions when we had a three-day pass, we would meet and play quartets, and, of course, every musician, uh, thinks in terms of becoming a quartet player, or the possibility of playing chamber music. And, uh, we wrote to the new president of the Juilliard School, and it seems that he had the idea of having a quartet in residence at the school also, so that it was a happy combination of circumstances. Our functions at the school are to teach chamber music, which is perhaps the most interesting aspect of music teaching that there is altogether, because one is dealing with literature rather than with technique, and also to give concerts at the school. And in addition, we, of course, play a, uh, normal concert season, which takes us all over the United States and Canada and, uh, even Europe. The work that we do on the road very often duplicates what we do at the Juilliard School, that is, um, activities such as, uh, lectures on the six quartets of Bart贸k, and discussions with small groups, um, music students, music majors at the various colleges. Uh, we play public rehearsals at times so that students who, uh, ordinarily hear only the finished product of a concert can see how the work is put together. On certain occasions we've listened to student chamber music groups and played with the students, uh, in order to give them a feeling for, uh, professional caliber of chamber music. It's, uh, interesting to us because we get a chance to see what's going on across the, the country, and, uh, the various degrees of, uh, proficiency that one comes across. Of course, uh, there are other kinds of things that occur on a trip. For instance, uh, one time we were having to make a concert in Tennessee and the only way we could make it was by airplane. And I was sitting up in the front of the, uh, airplane, and it was pretty rough weather, and after we'd stopped at a couple of local stops on the way, we arrived at a certain destination, and I looked back and I said, where's Koff, our second violinist, and, uh, he wasn't anywhere else to be seen. And, uh, uh, Arthur Winograd turned to me and said, uh, he couldn't take it anymore. He got off at the last stop. And so, of course, we were waiting the whole next day, hoping he'd make the concert by bus, and which he did without any sleep. Well, I would have stayed on the plane except my stomach wouldn't, uh, stay in the same place as me. Well, we haven't ever missed a concert, either for reasons of, uh, airplane transportation or any other type of transportation, but we've come very close to missing. In Salt Lake City once, uh, being great admirers of mountains, we took a trip by car, uh, during a snowstorm, and, uh, just barely succeeded in getting back in time to make a train that was taking us on to Portland, Oregon, where we had to play a concert the day later. I almost missed, uh, in, uh, Tri-County in Philadelphia. Remember, my thermostat gave out, and I had to keep putting water in every gas station. And, uh, the man who ran the concert stepped out onto the stage and announced that the concert would be a little bit delayed because the cellist had forgotten his trousers. It had nothing to do with it. By way of contrast, it might be nice to play, uh, our record of the Revelle Quartet, which, um, more or less approaches the, um, art of string quartet, playing from a completely different angle. Bart贸k, who was very dynamic, uh, might be contrasted to Revelle, who's very suave and, and, uh, attends more to the beauties of the sonorities. By now, of course, Revelle is hardly listed as a contemporary modern composer, but the charm of this quartet, uh, will live for a very long time, I think. The transition from, uh, Bart贸k to Revelle is a very pleasant one, again, from the point of view of the player, because it's, uh, it's sort of like reclining into a plush Davenport. The, uh, the sonorities are favorable to the instruments, whereas with Bart贸k, we're always wrestling with new concepts of sound and motives, very often very short, very terse, and, uh, it's a struggle, whereas with Revelle, it's, it's very much easier. At this point, it's difficult to know how we arrived at the interpretation of the Revelle Quartet that, uh, is on the record, because it, it is the type of music which is very free-flowing, spontaneous, and French. Uh, and yet the four of us, uh, playing this quartet over numbers of years have, uh, evolved something which we can call our own. Well, we played it many times in concert before the recording. It's, uh, quite, uh, a problem in terms of, uh, the different, uh, interpretations that each individual in the quartet might have at the moment, because not only do we differ very much of the time, but we differ in ourselves. In other words, at one point we may feel one thing, and then later, a few years later, we feel another. And, uh, playing in a quartet is quite a lesson in democracy, because there's a lot of compromise and a lot of excitement, just like at political conventions. And, uh, in the Revelle Quartet, we think that we really arrived at a very, uh, wonderful, mutual interpretation, which, uh, we hope you'll enjoy now. For those of you who've tuned in late to this program, this is the Juilliard String Quartet. Uh, the four members of the quartet have been discussing some of the records that they've made, and we've just played for you a recording of the Revelle Quartet. This morning we had just finished a recording session in which we completed a recording the four Schoenberg quartets. Schoenberg is a highly controversial figure in contemporary music, as you undoubtedly know. Uh, it was our good fortune to know him and to play his quartets for him, and we feel particularly happy that we've completed this work. One of the nicest things about meeting, uh, very, uh, interesting and creative people is that all the rumors and, uh, uh, legends that you hear about them usually resolve into something much more, uh, real and, uh, less pretentious. And with Schoenberg, it was wonderful to discover a very alive and witty person, and one whom if you would ask about a very particular point in his own composition, he wouldn't be dogmatic about it. He'd say, well, the way you played it, I liked, and therefore he wouldn't insist that some other way was more necessary. Schoenberg was a master composer, but his talent also was that of a very great teacher. And, uh, uh, of his outstanding pupils, uh, to name, uh, to, uh, Berg and Webern were, uh, very prominent. Uh, the lyric suite that we're going to play, uh, composed by Alvin Berg, stands as one of the pinnacles in the repertoire of the chamber music. It's, it's an extraordinary work for many, uh, points of view. Uh, the first time I heard the piece, I had the impression that impossible things were going on. Uh, the new techniques and huge interval skips, quick ones too, gave me the impression that, uh, it really wasn't a string quartet, or it wasn't possible that a string quartet was doing these things. And, uh, I guess when we started to work the piece out, I kept that impression. The piece, which was composed in 1927, is in six movements. The first movement is Allegretto Gioviale. The second movement is Andante Amoroso. The third movement is Allegro Mysterioso. The fourth movement is Adagio Appassionato. The fifth movement is Presto Delirando. And the sixth movement is Largo Desolato. In saying goodbye, we'd like to, uh, say that it's been a great pleasure for us to be able to greet you this way and to have our music performed, and we hope that we'll be able to, uh, also greet you in person in some of our concerts in the future and hope you have had a good time. Good time.