February 1st was an auspicious day in the Department of Welfare, for on that day I announced the establishment of a new program within the department, a boarding home program to provide care for the homeless children, particularly children under three years of age whose parents are temporarily unable to care for them. These infants, about 100 of them, are in the hospitals or other temporary shelter facilities, waiting until they can be placed in boarding homes. Through no fault of their own, but only because illness deprived them temporarily of their own parents, they have been admitted to and have remained in hospitals or temporary shelters for many months. Now I don't need to tell you that even with the best of scientific health care, babies do not thrive in a hospital. A baby needs individual care, needs the warmth and the affection of a mother, and when his own mother is temporarily unable to provide this, then it is his right and our responsibility to provide substitute mother care for him. This is not a new principle. For many years, the private child caring agencies of New York City have been providing for these babies by finding foster homes for them, and supervising the children placed in the foster homes. Since the war, however, the agencies in New York City, as well as in every other large city, have been unable to find sufficient foster homes so that every baby in need of care away from his own home may be placed immediately in a foster home. The reasons for this are because of the housing shortage, the doubling up of family units, the outside employment of many women who had previously been foster mothers, and so on. The private child caring agencies, despite really valiant efforts to reach more families who would be interested in taking a child into their homes, have been unable to find enough of such families. For this reason, Mayor William O'Dwyer authorized the Department of Welfare to set up this new program to supplement the work of the private agencies. He believes, as I do, that in New York City there are many families who, if they only knew the plight of these homeless infants, would offer their services to help care for them. We believe that if we can bring this information to the attention of the citizens of New York, they will respond. They will open their homes and their hearts to these homeless children. Now these children are not for adoption. They are children of all races and creeds. They are children temporarily displaced from their own homes. Let me tell you about some of them. You may have seen the pictures of Ann and Howard, which appeared recently in many of our New York City papers. Ann is 18 months old. Two months ago, she was removed from her own home when her mother was rushed to a hospital. Her three-year-old brother Jimmy was placed in a shelter, but there was no shelter and no foster home available for Ann, so she was placed in a hospital. Jimmy has been asking, where's Ann? Where's Ann? Their mother will need care for about a year. Meantime, Ann and her brother Jimmy want to be together in one foster home. Little Howard, two years old, was deserted by his mother 18 months ago. His father had just left the home after his birth. The Department of Welfare has located relatives who are not able to take Howard immediately, but who look forward to taking him later. Howard is a serious little fellow, whose 18 months of hospital life have made him almost too good. Then there are other babies, such as William, two years old, and Charles, one year old, who are attractive, friendly, healthy children, and have a particularly warm and appealing manner. They were removed from their homes very suddenly when their mother, overwhelmed by her problems and faced with eviction from her apartment, deserted, leaving the children alone. Unless homes can be found for them quickly, these healthy, active children will probably have to spend months in the confinement of a hospital nursery. Tony, aged seven months, has been in the hospital since his birth in June 1948. His mother is a young girl whose early marriage was a no. She loves her baby, but is not able to care for him at this time. This child needs placement for several years. Carlos is a healthy, chubby, friendly little boy of three years of age. He and his five months old brother, Robert, were placed on an emergency basis during the night when their mother was suddenly taken to the hospital. She will probably be away a long time. Meanwhile, the two children are growing up in different hospitals with no opportunity to see each other or to experience normal family life. Sally, eight months of age, has been in the hospital since she was born in May 1948 because her mother is sick and is unable to care for her. An older brother and sister are being cared for now by relatives, but these relatives are unable to assume any more responsibility. Unless a home is found for her, Sally, an active, pretty child, will have to wait out the long months of her mother's illness in the institutionalized atmosphere of the hospital nursery. Johnny, a well child of six months, has been in a hospital sick baby ward since birth. Mind you, he's healthy, but he's in a sick baby ward. He is a beautifully round, chubby, well-developed infant in perfect health. He weighs 21 pounds. He has large brown eyes, bronze skin, and curly hair. Johnny is the pet of the whole ward. He is responsive, shows off his two lower teeth, and loves to snuggle in someone's arms. However, and think of this, he has never been outdoors, and despite the attention he receives, he is beginning to show the effects of institutional care and of the lack of mothering. Now these are only a few of the 100 babies now under three years of age for whom the Department of Welfare is seeking foster homes. Their stories have a tragic similarity, but each child is different, alike only in that he needs the love and the care that only mothering can give him. The city knows that no amount of money can pay for the care a family will give to one of these children. The city, however, will meet the costs of caring for the children through paying $55 per month borg for children under two years of age, and $50 per month borg for children over two years of age. In addition, the costs of clothing, medical care, and other authorized expenses for other children will be met. Naturally, there are requirements to be met to be approved as a foster parent. Any family residing in New York State, in easy traveling distance from New York City, of good character and reputation, where the foster mother is not over 60 years of age, and where there is room for a child, may apply to the Department of Welfare to board a child or children. The most important requirement is that all members of the family love children, and themselves have a happy home life. Won't you telephone or write to Foster Homes Program, Department of Welfare, telling us of your interest? A social worker from our department will get in touch with you immediately, and will tell you more of the details of the program. If your home is approved, the social worker will continue to visit you. And together, we will be a team, helping New York City care for its homeless children. I urge you, phone Glamercy 5-3500, or write Department of Welfare, 902 Broadway, New York 10. Thank you.