The microphones of your city station are located at this time in one of the most beautiful spots possibly anywhere in the world because it's a panorama of New York City, the East River Hellgate, and all the commercial industry and activity that is premised by the bridges, the railroads, the cars crossing over those bridges. And yet, in view of all this progress, we stand on one of the most beautiful residential buildings anywhere in the world, the Gracie Mansion. The mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer, is now posing with five actors who are impersonating the five mayors of the city of New York, as well as Andrew H. Green, who was the father of Greater New York, and did so much to bring about the legislation that caused the uniting of the five boroughs of this great city from the early Dutch, Swede, and English colonies into what is now the Greater City of New York. The cameramen are taking pictures of these actors, grouped around the mayor of Dwyer. They're all in full dress, except the mayor is in civvies, we might say, to use a military term. And one of the most beautiful sights, and that completely revived the picture here of the Gracie Mansion, was when the tally hole, or park drag we might be more accurate in saying, drawn by four horses with a very fine member of the police department, at the reins, Sergeant Butler of Troop C, mounted Squadron 1, driving. This tally hole pulled into the Gracie Mansion. And then, if ever, do we realize that in radio, we cover every age, every time, and every picture. Because as this tally hole pulled in from East End Avenue to the side entrance of the Gracie Mansion, we weren't in 1948, we were back 150 years. The sounds of the horses' hoofs on the block pavement, the magnificent turnout of the tally hole itself, as I said before, formerly the property of Mr. Hoffman of Tuxedo Park, thoroughly resuscitated and revived for this occasion. And with the mayors of the city of New York seated on the seats above the seats on top of the tally hole, it didn't look as though anyone was inside of it, the tally hole pulled into the Gracie Mansion. You can't watch these scenes without tears in your eyes, because after all, New York City is one of the greatest developments in the world, beginning as it did from the early Dutch settlement, New Amsterdam, at the tip end of Manhattan Island, and Gracie Mansion is on Manhattan Island. We can't help thinking that New York itself is a patriotism. We learn to love it because every development, every worthwhile development in the world has found some sort of expression here in the great city of New York. The mayor is having the time of his life with these actors who are impersonating the mayors and the people responsible for the inauguration of the charter that gave New York City its title of Greater New York. Most interesting is the fact that Mr. Walter T. Brown, who is impersonating President Benjamin F. Tracy of the New York Commission that formed the charter that finally brought about the union of the five boroughs, not of course without a great deal of resistance on the part of the boroughs and the desire to maintain their own integrity, never realizing that in unity there is strength. And because of this great unity brought about by far-seeing people who had no contact with selfishness, we know that the transportation facilities, the subways, and all the other benefits of the crew from a 20 billion dollar corporation is brought to all five boroughs that never could have happened as separate entities. And for that reason, although there's little scraps from time to time that are regional and sectional, well, after all, we finally sing the Star Spangled Banner and join up because nothing could be finer than the fact that this unity of the five great boroughs has brought about the city of New York, the greater city. It's interesting to watch the steamships and the tugs slowing up here in Hellgate Channel, wondering what on earth is going on here at the Gracie Mansion, because the front porch of the Gracie Mansion takes a full view of Hellgate. And the tugs slow up, the men look, everybody is more or less astounded. There's a tug there, there's a Sokany boat going down, no doubt an oil tanker, there's a big derrick over there, they're standing and looking on, the men stripped of their waists, we know their toilers, the men that achieve, they're the men of industry. The very things, industry and commerce is the thing that built this city. Not anything else but industry and commerce and our great, great Department of Commerce, our city Department of Commerce, realizes this fact under the able leadership of Commissioner Maguire. And because of course all the industry in the world emanates from a great world city like New York, a Department of Commerce is the most appropriate function of this city government. Handsome Bert Lytel, who seems ageless, was responsible for the pageant of the five mayors who represent and take us back into the past. There's Mayor Van Wyke. I stood in front of City Hall the day that Mayor Van Wyke broke ground for the subways. I was an office boy in the world building just across the street. And believe it or not, there were no cameramen, there was a handful of people, and yet this world-shaking event was taking place in front of City Hall. There's a bronze tablet there now marking the event and the time when the Mayor Van Wyke broke ground for the subways. And we know that transportation is a knottery. It's like the very blood vessels that carry life and existence to outlying districts. I remember one time leaving Yonkers with my uncle driving a Surrey with the fringe on top. My Aunt Mary asked my uncle if we could drive to a certain place. Come here, Mr. Lytel, while you're passing the mic, say a few words. Bert Lytel, I don't need to introduce him. You know all know Bert Lytel. Well, I never felt more proud of being a citizen of New York than I did today. This is my first visit to Gracie Mansion. Oh, what a lovely place so worthy of our Mayor. Nothing on Broadway can duplicate it, can it? Oh, nothing on Broadway. Well, we haven't got a little, we got a little more lawn on Broadway. Got a little more lawn. Can we capture the where, Mr. Siegel? We're going to bring it down now to John Golden who's right here talking to the Mayor. Say a word, Mr. Golden, while we're waiting for the Mayor. I wish I represented Patty Gleason because I come from Long Island City. And I remember him when he was running the job then. However, I never saw such a wonderful bit of accuracy and reporting as I've seen this day. You're all very lucky to listen to this grand guy who knows how to tell it all to you. Well, coming from John Golden who knows drama and the theater as well as he does, there's no theatrical situation in the world as competent as this staging here today from the very moment of the arrival of the Tally Ho to the fact that the Mayor of the City of New York is host today on the steps of this Gracie Mansion commanding as it does the wonderful scene here at Hellgate. Why the word Hellgate? It seems unpleasant, doesn't it? Well, do you want to say a word, Mr. Mayor? Mayor O'Dwyer, a wonderful host in his own home. Ladies and gentlemen, we're about to have some formal presentations made here. Mr. Whelan is now busy on the front lawn organizing the groups. In a moment we'll have a formal presentation made here by the former mayors of the City of New York and Mr. Andrew H. Green, who is the father of the City of New York. The gentleman worked for 30 years to bring it about and he is here. Now, Mr. Benjamin F. Tracy, who was the chairman of the commission that recommended to the legislature that Greater New York be a established, is present, and I see him coming up towards the microphone with Mr. Whelan. They're very busily engaged at the moment. They're talking to one another. There are last-minute instructions. They're coming rather closely now to the microphone. In a few moments the formal presentation will be made. Will you take it away for the moment, please? I'll do that. I want to thank you, Mr. Mayor, as a wonderful host in your own home and a gentleman. That's not a compliment. That's just a statement of fact. Mr. Whelan, inimitable Mr. Whelan. Ladies and gentlemen, I've just arrived here, as you heard the mayor express it a moment ago, with the Honorable Benjamin Tracy, chairman of the commission that brought about the Greater New York Charter and presented to the legislature. The Honorable Benjamin Tracy will now address his honor, Mayor William O'Dwyer. Thank you, Mr. Whelan. Mr. Mayor, we have done a very remarkable thing here today. We have called back from history those who participated in the consolidation of the five boroughs in 1898. And Mr. Mayor, we are delighted to be here. And we are amazed at the growth of this town that we knew 50 years ago. As we look out over the expanse of Gracie Mansion, we see graceful and strong bridges. We see amazing thoroughfares and boulevards. We see schools and churches and parks and everything that makes life worthwhile in New York City. But Mr. Mayor, we are a little bit perplexed too. We see a lot of horseless carriages around here in New York City. Now in our time, we didn't like horseless carriages. We were a little afraid of them. Our horses were afraid of them. Our chickens were frightened at horseless carriages. But today, you have more than a million of these horseless carriages in New York City. And lots of horses and lots of chickens too. And they all seem to get along together pretty well. Now, Mr. Mayor, if you get a report that we are staring up at your tall buildings, staring into your windows on Fifth Avenue and 57th Street, and if we're ogling your young ladies in New York, please don't throw us in jail. Because it's all new and strange to us. All but one thing. Your ladies, today, they seem to be in just the same sort of garb that they had 50 years ago. And they're just as charming today, Mr. Mayor, as they were 50 years ago. And television? We didn't know about television. Radio? We didn't know radio. Movies? We didn't know movies. Subways? There were no subways 50 years ago. And perhaps sometime, Mr. Mayor, you think it would be nice if you were back in 1898, so far as the subways are concerned. We were reading a magazine as we were coming down here, Mr. Mayor, for the opening of the golden anniversary. I think it was time. A very wonderful magazine, but a new one to us. And we saw in that magazine, this statement by the magazine, that this is a hell of a town. Mr. Mayor, it is a hell of a town. It's a hell of a good town. Now, there are some people who might object to that appellation of New York City. But in our day, Mr. Mayor, when we said a man was a hell of a man, that meant he was very good. And so we think that that was a great compliment to you, sir, and a great compliment to the people of New York. But I'm rambling on here, and perhaps I should introduce my companions on this visit to your golden anniversary. But before I introduce them, Mr. Mayor, I want to say this to you, sir. We like it here. We understand you can perform miracles, and that you can get rabbits out of the top hats that we wear. Well, if you can, sir, let us stay with you a while here, now in 1948. But I must hurry on and present these people who came with me. Now, one of them, Mr. Mayor, had a great vision. He had a great love for his hometown. And he thought nothing was too good for his hometown, like you and Mr. Whelan. Nothing was too good for it. He thought, for instance, people should have a little grass plot in Manhattan, where they could play and where they could loaf, and where they could see nature as it should be seen. He created Central Park, but he did more than that. He thought all the boroughs, all the five boroughs, should be united into one greater New York City. And he worked 30 years to accomplish that. And he did just that. I want to present to you the father of greater New York, Mr. Andrew H. Green. I'm delighted to be here and to be alive after 50-odd years. And it's a great pleasure to be here with the present mayor, His Honour, Mr. O'Dwyer. And it seems to me that a great advance has been made in those years that have passed. And believe me, I'm very happy to be alive and to be with you. Thank you. And Mr. Mayor, I want to present the mayor of Long Island City, Mr. Patrick James Gleason. Mr. Gleason. Hiya, fellas. The only thing I can say, Bill, is I'm happy I didn't have to run against you. That's why. And Mr. Mayor, the last mayor of your home borough of Brooklyn, Mr. Frederick H. Worcester, the last mayor of Brooklyn. Mr. William H. Strong. Mr. Mayor, it's indeed a great pleasure to be here with you to see what a wonderful, wonderful city this has become now that it has five boroughs instead of just the one that I tried to take care of. And I'm very sure that it's in great hands and will continue to be the greatest city in the world. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And Mr. Mayor, your predecessor and the first mayor of Manhattan, Mayor Van White. Mr. Mayor and fellow citizens, having come from the grave to see what has happened to New York for 50 years, I'm astounded by the perplexities and difficulties confronting your present mayor. When I was mayor, it was a job filled with relaxation and pleasure. So, with tremendous admiration, qualified by the most profound sympathy, I wish to congratulate your present mayor on his extraordinary administration. Thank you. And now, Mr. Mayor, I want to present to you the report to the state legislature by the Greater New York Commission, appointed to prepare a charter for Greater New York. Manhattan Island, it reads as follows, Mr. Mayor. Manhattan Island is today the business center of a Greater New York of not less than three millions of people. There are those now living who may see it the business center of a population twice as large. In the meanwhile, by uniting into one city the settlements within the city limits that line the shores of the Sound, the East River, and the Bay, so far as they are included in the state of New York, the city of New York secures an opportunity to command the development of commercial facilities throughout the length and breadth of its magnificent waterfront, which probably could not be had in any other way. The commissioners unite in recommending the Greater New York Charter to the favorable consideration of the legislature. Signed, Benjamin F. Tracy President, William L. Strong Mayor, Frederick W. Worcester Mayor, Patrick J. Gleason Mayor, John F. Dillon, William C. DeWitt, Thomas F. Gilroy, Silas B. Dutcher, Seth Lowe, Harrison S. Moore, Stuart L. Woodford, Camel W. Adams, State Engineer and Surveyor, Theodore E. Hancock, Attorney General, George M. Penney Jr., Secretary, and it is dated New York, February the 18th, 1897. And in concluding, Mr. Mayor, we from 50 years ago want to wish for you and the golden anniversary great success. And for you, sir, we wish great health and great happiness in the job that you do so gallantly. Thank you, Mr. Tracy. Mr. Tracy, Mr. Green, and mayors of Long Island City, New York, and Brooklyn of 1898, you don't know how much pleasure it gives me to welcome you here today to the official residence of the mayor of Greater New York, Gracie Manchin. I have listened to the reading of the report of the commission. Mr. Tracy, gentlemen, and I must say that I'm astonished at the prophetic vision of you gentlemen of 1898 and of the people of this city of that period. Thank you, sir. Surely no one today can doubt your wisdom, your patriotism, your love of this city. Mr. Tracy, you have mentioned that you have come back from history. Might I say to you, sir, and to you gentlemen, that you are a part of history, that you are the foundation of the history of Greater New York, that you have left to the mayors who followed between your day and mine and to me a responsibility to carry on on behalf of this city, measured by your greatness. Might I say, gentlemen, that that is a heavy responsibility and one before which I shudder. You have asked me, Mr. Tracy, to perform a miracle and keep you gentlemen here on earth. Perhaps that is facetious. It cannot be done. But this I must say to you. Fifty years from now, when the centenary of our city is celebrated, Mr. Tracy and gentlemen, it will be my pleasure, my privilege, and my high hope to be present with you here again on that occasion in the lawn of Gracie Mansion. Thank you, gentlemen, very much. Now, a very appropriate touch here are the policemen in gray helmets, the motorcycle cops with the clamps around their trousers. They just rode up on their bicycles to pay tribute to our host here today, just plain William O'Dwyer, because he's been such a charming host in his own home. He came out on the porch this morning just like a simple citizen. He says, Tommy, have you had your breakfast? This coffee around on the side. And it was touching because in this beautiful home of Archibald Gracie, the mayor of the city of New York reduces himself merely to a kind citizen and acts as the head of his city, the father and the head of a 20 billion dollar corporation. He's over now shaking hands with these men in their gray helmets. And because I am not a chicken, as was discussed earlier in the program, was born in 1884 and have seen a great deal of New York City in its development, there's a tear in my eye and a throb in my heart as I look at these cops. I say, use the word cop affectionately, because whatever has happened in New York, the police department has taken the brunt of it pro or con. They've taken the rewards when they were given and done without them when they weren't awarded. But they did their duty and they faced situations that nobody else had to because they were charged with the protection of life and property in the city of New York. And the police department of the city of New York has always been in the front line in the strict usage of the word front line where warfare or emergency of any kind existed. They've met that duty and many a time the mayor of the city of New York stands in front of City Hall and pins medals on the breasts of policemen who have survived the ordeal and handed in his sorrowful duty as mayor to the widows and orphans of a policeman who has sacrificed his life and all he had for the people of the city of New York in the fulfillment of his oath of office of carrying out the function of protection of the life and property of the city of New York. And what more appropriate place in the world than to see these gray helmets, these old-fashioned uniforms, but the heart of New York expressed in every detail of them, than these cops here with their false mustaches but carrying us back to the 90s and the 80s and the 70s and the 60s and all time in recapturing the picture. Don't buy any courier knives if these photographers' pictures ring true. Buy the pictures that were taken here at the foot of the steps of Gracie Mansion and understand that a great host, Mr. William O'Dwyer, incidentally mayor of the city of New York, has been the human being who met us all here today. And the Tally-Ho is standing at the steps and as we go up the porch of the Gracie Mansion and see this Tally-Ho with a policeman in charge of the reins about to drive the mayor down Fifth Avenue, may we say that Sergeant Butler has a great custody today. He comes from the mounted troop of the police department. He'll be at the reins of the Tally-Ho and the five mayors so ably impersonated by the actors in the pageant arranged by Bert Lytell of the theater, the ageless Bert Lytell, who is handsome today as the first day he ever stepped on a stage. Bert Lytell is now marshalling his forces and I'll just take the mic right along with me, walk along the porch of the Gracie Mansion with the assistance of Mr. Segal controlling the lines and we'll go down to the steps where the mayor is about to go on the Tally-Ho, step on the Tally-Ho rather, form of the property of Mr. Hoffman of Tuxedo Park and the sound of the horse's hoofs will certainly be nostalgic in its quality in reviving all the essence and quality of this beautiful home here at Hellgate, which is now the official residence of the mayor of the city of New York. What is more reminiscent and again using the words nostalgic than the sound of horses hoofs on Belgian block pavement. And in just a moment the mayor of the city of New York accompanied by the former mayors of the boroughs that now comprise the great city from the year 1898-1948, which is the occasion. Mayor O'Dwyer has gotten right up on the front seat next to Sergeant Anthony J. Butler, Troops C, Mounted Squad 1, and Sergeant Butler has a large bouquet of John Quills and ragged sailors and a few other flowers. The grooms are beautifully caparisoned in their white trousers and full dress coats and big bouquets on their lapels as well. What a beautiful sight. This couldn't be 1948. We're back a hundred years. Here we stand at the steps of this beautiful mansion of Archibald Gracie. There's the horses, the Tally-Ho, even the cops and their gray helmets, their false mustaches reviving the age and the time. It's difficult to realize that we're in New York City with the magnificent shade trees and all the beautiful accomplishments and we might say furnishings not only in lawns, shrubbery, and all other accoutrements of this great and beautiful residence. It's hard to believe that further downtown is the great metropolitan city of New York. Sergeant Tracy is now mounting the box and in just a moment I think I ought to take the mic down so we get a closer pick up on the horse's hoofs because that really is a touch. Any man who ever lived knows that the horse and the dog is his best friend. We're going down the steps now of the Gracie Mansion. We're carrying the mic right along with us. And in a few moments you'll hear the horses' hoofs on the pavements. Don't be ashamed to weep or let a tear come in your eye because it's New York. Wonderful New York. Sergeant Tracy is now getting his reins. I beg your pardon, I'm getting mixed up. Sergeant Arthur J. Butler is now taking the reins in hand. In a few moments you'll hear the horses' hoofs on the pavement here. The mayor of the city of New York accompanied by the commission that formed the greater charter, the city of New York, the former mayors who spoke so excellently, impersonated by actors from the theater range by Bert Lytel. Their sense of appropriateness vindicates that incorrigible invalid of the theater that picks up so appropriately the thread and skein of all time and like the story in the Wagner rooms. They tell the story of life and time as it develops. Standing here looking through the interstices of harness and seats and other parts. There's the horse's hoof. Listen as the mayor drives away from Gracie Mansion on the Tally Ho or Park drag. The footmen are climbing up behind. The Tally Ho pulls out of Gracie Mansion. Oh, they follow the curb there a little bit. A little bit different turn. Commissioner Whalen is coming to the rescue. He's got the horses' heads. He's taking them out into a better turn here in the rather intricate gardening of Gracie Mansion. There the Tally Ho is underway again. And the mayor of the city of New York is starting down the greatest thoroughfare in the world, Fifth Avenue. And he, all the horses sort of resent Mr. Whalen. They're putting on quite a stunt. But Sergeant Butler's got everything under control now. The Tally Ho is underway. And as we gaze through the trees at this remarkable vehicle that brings back the beautiful days of the times when the coaching party started from the Holland House, which still stands there as the Holland Building on Fifth Avenue. And so much was done to keep alive the interest in horse flesh even to this very day by those who love the horse and the dog as man's companion. There goes the Tally Ho against the facades of the modern buildings that have been constructed here and some of the older buildings here on the east shore of Manhattan Island facing Hell Gate. And now Mr. Whalen has abdicated. The mounted cops are coming along and they will just precede the Tally Ho. The mayor of the city of New York, clothed in a gray suit, informal, is sitting on the front seat with Sergeant Butler of a troop C mounted squad A. And the Tally Ho is just answering to the demands of these inveterate photographers who are taking pictures. And here's the cops with their gray helmets on the motorcycle. I beg your pardon, on their bicycles. They're peddling themselves. No such thing in a motor. In those days, men were men and they furnished their own power. And there goes the commanding officer in a white cap. There goes the bicycles. The Tally Ho is swinging around now and getting into position. The bicycle cops are getting aboard. The grooms have superseded Mr. Whalen and the horses seem to understand the grooms better than they do the former police commissioner and great head of the mayor's committee who has done so much to keep alive the pageant and the greatness of the city of New York. Grover A. Whalen, an institution in himself, who knows where every man in New York City is, what he's good for, and what he's available for in just such an occasion of this kind. What a picture this is. What a regrettable thing it is that we do not have a television outfit here to capture this scene for you. Because all the beauty and antiquity of the Gracie Mansion, built by Archibald Gracie, a successful merchant in the great city of commerce and industry, New York, and established today as the official residence of the mayor of New York here at Hellgate, with a complete view of the busy commerce. There's the horses hoof. I want you to hear that. Now the cops have to use, make use of their coaster brakes and see that the bicycles are under control behind the horses. They go around the ring here. In traffic we call it a clover leaf, but it's just a circular drive here in front of the Gracie Mansion. And so is the mayor of the city of New York, the Honorable William O'Dwyer. Our charming host here today is plain William O'Dwyer, who asked us the first question, like any man in his own house would, have you had your breakfast? He leaves us now here at Gracie Mansion to start down Fifth Avenue, where the facilities of your municipal broadcasting system, WNYC, will carry the complete picture of today's great pageant. And listen, Mr. Weatherman, for God's sake be a good New Yorker today and keep that rain out. We don't want any more because it's a great day. All the city departments are going to parade. The sunshine and fresh air is essential to this factor. Everybody's proud of their great city. They want to participate. And now we'll take leave of you. Is there anything more, Mr. Siegel? We'll take leave of you now from the Gracie Mansion and take up our positions on Fifth Avenue and do our humblest best to see that you enjoy in a visual picture as much as possible the factors of that great parade where every city department will be represented today. Every commissioner under William O'Dwyer, mayor of the city of New York, has put forth his best effort to prove that there's only one New York, the great city of five boroughs, greater New York, 1898, 1840, 1948, with no apologies for any year that was lived in New York City. And now we're down here at the reviewing stand and just awaiting the expectant moment when the pageant of greater New York passes by in a complete illustration of the tremendous advance that the city of New York, tremendous advance that the city of New York has made, and right down into this year 1948. We're waiting now just for developments here, and then a great... The weatherman so far has played ball and he'd better do so today to see itself in review, and there'll be everything to review at this time. Now our mobile unit is passing in just a moment, and as soon as they get close enough to give them a break, we'll let you hear what they've got to say. WNYC has had a complete coverage of the parade right from its inception when it started from the Glacey Mansion. ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... ... Lieutenant General Matthew R. Ridgeway, United States Army Representative, Military... And now here are the Board of Estimate. The Honorable Vincent R. Impeletere, President of the City Council. The Honorable Lazarus Joseph, Comptroller. The Honorable Hugo E. Rogers, Borough President of Manhattan. The Honorable John Cashmore, Borough President of Brooklyn. The Honorable James J. Lyons, Borough President of Bronx. The Honorable James A. Burke, Borough President of Queens. The Honorable Caninius A. Hall, Borough President of Richmond. Our own band of the Police Department of the City of New York. And now the Color Guard. And now the members of the City Council pass in review. The Honorable Joseph Cheatschierke. The Honorable General B. Earle. The Honorable Charles E. Keegan. The Honorable L. Carey Clements. The Honorable Eugene F. Conley. The Honorable George Edward A. Cunningham. The Honorable Benjamin Davis. The Honorable Samuel DeFalco. The Honorable Louis P. Goldberg. The Honorable Walter R. Hart. The Honorable Walter M. Isaacs. The Honorable William M. McCarty. The Honorable Thomas J. Mirabele. The Honorable Ira A. Palliston. The Honorable Alfred J. Phillips. The Honorable Walter G. McGeehan. The Honorable Michael J. Quill. The Honorable Hugh Quinn. The Honorable Edward Rager. The Honorable Bertha Schwartz. The Honorable Frederick Schick. The Honorable Arthur L. Wallander, Police Commissioner. The Honorable Frank J. Quayle, Fire Commissioner. The Honorable William J. Powell, Commissioner of Sanitation. The Honorable Robert Moses, Commissioner of Parks. The Honorable Andrew G. Quelson, President of the Board of Education. The Honorable Dr. William Jansen. The Press Superintendent of Schools. And now we're just waiting for another division of the parade to come along. The Veterans Corps, the City Council, the Veterans Corps of Artillery, Antique Bicycles, the Mass Colored. All this pageantry is passed in review, and here comes the bicycles now. And we all know in the 90s when the consolidation took place, the bicycle was quite a startling means of, uh, shall I say, mobilization or get around. Bicycling clubs were one of the outstanding features of amusement at that time. Maybe that's the reason why we had so many, uh, beautiful people in burlesque shows, because it does develop the muscles and the symmetry of the legs. The old-time bicycle. The safety of 1880. It's a little bit high-minded. Looks as though he's running backwards, but he ought to know. Here's an old-time bicycle of 1862. This is a bone shaker, and it's really properly named. Here's another one of those high-wheeled bicycles, apparently running the right way. The wrong way Corrigan just passed. The old-time bicycle of 1806. They certainly didn't build that for comfort. Here's an old-time bicycle, the Hickory of 1890. That approaches narrow up, we associate with the bicycle itself. The photographers are very busy taking pictures of all these, uh, various means of equipment, and, uh, they're certainly interesting in recapturing the essence of the scene itself. I see a tandem down the lane, line there by Temple Emmanuel. It's a bicycle built for free, however. It's maneuvering in front of the cameras, but it hasn't got down to where our microphones are yet. In the background, we can hear some good music, uh, establishing the mood of the parade today. The bicycles are doing a little maneuvering there in the block just ahead of us, so that the cameramen can get some interesting pictures, and that's important. There's a three-seater of 1895, and those riding dressed appropriate, leg-of-morton sleeves and all the other attributes and styles of the time. Here comes the lady who would certainly take their mind off bicycles. Very lovely indeed. Venus de Milo, on Fifth Avenue. Now, here's more of these bicycles. This certainly takes us back to the gay nineties and the bicycling clubs, when even the people of the theater were very much interested indeed in bicycling, and Central Park was one of the outstanding places where those bicycle, uh, teams used to start out for the long, uh, century runs. It used to be the fashion at that time. Imagine pushing one of those things a hundred miles. I can think of better things. But at that time, of course, it was part of the, uh, age and time, and the bicycle was quite the rage. Now the Boy Scouts are passing on the, uh, bicycles, proving that the Boy Scouts are up to the minute, no matter what the occasion may be. So, well, here we are once again, back on top of the WNYC shortwave mobile unit. And, uh, there goes another one of those high wheelers. What's the matter? Yeah. And now we send it to the mobile unit for a few moments to see what's happening up there. Come in, Mr. Savage. Yeah, well, here we are then, on top of the WNYC shortwave mobile unit. And this time we're speaking to you from the very center of the parade as we move along down Fifth Avenue. Now, the last time we spoke to you, we were at 93rd Street and Fifth Avenue, on the left-hand side of the street facing south. And right now, we're just a little off 89th Street and Fifth Avenue. And the crowds, of course, have grown much larger down this way. And as we pass each street on our left, we see the rest of the parade waiting in its separate niche, waiting to begin. And we've seen all of the exhibits as far down the streets as the streets themselves go to the hill there, at least as far as we can see, are jammed with exhibits of old police uniforms, old police equipment, the old fire equipment, and what have you. But right now, we are situated in front of the United States Marine Band, the color guard of four soldiers, right straight behind us at ramrod detention, of course. I see one of them is looking to the gentleman, and he's left there. I don't think that's regulation. And behind them, they just had order arms, and just as we start to move off again. So now they present the shoulder arms and start off. And the Marine Band behind them is beginning. Behind the Marine Band, which is coming to attention at the beginning of their march, we see a gentleman dressed in the regalia of a minute man. And, of course, that indicates to everyone that it's the Treasury Department. And the Treasury Department has great banners they're carrying, the gentleman in uniform carrying them, extolling everyone to buy bonds, of course, that being the Treasury Department, with the Marine Band just ahead of them. The representatives of all the television companies, of all the networks are down here, and they're all broadcasting it or photographing it for your pleasure, and we're attempting to give you this word picture. As we pass to our left now on 89th Street, we see down 89th Street, waiting to join the parade when their time comes, some of the foreign resident exhibits, which will show up toward the latter part of the parade. And right there, we see a tremendous dragon and a pagoda representing, of course, the Chinese section of the parade. Way down on 89th Street. Now we're moving along at a pretty fair clip here, considering we have nothing to hold onto. We're moving along at quite a clip and coming to 88th Street and 5th Avenue. And now we see on 88th Street here, we also have several photographers up here on top of our mobile unit taking pictures, so there are occasional sounds from time to time. We see on 88th Street, waiting to join the parade, the Latin American, Spanish delegation, dressed up in their very colorful fandango and flamenco costumes, carrying their flags, and behind them representatives of other nationalities. Because as you know, it's part of the parade to show all the nationalities that make up this great melting park of New York City. We've just about reached 87th Street now, and we see some more representatives of the parade waiting to take their part when the time comes. It's a tremendous thing, and as we mentioned earlier in the day, when we were parked down on 93rd Street, it will take five to six hours to have the entire parade pass the reviewing stand. Here we have representatives of the Parks Department waiting on 87th Street to join the parade, representatives of the Boy Scouts of the Police Athletic League, and of the young Cub Scouts dolled up in cowboy costumes, and of course their very familiar Cub regalia. And now as we wait just a minute for some more divisions to get in order, we turn you once again to our viewing stand. What's more space on a car today? Everybody had a lot of features in the first place. There's a Buick. Here comes another old imported car, a very interesting one. And now we're back on the air with us again. We've just finished practically the Passion of Automobiles, although it does look as though there's a few left up there by Temple Emmanuel. The scene of Mrs. William Astor's former residence. The 400. The popularity and the population of New York City is now swelled to 8 million, and still nobody cares. We all have a good time and a grand time about it. There's those automobile veils and all those accoutrements that used to cause such a laugh when we look back at old pictures now. But when you look at these open-air cars, you realize that whatever else was the reason, you certainly had to be well covered up. Here's a lady that doesn't trust the weatherman because she has the parasol over her head. And let the weatherman do his dander, she'll take care of herself no matter what the situation may be. That pompon on her hat must be very valuable. She doesn't want it to get wet. Now we're getting down nearer to the times when we remember cars, when they came closer to the design of the present time. I don't know whether that's a Franklin or what it is. Those Franklins used to have those round fronts. A Buick, is it? They used to get a little bit mixed even in those days. Here comes a basket, uh, Tonno, which is very interesting and very swank. The lady on the front seat is very charming, wearing pearls and a black clinging gown. She's sitting down on most of it, however. Thank you for being so pretty. Yes, thank you. Another Ford Model T. Oh, it's got an alarm clock in it and everything. Here's a real fine looking car. The gentleman in the back looks like President Truman. Here's another Buick. This looks almost up to date. The lines of this car are pretty good. These, uh, cars certainly paved the way and proved the efficiency of the, uh, automobile engine. How many of us realized that in the beginnings, early beginnings of the automobile gas engine, the greatest trouble in the world was getting a proper mixture. And the carburetor, of course, and the refinement of the carburetor really became one of the reasons why you step on a starter so easily today and get an engine going. Of course, there were refinements in the combustion and cylinder design of the engine itself. But the real problem was the, uh, proper mixture and the synchronization of all elements. And, uh, Thomas A. Edison at that time enjoyed quite a popularity for the electric car because, um, the automobile was able at that time, the electric automobiles, to get through snow in all kinds of weather when the gasoline cars used to break down. And now we're gonna ask the mobile unit to come in and give us an idea of what's happening up there. Once again, we're speaking to you from the mobile unit and now we're in front of the beautiful edifice-themed Anthropolitan Museum of Art here on 82nd Street and 5th Avenue. And the big foreground in front of the museum is jammed with New Yorkers all crowded to the street itself. Many of them have been waiting for a long time to watch the colorful pageant as it passes before them. Some of the children are seated on newspapers out in the street itself as they look up from under the barrier and from behind the policemen to wave at the members of the parade. Also from the big apartment buildings facing opposite Central Park here, we have way up to the top of the buildings, people leaning out at the windows and waving friendly at the members of the parade. We're moving along fairly rapidly now. We've passed 81st Street and we're coming down to the automobile section of the parade once again that we described for you not too long ago when we were up on 93rd Street. MOH Gunner