Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the Cooper Union Forum. This evening, we are opening the Tuesday evening series on the psychology of emotional growth. Last year, as some of you may know, we also had a series on psychology dealing with mental health and with the problems of the various schools of psychology and psychiatry. This year, we are being a little more personal and bringing it down to the individual, and I am very happy that Dr. Arthur W. Combs of Syracuse University President of the New York State Psychological Association Director of the Mental Hygiene Clinic of Syracuse University and, in addition, Associate Professor in the School of Education at Syracuse is going to open our course with a discussion of the personal approach to behavior. Dr. Combs Thank you very much, Dean Fairchild. The task of an opening speaker in any program of this kind, I suppose, is to whet the appetites of the audience for what is to come later. Kind of like the shrimp salad that precedes the meat, I kind of regard myself in that position this evening. The later speakers that you are going to hear on this program include a great number of illustrious names in the field of psychology, and they are going to be discussing the question of the growth of emotional behavior behavior from infancy, childhood, in adolescence, in marriage and courtship, and in later, later life. I'm not going to concern myself with these specific areas tonight. What I would like to talk about this evening has to do with a kind of general approach which we might take to the whole question of emotional behavior and emotional growth. I'd like to talk a little bit about some general principles that apply at all ages, at all levels, at all times of an individual's experience. I don't think there is any need for us to talk very much this evening about the importance of mental hygiene. If you haven't heard about how important mental hygiene has become these days, you must have been hiding somewhere. The question of mental hygiene in our society these days is not a question of something that we hope for. It's an urgent necessity in our life and in our times. Our society has become so extraordinarily complex. We are so extremely interdependent that the role of the individual in our society has become greater than it has ever been before. You and I are dependent as we never have been before on each individual that we meet in our society. Sometimes we like to kid ourselves that we live in a competitive society. As a matter of fact, this is a sheer figment of our imagination. Can you conceive of what our society would be if it were truly competitive? We live really in this United States of ours, not in a competitive society, but in an extraordinarily cooperative society. It affects not just that individual himself, but large masses of humanity. We need in our society today, well-adjusted people as we never have before. Not just in our leaders, but in all of our people. Our problem in mental hygiene really becomes a question, not so much of understanding and handling the atomic bomb, as a question of understanding the people who make the atomic bomb. We need a real understanding of people on the basis of which we can create an ability to really live together effectively. Because time is growing short. And unless we understand people and can deal effectively with people and their problems, we may discover that it is too late in our civilization. What kind of people do we want? What kind of people do we want in a society? I think that you can find all kinds of answers depending upon where you happen to look. For my own part, I think that most of us can probably agree that what we are seeking in human behavior is people who are able to deal effectively, efficiently, and happily with life. Not only in the present and the past, but also in the future. We want people not only who are able to deal effectively and efficiently and happily with life, but people who can do so without guidance and without direction. We cannot expect to prepare people for every eventuality. We must have a people in this country of ours who can deal with life situations effectively and by themselves without dictation. In short, what you and I are seeking, I think, in the people who surround us in our society, are people who have what we might call adequate personalities. People who are able to act freely and independently within the limits of society for the welfare of themselves and of society. Indeed, it is these kind of people who are an absolute necessity if democracy is going to work. Somehow we must find ways of helping people to become free, of helping people to become able, and of helping people to deal effectively with themselves and with the society in which they live. We must find ways of being able to do that. Now, whether or not we achieve this goal is not merely a matter of external judgment, not merely a question of looking at somebody else's behavior and deciding whether this is good or this is bad. You and I have taught ourselves for many, many years that what we need to do in looking at events is to be objective. We have told ourselves we must get the facts of the situation. This we have told ourselves for a long time. But you know, when it comes to human behavior, we really ought to know better. Because you and I don't behave according to the facts. We do not behave according to the facts of the situation as they are presented. You and I behave in terms of how the facts look to us. And this is quite different from what the real facts may be. You say, I think this afternoon I will go down to Macy's. Now, you don't think you're going down to Macy's at all. You know darn well you're going down to Macy's. And why are you going down to Macy's? Because you feel like going down to Macy's. And it has nothing to do with your thinking at all. And this is true of most of our behavior. Most of the things which are important to us, we do because we feel thus or so. And not because of the rationalities of the situation at all. You and I behave according to the way things seem to us. And this may be quite different from the facts of the situation. You and I behave the way things appear in what Frank has called our private worlds of meaning and feeling and experience. Let me give you an example. If Mrs. Jones comes to my office and says, My husband is a heel and a brute and continues in a tirade for something over a half an hour, telling about all the terrible things that are true of her husband. I suppose that one of the things that I might do is to go out into the community and make an investigation of Mr. Jones and find out whether or not he really is a heel and a brute. Probably what I would find is that he is neither one nor the other. Probably I would find that he is just an ordinary guy like anybody else. That he has his faults and he has his good points. But suppose I say to Mrs. Jones, Mrs. Jones, you believe that your husband is a heel and a brute, but of course this is not true, Mrs. Jones. Immediately I have placed myself in the position with Mrs. Jones of demonstrating that just like her husband, I don't understand her either. Because Mrs. Jones behaves in terms of the way she sees the situation. The reality of the situation has nothing to do with the matter, so far as she is concerned. If you and I, in dealing with other people, are going to help people to better adjustment, we are going to have to give up seeing the situation as it looks to you or as it looks to me, and begin trying to see the situation as it looks to the person we are trying to help. This is what I mean by the personal approach to behavior. What I mean by the personal approach to behavior is the attempt to see the individual who is behaving, not from some outsider's point of view, but from his own point of view. Because only in terms of his own point of view are we ever going to be able to really understand what makes him tick. It is very well to see another person's behavior and to describe it. But if we would deal with it, if we would find ways of helping people to better adjustment, we must turn our sights in another direction and learn to see people's behavior from their points of view and not ours. Because they behave from their points of view and not ours. As a matter of fact, I suppose that we could describe human adjustment as a function of how well or how adequately a person sees himself and the world in which he lives. A person who feels that he is able behaves ably. A person who feels that he is adequate to live the life that he lives behaves in an adequate fashion. Not only that, but a person who feels adequate to life, who feels that he is the kind of person who can, who feels that he is the kind of person who is able and adequate to meet life situations, is not only better able to meet those situations, but he is much less likely to be frustrated by situations that come along that are upsetting and disturbing. Let's just take an example for a moment. Take the young man who is making a date. If he feels that he is an acceptable person, if he feels that he's not too bad looking, if he feels that he's a pretty good date, all things considered, he approaches the question of making a date with some degree of confidence, some degree of ease, and he's not too disturbed if he is turned down, because he feels that he is adequate to meet the situation with which he is faced. Now take the person who doesn't feel about himself in this way, and the picture is entirely different. If you believe that you are a good dancer, then dancing is a pleasure to you and you do it automatically and without much fuss or fuming about it. On the other hand, if you believe that you're not a very good dancer, you make mistakes and you stumble and you get yourself into difficulties and you watch your feet instead of listening to the music, and so it goes. You are a maladjusted dancer. Why? You are not maladjusted because you can't hear the music or because you can't wiggle your feet. You are maladjusted primarily because of the way you see yourself and the situation in which you happen to be. If you and I are going to help other people to better adjustment, or if we are going to arrive at better adjustment for ourselves, we must learn to see situations as the behavior sees them, not as some outside observer looks at the situation. If you are not happy, adequate personalities who cause difficulties in this society of ours, the people who are not happy to be able to do things. It is not people who believe that they are able and liked and wanted. It is not people who believe that they are efficient, that they are able to do things, that they are acceptable to the people who surround them. These are not the people who cause difficulties in our society. The people who cause difficulties in our society are the people who are not being, who are not finding it possible to satisfy their own needs. They are thwarted personalities, and thwarted personalities thwart us. The individual who feels that he is unable, that he is unlike, unwanted, and unacceptable behaves so. In our clinical experience in the mental hygiene service, where we have seen a good many youngsters over a period of years, it's been rather interesting to observe that at least 90% of the youngsters who are brought to us with one form of difficulty or another, are youngsters who have developed an idea about themselves that they are unlike, unwanted, unacceptable, inadequate, unable for one reason or another. And the interesting thing about these youngsters is that in almost every instance, the way in which they believe about themselves that has made them maladjusted is not at all true. Nobody really is inadequate. Nobody really is so bad that nobody could like him. Nobody really is so bad that nobody could want them. Nobody really is so bad that they are unacceptable. And yet, people who are maladjusted, almost without exception, are people who have defined themselves, who have come to see themselves as people who are unable, unlike, and unwanted, unacceptable in one way or another. And we are just beginning in the field of psychology to realize the tremendous importance of how a person sees himself. We are just beginning to realize the tremendous implications which this idea which we develop of ourselves has for the ways in which we behave. The psychologist these days calls this idea about ourselves an individual self-concept, by which the psychologist simply means the ways that we have come to define ourselves, the ways we have come to see ourselves in life situations. And we are beginning to discover that this self-concept, this conglomeration or organization of ways in which we see ourselves, has tremendous bearing and tremendous implications for our behavior. Because we are beginning to see that people behave in terms of the ways in which they see themselves. And we are beginning to see ourselves. An individual who sees himself as unable, can't. An individual who sees himself as able, ordinarily, can't. Let me give you an example of what I mean. Some time ago, I had the opportunity to work with a little boy who was brought to the clinic. A little boy who was failing in school, who was unable to get along with his playmates, whose family felt that he was a nasty little boy. And this little boy had a sister, and she was everything that he was not. Now this little boy was failing in school, but he had an IQ of about 130. And his sister had an IQ of 135, according to the mother. And everywhere this mother went, she would say, Susie is a very bright little girl, but Jimmy is not so bright. Because Jimmy has only an IQ of 130, and his sister Susie has an IQ of 135. Susie is the genius in our family. As a result, this little boy developed an idea that he was dumb. He developed an idea that he was not capable, that he wasn't able, that he wasn't very acceptable, and that he couldn't do arithmetic, and he couldn't read. And with this idea, of course, feeling this way about himself, he didn't. And so he failed in school. The interesting thing about this situation is that any psychologist can tell you that when you have two people with IQs of 130 and 135, the situation could be exactly reversed. Because any IQ score is always plus or minus five. Now here was a little boy, who had developed, a very bright little boy, who had developed an idea about himself that he was unable, that he couldn't, that he wasn't a very adequate person. And feeling this way about himself, of course, when he was asked to do something, his response was, I can't. And people accepted this explanation of his and said, well, I guess you can't. And so he didn't, which just proved what he already believed that he couldn't. And he went on and on and on, believing that he was dumb. This is the situation in which thousands of people find themselves. We behave in terms of what we think is true about ourselves. When we think that we are able, we ordinarily are. When we think that we are not able, we ordinarily are not. And unfortunately, other people who accept this evaluation, simply prove what we already believe. We are even discovering that this business of how a person sees himself, controls what he sees in any new situation. For instance, we know that men and women looking at the same things see quite different things. If you don't think so, just try going shopping with your husband or your wife. See what you see, and see what your husband sees for a change. You will find that what he sees out of all this which is offered is quite different from what you see. Because he has learned to see those things that are appropriate for men to see. And you have learned to see those things that are appropriate for women to see. Every now and then my wife finds it difficult to understand this. Because she expects me to notice what some woman has worn. That's not where I look. As a man, as a man I have learned to see something which is somewhat different from being concerned about a person's particular kind of clothing or apparel. I have learned to see what is appropriate for men to see. Now this is a pretty important principle in understanding human behavior. Because it explains a lot of things. For one thing, it explains why people who have been exposed to the same things that you and I have, see such quite different things. Our usual approach to this sort of thing is, when we find that somebody else has not seen the same thing that you and I see, is to say, how stupid of him. As a matter of fact, he is seeing, or she is seeing, what is important for her to see in the situation. And this is important for us to understand. Another thing we are finding out about this self-concept, is that it is a very difficult thing to change once a person has developed an idea about himself. When a person has developed an idea about himself, that he is unacceptable or unable, it's a very difficult thing to change the way in which he sees himself. One of the reasons why it is so difficult is because when he sees himself that way, he behaves that way, and so everybody treats him that way. If you have ever had the opportunity to work with delinquents, you may now have some idea of how difficult it is to change a delinquent's idea about himself. A delinquent who has learned that nobody likes him and nobody wants him, has learned to be wary of situations where people pretend that they like him and pretend that they don't want that they want him, because he has learned over a long period of time, in many instances, that you can't trust that kind of behavior. So with a good, tough delinquent, if you say to him, Jimmy, I like you, he's just as likely to kick you in the shins as not. Because he cannot accept an idea which he has come to believe about his, to the contrary of something of what which he already believes about himself. I would be willing to bet that there are many people in this audience tonight who have quite sold themselves on the idea that they cannot make a speech. I would be quite willing to bet that most of you have a concept of yourselves as being unable to make speech. And because you feel this way about yourself, you don't make speeches. And if somebody asks you to make a speech, you get very upset about it and very disturbed about it. And you try to wiggle your way out of it somehow. And thus you prove to yourself what you already think. Not having any experience in making speeches, you never have a chance to learn that maybe you can. And yet you go on and on and on, thinking this way about yourself. How do you think about yourself? When my public speaking friends tell me that there is nothing so involved about making speech that anybody couldn't do it who has ordinary intelligence. How do you think about yourself? How do these self-concepts, these ideas we develop about ourselves, develop in the first place? We develop these ideas about ourselves, these concepts of ourselves, and the first place. Depending upon the way we have been treated, the experience we have had in the past. From the moment we are born, our society begins to put pressure on us in one way or another. Even at the very day of birth. When our parents, friends, neighbors, and relatives bring us presents, they begin to teach us even at that early stage about ourselves. They bring blue booties to boys and they bring pink booties to girls. And with this beginning, we are being instructed as to what kinds of people we are, and what kinds of behavior are appropriate. Affecting your sanitation services, I am happy to present the president of our union, Mr. Abram Flaxon. Thank you, Brother Griessi. I am happy to be here. The members of your local union should be commended for the fine public spirit they have demonstrated in arranging for this radio broadcast tonight. They are doing the fair and decent thing. They are telling the people of the city of New York the real story of the sanitation situation, and their proposals can have the beneficial effect of improving the service to the public. I was indeed shocked to learn of the shameful working conditions that have been imposed upon New York City's sanitation menu. Our union has consistently fought for improved services to the public, and we have best achieved this... As we grow older, we are taught that little boys don't cry. But when little Susie cries, it's a very different situation, and everybody rushes to her defense, and says, oh poor Susie, you poor little girl, what's the matter? And so Susie has learned, out of her experience, that she is a little girl, and crying is appropriate for little girls, and Jimmy learns that he is a little boy, and certain kinds of behavior are appropriate for little boys, and not for little girls. Maybe this has something to do with the difficulties that women have in understanding men sometimes. But when Mrs. Jones says to her husband, for heaven's sake, don't you have any feelings? Can't you see what this situation must be like? Mr. Jones, as a male in our society, has been carefully trained, not ordinarily, to show his emotions. Mr. Jones, as a male in our society, is a man, and he must behave in manly terms. As people are loved or hated, they come to think of themselves as being acceptable or unacceptable. As people are successful or fail, they come to define themselves as being adequate or inadequate. This, it seems to me, is the tragedy of our society. We have millions of people in our society who are thoroughly convinced that they are able to do only thus and so. And so they behave thus and so. And society observing this behavior treats them as though they could only behave thus and so. Which just proves what they already think. So they go on and on and on, believing about themselves what is in reality a falsehood of the worst order. And so they are not. And so they are not. We have thousands of people who believe that they are unable to understand politics because they have been taught so. And believing thus, they don't. And because they don't, they are ignored. Which just proves what they think. And they become less forceful in our society than they should be. Compared to this tremendous waste of human resources, And they become less forceful in our society. And the problem of traffic accidents, or even a war, becomes pale by comparison. It is the worst kind of bottling up of human resources that I can think of. If you and I are going to help other people to achieve healthy emotional growth, somehow we must find ways of helping people to feel adequate in meeting life situations. And how shall we go about it? What can we do about it? What can we do about it? Now here we have done a very strange thing. In dealing with other people. Because you know we have behaved. As though we had to make people want to be adequate. We have behaved as though we had to motivate people to become better people. When as a matter of fact there is no need to motivate anybody to become a better person. Because actually this is the fundamental need of all of us. Each of us at every hour of every day of his life is attempting to the utmost of his ability to become the most adequate person he can be in the situations that he faces as he sees them. I don't think I have ever met a person who wanted to be inadequate. I have met people who acted so, but never anybody who wanted to be so. Each of us, you and I, the maladjusted and the well-adjusted, is striving at every instant of his life insatiably, from birth to death, to become a more adequate person. To achieve what the psychiatrist and the psychoanalyst calls self-realization. This is our need. We don't have to motivate people to achieve this. They are seeking it all the time. You and I, I think, in approaching the problems of human behavior, must learn to see human beings not as a blank tablet, as an intellect, as a passive receptacle of knowledge, as a living, growing, dynamic, developing, creative organism. We need to see human beings not as something to be molded into some particular pattern, but as something to be helped. We need to see human beings not as something to be made into something. This leads to dictatorship. If we had a society of people who could be made into this or that or the other thing, this, to my way of thinking, would be the most dangerous influence in our society. The healthiest thing in our society, I think, is the people who are in revolt against this very thing. It's a strange thing, this idea we have had about human beings and their behavior. We ought to know better, really. Because a human being, after all, is a living creature. And one of the basic characteristics of living things is that they are characterized by growth. They grow. Now compare how we deal with a human being with what we do with any other growing thing. Let's say, for instance, that you are a farmer and you want to grow some corn. What do you do? What do you do? You prepare the earth. You plant the seed. You hope for the best possible kind of atmosphere that you can surround it with. You plant it in the best soil that you can find. And then what do you do? You let it grow. You let it grow. Now compare what we do with human beings. Does the farmer take the seed and plant it and begin to let it grow and then start shoving it around? Does he tie it up in this direction and poke it in that direction and force it this way or force it that way? If he did, he knows very well what would happen. He would have a corn plant that was stunted and twisted and malformed, maladjusted, if you will. He would have a corn plant that was stunted and malformed. Yet this is exactly what we seem to do when we approach the problem of human behavior. We seem to have developed an idea that in dealing with human beings, we have to push them. We have to show them. We have to make them. We have to guide them. We have to develop them in certain directions. We have to make them do the things that are good for them. Biologically, this idea is all wrong. Because we know that growth is an internal process. It is a process which can be stimulated. It is a process which can be assisted or deterred. It is not one which can be directed successfully. And yet, this is characteristic of our approach to human behavior. Our methods of dealing with a naughty child are to make him behave. Our methods of dealing with a person who is having some kind of difficulty is to make him behave properly. Our methods of dealing with a person who is sick mentally is to put him in an institution where we can control him better. And some of our methods of control are vicious in the extreme. Even a maladjusted person is seeking to feel adequate. Even the worst of them. Take the delinquent, for instance, who has come to feel that he is not liked and he is not wanted and he is not able. What does he attempt to do? Why does he run in gangs? Why does he misbehave? Because misbehaving is good in itself? No. Because he is not a desire on his part. But because he is attempting to achieve a feeling of status, which has been denied him in our society. Because he is attempting to feel that he is important, which has been denied him in our society. Because he is attempting to feel wanted by his gang, at least, since nobody else does. Because he is trying to feel that he is not a desire on his part to be destructive. His behavior is destructive. But his desire is distinctly constructive. Can we blame a person for wanting to be wanted? Can we blame a person for wanting to be liked? Can we blame a person for wanting to be accepted? I think not. Even among people who are so sadly disordered that they become psychotic. If a person cannot feel that he is adequate as himself, it is sometimes possible to feel adequate by coming to believe that you are somebody else, like Napoleon, about whose adequacy there is no question. Even the maladjusted are seeking to feel adequate. Even the maladjusted are seeking to find solutions. And this... Our problem then in adjustment is not a question of motivation. It is a question of helping individuals to see themselves and the world in which they live differently. It is really a question of helping people to feel that they are liked and wanted and acceptable and that life is meaningful for them. And... Recently we've had a very... We did an experiment in this connection. That is a very interesting thing. We gave 200 school children a test of adjustment. A simple test of whether they are adjusted or maladjusted. A test that is well known on the market. And we had... We took out of this group of children then, the 50 most maladjusted children and the 50 best adjusted children, according to these tests. We gave these two groups of children a list of things that almost any child has done. Such things as this. I sometimes lie to my mother. I sometimes forget to brush my teeth on purpose. A list of things of this kind that are true of almost any child. And what did we find? We found almost a perfect correlation. Almost a perfect agreement. Between the number of items that a child could accept as true of himself and his adjustment. In other words, the well-adjusted children were better able to accept the truth about themselves. They said, Sometimes I do lie to my mother. Sometimes I do forget to brush my teeth on purpose. Much more frequently than the children who were not well-adjusted. Why? Because a well-adjusted person is a person who is able to accept reality. He is able to accept the things that happen about him. And he is able to accept the truth about himself. Much more readily than a person who is not so well-adjusted. As a matter of fact, whether we are well-adjusted or not is really a function of the degree to which we feel able. To the degree to which we feel unthreatened in our society. And this is as true at home. At school. In the office. At any shape or age of human being. As you listen to the remaining talks in this series. Ask yourself. As you hear these speakers tell you something of the characteristics of this age level or that. Ask yourself. How do you suppose a person feels who is like that? Ask yourself. How does it seem to that person who is behaving? This evening I had dinner with Mr. Fairchild and his family. And his very charming daughter. Three years old. Susie was acting up a little bit. She was showing off. Sadly, I think they handled it very nicely. But let's look at the situation from Susie's point of view. Here's a stranger who has come to our house. Somebody I don't know. Somebody, however, who is apparently important to my parents. I would like them to be important to them too. I would like to feel that I'm somebody here too. These people are talking to each other and they aren't paying much attention to me. So Susie was showing off a little bit by doing somersaults on the rug. By showing us how nicely she could do her puzzle. And in understanding Susie, I felt, here's a little girl who has an idea about herself. She needs some assistance. She needs to be given a feeling that she's important. And so I behaved accordingly. I am sure that all things considered, Susie enjoyed me and I certainly enjoyed Susie. She needs some assistance. How does this child feel in infancy? It's pretty hard for you to remember, but try it. It's good for you. Ask yourself, how does it seem to this child who is a preschooler? How does it seem to be an adolescent? How do things look to an adolescent in his world? How do things look to people who are in the period of courtship and marriage? We make a lot of fun of it, but let's take a look at it realistically for change. How does it look to a person who is facing retirement? How does it look to a person who is in the latter years of life? How does it look to a person who is in the latter years of life? If we can understand these things, we can help these people more effectively. We can help them by trying to create the kinds of situations which will be conducive to helping them to become, to develop ideas about themselves as adequate people. What kinds of situations should these be? What can we do to help the adjustment of other people? What kinds of situations can we create for people that will be healthful, that will be useful to them as they grow up and as they develop emotionally? First of all, I think that if we would create these kinds of situations, we must develop the ability to concern ourselves with seeing things as the other fellow sees them and not the way we see them. If we would create a situation that will be good in terms of the mental health aspects, we must learn to see the other person's meanings. because after all, it is his meanings that we hope to make some effect upon. And if we begin by denying his meanings, we have begun by faith. I think the second thing that these situations must be, is they must be accepting of the individual as he is. because only through accepting a person as he is, can we help him to become what he might be. So often when we are dealing with another person, the first thing we do is to not accept him as he is, but to insist that he be somebody that he isn't. This is the goal we are striving for, not the thing we begin with. Take for example the little boy who has found the only way in which he can achieve status is to develop an idea about himself that he is a rough, tough mug. And so he misbehaves on the playground. And he is sent to the principal's office. And the first thing that the principal insists upon is that he take off his hat and be polite. the very thing that he can't do. Because to do this is to be something that he is not. And the minute you put a person in a position of trying to be something that he is not, he is lost. He is confused. He is disturbed and upset. If we would deal adequately with human behavior, we must begin by accepting the individual as he is. That doesn't mean we have to approve of the way he is. But at least we must be willing to accept that this is the way he is and this is the way he sees it. If we cannot accept him, how can he learn to be acceptable? The third thing I think these situations must be is they must be consistent. We cannot treat a person one way today and another way tomorrow and expect him to believe that this is the way it is when he knows that that's not the way he's just been treated. It's amazing how many things a human being can stand so long as there is some consistency in the way in which he is treated. I think a good example of this is the sweet little boys I followed home from school last spring. Just at the time they got their report cards at the end of school. These sweet little boys walking along, one of them said, Who you got next year, George? And George said, I got Miss Smith. And the first little boy said, Oh, I feel sorry for you. The third little boy walking along there said, Oh, that's all right. You'll get used to her, George. Which is very true. I'm not stating this as an example to indicate that we ought not to do something about improving our school teachers. I'm using it as an example in another sense. And that is that a situation that is consistent makes it possible for the person to make an adjustment to that situation, whether it is good or bad. If a situation is consistent, you can deal with it. But if you don't know what to expect, you cannot deal with it. The fourth thing I think that is important about the situations we provide for people is that they must be related somehow to himself. He must see somehow that this has some connection with him. I believe that this is the greatest weakness of our educational system, that we teach children a tremendous amount of materials which they never perceive as having any relationship to themselves. Remember when you were in school when you learned what were the chief exports of Venezuela? If I hadn't picked up a paper that told me what they were on the way down here on the plane today, I wouldn't have known it either. In case you're interested, it's oil. Unless a situation is somehow related to me personally, I cannot learn effectively about myself or about the situation. I cannot get excited about abstractions. I can only get excited about things that have some personal bearing with me. How can an individual understand such ideas as faith, hope, justice, if he has never experienced them? You and I get horrified at delinquents who don't seem to have any understanding of justice, who don't seem to have any understanding that when we do something nice to them, they should appreciate it. How did you learn how to behave when people did nice things to you? By many experiences of that sort. by many experiences of people doing nice things for you. That's how you learned how to behave under those circumstances. Can we then ask of an individual that he be what we want him to be at the end when we're just starting out with him? And yet this is exactly what we do very often. I think the fifth thing that a situation must be is it must be non-threatening to the individual. This is something we have almost overlooked as a psychological principle. And yet you and I know it very well that when a person is threatened the only thing he can do is to defend himself. And so long as you are busy defending yourself you can't change. we know that we have sayings about it. You can lead a horse to water but you can't make him drink. Nobody ever wins an argument and so on down the list. We understand this principle and we know from our own behavior that the more somebody threatens us the more we stick to the position we have adopted. and yet somehow when we are dealing with other people we forget this principle that a person under threat has no other recourse than to defend himself and the way he sees the situation. it would be nice if some of our diplomats would study modern psychology because this is just as true in international relationships which are after all interrelationships of people as it is between individuals. Last of all I think that we must learn to provide people at all ages of life with experiences of adequacy with experiences of success in their dealings with other people and we cannot do this from words alone because words are other people's experience and not ours. You can tell me that I should like my little sister but this isn't the way I see it. that's your experience and not mine. I cannot learn that this is true of me until I have had some experience that indicates that it is true of me. After all how can a person learn that he is likable unless somebody likes him? how can a person learn about himself that he is able unless he has some success? How can a person learn that he is wanted unless somebody wants him? How can a person learn that he is acceptable if nobody accepts him? and how can a person learn that he is a person who has some self-respect unless somebody respects him? To carry out a program as I have just outlined is not a question of equipment or plant or supplies or even finances. How do you pronounce it? Finances? It is a question of people people and attitudes it is a question really of showing for other people that we respect them that we have understanding and that we are the kind of people whom they can trust. After all this is not so much to ask unless we do this kind of thing unless we create a population that feels able and wanted and respectable unless we create a population that feels it has a real integrity unless we create a population that feels it is important our society I am afraid has not long to live because this kind of a person is fundamental to the success of democracy itself. Thank you very much people once a week and get out to him and give vous