Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause Applause The Grimm, Commissioner Probst, Bishop Flannelly, Bishop Boynton, Rabbi Solomon, Senator Cafaba, Newball Morris, the other distinguished gentlemen of the dais, ladies and gentlemen, and particularly the officers and members of the Children's Welfare Federation. If you notice on the program, I'm not present tonight to deliver an address. I'm merely to respond. As Peter Grimm told you, frankly, I try to avoid attending dinners that people from time to time want to give in my honor. And I do that for many, many reasons. I've avoided it all of my public life, and I've particularly attempted to avoid it since assuming the staggering job of being mayor of this great city. In this instance, when Mr. Grimm and Commissioner Probst visited my office, I didn't hesitate for a moment in accepting their very kind invitation. And I accepted it because of my knowledge of the work of the Children's Welfare Federation. I accepted it because as mayor of this city, I feel that the city itself has a deep obligation to civic organizations such as this. You know as well as I do that in large measure, I would say almost the entire responsibility for taking care of the children of our city rests with the city. The fact of the matter is that the city does expend tremendous amounts of money each year in taking care of the needs of its children. That's our responsibility. But even though the city itself does a tremendous job in taking care of the education, taking care of the religious requirements, taking care of the health, taking care of the children of our children of our children, taking care of the children of our children, taking care of a thousand and one things that children require, particularly children who come from families that cannot provide these things themselves, in spite of all that, it would be absolutely impossible for the city to go the entire distance, were it not for splendid civic organizations, like the Children's Welfare Federation. So that I felt from the inception that I was called upon as a partner in this business. To see to it that this dinner became a success, I felt as a partner representing the city in it that I should do everything possible to assure the success of the purposes for which the Children's Welfare Federation was first organized, a work as New Ball Morse has pointed out, has gone on without interruption for over 40 long years and still goes on with great help for the children of our city. So that, Peter, that's the reason I accepted this dinner. I knew that this was not a dinner given for me at all. It was a dinner given in the interest and in the welfare of the children of our city who need your help. I do want to thank all of you people who attended this dinner tonight and make it possible for this Federation to carry on its work. I want to thank all of you, Lord. I want to particularly thank the speakers who appeared here and made such eloquent addresses. Addresses that were of interest to me as your mayor. Addresses that were of great interest to all the citizens of our city. Addresses that have a deep moral significance. I want to thank New Ball Morse for his attendance here tonight. that discloses that when it comes to children, as Dean Alfange pointed out, children and the welfare of children know no partisanship. I want to thank Dean Alfange for his attendance, for his eloquent address. And I want to thank Bishop Plannerly for departing from what the printed programs stated, and for having given this audience a very timely and an inspiring address. Thank you, Bishop Plannerly. Carrie Hershfield is always wonderful. Tonight, you really excelled. Senator Kefauver, I know what a busy schedule you have. And when you took time out from your own multifarious duties in Washington to come up here to New York to attend this dinner, it only gave further evidence of the tremendous interest you have in the welfare of your country. Because, as you so pointedly stated, the welfare of our nation depends upon the welfare of our children. And by your attendance here tonight, you have not only earned my warm appreciation, the appreciation of the Children's Welfare Federation, but of the entire citizenry of the United States of America. Thanks very much for coming. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. And so with the address of Mayor Impeletere, we conclude this presentation from the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria. Thank you.