And now that you have made the decision that the time has come for you to leave, you leave this room, symbolic as it is to you and to me and to all those who have promoted here this morning, with the affection of the department, in a greater degree than I have ever known it, with the confidence of the people of this city, the gratitude of the people of this city for the manner in which you have handled this difficult assignment. The emotions of saying goodbye to you from this department couldn't possibly be happy ones. Yet, we know that there are family considerations. There is that home and that lovely family and those beautiful children that have to be educated. And we can't go on through. However, the time does come when we have to think, first of all, of them. And I would not, despite the feeling of sadness that I do have at seeing you grow, I would not raise one finger to change your mind. I prefer to think that what you're doing is done as you have done everything, in good conscience, out of your sense of fairness, and out of your love for your family. And keeping that in mind, there is the other emotion of happiness, because I believe that you will accomplish in this way the things that are dearest to your heart. So, we come to the final moment. And we begin here to look forward, Arthur, to continued friendship, which I know you will give, not only to me, but to everyone in this department, but to everyone in this department who appeals to you for your help, your wisdom, and your guidance. I ask the tiny providence that has brought us here this morning to guide you and make you happy. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. We've just heard the mayor of the city of New York pay his great tribute to Arthur Wallander, one of the greatest commissioners of the police department of the city of New York, and now the commissioner replies. Thank you very much, General. I don't know what to say after that. Very fine response to my designation coming from you, General. I... I feel it very deeply. Because you've always exhibited the kind of spirit and friendship that makes a fellow work. To know you is to love you. You've never regaled me for anything that I... If any of the mistakes I might have made, and I did make some, simply... ...encours me to go on and forget about it and... ...I'll not do that. Those things are... only come from great men. So, General, I appreciate the bottom of my heart... ...the great privilege of having been able to serve unto you. You've been a great leader. Highest type. And... I thank you for that so much. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you, General. Commissioner Wallander has just replied to the mayor's solicitations on the occasion of the tendering of his resignation to the mayor as police commissioner of the city of New York. We're going to be here to the conference now for a few moments. We'll see what the next move is before we report to you on the radio. And now the cameraman again demand a picture of this momentous and historic occasion here in the gymnasium at police headquarters. Possibly in one of the most well-organized and beautifully detailed ceremonies ever to be held in this building is the assemblage here in the gymnasium at police headquarters. We're in the presence of the clergy, distinguished citizens, the ranking officers of the police department, the 483 new patrolmen who were sworn in just previous to the ceremony, and the 35 police women. All these fine young men and women have the inspiring sight of this leave taking of Commissioner Wallander in the presence of the mayor, the members of his cabinet, the board of estimate, and all those concerned with the good and welfare and the dignity of this great and wonder city of New York. The cameraman now are snapping pictures. And is there anything more, Mr. Segal? Yes. And now we take leave of Commissioner Wallander and I know you, the people of the city of New York. We echo the sentiments of the mayor in wishing him in his new undertaking with the consolidated Edison the very finest of opportunity and achievement, such as he has had and achieved here in the great police department of the city of New York. New York's great Army of Blue, combined with the fire department of the other Army of Blue, they themselves concerned with the preservation of life and property from different angles within the gates of our busy and wonderful city. And now we take leave of you from the police headquarters gymnasium, Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Wallander just dismissed the ceremony and that is it. We return you now to the studios in the municipal building. This is the municipal... Commissioner Wallander, the municipal building. Commissioner Wallander, the municipal building.