Ladies and gentlemen, the mayor has halted to wait for the applause, which has greeted the president who has just put his head out of the window. We have here today the best friend the working people of America ever had. President Roosevelt! President Roosevelt waves his hand to this wildly cheering crowd here who will throw their hats up in the air. He waves to the people on the rooftops as well. And now he motions for silence. I am very glad to come back here. And I shall never forget four years ago when thousands of schoolchildren in front of me repeated that splendid oath to the flag. When I come down in this part of New York, as I have for well over a quarter of a century, I am reminded of the old prayer which says, fashion, God, fashion into one happy people, the multitudes brought hither from many kindreds and tongues. For my friends, that is America. And every time, every time that I come back, I get just a little chokey feeling, just something that grips my heart a little more. And so, let me say with you, God bless America. God bless America. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard the second of a series of addresses made by the President of the United States, President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, out here at Roosevelt Park. The President has just concluded and is now waving his hat and his hand to this large crowd of about 10,000 people here as he leaves the platform. The group of five to six thousand schoolchildren gathered here in this playground bearing a color guard. There are several color guards here. They carry the flag of the United States as well as the flag of the city of New York and the state of New York. Just about making preparations to leave the avenues here. The avenues here that line this playground, they're lined with sycamore trees and there's a sort of a pavement between the playground and the street itself. That has been jammed to capacity by thousands of people. The ends have been roped off and the police are now directing the flow away from this end of the platform. The streets, of course, have all been roped off here. And the people are taking up positions along the line of route of the President as he makes his way through the Garment District down here on the east side in preparation for his visit to the Midtown Tunnel. That's the Queens Tunnel uptown, the next scheduled stop of the President on his visit to Manhattan today. From there he will proceed to Hunter College and we are happy to announce that your municipal station will broadcast his address from that point at 2 o'clock. Once again at 2.30 o'clock at another point where he will speak once more. The children, there's a terrific mass of these children, they're all surging up to the other end of the platform, to the other end of the playground here, trying to get out and march over in the direction of the cavalcade of cars that will gradually proceed uptown. There is a group of distinguished citizens of this neighborhood who are going to join the caravan, among them several congressmen. Congressman Edelstein, Congressman Gavigan, are going to be in a special car with another group of gentlemen and will stay with the President for the rest of his visit in the city today. . . . . . . . . . . .