Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 23rd year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand discusses the Hamiltonian influence in America. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech, Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's transcribed discussion. Mr. McBurney. Good evening. Welcome to the Reviewing Stand. I'm happy to present our guests tonight, Professor Bauer Ailey of the Department of Speech at the University of Missouri. Professor Ailey is chairman of the Advisory Committee on Contests and Awards with the Alexander Hamilton Bicentennial Commission, and author of the book, The Rhetoric of Alexander Hamilton. Professor Louis Gottschalk, professor of modern history at the University of Chicago, who is also a member of the Advisory Committee of the Alexander Hamilton Bicentennial Commission. The Advisory Committee on History. Clarence L. Versteig, associate professor of history at Northwestern University. And J. Harvey Williams, director of the Alexander Hamilton Bicentennial Commission. Now those of us with the reviewing stand are very happy to, Mr. Williams and others, to present this discussion of Hamilton in cooperation with the Commission. Tell us, if you will, in what ways you are commemorating Alexander Hamilton. What is the Commission doing? Well, first let me say what the Commission is. It was established by an act of Congress approved by the President. It includes four senators, four representatives, eight presidential appointees, and the President, Vice President, and Speaker of the House ex officio. The Commission has seen its role in the Bicentennial observances as that of stimulating others so as to broaden the whole participation in the Bicentennial observances as widely as possible. And we began officially with the President's proclamation on Constitution Day, September 17th. And that's been followed by proclamations of the governors of nearly all of the states, some of whom have appointed committees or commissions within their states to arrange ceremonies and observances and other things. And then we have gotten the post office department to issue a commemorative stamp on Hamilton, which was brought out on his birthday, January 11th. And the British authorities issued a commemorative stamp on the island of Nevis, where Hamilton was born, on that same date. Many things are underway, but we don't have any specific schedules to announce right now. I would have been kind to think that one of the most far-reaching enterprises that the Commission has sponsored is the American Students Constitutional Conventions, which were approved in Washington last Monday by the Commission itself. The first of these conventions will be held in Independence Hall next June, when 55 high school students coming from every state and territory in the state will assemble to study the Constitution and to discover again its meaning for the present day. A little later, there will be an announcement concerning an American Students Constitutional Convention for a college and university people. There are plans underway to provide a scholarship for each student attending these two constitutional conventions, and in addition, provide 13 rather distinguished fellowships for those students in each of the two conventions who shall be adjudged the most competent and the most able to make a major contribution to public affairs in this country, after the example of Alexander Hamilton. I think that may be the most far-reaching of all the enterprises the Commission undertakes this year. Well, I should think the most useful thing we could do here today would be to discuss Hamilton's principles' contributions. Ailey, what are they? Well, there are a great many. I think one has almost to be eclectic in making a decision. Of course, my interest in rhetoric and public address leads me to think of his interest in citizenship as a public speaker and a writer on questions of public import. I think that's sometimes overlooked with reference to Hamilton, but the fact is that he was one of the most effective speakers of his day and one of the most effective writers of his day. Whereas some of his notable antagonists declined to take part in public affairs, at least at the level of public debate and discussion, Hamilton had a ready pen and a ready tongue. He spoke in the convention, he wrote, was a major author of the Federalist Papers, and was always highly involved in public discussion and debate. And I think that out of that enterprise of his, in public discussion and debate, to some degree at least, we owe the present Constitution of the United States. I think that was a major contribution. I would think so. The Federalist was certainly one of the great contributions to political literature and is still, I suppose, to be regarded as one of the classics of classic interpretations of the meaning of the Constitution. I would hesitate to think, however, that we condemn people like Washington or Jefferson because they didn't take part in public discussion. During the 18th century, a great many of the outstanding figures felt that public discussion was relatively undesirable because parties were undesirable. Isn't that so? Yes. And so it was often a matter of political preference not to take part in public discussion. What ideas, Verstede, was Hamilton identified with? Well, he was identified with a great number, but I presume that he's remembered best as the best-known symbol of the rising American capitalism and rising American nationalism. His work on the finances and his work in launching the new government, though along economic lines, had political ends. And he was very important in that respect. On the... He, in a certain sense, united these two major developments. And looking at it from the point of view of a historian, he gave those two developments a powerful shove. In a certain sense, he welded them into the whole framework of American political thinking. How would you contrast him with Jefferson? Well, there are a number of ways in which you can do it. You can do it along the lines of nationality. And Jefferson's general belief was, of course, the state was the supreme government in a sense, and he was very skeptical, at best, of national government. Hamilton, on the other hand, was a strong nationalist and felt that the security of the individual and the security of the country rested upon the national government and that the nation could only survive as a union if there were a strong national government. Jefferson was rather skeptical of that particular idea. There are other ideas with respect to Jefferson's ideas on man, Jefferson's ideas on... Jefferson Hamilton's ideas on man, Jefferson Hamilton's ideas on government, on what is good government. These other gentlemen probably would like to... I wonder whether it isn't possible to think of Hamilton's having been born in a... what became a foreign country after the independence of the United States, that is to say, another colony of Britain that was not one of the original 13. What effect that had upon his taking an attitude of relative indifference to the powers of the states and preferring a highly centralized federal government? Well, was it so much an indifference to the powers of the states as the necessity of transferring to the national government some of the powers then lodged in the states legitimately under the Treaty of Paris? Hamilton had no attachment or allegiance to any one of the 13 states, although he was living in New York, but he had not been there too long at the time. But his moving from Nevis to New York was no more than my moving from North Carolina to New York at the time. But to create a national government, superimpose it, he had to be strong for that, and he didn't necessarily over a neglect the position of the states at all. It was just that everybody else was in favor of maintaining the states as they were under the confederation. Not everybody else, but the general public. The central idea was a new idea, and every new idea has to have a banner raised and the rally call sounded. I should have thought that perhaps a stronger influence on Hamilton's belief in the central government might be found in his military experience rather than in his coming from the island of Nevis. I'm convinced after reading his papers that his observation of soldiers going barefoot in the snow and its breakdown, almost complete breakdown at Valley Forge, had a strong influence upon his thinking about the necessity of the central government adequate to the needs and exigences of the time. Well, my own feeling would be not too strongly in favor of thinking his foreign birth was a major factor. I thought of it only because another foreign patriot, Lafayette, was also a very staunch defender of central as opposed to state powers. But I would be inclined to think that not only his experience with the army, but more importantly his experience with the Articles of Confederation in the short term in the Continental Congress was something that made him feel that centralization was important unless there was to be something like anarchy or at least a great deal of disunity and commotion among the states. I think both of these suggestions are good ones. Washington, too, was very much aware of the situation with respect to the army and Washington on several occasions wrote about this matter and Hamilton in a certain sense was writing Washington's letters. So there is a correlation and as far as the Continental Congress is concerned, I think it's true. If you look right through the letters from about the 7th, when he entered the Continental Congress until he left it, there is an education involved in, well, seeing what's necessary to revise the Articles, what their weaknesses really were. Of course, they're related. The Articles of Confederation were enforced during this time when they had this tremendous military breakdown. We're inclined now to forget that there were mutinies in the American Army. And I suppose it's just as well we should forget it, but Hamilton, of course, was there. No, it isn't as well that we should forget it. It's better that we should remember it. The Articles of Confederation were generally abided by, but they didn't come into full force until just a short time before the surrender at Yorktown. They were operating under a voluntary association, but abided by the general agreement, not yet ratified unanimously, Maryland being the holdout. But shortly after this, whatever the elements were that brought Hamilton up to the point of beginning. And in his Continentalist, which was published last, the fifth letter on July 4, 1782, he had a pretty clear idea of what he wanted to accomplish. And one of the things we have to always bear in mind is a leader sees clearly what the followers see only dimly. They are generally aware of it, but they don't see it in its fine detail. And Hamilton wrote a sentence which I always thought was comprehended a magnificent vision of the future. He said, there's something noble and magnificent in the perspective of a great federal republic, closely linked in the pursuit of a common interest, tranquil and prosperous at home, respectable abroad. The United States is that right now. But there was also a counterpart to that. Do you have the rest of that there? Oh, he said there's something proportionally diminutive and contemptible in the prospect of a number of petty states with the appearance only of union, jarring, jealous, and perverse, without any determined direction, fluctuating and unhappy at home, weak and insignificant by their dissensions in the eyes of other nations. Well, strong federalism is really one of the great contributions of the United States to political theory. Lord Acton, in one of his lectures on the French Revolution, points out that probably the two greatest contributions of the United States experiment to political theory were the idea of strong federation, which up till that time had practically been unknown. Republics like the Swiss or the Dutch had federations, but they were extremely weak federations. And here was a new nation with the idea of a highly centralized government that would be strong in its central authority as well as leaving powers to the separate parts. and the other thing that Lord Acton thought was important as an American contribution was judicial review. And Hamilton had something to do with both of those ideas. Would you say, Versteg, that Hamilton, how original was he in this idea of a strong central federal government? Do you credit him with conceiving of the nation in those terms and of promoting it? How far do you go in giving him credit here? Well, this is a discussion which we really had amongst us slightly before we opened our little session. And it's my conviction that there's a great tendency, of course, to take a person, tend to blow him up a little bit, at least to think of him when you're going through his own letters, you find these quotes which show strong central government and show the tendencies which are, that he is foreseeing tendencies which in time develop. In actual fact, I think if you have a broader investigation, you discover that a great many people are talking in these terms. Now, that doesn't mean Hamilton's any of the less great. Who are some of the others? Well, I would say there were gentlemen who aren't as well known in this day. Pelletiah Webster, Gouverneur Morris, Robert Morris, James Wilson, Dickinson to some extent, although to a lesser extent. These were people who since about 1777 on were talking in terms of the Articles were not strong enough. We need a stronger national government. And in actual fact, from the 1780s on, the Continental Congress had attempted to put through a whole series of specific measures to strengthen the Articles. How far do you go in giving him credit, Merck? Well, this is a discussion which we really had amongst us slightly before we opened our little session. And it's my conviction that there's a great tendency, of course, to take a person, tend to blow him up a little bit, at least to think of him when you're going through his own letters, you find these quotes which show strong central government and show the tendencies which are, that he is foreseeing tendencies which in time develop. In actual fact, I think if you have a broader investigation, you discover that a great many people are talking in these terms. Now that doesn't mean Hamilton's any of the less great. Who are some of the others? Well, I would say there were gentlemen who aren't as well known in this day. Pelletiah Webster, Gouverneur Morris, Robert Morris, James Wilson, Dickinson to some extent, although to a lesser extent. These were people who since about 1777 on were talking in terms of the Articles were not strong enough, we need a stronger national government. and in actual fact from the 1780s on, the Continental Congress had attempted to put through a whole series of specific measures to strengthen the Articles and they were thinking in continental terms and it was in this category, in fact, in this whole environment that Hamilton really wrote Continentalist. It was to give that whole movement a surge and Hamilton obviously was one of its most potent and most articulate spokesmen. You would tend to deny, I suppose, then the current thesis that the founding of the federal government under which we live was a result of a kind of conspiracy, a plot to overthrow the confederation. Oh, I would say that this particular theory, which was in vogue for some time, has been modified generally and of course I don't agree with it. It's simply an adjusting to new conditions and accommodating to new conditions and it was much too much talked about. It was talked about too much for that sort of thing. If it weren't talked about, then it might easily have been a plot on the plot of Hamilton. But the fact that it was a contemporary idea that was relatively widespread indicates that he merely took hold of a situation and articulated it. Now, to go beyond this point, what was Hamilton's role in interpreting the Constitution and in his conduct as an officer in President Washington's Cabinet? What were his contributions there, Bailey? I think of Hamilton's contributions from my particular perspective as being centered on the term that Professor Versteeg mentioned. He was highly articulate. I doubt whether we have ever had in this country a more articulate statesman than Hamilton. He was constantly engaged not only in conceiving ideas but in stating them in such a way that the informed members of the body politic could follow them. He was not a successful orator for the general, the mob, but I think he had of all American statesmen the most unusual ability to state propositions in such a way that the minority of others could understand and follow them. So I would say that his role, his primary role, at least of interest to me, was his ability to state propositions for the elite. Well, we of course want to bring up the business of the implied powers and his program, and these are things that he did articulate. I would agree with you that he certainly did not create these ideas out of the blue. That is, he got them out of the currents of his time, but he more than any other man articulated the ideas and stated them in such a way that they became effective, I wouldn't say weapons, but effective instruments. That's the word, instruments in government. That's right. It was not just a policy spoken but a policy in working. And in this respect, we ought not to forget the influence of Washington because I think of all the men with whom Hamilton worked, Washington was obviously the most influential both with the public and with Hamilton. Well, isn't it better to say all the men with whom Washington worked, Hamilton was probably the most articulate? I would have put it both ways, yes. I think they're inseparable. I don't believe you can conceive of one without the other, either in the later part of Washington's military career when Hamilton was highly influential as an aide-de-camp or in the latter days of Washington when Hamilton became his prime minister in effect. He actually effectuated his actions. What was Hamilton's interest in this formulation of the doctrine of implied powers? Well, excuse me, this doctrine of implied powers was, I think you look at from really two views. One is a matter of just strict constitutionality and the other is its broader context of a strong national government. Hamilton's financial program was really what monitored the economic component of the Constitution. That is, he saw the Constitution having certain, even the Constitution, having certain weaknesses or at least in certain instabilities. and he introduced a whole program of finances which was really carrying out the Constitution. It was in economic terms but it had the political end. Including a national bank. That's right. The finances, national bank, assumption of state debts, specific things such as that. Then there's the second thing, of course, which is the constitutionality. And this came to a head really with the bank. The bank was introduced in the Congress. It passed after a great deal of discussion and was put up to the President. Mr. Washington asked for really three, made three requests. He asked Hamilton to write a memorandum, Jefferson to write a memorandum, and he asked Madison to write a veto message or what amounted to a veto message. In that particular situation, it was Washington who selected the memorandum of Hamilton which was this doctrine of implied powers. And in this particular case, the theory is that the constitution or rather the national government is a sovereign government, that it has certain legitimate ends, that the bank was a means to an end, and as long as that means was not prohibited by the constitution and was honorable, it would be acceptable. Jefferson's view was quite the contrary. The limited view of the constitution which was that the constitution did not have the power expressly in the document and therefore by its rights would not be used. Well now, was Hamilton a spokesman for this financial structure, these economic concepts as they relate to the central government, or was he an inventor of them, a creator of them? I wouldn't say he was so much a creator, particularly the bank. There had been a bank previous to this called the Bank of North America which had been used as a national bank. But his plan was much bolder and his conception was in bolder terms and what's more, he was able to get particularly the funding of the public debt accepted by the Congress. In other words, make it work. Where previous to this, though the idea had been tried, it had not succeeded to be accepted. But the matter of implied powers, I would say there's more of the creativeness to it. And it's interesting that later statesmen such as Marshall and, well, Daniel Webster and, of course, read out our own time what we call the Marshallian Interpretation of the Constitution is based upon the Hamilton Memorandum. Webster used it in the McCulloch v. Maryland when he went before the court and actually John Marshall used it when he wrote out his decision. I wonder if Professor Verstig would agree that Hamilton is seen at his best and most productive in the solving of objective problems. Here's a problem that must be solved. Not a highly visionary person or even a philosophic person in the large but one who has an almost uncanny ability to see a problem and provide an immediate solution. The whole Federalist Papers, as a matter of fact, are not essays in political philosophy. They are persuasions addressed to an immediate audience. In some ways, the strength of Hamilton lies in the fact that he seldom delivered himself wide philosophical statements except in a particular context. He always sought for one. So there wasn't merely the bank or the excise tax or a trial for a newspaper on trial for libel or things of that kind. There was a great number of particulars in which then he would bring a broader context. It's a little different for most of the way in which 18th century writers handled problems. They generally thought in wide humanitarian terms and let the specific cases fall by the wayside if necessary. Would it be fair to say that Hamilton didn't indulge in speculation about things that were not of the immediate moment but the things that he did think about and work on he brought into a focus which from the beginning to the end fitted into a concept or a vision and which he served all his life as the creation of the United States its solid establishment. You mean his adult life I assume. Well his adult life political life. Should it be said of Hamilton that here was a man then strongly interested in a strong federal government a man who had little confidence in the people. Would that be a fair statement? I don't think so. No sir. I don't think so. I had one example. It has been said hasn't it? It's been said but I had an example that I was going to mention earlier apropos of something that Professor Gutschalk said and that was it was Hamilton in the Constitutional Convention that put in that provision that it should be ratified by conventions of the people because the state legislatures were the formal body of government in the state. so he went over the heads of the legislatures to the people of the states in appealing for the ratification of the Constitution. That's a point that's not too often made but it's still there. Well he mustn't be given too much credit for that must he? Because he had more of a chance of getting the Constitution accepted by a vote of the people and by a vote of the state legislatures which would naturally tend to advocate greater authority for the states. But I think that's precisely the point Professor Gutschalk his quarrel was not so much with the people of the American Commonwealth as with the central legislatures and that's why I think this is something that misunderstood. Well if you're going to make Hamilton out as a great advocate of the people I should think from what little I know about it I'd have to disagree with you but that his attitude was not as bitter about the people as it sometimes said and that he did befriend the people even if he didn't have confidence in them that I think is true. Well he had no confidence in their temporary emotional judgments and I don't think many political leaders in all time ever have and I don't think the people themselves have at least that's been my political experience but isn't it a fact that in all of Hamilton's writings before you go on I'd like to say I think that's a dangerous generalization dangerous you're murdered with it what I want to say is though that Hamilton's writings in the main were written for newspapers and published in newspapers to be read and reprinted and widely distributed and their effect on the reading public was enormous and if that isn't appealed to what you might call the enlightened judgment of the populace I don't know what it is oh but you must remember there's a highly restricted suffrage at this time so that the people who had the right to vote and could be persuaded were likely not to be what we would today call the people that's right literacy wasn't so broad either but in this conflict that is so often talked about by historians between Jefferson who was said to be the advocate of the people and Hamilton who was supposed to have been although I think not altogether accurately the advocate of the upper classes there's only a difference in emphasis I would think whereas Hamilton talks all the time and I'm impressed by that as I read the new books on Hamilton talks all the time about liberty with security or liberty with authority and emphasizes the authority and the security Jefferson would use the same phrases but his emphasis would be on liberty but essentially the two men were after the same thing and what they wanted was a government which would guarantee to the people their freedoms Hamilton I recall said that the reason he didn't think a bill of rights was necessary was because the freedoms were built into the constitution without the amendments he wasn't opposed to freedom on the contrary as one of the chief advocates of such things as freedom of the press and opposition to test oaths and loyalty tests and things of that kind I don't mean loyalty tests in the sense in which we're using today but religious tests and he was an advocate of liberty he had to be after all he came from a poor family born under a cloud he struggled very hard to achieve an education and prominence and it's very likely that that kind of man would have been an advocate of liberty but he also thought that liberty was not safe unless there was a government that could protect that liberty and restrain license and restrain the mob as all of the founding fathers they're all afraid of the demagogue and the mob isn't that true I'm sorry gentlemen but our time is up you've been listening to a transcribed northwestern university reviewing stand discussion the hamiltonian influence in america we want to thank our guests for today bauer allee professor of speech at the university of missouri louis gottchalk professor of modern history the university of chicago clarence elver steeg associate professor of history at northwestern university and j harvey williams director alexander hamilton bicentennial commission our moderator was james h mcburney dean of the school of speech northwestern university next week the reviewing stand will discuss the economic plight of western europe our guest will be the honorable paul douglas senator from illinois frank w fetter professor of economics northwestern university milton friedman professor of economics the university of chicago and john nuveen investment banker we hope that you'll join us next week for our discussion which will then be the economic plight of western europe the northwestern university reviewing stand is broadcast coast to coast every week as a public service feature of mutual your announcer dick coughlin this is mutual the radio network for all america you