Listen. What do you hear? It is a prayer for a man on his deathbed. Listen with reverence, for a great man is dying. I came as quickly as I could. How is he? It will not be long now. Then he is truly dying. Yes. Has anyone told the king? A messenger has been sent, but it will be too late. Already his breathing is labored. There, on the bed, lies a great man. And around him, gathering dust, are the secrets of nature and the secrets of man. And in those withered hands, the secrets of beauty. Listen to the prayer with reverence. A great man is dying. No lights, no living. This week, the municipal broadcasting system salutes all faces of the art world through its first annual American Art Festival. Now we present a dramatic tribute to the world of art. The story of a famous artist. The Florentine. I have a story to tell you. The story of a great man. For he was the universal man. The story begins in Italy in the year of our Lord 1452. Not far from Florence, on the right bank of the Arno, lies the quiet hamlet called Vinci. In this quiet town lived a notary, Sir Antonio da Vinci, an altogether respectable family man. Traditionally, father, mother, sons, wives, and children all lived under the same roof, steeped in the quiet peace of middle-class security. One of the sons, Sir Piero, approached his father one day with a problem. A problem which promised to upset even the peace of middle-class security. Father, I must speak to you. How much money is it this time? No, father, it isn't money. Not money. Well, knowing you, my son, it must be a girl. Who is it this time? It is Katerina. Katerina. You mean that peasant girl? Yes, father. I'll hear no more. You will stop seeing her at once. But father, you don't understand. I understand that my son, a son of a successful notary, is running around with a peasant girl. I will not stand for it, do you hear? Father, she's expecting a child. What? Can it be that a son of mine... Father, we love each other. Love? Love what is love? Do you realize what you have done? What will the town say? What does that matter? We shall be married? You shall do no such thing. And, Piero, you're a fool. This girl, she has no dowry, no family connections. I don't care. I love her. Again, love. Listen to me. You're a man of business. With my help, you become a notary with a reputation. Now you want to throw all this away because of some girl who has nothing to offer but scandal and disgrace. I tell you, you must forget her. But you're forgetting something. There's a child. The child. Yes, the child. Piero, you are a young, brash fool and you don't deserve my help now but I'll give you one more chance if only to save the family's name. First, you must swear that you will never see this girl again. I cannot do it. Let me finish. You must forget this girl completely. The child? Hell, he's my grandson. He will live here with us. As for the mother, I will find one. What do you mean? I mean that I will find a more acceptable girl for you and she will become this love child's mother. Now, do you understand, Piero? Yes, I understand. Then swear it. Swear you will never see this Katerina again and that you will accept any girl of my choosing. Well? I swear it. Good. Good. Now you're behaving like a sensible notary son. Well, another grandson. Much sooner than I expected but still a grandson. Piero, what shall we call this love child? I don't know, Father. It makes little difference. Oh, it's all the difference in the world. A man of good family must have a good name. Let's see now. Love child. Piero, that's it. We shall call him love child. Leonardo. Leonardo. A perfect name. Leonardo da Vinci. Even the sound of the name is beautiful. Leonardo da Vinci. That was the beginning. Leonardo quietly entered the world and lived under his father's roof. As a child, he was taught reading and writing, a little arithmetic and some Latin. That was the extent of his formal schooling. A considerable amount for even a notary son. And as a notary son, Leonardo was expected to fulfill other tasks. Tasks which were more important to his family than studying or dreaming. Leonardo. Yes, Papa? What are you doing there by the window? I was just looking at the sky. It's beautiful, Papa. Leonardo, come away from that infernal window. I want to talk to you. Yes, Papa. What is it now? Listen, boy. Answer me this. Have you done all your chores? No, but... No buts. Have you done all your chores? I... No, Papa. No, Papa. Is that an answer? Wait till your mother and grandfather find out. No, Papa. You mustn't tell them. They'll beat me again. And you'll deserve it. Just look at the house. We have no wood for the fire. It's filthy as a pig pen. Hasn't been cleaned in days. Whose... Whose fault is that, eh? Whose fault? My fault, Papa. I've lost almost a dozen customers in the past month. And why? Because I have a lazy, good-for-nothing boy who doesn't bother tending to his errands. Is that not so? It is so. And what do you intend doing about it? I don't know, Papa. I don't mean to be lazy. It's just that... Well, I love to look at the fields and the sky. Everything there is so peaceful and beautiful. So, you are a lover of peace and beauty, hmm? Let me assure you, young pup, things will not look so beautiful for you, and you will have little peace if you continue these wasteful ways. But, Papa, I cannot help it. Enough. One more word from you, and I'll thrash you myself. But, Papa... Quiet. Now, that's only the beginning, young fool. Stop that snibbling and get to work. Yes, Papa. And if I catch you dreaming again, you'll be sorry you were ever born. Understand? Yes, Papa. But, Papa... Well? I... I understand, Papa. I will work. That was his home. And that was his father. And so, as the years went by, Leonardo began to have new dreams. Dreams of leaving the town of Vinci. Dreams of seeing the world and meeting new faces. But how could he get away? He had no money, no friends. He was still very young. He would have to wait. Wait for some miracle to happen. Leonardo, come here, boy. Yes, Papa. Do you see this panel of wood? Yes. It was left here two weeks ago by a peasant. He thought it was worthless. But I'll make some use of it. What do you want me to do? Now, just look how badly it's warped. The surface is coarse and rough. Now, see if you can make it smooth. Oh, yes, Papa. Right away. Leonardo was happy. Here was a rare opportunity indeed. To actually create something of his own doing. He bent the panel straight under heat. Then he polished it again and again until he could almost see his own reflection in the wood. When he was finally satisfied, he showed it to his father. Oh, well done, lad. Thank you, Papa. Papa, I have something to ask you. If it's money, the answer is no. Papa, it's that panel of wood. Well, what of it? May I work more with it? Work more? Why? You've already done a fine job. What more is there to do? I should like to paint some sort of design on it. Design? Paint? Why in heaven's names do you want to ruin a perfectly good piece of wood? You must learn not to waste everything. But, Papa, it would not be waste. So? And what would you call it? May the good Lord forgive you. Don't you see, Papa? If my design is good enough, perhaps one of your rich customers will buy it. Even hang it in the living room. Buy it? So now you think yourself an artist. What next? Please let me try, Papa. Please. I know I can do it. All right. Go ahead and make a fool of yourself. Oh, thank you. But mind you, if no one buys it, you'll have to pay for the wood yourself. Don't worry, Papa. Someone will buy it. I'll have it painted in a day. All that evening, the young artist worked. He barely slept that night. This was truly an important event in his life. If only someone would buy his first painting. Maybe the miracle would happen after all. Maybe he could leave his unhappy home and go to some big city. And maybe... Ah, but this was foolish. These things did not happen. But at least he had tried. Now he would get some sleep. These were his thoughts. The thoughts of a young dreamer. The night came and the night passed. And then it was morning. Morning of a most unusual day. Well, good morning, sir. Good morning. You are the notary? Yes, sir. The name is Sir Piero. Yes, yes. Fine, fine. I'm in a dreadful hurry. Can you notarize this paper for me right away? Oh, immediately, sir. Leonardo? Yes, Papa? Bring me the quill and ink at once. Yes, Papa. In one moment. It will only be a moment, sir. Do hurry, notary. I must get back to Florence. Oh, from Florence. You live there? Of course I live there. Whatever city is there for a flourishing art dealer. Yes. Uh, art dealer, did you say? Yes. What's wrong with it? Oh, nothing. Nothing at all. A most honorable profession. See here, notary. I'm in a hurry. Can't you get that paper sign? Oh, yes, sir. Leonardo, what's keeping you? Here I am, Papa. And here's the quill and ink. Well, it's about time. We mustn't keep this gentleman waiting. He's from Florence. And Leonardo, he's an art dealer. An art dealer? Oh. Oh. What the devil's the matter with everyone this morning? Perhaps I'd better go to another notary. One who is awake. No, no, no, no, no. You mustn't do that. Here, here. I'll sign you a paper right now. Now, let me see. The date, the date. Leonardo, what is the date? Well, it's Tuesday, Papa. Oh, yes, of course, Tuesday. Are you both mad? It's March 20th, and it happens to be Wednesday, and I'm still in a hurry. Yes, yes, yes, of course. March 20th, Wednesday, and now my name. Oh, yes. P-I-E-R-O. Ah, there we are, sir. Fine, fine. Here is your fee, notary. Good day. Oh, but, sir, you can't leave yet. And why not? Please. Please, sir. If you could only spare one more moment. Leonardo, get your panel. Yes, Papa. What is this all about? I gave you your fee. Yes, but that isn't it. You see, my son has... Well, what about your son? Well, sir, he painted a panel of wood. Yes, that's it. He painted a panel of wood. Good. Very good. Now, if you don't mind... With your kind permission, sir, would you look at it? I'm a very busy man these days. Oh, but this would take just a minute. Here is the panel, Papa. Now, look, you see, sir? He painted it himself. All right, so he painted it. If I were to look at every young boy's work, I'd go blind. Just a quick look, sir, please. Very well, very well. I never should have come to this one. Boy, did you really paint this yourself? Yes, sir. It's my first. It's a face. Of course it is. And it's remarkable, lad. You mean you actually like it? Like it? Why, this is the work of a master. Do you hear, Papa? The work of a master? Yes, and I'll buy it. Oh, how much would you say this is worth? I'll give you ten ducats. Ten ducats? Can you imagine? Ten ducats for a simple piece of wood. You see, Papa, I told you I could do it. Ten ducats? Boy, how old are you? Sixteen. Amazing. How would you like to go to Florence with me and paint all the time? What do you say? Oh, yes, sir. I would like that very much. Only... Ten ducats? Only what, boy? Florence. There is Papa in the business. I can't leave him. Can I, Papa? Ten ducats? What? What? What? Leave him? Oh, I should say not. I need your help. But, Papa, just think, Florence. But, it's impossible. Let's see here, man. This boy has a brilliant future. Ah, then he will have it here in Vinci. You don't seem to understand. I'm offering to place your boy as an apprentice to a well-known artist in Florence. He will be amply clothed and fed. He will be fine. And I'll look after him personally. And who will look after me and my business? Answer me that. If you will only let me finish. Within a few months, the lad will have turned out a good number of paintings, say, eight or ten. Suppose he sends you half of what he earns from their sale. Sale? Did you say people would pay for his pictures? My dear sir, did I not just pay you ten ducats for that painted panel? But surely not the whole world is crazy enough to throw away so much money for a piece of wood. I would be personally honored to buy anything this young man paints. His is a rare talent. Papa, you must at least let me try. You'll never be sorry, sir. You say he'll earn enough to care for me. Once his work is recognized, he'll be famous and rich. Well, Papa. All right, Florence it is. Oh, Papa, thank you. You won't regret it, sir. But remember, Leonardo, remember to send the money. Yes, Papa, I'll remember. Now hurry, boy. Pack your things. I'm taking you to Florence today. Oh, yes, sir. I'll only be a few minutes. Papa, do you hear? I'm going to Florence. Florence. Romantic city of art. The city of life to Leonardo, who was apprenticed to Andrea del Verroccio, master technician. Under Verroccio, the young Florentine learned the use of many materials. And soon, Leonardo became more productive, more talented than his industrious master. But despite this, and despite the confident predictions of his friend, the art dealer, that his paintings would be bought, that he would soon be famous, this did not happen. For Florence was full of successful artists. And Leonardo da Vinci was yet unknown. Once again, Leonardo hoped for a miracle to happen. The Florentine dreamed of receiving recognition from great and powerful princes, even Lorenzo de Medici, il magnifico. I have come to see you, art dealer, on an important ladder. I am your servant, Majesty. You have heard, of course, of Sforza, the ambitious Duke of Milan. Of course. I will come to the point. At this particular time, I deem it necessary to present Sforza with an impressive gift. Something which will assure him of my sincere friendship and lasting alliance. I understand, Majesty. Sforza is, like myself, a patron of the arts. Yes. Therefore, you will please note the importance of sending just the right gift. Oh, indeed, Majesty. If I might make a suggestion. What is it? There is a young painter now in Florence, most talented. Indeed. And his name? Leonardo. Leonardo da Vinci. And you think that he... With your kind permission, sire. I should like to show you one of his beautiful creations. It may please you, and... And it may even please Sforza. Show me the work. You are standing next to it, Majesty. You mean this silver lyre? Yes. He constructed it himself. Hmm. Whatever its artistic merits, at least it is unusual. As you can plainly see, Majesty, he has fashioned it in the likeness of a horse's skull. A wonderful thing to behold. Hmm. A horse's skull. Interesting. Then, uh, your Majesty likes the Florentine's work? Yes, quite good. But I especially favor the idea of sending Sforza a horse's skull. Hmm. Hmm. Very appropriate. Art dealer, have this young painter, whatever his name is. Leonardo da Vinci. Yes. Have him come to my palace immediately. I want to send him on an errand. A peace mission with a horse's skull. Good day, art dealer. You sent for me, Your Majesty? Yes, Pinter. I am pleased with your work. I'm honored indeed. Pinter, this silver lyre of yours is most impressive. My humble thanks, Majesty. I admire this horse's skull so much that I want to present it as a gift to the Duke of Milan. This is a happy day for me, Majesty. I'm much happier than you think, Pinter, for I am sending you to Sforza as my official messenger. Your... Give my compliments to the great Duke. Tell him I hope he finds pleasure in this horse's skull. I will tell him, Majesty. Good. A pleasant journey, Pinter. That will be all. Leonardo da Vinci left Florence and entered the realm of Sforza, Duke of Milan. He was happy to leave Florence, for instead of finding it a romantic city of art, he found it... A city festering with pawnbrokers, tanners, usurers, and conspirators. It's much too provincial for me. No. Leonardo had not been happy in Florence. During his stay there, he accepted all kinds and conditions of men as friends, out of his love for fellowship. This provincial town did not approve of the Florentine's actions. Along with several other young men, Leonardo was arrested and brought before the local authorities. Leonardo da Vinci, you are accused of an unnatural moral crime. Do you have anything to say to this court? More are killed by word of mouth than by the sword. Leonardo da Vinci, you are accused of a woman. Leonardo da Vinci, you are accused of a woman. Leonardo da Vinci, you are accused of a woman. Leonardo da Vinci, you are accused of a woman. Leonardo da Vinci, you are accused of a woman. And so, victim of the age-old technique of guilt by association, Leonardo left Florence and sought recognition from Lodovico Sforza, Duke of Milan. But once again, he would have to wait. It was many years before the Florentine's talents were recognized. But Leonardo was growing, and his years of waiting had their value. He learned many things. He began to see the world about him as it really was. Leonardo da Vinci was no longer just a boy. He was 31 years old when he observed... The acquisition of any sort of knowledge is always useful to the intellect. The intellect degenerates without exercise, as iron rusts when it's not used, and water gets foul from standing. And Leonardo continued to exercise his intellect. In 1482, he wrote to the Duke of Milan. Most illustrious lord. Having now sufficiently considered the specimens of all those who proclaim themselves skillful contrivers of instruments of war, and that the invention and operation of the said instruments are nothing different to those in common use, I shall endeavor to show your lordship my secrets. I have a method of constructing light, portable bridges. I can construct covered wagons, secure and indestructible, which, entering among the enemy, will break the strongest bodies of men. I can, when a place is besieged, take the water out of trenches. In time of peace, I believe I can give perfect satisfaction, and to the equal of any other in architecture and the composition of buildings, public and private, and in guiding water from one place to another. I can carry out sculpture in marble, bronze, or clay, and also in painting. Your humble servant, Leonardo da Vinci. The Duke of Milan read the letter patiently, pondered over it for a moment, and went right back to living 1482. Then, the Black Death struck Italy, and once again, the Florentine took pen in hand. Your Excellency, I propose that the constant flow of humanity to the cities be diverted. Ten towns with 5,000 houses each should be built, and here you will distribute the masses of humanity, who live crowded together like herds of goats, filling the air with stench, and spreading the seeds of plague and death. When news of this letter reached the court of Milan, a good many eyebrows were raised. The Duke called in his advisors. Gentlemen! Gentlemen! There is no need for so much noise. I believe we can settle this epistle promptly. Eh, milord. Yes, Moreno? This plan is altogether impractical. The Florentine is mad, milord. It's just another one of his foolish schemes. Yes, I suppose it is foolish. Moreno. Yes, milord. Send a message to the Florentine. Tell him... Tell him to go back to his painting. And so another of Leonardo's plans was relegated to his notebooks. One of hundreds of plans, inventions, and ideas to lay dormant for centuries until man was ready for them. The years went by, and Leonardo continued writing, inventing, and he continued painting. It was in Milan that he completed The Last Supper, a work commissioned by the Duke himself. While he worked, many visitors came to see him, some to offer suggestions, some to criticize. An older and wiser Leonardo was willing to accept both. Listen with patience to the opinion of other people. Reflect well on it. If you find they are right, make good the error. If they are wrong, act as if you've heard nothing. With this attitude, Leonardo continued painting The Last Supper. He worked peacefully and quietly. Until one day, he had two unexpected visitors, the prior of the local monastery and the Duke of Milan. Well, you're welcome, illustrious Duke. This is not a social visit, Florentine. Indeed not. We are here on a most, a most serious matter. So, my good prior, you both look disturbed. What is it? Disturbed? Oh, the very shame of it. Florentine, our good prior has issued a complaint against you. Against me? But why? He says you are shirking your work. Well, as you can plainly see, my lord, that is not the case. Listen, listen to the blasphemy. I don't understand, good prior. A mountain of lies, lies, lies, all lies. Enough of this. Prior, stage a complaint without the unnecessary adjectives, if you please. Very well, very, very well, my lord. Now, as I have already told you, my lord, I am a most attentive, most attentive person. Yes, yes, yes. I know all that. On with it. Well, as you also know, my lord, as you know, my lord, this painter is using as his subject the Last Supper. And, and, and, and... I'm getting there, my lord. I'm getting there. I'm getting there, my lord. He is supposed to be painting the Last Supper. That is exactly what I am doing, good prior. Please, sir, allow me to conclude my official complaint. The painting, my lord, the painting, as you can see, is already far advanced. So it is. But you will notice, one of the two principal figures, Judas, is still, still, still missing. And why? Why, I ask you, my lord, do you know why? Well, it is easily explained. Please, I was not addressing you. My lord, my lord, how could this painter have the image of Judas if, and note this, note, note this, my lord, if he spends practically no time, no time at all, at the monastery. There, I have concluded. Well, Florentine, it is your turn to speak. Excellency, it is true that I have not been to the monastery for a long time. You see, my lord, you see, see, the truth finally sees the light. Nevertheless, not a day passes when I devote less than two hours to this work. Oh, shameless one. I must admit, Florentine, I find myself a bit confused. You have just admitted that you do not regularly visit and work at the monastery. Yes, my lord. And yet you claim that I am continually at work creating the last supper. Florentine, I am not fond of puzzles. My patience is running out. Do you hear that, Leonardo da Vinci? He is not fond of puzzles. His patience is running out. Well, perhaps not, good prior. But, Excellency, you are aware that Judas is missing from my painting. I shall tell you why. It is really very simple. Good. No more puzzles. My lord, and good prior, I have been going every day, morning and evening, to the place in which the scum of humanity lives, the criminal quarter. Most irregular, most. I have not yet found what I want. Come, come, Florentine. Just what is it you want from the criminal quarter of all places? I want to find a living replica of Judas. A living replica? I do not like this. Nor I, I do not like it either. What's more, I don't believe it, my lord. The man is lying. He's lying. He has obviously been philandering about the city, my lord. Just a moment. You love, Florentine, when these charges are most grave. Well, Florentine, I'm waiting. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but it's just that, my lord, I believe I've found it at last. Found it? Found what? My lord, it has just occurred to me. Our friend, the good prior, may prove to be most helpful. I help you? Impossible. No, good prior, it's not impossible. Just look at his face, my lord. What is wrong with my face? Nothing. It is perfect. In fact, it's a living replica of Judas. Oh, but first blasphemy, then lies. Now, now, now, insults. Now, but my good prior, I shall pay you handsomely. You as my subject, the painting will soon be finished and most successful. Lord, I demand, I demand, demand that you punish this dishonorable person. My lord, my lord, do you hear me? Yes, prior, I hear you. But you're laughing, my lord, you're laughing. It is not funny at all. Quite right. It's hilarious. Surely, surely, surely you don't agree. Of course I agree with our good friend the Florentine. He observes well. Thank you, my lord. But, my lord. Do not argue, prior. I've made up my mind. Tomorrow you begin. And, uh, Florentine, do not take advantage of our model. Pay him well. That was the lighter side of the Florentine's nature. But this did not stop him from completing the painting which was to make the name of Leonardo da Vinci immortal. His true inspiration came from the words spoken by the Nazarene at his last meeting with his followers. One of you shall betray me. Leonardo da Vinci set about the task of depicting twelve psychological reactions to those words. Living studies of the character of each disciple. And this the Florentine did. The result? Listen to Louis XII, King of France. Would it be possible to remove the wall and take the fresco to France? It is a masterpiece. Leonardo da Vinci a great artist but also an inventor scientist and even a philosopher. What is it that enables a bird to fly? Why also cannot a man fly given the proper equipment? And what of Leonardo da Vinci the man? Théophile Gautier had this to say. No man was ever more human more lovable or more fascinating. He was witty graceful and polished. His bodily strength was so great that he could bend an iron horse like lead. His physical beauty was flawless the beauty of Apollo. Great painter that he was painting was but one among his splendid gifts. In the welter of his other achievements one often forgets that Leonardo da Vinci was perhaps the greatest painter of his time. We may only wonder what thoughts passed through the master's mind as he created the Mona Lisa the woman with the enigmatic smile. It is unwise to paint on too bright a day but when the sky is filled with clouds a soft pale light filters through filling all things with warmth and charm. And as he painted Mona Lisa music played gently in the background while a reader would recite poetry of days gone by. Muses of Sicily sing we a somewhat ampler strain not all men's delight is in coppices and lowly tamarisks if we sing of the woods let them be woods worthy of a council now is come the last stage of the Cumaean prophecy the great cycle of periods is born anew. The Florentine worked more than six years on the portrait of Mona Lisa the result a warm comfortable woman gentle in repose a picture that speaks words of calm and plenty the enigmatic smile La Gioconda He worked for the Medicis he worked for the Borgias then he entered the service of a youthful king of France into the gay frivolous court of Francis I came the Florentine already in the twilight of his life and there he remained on alien soil for the rest of his days here piled in every corner are the works of a lifetime my pictures have already begun to fade and decay my plans have been discarded my knowledge ignored listen it is a prayer for a man on his deathbed listen with reverence for a great man is dying I came as quickly as I could how is he it will not be long now then the Florentine is truly dying yes as anyone told the king the messenger has been sent but it will be too late already his breathing is labored there on the bed lies a great man and around him gathering dust are the secrets of nature and the secrets of man and in those withered hands the secrets of beauty listen to the prayer with reverence a great man is dying requiem eternum donais domine et lux perpetua et chernes you've just heard a dramatic tribute to the world of art The Florentine written by William S. Sprower Jr. Ronnie Liss played Leonardo da Vinci as a young man and Jack Curtis was heard as the mature Florentine Paul Herlinger was the narrator Bill Myers was Serpiero Bert Cowlin was the prior and Jack Turin was heard as the art dealer music and sound technician was Arthur Lee Connie Jesselson was production assistant The Florentine was produced and edited by Jerry Sandler this has been a feature presentation of WNYC's first annual American Art Festival this is the Municipal Broadcasting System intersection of parking is University of
