The Northwestern University Reviewing Stand. The Korean crisis and the home front. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the Reviewing Stand, a program in its 16th year on the air. Today, the Reviewing Stand analyzes the effects of the Korean crisis on the home front. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around prices, supplies, and the wisdom of price controls and rationing. Now, our moderator, James H. McBurney, Dean of the School of Speech Northwestern University, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. McBurney. Our speakers today are Catherine Bower, Director of Public Relations for the National Association of Retail Grocers, Daniel D. Carmel, General Counsel for the Illinois State and the Chicago Federations of Labor, and Roland Robinson, Professor of Banking at Northwestern University. Now, tell me, Ms. Bower and gentlemen, what are your estimations of the Korean situation in relation to the home front problem? How do you see this, Robinson? Mr. McBurney, it's my belief that for purposes of planning on the home front, we have to make a pessimistic assumption. We have to assume this is going to be a very prolonged war, that it's going to use a lot of our resources. The penalties, if we underestimate the situation, are great, possibly as much as defeat. The cost of overestimating it is something we can stand. Do you agree with that, Ms. Bower? Yes, I think that's a very sensible attitude to take. We must be prepared for any emergency, and we must be prepared to cope with it when it happens, not after it happens. Well, do you think we ought to regard this crisis as a temporary incident, as the beginning of a lukewarm war for the next decade, as some people have expressed it, or as the immediate forerunner of World War III, Carmel? Well, our government regards the career incident as more than a temporary incident, because they're going into practically full mobilization, requesting standby controls. They're setting up a complete war picture, and not just a temporary incident. Our government would be irresponsible if it didn't do that much, but let's hope that they're wrong. Well, do we face any shortages in home front supplies now, Ms. Bower? Well, certainly not in foods. As a matter of fact, Secretary Brannon, just within the last year, the last two weeks has expressed himself as rather concerned with the serious disposal problems we have for perishable commodities that the government is holding. One of them is butter, of which the United States government at the present time is holding 192 million pounds. I just saw in the papers this morning that they have offered that butter to European governments for 15 cents a pound, just in order to unload it. We have similar quantities of other foods, such as 325 million pounds, and bushels of wheat, and 107 million pounds of dried eggs, which incidentally, in case you're interested, is the equivalent of 321 million dozen. That's a lot of eggs. Yes, that's quite a few eggs. And so it scarcely seems that we can expect any shortages of food. If I might just tell some of the predictions, too, for the immediate future in our food supply, we have the largest peacetime pork crop in history coming up. The last quarter of this year, I'm told we will have a total amount of meat for civilian consumption of 5,800,000,000 pounds of meat. That's just the last quarter. That's half a billion pounds more than we had this quarter, and about 200 million pounds more than we had in the same quarter last year. Ms. Bauer, I'm always impressed by any figures that ends in millions and billions, and so I take comfort from what you tell me. But there's one thing that I believe we should remember. Back in the late 1930s, we were told about the enormous surpluses we had of agricultural commodities, and I remember how we were assured that we would have all we need, and still, as I remember it, when we got in the throes of war, shortage comes. This is something we can't answer with questions about millions and billions, but war consumes a lot of things. Oh, that's quite true, Mr. Robinson. I agree with you on that. I'm looking at it from the immediate standpoint, however. I think you're right. Well, we talk about the situation in food, that there's a great available amount of food. In quantities, there is that, but it's not available to the average person in price. It's far above their reach for the ordinary worker. They can't have butter because of the price of butter. They go to oreo, substitutes. And while there's plenty of food, it's not within the reach of the person that can use it. Well, I was going to ask about these surpluses to which Ms. Bauer referred. Take butter as an example. Apparently, we have enormous surpluses in butter, and you said something about trying to sell that abroad at 15 cents a pound. Why don't they give us a little of that? Well, I'm out there. You speak to that. Bernie, under the law, when the government purchased these supplies from the farmers, the law, the Congressional Act prohibited the commodity exchange, the commodity group that purchased it from selling it at nothing less than 5 cents above the market price. Its intent was first to take that out of the market as a competitive factor in price. May I ask, is that a wise law? I realize we're not debating today agricultural policy, but the issue of whether it is law or whether it's wise law are two quite different issues. Well, it's a wise law in respect that if it was intended to maintain a price at the farmers' level, to go ahead and to buy the thing from him and then take the same thing and put it on the market in competition with it, would destroy the very effect. What do you people think of Carmel's point that while we may have tremendous supplies, of food commodities of all kinds, that they're just not available at a price that we can afford to pay? Well, I'd like to point out just one thing in that connection, that these food supplies have been offered already to American relief agencies for distribution free, and they've been refused. Another thing is that the food is being sold. Someone's buying it. Well, I mean, I'm not speaking of surpluses, but I mean our large supplies of food are actually being sold and consumed. The agencies had to turn it down because of the great cost of transportation. To take it from one central point and then distribute it all around the United States or around the world would be an impossible task of cost. I wish we had a spare half hour because this issue of agricultural policy in this country and agricultural prices is a very important one. And I do think that it contributes to some understanding of our current problem. Nevertheless, nevertheless, the problem we're concerned with is the one, the effect on the war situation. And the truth of the matter is that we have surpluses only, only because of the fact that the price has been held up higher than will clear the market. That is, that's Mr. Carmel's point. Now, whether that's wise or not is a long issue that we just simply can't get into in our time. But I guess we can conclude that nobody's going to go hungry. That seems to be clear from the facts reported. Our enormous agricultural production in this country, the productivity of our soil and of our farmers, I think, guarantees that. Though I am not, for the long run, quite as optimistic as Ms. Bower. Well, now, how about automobiles, refrigerators, television sets, radios, and other articles of that sort, Robinson. Are we short on those? Well, right at the moment, there have been orders put on practically all of these goods. These aren't things that you can change the situation in a few weeks. You can have a shortage in the sense that at list prices, everyone can't get delivery of new cars or get delivery of the models of television sets that they want. Yes, a shortage in a very immediate sense, but there's no basic shortage. Our productive capacity can give us all of those things we want and still leave quite a margin for fighting war. I should think, though, there'd be a very considerable cut in metals available for civilian goods, Carmel. Well, I think not only that, but I believe that controls material will come this month. And with the controls material, the first thing they'll control will be the metals. And that'll take out of the consumer's market metals which go into television sets and automobiles and other things and put it into the war group for the purposes of the emergency. You think there are these shortages in metals, do you think we're likely to face them in rubber and gasoline? No, I don't, Mr. McBurney. I think that as far as rubber is concerned, we're far better off now than we were in the last war. In the last war, we had to go ahead and build synthetic plants. Now we have those plants, so we are reactivating them. And not only that, but we are purchasing the source of raw rubber right from the jungles. We're maybe doing all right on rubber, but on gasoline, we have to remember that those fellows that build our war machines have built a machine that consumes gasoline at a prodigious rate. The way the war engine will take it this time, I believe, will be much larger than before. Our petroleum resources, our resources for refining it, all of them might be strained. I think that we might have a fairly real shortage, at least in gasoline. In how long a time? That's a forecast of how fast the war develops and the size of consumption. Already, when we see these military aircraft flying across us all the time, stop and think the rate at which it's consuming gasoline. It's taking a sizable drain already. Well, actually, the gasoline that's used in the war is the high-octone gas, not the ordinary grouping of cars. It taps the same wells, though it's a difference in the way they adjusted at the refinery, but it taps the same basic resources. Now, Carmel has expressed the opinion here that we might face a shortage in metals. Indeed, he thinks it's imminent. I hope he's wrong, by the way, I might add. But apart from that, you people are quite sanguine, it seems to me, about the available supplies on the home front. How do you account for these recent price increases, Ms. Bower, in view of that attitude? Well, it's pretty difficult to pin all of those price increases down. A great many of them can be traced right back to the grower. For example, some of the manufacturers have had the peach supply, the price of peaches for their current pack more than doubled. And right, pardon me, right in the middle of their pack of fruit cocktail, they had pears doubled in price per ton. So that those prices must be passed on down to the retailer, and of course, all the way down the line there's an increase. As far as meat is concerned, we are having a seasonal increase in price, but that happens every year. And by the end of September, I think we'll find that there is ample meat in the retail stores at a considerably lower price. Just at the moment, we have about 34% more beef in the Corn Belt feedlots than we had a year ago. Now that's on its way to market. It'll be there shortly. Well, Ms. Bower, scare buying has passed its peak. Department stores reported, from the last half of July, an increase of over 50% above a year ago July in sales. Now, a thing like that just can't go on for very long because the stocks will exhaust themselves. Exactly. Then, of course, there are the breaks there. The hoarders have about bought up all that they can buy by now. And then there's a matter of money. They just haven't got any more money to go out and buy up scarce materials. You will. That isn't even good economics, Mr. Carmel. That isn't even... Well, it's good economics. Somebody has... A fellow that has a $35 or $50 a week budget that he can only earn so much and he has to buy so much of it. Somebody has money. I'm not talking about unlimited. I don't think they're the ones that are doing the hoarding. Well, somebody has the money. Somebody has the money. The goods can be bought if there are people who have the will and disposition to do it. The issue about it is as to whether the people who have money, because somebody obviously has it, is convinced that they would rather not have the money and rather have the goods. That is, it's a matter of sentiment. It's not a matter of finance. Well, you were talking about consumer buying here and consumer hoarding. To what extent is speculative buying, Robinson, a factor in these price increases, do you think? Well, if you get right down to it, speculative buying is something that applies even to hoarding. Hoarding is a kind of speculative buying. Yes. We've had speculative buying in that sense. People speculating, in other words, on higher prices. And we've had that at all sorts of levels. We've had it at the primary markets. We've had it at the level of wholesale. We've had it at the level of retail. People who go out and order a new car when they really don't need it are speculating buying that. We've had it, whether it's going to prevail or not, as a market forecast, that, well, I'm not well equipped to make it right now. You think that these hoarders of food and other supplies at present prices are likely to be left holding the bag, Ms. Bauer? Yes, I think they will be. Of course, actually, the hoarding, as far as food is concerned, has dropped off to almost nothing. It was a mild flurry. Most of them found out very quickly, after they had gone in to buy sugar, that there was, just exactly as our association said and as the president said, ample supplies of sugar. As a matter of fact, we're shipping sugar to Austria at the present time in large quantities. And they found there was ample coffee, and that as soon as they had bought and stocked their coffee, that there was more on the shelves. And incidentally, we're shipping coffee to Greece on a three-month basis. So that really, I think, must be considered as a mild flurry of hoarding rather than anything very serious. The odd thing is that shortages which are produced by speculative buying and hoarding are the things that really threaten the workman's standard of living. He can't have the things that he's accustomed to have at a reasonable price. And so that hoarding and speculative buying does threaten his method of livelihood. I think I have to join hands with you on that, Mr. Carmel. That's a point that is of consequence. There's been a minor flurry. We all agree it's passed, but it's left a damaging result, which has not passed. In other words, there have been prices moved up, which have not receded backwards. Your coffee is one such case that the coffee price went up, and maybe there's been a recession in the flurry buying, but I am paying more for my coffee. Yes, but not more than you were several months ago. Well, I don't have my book in my hip pocket to prove that, but I am paying more for coffee. We were paying a dollar a pound for it a few months back if you recall. Well, that was at the temporary scare, but it's still short, they say. Well, how is labor reacting to these recent price increases, Carmel? Well, labor is reacting to these recent price increases, and saying that they're first unnecessary, and that something has to be done to bring them down. That's one of the reasons we're advocating excess profit tax, to take the speculative buyer out of the market or siphon up a certain amount of his funds, and make it unprofitable for him to go into speculative buying. Well, now, what's your position on price controls and rationing? Do you think they should be instituted soon? No, I don't believe so. We don't think that it is necessary to start rationing all price controls at this time, but the standby power should be given to the President without limitation so that he can use his judgment when and if it becomes necessary, rather than wait for an act of Congress to pass. The power should be there for use. We would like, right there, to say that we don't want it to be at the discretion of any one person when these things should go on, or how the price controls and rationing should be worked out. That's something that we should take a lesson from the last war, and really start now, invite in every element of industry to help in the planning, and do a thorough and a complete and an equitable job, so that it really works. There were many instances in the last war when it actually didn't work, and now is the time to make provision against that. For example, Ms. Bauer? Well, there was a tremendous black market, for example, in the last war in meat. The obligation to adhere to price levels, and they were very loose ones at that, I mean, they were called overriding ceilings on meat that related back to the wholesale price of dressed meat, was on the buyer and not on the grower. And as a consequence, when these legitimate packers would go into the union stockyards to buy, they would find that black marketeers, who carried their business in their hats actually, were buying at such prices that they were completely squeezed out of the market. In other words, they couldn't pay a price that was in excess of the wholesale price of this meat, for what they wanted in the union stockyards. That meat, live cattle, went out of the stockyards literally by the train load to the eastern black markets, and here in Chicago, for example, an ex-Capone mobster built himself a shack and went into business. And he made a killing, literally and figuratively. That sort of thing just simply must be prevented in any future planning. If there is meat there that's available for civilians, they should have it at ceiling prices, and every bit of it should go through legitimate channels. There was one point at which dozens of packing houses were operating at 5% or less of their normal capacity because of their inability to compete with black marketeers in buying. And at one point, even, the Bureau of Labor Statistics was unable to furnish its weekly price index of retail prices because the stores they relied upon for their prices didn't have enough meat to give a report. Well, Ms. Bauer, I am, I am, confess that I am thoroughly in agreement with you. When you say you want the controls to be thorough and you want them to be complete and to be equitable, to have them sketchy controls, to have them incomplete and inequitable would be wrong. But all you're saying is that you want them to be well administered, and I think we can all agree on that. We want well administered controls, and we'd like to have them administered better than they were before. Though I must say that in my own opinion that considering the fact that in this world of imperfect human institutions, we don't always get perfection, that I think they did a pretty good job before. And that while there were undoubtedly things that were wrong with it, the man who thinks he can do better than that, I'd like to have him stand and show his face. An amusing thing about better administration, completely aside, but it's amusing. They had a Brooklyn man on the OPA who had charge of a good deal of the meat activity, and he had a man, an Idaho sheep rancher, come to him to ask for certain supplies in connection with the lambing season. These supplies happened to be rather short. And he turned to this rancher and he said, Well, can't we postpone this lambing season this year? I take it that isn't done, Ms. Bauer. Now, is it possible to move into a set of mild controls, Robinson, without going all out in this thing? Mild controls, by their very nature, don't work. That is the very problem we face is one in which we have to choose when we do it. I do think that that is an extraordinarily difficult and complex choice of when we go into it. But when we go is something that must be determined by the way affairs develop. The one form of mild control that I believe that we should have, and we should have in any event, is a much stronger fiscal control. We have been running a deficit here in peacetime, and a level of high prosperity, and we shouldn't have it. Now, with war, there's even less reason for allowing that deficit to continue. Well, Mr. McBurney, I don't think there's such a thing as mild controls will ever work. First of all, you're not going to have any mild controls any more than you're going to have a mild millionaire. The man is a millionaire, he's a millionaire. The fact remains that the president must have powers, it must be imposed on one person to make a decision at a time. Consultation with all groups, of course, is necessary. But with living costs rising at the rate of about 1% a month, and the price of food going up 9% since June 25th, and 13% since January 1st, the mere fact that the threat of controls is ready to be imposed will have a real effect upon prices, and it may keep it down. One of the very great problems in this matter of when we invoke controls is that fact. I believe that if we should follow Ms. Bauer's suggestion literally and go in for great consultation and all that, that that would so scare people at every level that the net benefits of having price controls would be lost before they are ever invoked. Now, earlier, Robinson here suggested that we ought to move into the area of fiscal controls. You said something about that, Carmel, too, when you suggested excess profits taxes. Now, what do you mean by fiscal controls, Robinson? Well, taxation stands right at the top of the list. That's the first one. But we might mention that the level of government expenditures for non-war purposes is another part of the fiscal scene of government. And then you have on top of that other fiscal measures, the control of consumer credit, or the character of credit for housing, the way in which it's stimulated by various public regulation. All of them bear on this. I think that the current move to make housing credit less available is too mild. It should be made quite a bit tougher. Do you agree with that, Carmel? Yes. To a point, I agree with that. But certainly, housing is one of the most important things as far as the worker and his family are concerned. And it is well known that good housing is badly needed. Now, either it has to be done by private interests or by government in these large projects. We prefer to have private interests and private capital do the building of houses rather than large groups of public money being used for its purpose. No quarrel at all. No quarrel at all. Of course, we should have better housing. But the issue about it is, is that a luxury that we really can afford during war times? That is, if we're facing a war economy, to have social reform as usual may be nice, but is it a luxury we can afford? Well, I don't think, Robinson, that it is a luxury. I think a home is a very essential thing. First of all, you've got to have a home to be healthy and to house your family in it. And unless you do that, you're going to do a short-sighted job. Well, Robinson is espousing a pretty rigorous program here, Miss Bauer. Higher taxes, limitation on credit, and making credit more difficult to get for purposes of housing. Do you go along with that kind of a rigorous program? Yes, as painful as it is for me to say so, I think that taxation probably is the only way to correct the evil that price control and rationing also attempt to correct. They are, price control and rationing themselves actually are only secondary palliatives in a situation of this sort. The main problem is there's too much money. And the best way to put that money into the proper channels in a situation of this sort is certainly increased taxation. Once again, I say I don't like it any better than anybody else. I might add right here and now before we get by it that I do want to dissent strongly from the idea of needing an excess profits tax. Particularly in an election year, but I guess in all years. The corporation comes to be the favorite homing ground for every tax proposal. The excess profits tax is one that I think would be particularly unfortunate at the moment. I'm against excess profits at the expense of war production, but I think it should be achieved by other means. I might also add that the proposal that is now being considered to try to speed up the collection of taxes from corporations again shows an extraordinarily dim-sighted, foolish view of the fiscal process, that there will be nothing gained by collecting the taxes a little faster. Do you have an opinion on that, Carmel? Yes. I think that the excess profit tax is an essential thing in the economy of war. And that the government, by the use of the excess profit tax, can regulate the amount of earnings up or down that these corporations may have. Incidentally, you might ask me about a wage freeze. I was just going to do that. I was wondering when that was going to come. Well, we feel in labor that within the framework of the existing price and profit margin, that there's adequate room for collective bargaining to go on as it has normally been done, and to proceed without facing any upwards of prices. In other words, any wage increases can easily be absorbed within the price structure without any increase in price at all. Mr. Carmel, do you think that it can be worked out that we can have price control and rationing without a wage freeze? Oh, yes, because if the wage is not going to increase the price of the goods, then there's no need of it. For instance, the Associated Press has just reported that the profit-setting records, 43% above a year ago, in the study of all corporations. Now, that itself shows that there's enough to be absorbed. Mr. Carmel, I think you've set yourself up a very fine arrangement. You're first going to have the excess profits tax and then no wage freeze. That is, you've created a situation in which costs don't mean much to corporations. They have no incentive to resist wage increases. You would establish almost a perfect basis for starting again a wage price spiral that might lead us to an inflation that would damage our economy far more than enemy action. Well, the point that I'm making is this, that if wages are frozen now, the cost of living has gone up. We haven't caught up to it. We'd be put at a disadvantage at this time with a wage freeze. Now, until such time as we're able to catch up with the cost of living and do not increase the cost of goods, we're entitled to whatever wages we can earn. Well, thank you, Ms. Bauer and gentlemen. I conclude that the present situation in civilian supplies is not too acute, that you would postpone rationing and price controls as long as possible, but move into this area of fiscal controls. Thank you. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion, The Korean Crisis and the Homefront. Our listeners like to discuss among themselves the problems they hear presented on the reviewing stand. Many of you ordered copies of last Sunday's broadcast, What Does Korea Mean to America? A copy of this program and a copy of today's broadcast will give you a clear picture of the Korean crisis. Why not order transcripts of both discussions? Single copies can be secured for just 10 cents. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Here's a plan that will give you word-for-word copies of our broadcast, starting with the Korean series through the next critical four months. A dollar sent to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois, will bring these discussions into your home. A year's subscription costs just $2.50. Our guests today were Kay Bauer, Daniel D. Carmel, and Roland Robinson. Now our moderator, James H. McBurney, will tell you about next week's program. Next week, the reviewing stand looks at another danger spot in the present world power conflict when we examine the question, Is Germany turning east or west? Our guests will be George D. Hussar, author and political scientist, Ludwig Freud, professor of political science at Roosevelt College, and Leonard Krieger, Yale historian and visiting lecturer at Northwestern University. We invite you to listen next week, Is Germany turning east or west? This is the Mutual Broadcasting System. a tip one. The new to you