The microphones of your city station are located in the south garden of the Hotel Astor, from which point radio has brought many and had the advantage of many historical events. The occasion today are the ceremonies attended upon the presentation of awards to civil service employees who have served their city for 50 years and the formation of the Saks Half Century Club. In a moment you will hear the voice of the Honorable John Splane, Commissioner of Public Works, who will act as chairman. Thank you, sir. I think it is a splendid idea that an organization such as this be formed so that the employer may pay tribute to men and women who have completed more than 50 years of service to your city. I hope this club which is being formed today will be an active organization. There comes to my mind many functions which it can perform for civil service employees. There are only two requirements for membership. One is that you must be a city employee, and the other, which time alone can provide, is that you have had a half century of civil service. I might point out that the idea for the creation of this club was put forth by Mr. Israel Saks, our host today, who, like yourselves, is celebrating a 50th year anniversary, that of the establishment of its first store here in New York. New York, like the rest of the world, has changed a great deal during the half century of service that we are honoring here. I'm sorry to say that the public is often ready to abuse, but seldom to compliment these loyal working men and women. I hope that the formation of this club and this tribute will bring to the general public a realization of the loyalty, integrity, and ability of the thousands of men and women whom they never meet or seldom read about in newspapers, but who day by day are thinking of the multitude of duties which make this great metropolis of ours to function. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to introduce a young man, and in view of the length of service of our guest of honor, he does appear very young indeed. However, despite his comparative youth, he is without doubt one of the ablest public servants we have. It gives me a great deal of personal pleasure to introduce the president of our city council, the Honorable Vincent R. Impelletari. Thank you very much, Commissioner Splane. I think you will all appreciate that Commissioner Splane has been very generous in his remarks concerning me. I wish for a moment that I were quite as young as he would have you believe. It is true that my time in the service of the city has been very brief compared to that of our guest of honor here today, but my keen interest in the work that they have been doing reaches back over many, many years. Yes, it reaches back since the year 1929 when I first entered city service as an assistant district attorney. I envy these men and women who for a half a century have been so closely involved in the growth of the city of New York. Whereas the rest of us watched it grow, they made it grow and grow great because they knew how to work together. We are proud of the fact that in our civil service, ability, merit, and fitness are the determining factors in an employee's progress and that the opportunities for employment and advancement are absolutely unlimited. There is equality to all without the slightest taint of bias, discrimination, prejudice, or favoritism. As a matter of fact, in the personnel of almost any city department, you can get a mighty good cross-section of the city of New York itself. Here are working side by side and fully in harmony with Catholic, Protestant, Jew, Negro, Italian, Irish, and all the other origins that have contributed so mightily to the building of our great city. Fifty years ago, when you people entered the civil service, New York had not yet become the greatest city. Brooklyn, as you know, is a community apart, and if they had won the playoff series from the cards, I am sure Brooklynites would still consider themselves a race apart. Brooklynites, however, after a long period of time, were taken into the fold, and the Brooklyn Bridge, one of the wonders of its kind, was built. It would be interesting to know what part you people played in the achievement of the many wonders that have come to New York in a half a century. The bridges, the highways, the parks, the splendid fire department, the outstanding police department, all without equal in the world, and all the other miracles of the half century which make New York what it is today. Yes, you have been an integral part of the history of this great city. This is your golden anniversary of service, and to your city, I want to assure you, you have given your golden years unstintingly. we have every reason to be proud, proud indeed, that we are here today to honor you, and we salute your entrance to the Saks Half Century Club. Thank you very much. Thank you, President Pelletieri. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to present the leading citizen, and certainly the most enthusiastic booster of the Bronx, the Honorable James J. Lyons, Borough President of the Bronx. Thank you. Thank you, Commissioner Splane. The Bronx is indeed a wonderful place, and anybody who has spent any time up there will agree with me. As a matter of fact, our host, for the afternoon, Israel Saks, should agree with me. While it is true that 50 years ago, he started business in Manhattan, where do you think he finally wound up? But in the borough of universities, the borough of the Bronx. The operator doesn't give you Washington, Brooklyn, or Queens when you dial Melrose, 55300, if you don't believe me, see what you get when you dial Melrose, 55300. That's your phone number, Mr. Saks. Welcome to Melrose. I heard the reference to Brooklyn. Well, I can understand why the president of the council would be apologetic, because the only thing they can produce in Brooklyn is a tree. Queens, was famous for its ragweed, Staten Island for its hops, and of course all that Manhattan ever produced was a little flower, which was later transplanted to the Bronx, nourished by some of Mr. Saks' fuel oil, which he supplies in P.M. women. But in the Bronx, we produce the loveliest of the lovely, the most beautiful women in the world. We're very happy indeed to have some Bronxite numbered among those who you are honoring today. We're very proud of Mr. Saks and the progress he has made over this half a century. He's made a noble contribution as an outstanding citizen of our community. and we in the Bronx are particularly proud of this great industry. And I'm sure that the 50 years of service is only the forerunner of many more years of useful service to our entire city. We wish him well, we wish him good health, and may he continue on. Of course, I'm not a 50-year veteran, but I'm the dean of the present Board of Estimates, having served 12 years under a prior administration. And I imagine 12 years with confusion is the equivalent of 50 years of ordinary service, and I therefore should qualify as a member of the half-century club. Good luck to you, Mr. Saks and the Andrews. Ladies and gentlemen, you have heard the very enthusiastic borough president of the Bronx, and it will be fit me as a resident of Queens to allow him to pass unchallenged. We of Queens think so much of our great borough that we refuse to boast, Jimmy. And now will Mr. Israel Saks step up and assist in the presentation of awards to the members of the half-century club. President Ferdinand Morton of the Municipal Civil Service Commission will call out the names of each member as he's brought up to receive his recognition and gift. Ladies and gentlemen, the first of our guests of honor is Miss Cora Sherwood, Assistant Principal of the Junior High School. On behalf of our hosts, it's been a great pleasure to present to you, Miss Cora. Thank you very much, Mr. Saks. Oh, this is Mr. Cox. Clerk and the Bureau supply... Pardon me. Clerk and the Bureau... We're going to try to induce him to get closer to the microphone so you'll hear all this. Mr. Morton himself is in bad voice, but he's doing the best he can under the circumstances. We wish you many more years of service and contentment. Thank you, Mr. Morton. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Nathan Simos. Samos. Samos. On behalf of our host, it gives me great pleasure to present you. Thank you very much, sir. And we wish you many more years of service. Very thankful to you, Mr. Saks. Honorable Michael Lyons is unavoidably absent, and I'm going to ask Mr. Bower, George Bower, Battalion Chief, on his behalf to accept this token from our host, which it gives me great pleasure to present you. I wish you many more years of service. Thank you, Mr. Morton. Thank you, Mr. Saks. Oh, Mr. Bower, I think while you were here, we might present this to you in your own behalf. I forgot temporarily that I was presenting it in the house. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Edward Ebert, he was my companion at the luncheon table. On behalf of our host, it gives me great pleasure to present this token to you and to wish you many more years of happiness of service. Who's next? Foley. Mr. David Foley. Come forward, Mr. Foley. Fireman, first grade. Right over. And that is your rank now, fireman. On behalf of our host, it gives me great pleasure to present it to you and the token of your many years of service. Mr. Scannell, engine man. 1896, huh? Yes, sir. Yes, sir. Well, on behalf of our host, it gives me great pleasure to present this token to you in honor of your service to the city of New York. Samuel Overly. Mr. Overly. On behalf of our host, it gives me great pleasure to present this token to you in honor of the service that you've so faithfully rendered to the city of New York in the past 50 years. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Where? Civil engineer. Where? Yes. I should have recognized it. It gives me great pleasure on behalf of our host to present this token to you in honor of the many years of use and service of New York City. Thank you very much. Oh, Mr. Horne. It gives me great pleasure on behalf of our host today to present this token to you in honor of the many years of use and service of New York City. Thank you. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir. Mr. McCabe. What department is it? Marine Aviation. Oh, yes. On behalf of our host today, it gives me great pleasure. Thank you. We brought you from the South Gardens of the hotel last to the ceremonies in connection with the making of the awards by Commissioner Morton of the Department of Civil Service of your great city government to the 50-year club members who have served the city of New York for 50 years in the presence of Mr. Israel Sachs, who was the donor and the founder of the 50-year club. We have brought you these ceremonies and we wish we could have brought you the happy smiles of the recipients of these awards from the hands of Commissioner Morton. Commissioner Smlane took over as the chairman because Commissioner Morton's voice was not in the best condition and he asked Commissioner Smlane to kindly substitute. And so we brought you this very interesting ceremony from the South Gardens of the Hotel Astor. We return you now to our studios. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.