The Northwestern University reviewing stand. What do you think of our 81st Congress? Well, I think from the standpoint of the people of the United States that it's been a good Congress, as was the 80th Congress, excepting that, of course, the 81st Congress should have balanced the budget and shouldn't be spending as much money as it is. However, from the standpoint of President Truman and the Democratic platform, it's about the world's worst. On the contrary, a survey by the Congressional Quarterly shows that the Truman program is much further along after six months of the 81st Congress than it was after six months of the 80th Congress. As a matter of fact, Congress has already fulfilled democratic campaign promises on housing, reorganization, and crop storage. And in spite of stiff opposition, the Congress is moving steadily toward the adoption of the Truman program. Northwestern University, in cooperation with the Mutual Broadcasting System, presents the reviewing stand, a program in its 15th year on the air. Today, on transcription from WOL Washington, the reviewing stand takes a look at our 81st Congress. Our unrehearsed give-and-take discussion will center around the actions of our new Congress, its accomplishments, its failures, and its problems. A while later, we'll tell you how to get a printed copy of today's discussion, along with a list of books and articles about our present Congress. And now, our moderator, Robert Buchanan, director of the reviewing stand, will introduce participants in today's discussion. Mr. Buchanan. We all remember the issue President Truman made in his campaign about the 80th Congress. For that reason, and because our legislators now face some of the weightiest problems in history, most of us are vitally interested in our present Congress. What is it doing? What political forces are at work? What special problems does this Congress face? Is it meeting the demands of the people? To answer these questions, the reviewing stand today welcomes Homer Capehart, United States Senator from Indiana, and Claude E. Pepper, United States Senator from Florida. Well now, Senator Capehart, you disagree apparently with the Democratic Party's actions, and especially those in this Congress. What would you like to see done? Well, I'd like to see first the budget balanced and cut down expenditures, because I don't think any nation can go on year in and year out, and day in and day out, spending more money than it takes in without eventually going bankrupt. I'd like to see the Congress pass the Atlantic Pact, the appropriation bills, by reducing them and bringing them within line with our anticipated income, and recess until next January 3rd. Well, Senator Pepper, you believe our Congress is moving toward some of this legislation provided by President Truman. How much of that legislation can be accomplished in this session? Well, a great deal of it has already been accomplished. A great deal more of it is in process of accomplishment now, and quite a lot more of it will be accomplished before this session ends, in my opinion. Let me mention first one of the points mentioned by the distinguished Senator from Indiana, Senator Capehart. He referred to the lack of balance in the budget. We in our Democratic platform last year said, we pledged the continued maintenance of those sound fiscal policies under which Democratic leadership have brought about a balanced budget and a reduction of the public debt by $28 billion since the close of the war. Now, we only had, at the close of this fiscal year, a deficit of $1,800,000,000, in spite of the fact that against President Truman's recommendations, taxes had been cut in the 80th Congress. But as the President pointed out in his radio address the other evening, his administration has paid off more of the public debt than has been paid off by all previous administrations in the history of the country. Hello, Senator Yield. Hi, Yield. Well, of course, the President of the United States did not tell all the facts when he said that they'd paid off $28 billion. He forgot to tell the American people, as he so often does, that $20 billion of that was money collected from a bond sale just about the time the war ended. And they had no use for the money, and they took the $20 billion and applied it to the debt. Now, Senator, you said a moment ago that this Congress, the 81st, had accomplished as much as the 80th Congress up to this time. Well, don't you know the 80th Congress had recessed up to this time a year ago? That they'd finished their complete job and they'd gone home? You mean the 80th Congress didn't ever want to do too much for the people, and when they'd done a little bit, they decided it was enough and quit and went home. No, the 80th Congress had recessed at this time last year. They had finished all their work and had recessed and gone home. How can you compare this Congress, which is still in session with the 80th Congress? Well, let me again go back to the Congressional Quarterly. The Congressional Quarterly is a very able publication put out. It's a research organization's result. And I quoted that quarterly a bit ago when I spoke about the program being further ahead. One of the things is the number of appropriation bills that we've disposed of thus far as compared to the number that was disposed of this season last year. Well, Senator, we were in recess this time last year. But what I want to say is let me call attention to what has already been accomplished in this session of the Congress. And the Congressional Quarterly gives this summary of action that's already been completed. Crop storage facilities. I'm sure that my Republican friends remember the contribution they made to President Truman's election by defeating an effort to provide storage facilities for excess weed. Well, I might have something to say about that in a moment. Very well. The ECA extension. We've already extended the ECA program. Senator, yield just a moment. We do not have the appropriations through yet. We've only passed, the Senate's passed the authorization and so has the House, but the appropriation is not through yet. That's one of the items that's remaining to be acted upon, but the Senate, the House has already acted upon the appropriation, and the Senate Appropriations Committee as reported to the Senate. So the bill's on the calendar, and they will be, it will be considered in the next few days. The Palestine Refugee Relief Program, that is $16 million. We've already made that available. The war damage claims. That's the settlement of a part of the aftermath of the war. The International Wheat Treaty. The Senate will remember that the 80th Congress declined to adopt the International Wheat Treaty, but the 81st Congress, on the recommendation of the President, has adopted it. That doesn't necessarily make it correct because the 81st Congress passed it. Well, Senator, yield just a moment. Yes, are you? Let me give you the scorecard on the Democratic platform pledges and Truman's campaign promises. Well, let me read them to you. Senator, wouldn't it be appropriate to let me show you so far what we've done, and then let's go back and compare what we've done with... Senator, I think you should continue with your list, and then we'll let Senator Capehart come in with what he thinks might have been done. The executive reorganization plan, that has already been approved by the 81st Congress, and the President has sent down, I believe, a proposal for 12 executive reorganizations under that statute. Then we've already passed the legislation for reorganizing the State Department. Already passed in the 81st Congress, something that the 80th Congress refused to pass. That is, we provided the steam plan for the TVA in the Tennessee Valley to increase TVA power capacity. Of course, our friends that went very much for public power didn't want us to do that in the 80th Congress. We've extended rent controls with modifications, extended export controls, extended voluntary allocations authority, and provided the charter for the Virgin Islands Corporation. Now, that is up to the 1st of July, what we had actually passed. And then I'll talk about some of the things that are almost ready for passage. Senator Pepper, let me give you the scorecard on the Democratic platform pledges, and Mr. Truman's campaign promises. Reciprocal trade agreement has not passed. Displaced persons, no bill. Higher pay for officials, no legislation. Statehood for Hawaii, no legislation. Statehood for Alaska, no legislation. Keep in mind now, these were all platform pledges, our pledges, our promises of President Truman. No District Home Rule yet. Long-range agricultural plan. You were going to change that, and you haven't done it. Crop storage, you passed it, yes. Farm credit extension, no action. Oleo tax repeal, you remember that one? No action. The house has already passed it. Price controls, no action whatsoever. Income tax revision, no action whatsoever. Excess profits tax law, you're going to reinstate it, no action. Excess, repeal the Taft-Hartley bill, you haven't done it. Equal pay for equal work, no action. Minimum wage, no action to date. St. Lawrence Seaway, no action to date. Federal tidelines titles, no action to date. Power development to Columbia River, no action to date. Public transmission lines, no action to date. Inland Waterways Corporation, no action to date. Housing passed, rent control passed. You're going to improve veterans' benefits, no action to date. You're going to extend Social Security, no action to date. You're going to pass a national health program, no action to date. Federal aid to education, no action to date. National Science Foundation, no action to date. Civil rights program that you made so much about, no action today on FEPC. No action on anti-lynching, no action on anti-pol tax, no action on anti-segregation. You passed three bills that possibly mean something to the entire population. That's housing and rent control and storage. And you didn't pass the storage bill until about two weeks ago. Well, that's an imposing list on both sides, and I'd like to hear from Senator Pepper on that. I said, you know, there were a lot of these things that we were in the process of passing. The reciprocal trade agreement program is the next, or the second to the next program, coming up on the Senate calendar. It's already passed the House of Representatives. We're making progress on that. We are, the President is recommended, and we are making progress on the displaced persons program. It's still in committee, but it'll be out on the calendar sometime pretty soon. On the district home rule matter, Democratic senators have led a successful adoption of a home rule program by the Senate. It's now in the House of Representatives. On the farm front, the House Committee on Ag Cultures reported out for experimental trial the Brannan Farm program, and that's up in the House of Representatives or will be very shortly. The House of Representatives has already passed our recommended repeal of the OLEO tax program. On Taft-Hartley, you know what a fight we Democrats made in there, but with a few Democrats joining with you Republicans that voted almost solidly on the other side, while you were able to defeat us by two votes from striking the injunction. Well, now the Senator well knows that the Democratic Party controlled both the House of Representatives and the United States Senate. You have a big majority in each. And President Truman, let me read what President Truman said here in a speech that he made on October. Let me read what he said on October 7th. The only way you can get the kind of government you need is for going to the polls and voting the straight Democrat ticket on November 2nd. Then you will get a Democrat Congress and I will get a Congress that will work with me. Yes, President. Now let's quit alibying about not having enough Democrats. I'm not alibying. You have the Democrats over there. I'm not alibying, but the country knows that the Democratic Party has got the Dixocrats in it, and that we've had a certain number of conservative Democrats for a long time. The only reason those conservative Democrats can influence Congressional legislation is because the Republican Party almost solidly lines up with the Dixocrats. Now, Senator, Senator Pepper, you wouldn't say that the Southern Dixocrats are Republicans, would you? I would say that these... You wouldn't say that Senator Byrd and Russell and George were Republicans. You wouldn't say the people in the South voted for Republicans, would you? You can take your choice whether the Dixocrats vote Republican or the Republicans vote Dixocrat. It's one way or the other, as you may choose. They're still Democrats, are they not? They're Democrats, and we are proud to have them, but the Senator knows that when the Republican Party lines up solidly with a Democratic minority, of course you can... No, no, no. It's the other way around. No, no. The great Democrats of the South line up with the great Republicans of the North. Well, all right. You can call it Republicans, then. When you Republicans get together, while you are able to influence national Democrats. Senator Pepper, one of the things that I dislike very much, and I think the American people are getting to the point where they're getting sick and tired of it, and that's to have the President of the United States and you Democrats always alibi and complaining that somebody else is responsible for all your troubles and your ills. And if you don't get something accomplished, then you simply say, well, it's the Dixiecrats, it's the Republicans. Why don't you stand on your own feet now and get this job done? The record speaks for itself, Senator, but let me go ahead with the record. That's what we were talking about. You referred to the minimum wage law. The Senate Committee on Labor and Public Welfare has reported a 75 cent minimum wage bill as our platform called for to the Senate, and it's on the Senate calendar. And it's one of the next bills to be taken up on the public power and public transmission lines. If you will vote with us, the administration Democrats, we are going to make these distribution lines publicly owned, and that matter is going to be before us in the Senate at a very early date. But you control the machinery of the Senate and the House, and we'll vote any day you bring them before us. We do when you Republicans don't all vote with our Democratic menards in the Dixiecrats. There you go again. All right. If you fail to stand on your own feet and accept your own responsibility. Now, with respect to veterans' benefits, there was a veterans' pension bill passed by the House of Representatives, and in the Senate, we have already reported out of the Senate Labor and Public Welfare Committee legislation providing automobiles for two additional classes of disabled veterans who were never provided for by the 80th Congress. Namely, we provided automobiles to a veteran who's lost a hand or the use of a hand or two hands. And also one of the- Senator Hill, the 80th Congress passed such a hand. Oh, no. The 80th Congress only provided those who had lost a foot or the use of or the loss of two feet. He didn't provide for an automobile for a blind veteran and a veteran who had lost the use of or lost one or both hands. Will Senator Hill a moment? Well, Senator, just one second now. On Social Security, the Ways and Means Committee of the House of Representatives has been conducting hearings on the President's recommendations for months, and he is just about ready to report. Now, the Senator mentioned our health program. It's pretty clear that we will come out of this Congress with an increased appropriation of 100% federal aid for the building of hospitals over what the bill was in the last Congress. Well, Senator Hill, now you're taking part of my time here. Well, go ahead. You lifted all these things, and I won't tell you how far we got. Let's finish the list here, Senator Kepart, then we'll get to some of the major items. We've already reported out of the Senate committee, and it's on the Senate calendar, $35 million for aid to the health of children in the schools of this country. We have also, we also going to provide, I'm pretty sure, funds for the increase of medical school facilities in this country and the like. The Senate has already passed the bill for federal aid to public education. The Republican Party almost solidly lined up with the Dixocrats. We would have passed a portion of all of the civil rights programs. There you go again, Senator, blaming somebody else for that which you have full and complete control of. The record speaks for itself. I'd like to call your attention to the fact that when Senator, when President Truman called the Congress back into session last summer for 15 days, he said that they could pass the following 15, or the following measures in 15 days. And I'd like to read them to you. Price control, housing, minimum wage, federal aid to education, social security expansion, national health programs, civil rights programs, public power projects, and displaced persons. Now, the 81st Congress, Democratic Control, have been here six and a half months, and they've only passed one of those bills. That's the housing bill. And that originally, as you know, Senator Pepper, was, was the authors of that bill originally were yourself and Senator Taft. So it's at least halfway a Republican measure. Well, how do you account for the fact that President Truman thought the Republicans could do something to pass all those measures in, in 15 days, and yet, with a Democratic-controlled House and a Democratic-controlled Senate, they haven't been able to pass any of them except one, that's housing, in six and a half months. Senator, what the President had in mind, of course, was that if the Congress would really get down to business, and really consider these matters on their merit, and not allow them to be delayed unduly, they could be passed. Who delays? I'm glad that the Senator added to my list. Well, Senator, answer my question. Who delays them? Well, if you'll take the list of the time consumed in debate in the Senate, the Senator can pretty well determine who delays these programs. But I'm glad the Senator called attention to the fact that one of the bills that we passed in the 81st Congress, which didn't pass in the 80th Congress, was the federal housing program, the long-range housing policy so strongly supported by the President. We've also extended the International Children's Emergency Fund. Now, Senator, as I said, there are a lot of these bills that are soon going to be passed. One of those is the Senate is going to ratify, I'm sure we'll all agree, the Atlantic Pact within the very next few days. So that'll be disposed of. Isn't that a bipartisan measure? Well, to hear Senator Taft... The Republican is much responsible for that, isn't he? Yes, it is, in the sense that Senator Vandenberg is very active in support of it, but the leader of the Republican Party in the Senate, Senator Taft, is very aggressively against it. I dare say there'll be a much larger percentage of Democrats supporting the Atlantic Pact than there will be Republicans. Now, one other matter, if I may mention it, we've also got up the Veterans Readjustment Allowances Bill before our Committee on Labor and Public Welfare. That's the 5220 bill. I think we'll have that on the Senate calendar in the very few days, and I hope that that will help ease the shock of some veteran unemployment in the country at an early date. Well, now, Senator, what are you going to do with the Taft-Hartley bill? You promised to repeal it. Well, Senator... And what are you going to do with FEPC, anti-lynching, anti-poll tax, and anti-segregation? All right, now, Senator. Now, those are four measures that the President and the Democratic Party... All right, let me answer this, Senator. ...had the most to say about during the campaign. All right, now, the first one was the Taft-Hartley bill. Senator, again, as I said, we came within two votes of eliminating one of the worst features of the Taft-Hartley bill in the Senate. And we couldn't get a better vote because the Republican Party almost solidly lined up with the Dixie-Cats... Well, but Senator, you overlooked... ...and prevented us from adopting you. Senator, you overlooked the fact that you control... You, the Democratic Party, control the Senate. Yes. You control the House. You have the votes. The President of the United States in his many campaigns... You mean we would have them if it were not for the Republicans? Oh, but you have them. We do have them. The administration Democrats do have the majority of the Democratic Party, but the presence of the Republicans to swing their weight to the side of the Dixie-Cats paralyzes a lot of times the effort of the President and his party to get things done. In other words, you're always going to have an alibi. If you Republicans to quit voting with the Dixie-Cats, we'll get something done in this Congress. How about the Dixie-Cats quit voting with us? They're Democrats. They ran on your ticket. They belong to your party. I think that'd be fine. They're a part and partial of your organization. I think that'd be fine. They accept the patronage. I wish they would quit voting. Why don't you control them? They don't hold with us more. Well, let's be specific on some of these topics that we've mentioned here. For instance, we started to talk about labor. I'd like to hear more about that, and then I'd like to move into civil rights and then into the health program if we can. Let's go back to the Taft-Hartley law, and what would you like to see done there, Senator Capehart? Well, I voted for the Taft-Hartley revised law. Naturally, I want to see it as I voted for it. However, I did vote against the injunction, and I voted against planned seizure. I was opposed to it and said so and voted against it. The new so-called Taft bill that the Senate passed has made 28 changes that are 27 changes that are beneficial to labor. Well, my point is that the Democrat Party said they were going to repeal it, and they have not repealed it. They have not kept their pledge, and yet they have the votes to do it. Senator, as I said a moment ago, the President recommended that we repeal the Taft-Hartley law. It's in the Democratic platform that we repeal it. In the Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, the vote for repeal and for the Thomas bill recommended by the President was eight Democrats to five Republicans, a straight party vote. But when it got to the floor of the Senate, this combination that I spoke of a while ago, the Republicans and the Dixiecrats, were able to defeat us by two votes from keeping our platform pledged. Now, in the House, they may take the matter up a little bit later, and if they can pass the repeal bill over there, it'll give us a chance to reconsider it in the Senate. I'm for the repeal of the Taft-Hartley law, and so is the President, and so are a great majority of the Democrat senators in the Senate. Senator Pepper, I don't believe you meant to say that you came within two votes of the... Of knocking out one of the worst features, the injunction feature. Oh, yes, but when it came to the vote on the Taft substitute, you were about ten votes short of that. Yes, but if we had won that two-vote fight, I think we would have won the major part of the fight remaining, because it is generally understood that that was a test vote. But now, as long as Senator Taft and the Republicans are determined to pass that kind of a law, and as long as there's a split in the Democratic Party, of course it's going to be difficult for us to achieve, but we are going into the elections next year in the hope that maybe we can eliminate enough Republicans to make it possible for the Roosevelt and Truman Democrats to keep the Democratic platform... Senator Pepper, why don't you try to eliminate some of the Southern Democrats, Senator? Well, there's not many of them coming up. Well, there's some, what, 15 or 20 of them, isn't there? No, I think there are only two, if I recall correctly. How are you going to handle that situation? They are. I'll say this to you. Are they always going to vote with the Republicans? Well, no, no. Are they more Republican than they are Democrats? No, Senator, there are a lot of them. We had twice as many Democratic senators from the South voting against the Taft-Toddler bill this time as we did in the 80th Congress. So if we are proceeding, if we gain 100% in strength in successive Congresses, we'll soon have all of our Southern Democrats voting for Democratic principles. Well, do you think those Southern Democrats you're talking about from Georgia and the Carolinas should run on a Republican ticket? No, that's up to them. Well, and I was just about to say, and I don't want to have the contrary understood, there's a lot more good in these gentlemen than there is bad. This happens to be one of the black spots in their philosophy. Oh, I see. In other words, well, I'm in there. But they don't vote with you Republicans. Would you say there was a lot of good in the Republicans then? Would you say there was a lot of good in the Republicans then? Oh, there was. There's lots of good in the Republicans. And you were one of them that shows a lot of good. And I'm glad you voted with us on the injunction. What are the bipartisan policy, senators, especially with relation to foreign affairs? Do you think that's working out, Senator Capehart? Well, it certainly is working as far as the votes are concerned. And as far as passing the legislation is concerned, there isn't any question about that. Well, I think it is. I've been opposed to it and always will be. I think it's wrong in principle. I voted for many of the foreign bipartisan measures. I'm going to vote for the Atlantic Pact. But in principle, I think a bipartisan policy, whether it be in foreign matters or domestic matters, is wrong under our system of government. Well, I tell you, you're going to observe, in my opinion, that you're going to find a growing Republican opposition, which, in my opinion, represents a growing spirit and sentiment of isolation in the measures that come along in the future. Now, I don't, I'm not condemning that, but I'm saying as a fact, I think you'll find the Republicans supporting the high-tariff policies by being against the reciprocal trade program. I think you're going to find an increasing number of them voting against the Arms Pact and voting against the extension of ECA in the full amount and voting against the Atlantic Pact. Now, I'm glad that the able senator here today has supported many of those measures, but I'm speaking of the record of his party. Well, Senator, I'm opposed to bipartisan foreign policy because I think it's un-American. I think it's wrong. And I would be just as much opposed to a domestic bipartisan policy. What do you see in the future for the rest of this session and the future of this Congress, Senator Capehart? Well, at the moment, the Congress is, rather the leadership is confused. The President of the United States is confused. He doesn't know what he wants or when he wants it. Six months ago, he wanted price controls and he wanted the regimentation of our industry. He wanted an increase in taxes. Today, he says that we should not have increase in taxes and there's no longer need for price control. There's lack of leadership. I think I can successfully say without fear of contradiction that the leadership of the Democratic Party at the moment, including the President, are not pushing for these measures that they advocated. I would say, Mr. Chairman, that we are not confused. We are obstructed. That's what's the matter. We got too much opposition. If it went for the opposition we have to encounter, it wouldn't take us but a few days for the House to pass our federal aid bill that we passed in the Senate and the School Health Services Bill and the National Science Foundation Bill and the Unification Law for all the armed services that we passed in the Senate, the D.C. Home Rule Bill, and for the Senate to pass the repeal of the Oleo Tax to adopt the Reciprocal Trade Agreements Act, to liberalize the Displaced Persons Act, and adopt the Further Veterans Benefits and all that sort of thing. If they'll just not obstruct us, we'll have... Well, who's obstructing you? Well, Senator, you let the American speaker accept. Your own party accept. No, it isn't. Well, the agreement, gentlemen, I think is American in itself because differing points of view are equally American and the reviewing stand always welcomes expression on opposite sides of each question. Your comments, though, I think are especially valuable because whether we agree or not, we start to think about our Congress, what it's doing, what it's not doing, and that, above all, it seems to me, is traditionally American. Thank you, gentlemen. You've been listening to the Northwestern University Reviewing Stand discussion of our 81st Congress. We told you at the beginning of the program that you could get printed copies of this discussion. Many people you know like to follow up our programs by reading these copies and checking the long list of books and articles about our subject. You can do this, too. Just send us your name and address and 10 cents in coin for your copy. Or you can keep up with all our discussions with a reviewing stand subscription. One dollar for the next four months, two dollars and fifty cents for an entire year. Write to the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. That address again, the reviewing stand, Northwestern University, Evanston, Illinois. Our guests today heard on transcription from WOL Washington were Homer Capehart, United States Senator from Indiana, and Claude E. Pepper, United States Senator from Florida. Next week, the reviewing stand turns from the political scene to the field of writing. We ask what is happening to American literature. Our guests will be author F. Van Wyke Mason, whose latest books are Eagle in the Sky and Cutlass Empire, Robert Hillier, Pulitzer Prize-winning poet, Edward Harris Heff, author of If You Lived Here and Any Number Can Play, and Emmett Dedmon, literary editor of the Chicago Sun-Times. We invite you to listen next week for What Is Happening to American Literature. The reviewing stand is presented each week as a public service feature of Mutual. Ray Hutchinson speaking. This is the Mutual Broadcasting System.
