Your city station now presents another important transcribed report on civil defense. Each week at this time, Commissioner Arthur Wallander, Civil Defense Director for New York City, discusses with the head of the city department just what steps have been taken by the department concerned to meet the needs of our civil defense system. Present with Commissioner Wallander now is Commissioner Stephen J. Carney of the Department of Water Supply, Gas, and Electricity. Commissioner Carney is Assistant Director of the Public Works Emergency Division of the Civil Defense Organization and Director of Illumination Control. And now to introduce this week's report on civil defense, here is Commissioner Wallander. Commissioner Carney, you are the head of an organization responsible for furnishing the city of New York with an adequate and safe supply of water. Will you give us briefly the scope of this responsibility? Commissioner Wallander, in New York City, the 8 million people in industry require about 1 billion gallons of water per day. Our underground piping system consists of 5,300 miles of water mains, 150,000 control valves, 82,000 hydrants, and 725,000 house connections. And our reservoir inadequate systems extend 120 miles upstate. Our water supply plan has a value of approximately $1 billion. After the recent water shortage, New Yorkers have come to appreciate the importance of water and to observe the careful use of water so that it will not be wasted. How are you progressing with your plans in the civil defense program to cope with the possibilities of an atomic or high-explosive bomb attack? First, let me briefly explain the emergency features of our department. Even in peacetime, water mains break and we provide 24-hour emergency service throughout the entire city. We have 20 repair companies for response to emergencies, and our defense program and planning is a great expansion of this organization. We are in the process of recruiting a skilled and trained auxiliary force consisting of master plumbers, journeyman plumbers, together with their facilities. We are preparing a list of contractors in and about New York City, normally engaged in water supply work, who are equipped for and specialize in repairs of a major or particular nature. Such a list of enrolled contractors, having indicated their availability for emergency work, should provide inadequate force and equipment to start work on short notice. We have learned from reports from Hiroshima that damage to water supply essential for firefighting was not caused by the failure of underground mains, but by loss of pressure through breakage of pipes in houses and buildings. The one atomic explosion in the city of Hiroshima broke 70,000 pipe connections. This caused a serious loss of water and a complete failure of pressure. As we see it, our major problem will be to control the loss of water through these many broken pipes, and to restore water supply and pressure so essential for fighting of fires caused by the incendiary effect of the atomic explosion. Our present peacetime organization must be greatly expanded to cope with this type of disaster. Our major efforts are being directed to training as many people as possible, department employees and auxiliary force in what might be termed distribution control. Many of our present employees are not engaged in this activity, and we are preparing an in-service training program for them so that they will become intimately acquainted with all the intricacies of the distribution system and will be the key personnel to guide the activities of this large auxiliary force. This training program, Commissioner, will include such things as procedures involved in making shutoffs, map reading, valve locations, the use and handling of equipment, pumping station operations, alternate methods of supplying specific locations, etc. Well, Commissioner Carney, if I remember correctly from the days when I was Police Commissioner, these activities are for the most part organized on a borough basis. Do you intend to develop your program on this borough basis, and how do you plan to affect cooperation between the boroughs? Commissioner, the borough setup is an ideal arrangement and a most logical way to develop our organization, in that each borough is in itself a city, but with a common and interconnected water supply. Our plans of necessity provide for mutual assistance. Our department program does include, for example, the training of Brooklyn employees in Manhattan problems, the interchange of distribution maps and essential records, so as to affect familiarity with all the essential control points. All of our operating records are to be duplicated and dispersed, so that these records cannot be completely destroyed. Well, that's interesting, Commissioner Carney. You've outlined plans for the control of a supply of water and pressure, but what thought have you given to the quality of water so far as drinking water is concerned? And I have in mind reports of radioactivity in water supplies. Of course, this problem has been discussed and is part of our planning. From the authoritative information available, it is hard to say how an atom bomb attack could result in enough radioactivity in the water to seriously contaminate the supply. Even a very large amount of radioactive material placed in a reservoir should be so dissipated by the time it comes from the drinking taps in the city as to be harmless within a few days. All our reservoirs, even those in or adjacent to the city, are so constructed and their operations so flexible that the supply can be maintained through reservoir bypasses, that is, by feeding the water around and not drawing from the contaminated reservoir until the radiation effect has disappeared. At this point, Commissioner, I want to emphasize that even at present, the department maintains a constant vigilance to safeguard the quality of our water. In safeguarding the supply, there are now 1,000 tests of samples of water taken for analysis every day. This vigilance and service will be intensified with specific emphasis on the detection of radioactivity in any part of the system under an emergency setup. Well, Commissioner, at the outset of this talk, you stated that the system extends about 120 miles upstate. What are your special problems outside of the city limits? We have an extensive reservoir and aqueduct system which must in these times be protected and guarded against sabotage. Several surveys have already been made and plans are being prepared to adequately safeguard these structures. It must be remembered that many upstate communities are entirely dependent upon us for their water supply and we have been assured of their cooperation together with state police agencies through all the towns and villages along the route of our aqueducts. Apropos of the police protection, does your department maintain a police force to patrol the reservoirs and aqueducts at this time? Our peacetime control of upstate properties is limited to sanitary inspection and enforcement of our rules and regulations designed to prevent the contamination of water supply. Our present force is without police authority and the apprehending of violators is the province of local police. Our plans provide, however, and we have already requested, the necessary state legislation to empower us to appoint peace officers with the power to arrest in order to enforce our rules and regulations and more adequately protect our structures from sabotage. This will be in the nature of a police force whose activities will be confined to the protection of New York City's water supply outside of city limits. Commissioner Carney, have you investigated the possibilities of using any independent water supply for emergency purposes? Commissioner Wallander, during our recent and current water shortage, many private wells were dug and many large industrial users were operating wells for cooling purposes. We have prepared a list of such wells and our plans call for a continuing check and investigation on the potability and safety of these supplies. There are at present about 750 wells with an estimated available supply of over 200 million gallons per day. Of course, during extreme emergencies, people can get along on only a fraction of the 130 gallons per capita per day consumption. Well, that should be interesting information to our people, Commissioner. Now, in planning our organization, the Office of Civil Defense created a Public Works Emergency Division. Your department is also charged with the planning and preparation of street, park, parkway lighting and other public light facilities. Would you give us some idea as to what you are doing in this respect? Well, Commissioner, at the present time, we've prepared rules and regulations on blackouts and dim-outs. However, the placing of these regulations in effect is subject to orders from the United States Army and, of course, yourself as the New York City Director of Civil Defense. Of course, blackouts and dim-out directions will have to emanate from the United States Army. But how about portable mobile equipment which can be put into operation in case of an electrical emergency? That is, the town goes out, that goes black. Yes, I understand. We have a few ideas on meeting such an emergency. First, we are compiling information on mobile units with diesel or gas-driven generators, which can be used in case an A-bomb drops within a certain area and puts all electrical services out of commission. These mobile units will come from the Army, Navy, Police, Fire Department, and the public utility companies. We are also listing private companies who have this equipment available on short notice. Second, in addition to mobile equipment, we are working with the utility companies to the extent that if a bomb drops in any part of the city and disrupts service for a given area and electrical load is needed in this section, larger than can be furnished by mobile equipment, a steamship can be pulled into that area. And from the ship's generators, feeders supplied from the utility company's emergency stock cables can be extended to any reasonable point for temporary electrical service for light, power, sterilizers, etc. This service would remain until the necessary repairs were made and permanent service restored. Well, that sounds very reassuring. An emergency. But are you taking into consideration the possibility of using private isolated plants in an emergency as well? Yes, yes we are, Commissioner. We've listed all privately operated plants by borough, location, character of the premises, size of the plant, number of units, voltage, and hours of operation. The purpose of this information is in line with the intent of the mobile units. If anything happens in Edison service is disrupted, the isolated plants fit for operation within the area or the perimeter of the emergency can be placed in immediate operation with temporary feeders supplying temporary light and power to the immediate section. Well, Commissioner Carney, where is all this temporary equipment coming from? From electrical supply houses and utility companies with electrical equipment that they have in stock. If an emergency exists, these supply houses, in addition to the Edison company, can supply branch circuit wiring, outlets, receptacles, or any motors necessary for light and power. Well, that's fine. Those of us who are engaged in defense planning in the Office of Civil Defense of the City of New York are ever mindful of the importance of bracing public morale and laying low any misinformation. It is important to prevent the spread of false rumors and we are thankful to you, Commissioner Carney, for helping us in this purpose. From your talk, it becomes crystal clear that you and your staff have given much thought and research to the planning in which you are currently engaged. I would like to end this interview on the hopeful note that comes with greater knowledge of the danger which we face. You have shown us that far from being helpless, there is much that all of us can do. This has been another in the important series of reports on civil defense in which Civil Defense Director Arthur Wallander discusses specific aspects of our New York City Civil Defense Organization with the heads of city departments. Presenting his report this evening was Commissioner Stephen J. Carney of the Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity. Commissioner Carney is Assistant Director of the Public Works Emergency Division of the Civil Defense Organization and Director of Illumination Control. Next Tuesday evening at the same time, the facilities of your city station will again be devoted to another transcribed report on civil defense. This is the Municipal Broadcasting System. that feature지는 the