We present a special feature of your City Station's second annual American Art Festival. This afternoon, by transcription, we are to hear a panel discussion on the National Organization of Artists' Equity Association. Participating in our discussion are Hudson Walker, Executive Director, who will be acting as moderator on today's program. Henry Billings, President, Robert Cronbach, Director-at-Large, Emlyn Etting, President of the Philadelphia Chapter, Harry Gottlieb, Vice President, and Ruth Reeves, Director-at-Large. Here now, to introduce our guests, is Mr. Walker. Mr. Walker, Artist Equity Association, that is the National Organization of Artists' Equity, very much appreciates being asked to participate in WNYC's very important second Art Week. In fact, Art Week, such as WNYC is running, are very much in line with the program of Artist Equity Association, which has been organized to interpret the contemporary American artist to his public and to increase the sale of works of art and general appreciation. Artists' Equity Association has been organized for the past four years, and last April in Chicago, a new president was elected, Mr. Henry Billings, who is here to tell you how equity started. Mr. Billings. Well, it seemed as though it started by spontaneous combustion, but on more careful analysis, there was a great deal behind it. Following the war, many of the painters felt that the time had come to build such an organization as Equity. It turned out that in the year 1946, Joe Hirsch began discussing the idea with Leon Crowe. So-and-so began discussing it with somebody else. First thing you know, they found that there were artists all over New York City who were talking about the possibility of forming an artist organization. Now, of course, there have been earlier organizations, one of the earliest being the National Academy. After the First World War, a group broke away from the Academy. They were known as the New Society. That, in turn, became the Society of Painters, Gravers, and Sculptors. And so it went, with one organization after another. But at this time, it seemed as though the desire on the part of painters was to build a real organization, a real professional organization. In November 1946, at the American Federation of Arts offices, there was a meeting attended by artists, dealers, and representatives of the Federation, at which the question of forming an artist organization was discussed. Many informal meetings were held in artist studios that winter in New York. There were lots of ideas and lots of ideals. And these were exchanged back and forth and fought over. And things were cut out and things were added. And finally, a group had gotten together to form and hold the first annual meeting, which was held at the Museum of Modern Art on April 30, 1947. And the whole plan of an artist's equity was put before the audience. It was enthusiastically received. And the late and beloved John Sloan, whose pictures of this city are famous, jumped on the platform and cried, I've been at a center all my life, but I cannot find anything to kick about in equity. Following that meeting at the Museum of Modern Art, equity drew up a constitution and bylaws, after great study and care, with the patient help of Josh Kahn, our legal counsel. Since then, equity has been through many phases. And in four years, the national organization has grown from 300 to 2,000. Before I introduce the next speaker, I'd like to objectify the aims of Artists' Equity Association by narrating an experience I had, which was one of the most satisfactory since I've been connected with Artists' Equity. You'll remember, about three years ago, the Hall Company of Kansas City, who manufacture Hallmark Christmas cards, put on a very large exhibition, international exhibition, in which artists sent work from all over this country and also in Paris. The Paris section was selected over there. We were called in on consultation and at the first meeting with representatives of the company, I raised the question of payment by royalty as well as possibly a lump-sum payment to the artists. Now, artists and authors for many years have often had to be content with a lump-sum payment, even though the design which they do may sell and produce a great deal of money. I was told flatly that the Hall Company would not pay royalties. I'm very happy to add that after further discussion with them and because they wanted the approval of Artists' Equity as to the terms of their competition, they not only granted our request for 10% royalties, but they paid 10% royalties to artists who weren't even taken into the exhibition, but whose scent and whose works were reproduced. I throw that in to objectify and specify the sort of work that Equity is doing. I'm very happy to introduce Mr. Harry Gottlieb, painter and graphic artist, who is a founding member and now vice president of Artists' Equity. Mr. Gottlieb. We all know that we don't do the difficult things until forced to by necessity. Forming an artist organization is not an easy matter. I know because I've been involved in others besides Equity. There have been many different kinds and they don't come into existence to just satisfy a whim, I can assure you. There was always a need that was satisfied by getting together, whether it was to show the artist's work to the public, to project a specific aesthetic credo, or for the defense of the artist's professional activities. Apart from the artist union, which came into being when many artists were employed on WPA, there has not been any precedent for Equity. Of course, a union would not be the logical answer under present conditions, as there is no common employer for any number of artists. So that although we were aware of such organizations as the Authors League and the Dramatists Guild, we have had to work out the form and program of Equity step by step over a period of several years, with basic changes having been made as late as our annual meeting in Chicago last spring. In a field so new and so vast as a solution of the many professional problems of the painter, sculptor, and graphic artist on a national scale, we will readily admit that as yet we have barely scratched the surface. Just to mention a few of the needs will indicate the problems involved, namely copyright protection, payment for reproductions in the magazines and other publications, a stabilized satisfactory artist gallery relations, improved and expanded artist museum activities, the development of municipal, state, and federal art centers, and other government programs, the general expansion of the artist's audience and his market, the employment of artists as teachers, the need to strive for equality for the Negro artist. Although all of these and other activities on behalf of artists represent basic needs for his well-being, in fact for his very existence, with almost equal force, they represent at the same time public services benefiting the community. Since we know that all artists in the fine arts, almost all artists, that is, must work at something else to augment their income that comes from the sale of artworks, the satisfaction of even, of some of their needs, means more and better art, better health and housing for artists and their families. So you see, artists need a strong, large, representative professional organization that understands their needs, whose program is determined by the artists themselves. In my estimation, Equity is that organization. With the active cooperation of its 2,000 members, living and working in all parts of our country, it hopes to help the artist, the better to make his contribution to the spiritual well-being of the people. And the fact that the satisfaction of the artist's needs is in no contradiction to this noble goal, means that they have a good chance of eventual success. Thank you, Mr. Gottlieb. You've already heard several of the speakers refer to the fact that Artist Equity has organized chapters throughout the country. In order to operate these chapters, we naturally have to have someone who is in charge of liaison between the national organization and the local chapters. That person is Mr. Robert Kronbach, a sculptor, and teacher who is here to tell you how our chapters function. Mr. Kronbach. Thank you. At the beginning, Artist Equity consisted of a large, fairly large membership of individual members and one national central office from which all activities were centered and directed. This was the obvious way to begin such an organization. Most of the individual members were around the East Coast and around the New York City area for the simple reason that they had a chance to communicate with one another and to start it there. Gradually, as the membership spread throughout the country, this became a rather awkward setup. The national office, with the best of intentions, could not follow the local needs, the local interests, the local activities of art throughout the country. And the individual members began to form semi-independent groups within equity. Then, after some time, these groups became dignified with the name of chapters, but it was still considered an organization of individual members with one central board of directors and so forth. And for some time, there was a considerable overlapping in the activities of the chapters and the national board in advising and reaching the individual members in the same area. Finally, during the course of the several years, this situation crystallized at our last convention in Chicago last spring. And now, we are actually set up as an organization of chapters. These chapters extend from California, the far northwest, Seattle, New York, New England, down to Baltimore, and back across the country. There are still individual members whose relationship with any one chapter is a little bit vague. That is my job to iron out at present. But nevertheless, the whole organization is serviced by the chapters. And the national organization's role is to give leadership to the chapters and to keep the whole machine running together. The chapters, as I have suggested, are more or less autonomous. Each one has a charter, much as they please it to be in that locality, as long as it remains within the confines of the national constitution. The activities of the various chapters is very different in various parts of the country. For example, the national organization originally, and I think very wisely, decided not to stress exhibitions as a national activity of equity for the simple reason that there were many exhibiting organizations already and very few to really look after the interests of artists as has been told about before. But on the other hand, some of the chapters, particularly in the more remote parts of the country, where there are not a great many galleries, found that holding an exhibit was an A number one need for their individual members so that they immediately started to hold them. Other chapters, in a somewhat intermediate situation, found that the best thing to do would be to back all the existing local art organizations, museums, art centers, and help them to hold art exhibitions without specifically holding them themselves. And in addition to that, other chapters became much more involved in the direct economic needs of the members, their relations and arguments with museums, with galleries, and the regular thing you would expect from an organization called Artist Equity. Then others went into quite a different field again. I have just received, for example, a newsletter from the San Francisco chapter. I will just tell the main headings which they cover, which are very interesting. They have just finished setting up a file of the members' work, that is a file of slides, which is available to any educational or cultural organizations a museum, a college, which wants to use some part of this file. I've just been handed this newsletter, so I don't know the exact details of how they are handed the file, whether it's rental or loan or what. But it is of obvious value to all the individual artists for a number of reasons. Well, I believe that it's set up in the San Francisco Museum of Art, which has been very cooperative with equity in San Francisco, and that there is no fee for looking at these slides or using them in case anyone want a lecture on the local artist. Then going on to some of their others, this is a very good sample, and it's a very lively chapter, and the newsletter was just handed to me, so it's the reason I dwell on it. They discuss an award given by the American Institute of Architects in Colorado to one of their members. Then they mention a membership meeting. Then there's some advice from the legal counsel in San Francisco as to the income tax difficulties of the individual artists. That sounds, of course, very promising, that we're in a position to have income tax difficulties. Then there's a catalog and guide or announcement of a catalog and guide for the local art festival, which I've read about in their previous newsletters, which has been extremely successful. This, by the way, is not run by equity, but by a general cooperative organization of all the art societies of the Bay Chapel. Well, I think equity has spearheaded that, and as a matter of fact, I'm going out to San Francisco this week, and I'm very anxious to see it. It's one of the few municipally sponsored art festivals in the country, and I think it might even be compared to WNYC's Art Week here. Mr. Walker, am I right in believing I got an idea that the equity in San Francisco had also made, been instrumental in having the city set aside a certain sum of money for the purchase of works of art for public buildings? Am I correct in that? I hadn't heard about that. I think that there is such a sum that is used for city hospitals, city schools, and things of that kind, and they do buy works of art, and those are placed in there, and that is really quite a remarkable thing that that should be done, because there are very few municipalities that do that as yet. San Francisco has been more art conscious than most municipalities for a number of years. Mr. Kronbach, you... Well, no, I don't want to give the impression that the only chapter in artist equity is San Francisco and the National and the National Board. Mr. Edding, who is here from Philadelphia, perhaps can tell us something about the Philadelphia chapter at this time. As Mr. Kronbach has said, some of the activities in different chapters vary quite a bit, but our problems, nevertheless, are very much the same. The regional problems are very much the same for all artists. The status of protecting the professional and legal rights of the individual artist. We have a very active chapter in Philadelphia, and we have been able to achieve quite a few things in the last year, which I'm glad to list for you briefly. One is the slides, also, that we have produced for the museum. Each member of artist equity, of which all the top artists in Philadelphia, professional artists, belong to, has two slides in the slide library in the Philadelphia Museum of Art. These are out, you can rent them, as you can any of the slides in the Philadelphia collection, and they can also be seen for nothing naturally within the museum when you come to look them over for study. Another thing we were able to establish was a minimum lecture fee for lectures for artists, so that they wouldn't be called upon continually to come out and give their services and talk on art. So we've established a minimum fee there, and also the transfer transportation fees besides. Then last year, we were also able to have a large regional exposition under the sponsorship of Artists' Equity, but put on by the Academy of the Fine Arts in Philadelphia. This winter, we're looking forward to planning a large drawing exhibition, a regional drawing exhibition, drawing in watercolors, under the sponsorship, again, of Artists' Equity, since we're not an exhibiting organization, but only under our sponsorship, so that we can have a juried and an excellent exhibition. Then we are planning, also further in Philadelphia, to get our organization assembled, so that we can have paintings of Artists' Equity in a certain given spot at different times, so that the decorators and certain stores in Philadelphia who want to work with us can pick paintings from the work of equity members and get them, without any further ado, I mean, without going to have to collect them in various places. And in closing, I would like to say that we've doubled our membership, so that this year we've got twice as many as we had last year. That's very good. What do you suppose your maximum membership potential is in Philadelphia, Mr. Eddy? Well, it ought to go up at least to 500, I should think, if not more, but we have well over 100. No, how many artists there are in various parts of the country. I understand, for instance, getting back to San Francisco again, that there are over 800 artists in the Bay Area, that the potential in Chicago is probably around the same number or even more. And it does give some idea of the scope of our problem, organizing these individuals for their own economic betterment. You mentioned, Mr. Edding, that you have arranged to have fees for speakers. I thought it might be well to call attention to the fact that equity in working with museums has sold most of the museums on the propriety of paying artists a fee for during exhibitions on the basis of their giving up professional time to this work and as being a professional activity. And speaking about exhibitions, we have been very proud to have been connected with the exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum in an advisory capacity at the inception of this idea. Until equity was organized, there would be no organization of artists that a museum such as the Metropolitan could deal with in finding out how the artist felt about certain terms and conditions or about any specific program. It now gives me pleasure to introduce the co-chairman of artist equity famous ball last spring at the plaza of famous illustrator, designer, and teacher Ruth Reeves. Well, I don't know that my contribution to this discussion is going to be as important as all of yours, but I think it's very important. As a woman, and I might add as a mother of children, and as a painter and designer, membership in the Artists' Equity Association is of very personal importance to me. You see, Artists' Equity has become, since its inception and not a very long time ago, my warm family group. I suppose to quote George Gershwin's old song, it is someone to watch over me. And speaking as a woman, that's pretty basic. Yet this age-old security need to be cherished does not belong exclusively to the female of the species. I'm not an anthropologist, but I believe this deep need in human beings, male or female, is so profound that it yeasted the institution of the family and beyond that the families that we call our city and federal government. Now, the public may not know it, but the very way in which we artists produce our work makes us an especially lonely crew. Like writers or composers, our visual communications are essentially a one-man affair. We can't hire a squad of workers, for instance, to execute our form of picture writing unless, of course, that consists of a huge mural or architectural borrowing, and even there the original sketch must be worked out in great aloneness and great detail by the artist before assistance can be brought in to help finish this embellishment. Well, anyway, belonging to a national organization of professional artists like Art's Equity fills, it seems to me, the profound need in us artists to just plain meet-together, period. To climb down from what the public often romantically calls our ivory towers, our lonely bohemian attics, and I'm sometimes afraid that the grubbier they are, the more romantic they seem to the public. We get to know each other better by talking over the technical problems involved in our respective crafts in the fields of the arts, by thrashing out ways and means for blueprinting plans to make these arts come alive for more people in the country. For you must know by this time that we artists in equity believe exhibitions of our painting and sculpture and graphic arts to be a form of communicating ideas which are every bit as culturally important as reading contemporary books, for instance, or going to a profoundly moving play or a concert. In short, our exhibitions are indeed publications, if you want to call them that, seeking to explain visually to a fairly exclusively word-minded world the great new currents and concepts sweeping through our world. work. We also get together to see what we can do about one of our members who this very moment is undergoing an operation at doctor's hospital. people. But, as in any personal or government family, it seems to me, to me at any rate, that artist equity's greatest help and comfort to its members lies in just this being able to meet together more often, period, to look each other in the eyes in a time in the world seething with one crisis after another, and thereby, quite simply, knowing that we are not alone. Thank you very much, Miss Reeves. Your speaking about the artists working together brings to mind the experience I've had for the last four years working with artists. And I think if anyone can say so, I can, that artists are not only long-headed businessmen, but they are reasonable to deal with and, by and large, much more friendly to work with than other groups I have worked with, such as real estate groups, lumber organizations, and so on. The meetings are orderly, the work is done, and I am happy to testify to the ability of artists to take care of their own affairs. Now, Mr. Billings, could you tell us a little bit about Artist Equity Fund and what it has been set up to do? Before I start on that, I want to thank Miss Reeves especially for her, what she had to say about it, because that question of being alone is a very important matter to the artist, and he feels very much alone, and equity does fulfill an emotional as well as an economic need. There's no question about that. But now, in regard to the fund, the fund is a separate organization contribution, in a way. That is, it is, the directors of equity form the trustees of the fund. The fund is national in character, and all contributions to the fund are now deductible from taxes. So far, we have only gotten our rating from the Treasury. Our drive to raise funds has not begun. What I'm going to speak about is in very bare outline what the program might be. The program is not complete. But generally speaking, the aim of the fund would be to assist artists in financial need, to meet those special educational needs in the field of the fine arts that are now being neglected, and last, to bring about a better understanding of the fine arts and to promote their enjoyment and their ownership by the public. That generally is what we want to do on a national scale. Simply said, it means that we are going to try and show the American public that art is a pleasure, is a form of communication, and that the person who does it is a responsible citizen. This is going to be a big job, and this is going to take a great part of the national organization's work in terms of raising the money and in terms of carrying out the ideas of the fund. I can go into a little more detail. Yes, wouldn't, Bill. We proposed to set up, one of the items on the fund would be the setting up of teaching fellowships in universities and colleges which at the present are, have no such academic facilities. These really would be grants and aid. The equity fund would pay the salaries of the teachers, and the universities, the organizations would actually furnish the physical plan. I think that there isn't time now to go into all the details. Perhaps by next year this fund will be in operation at which time during Art Week it will be a better time to discuss what we've done rather than what we hope to do. Yes, we hope to have the fund running by next year and our program all set up. I think we want to thank WNYC again for giving Equity this spot on their important Art Week. As I said to begin with, it's the sort of program that Equity is interested in promoting. You have just heard the voices of Hudson Walker acting as moderator of our program and a panel discussion on the National Organization of Artists' Equity Association with Henry Billings, President, Robert Cronback, Director-at-Large, Emlyn Etting, President of the Philadelphia Chapter, Harry Gottlieb, Vice President, and Ruth Reeves, Director-at-Large. This has been another of the transcribed features of your city station's second annual American Art Festival. This is the municipal broadcasting system. Thank you.