Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. We're speaking to you from the Grand Ballroom of the Hotel Waldorf Astoria, where, as a special service feature, your city station is bringing you a transcribed broadcast of the testimonial dinner in honor of New York State Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein. The featured speakers are Mayor Vincent R. Pelletere and Lieutenant Governor Frank C. Moore. Mr. Goldstein, who is National Campaign Chairman of the $25 million Medical Center Campaign sponsored by Yeshiva University, will be cited here tonight for his devotion to the advancement of the medical sciences and his entiring championship of the health and welfare of all races and faiths. Other speakers on the program will be Quentin Reynolds and Dr. Samuel Belkin. Master of Ceremonies will be Ed Sullivan, and here to introduce him is Mr. Fabian. May I welcome you to this dinner honoring our Attorney General Nathaniel Goldstein, given on behalf of the College of Medicine sponsored by Yeshiva University, to be erected in connection with the New Bronx Hospital in the city of New York. Mr. You will notice, perhaps, you will notice perhaps I did not say I thank you. I think it would be arrogant on my part to thank anybody for coming here to honor Nat Goldstein and to further the cause that we are all here to support. It is always pleasant to gather together to pay tribute to a man like Nat Goldstein, whose public achievements are written on the record of the history of New York, but whose many private and worthwhile contributions to our community are known to but a few because of his great modesty. As you know, he has assumed the chairmanship of the national campaign for this medical college, and no man has worked harder at this than he has. Yes, and it is pleasant and inspiring to gather together to support the achievement of a great dream which can result, if this dinner is a success, in the building of the College of Medicine, but more of this later. Before I turn the gavel over to the toastmaster of the evening, I think I should publicly thank, on behalf of the dinner committee, several gentlemen who have been most earnest and ardent in their work and have contributed so largely to this evening. I speak of Robert Whiteman, who has labored so prodigiously, and William Brandt likewise. Harry Smith has had unusual burdens, which he has carried with ease. And for the building of the hospital, the replica of the hospital, which you will see later, many thanks to Max Fine for his imagination, energy, and devotion. And I must also thank Mac Crindler, his brother, and the Burns Brothers, for their great help in arranging this dinner. The gentleman who will preside this evening has such a vast experience in being a master of ceremonies and toastmaster, ranging from the stage to radio to television, that no more expert or experienced hands could be found to run an event of this kind. He holds records for his stage performances. In radio, he has achieved great success, and he is one of television's brightest stars. And at the same time, while doing all this, his syndicated column appears in the largest circulated paper, From Coast to Coast. I am very happy, therefore, although he has developed a poker face in television, to tell you that the deeds that he does in support of every worthwhile cause give evidence of the great heart of the man. And I am proud to turn over the gavel to Mr. Ed Sullivan. Thank you, Mr. Fabian. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Good evening, distinguished guests, Reverend Clergy. This evening really started off on a very pleasant note, many pleasant notes for me tonight. Because I was, Bob Goer, Bob Whiteman was sitting right in front of us here, and Rabbi Lookstein came up to him. They were talking about the fair tonight honoring the Attorney General. Bob said to Rabbi Lookstein, he said, Did you see Sugar Ray Robinson and Ed Sullivan? The rabbi said, What shul do they belong to? This is true. I must beg your pardons. I am a girl. And then another pleasant note was struck by the Attorney General's son. Young Stephen today is celebrating his 12th birthday. Celebrating it by wearing a big, I like Ike button in his buttonhole. And certainly the most pleasant introductory note of the evening was sounded by two very good friends of mine and two very good friends of yours. They sent up a note up here to the dais to me from Mr. and Mrs. George Frankel, $25,000 for the Ashiva College of Medicine. Thank you. I have a very pleasant duty presenting to you four very lovely ladies. And I'm going to ask the spotlight man if he can pick them out, because I would like them to get up and take a bow, and I know you'd like to meet them. Certainly it must be a very proud night, one of a series of proud nights in the life of the mother of the Attorney General. To see this typical New York gathering of financiers and civic-minded citizens honoring her son, who has honored the city and the state. I'd like you to meet the mother of the Attorney General, Mrs. Molly Goldstein. She's sitting out here just a couple of chairs away from the dais. Mrs. Goldstein, would you stand up, please? Thank you. She's 77 years young. Probably feels not about 27, and certainly looks 17. And here on the dais, the wife of a distinguished American, Mrs. Wendell Wilkie. Mrs. Wilkie, would you stand, please? Thank you. Now there's a youngster sitting on the dais who's identified herself with every worthwhile cause that the city has projected. You all know her, and I'd like you to meet Jinx Falkenberg. Thank you. I've introduced the mother of the Attorney General. I've referred to his son. I know we all want to meet his wife. Mrs. Goldstein, would you stand, please? Thank you. Now, I was talking to her husband here during dinner, and I was asking about some of these figures. And the figures to me were, I told him, I said, these figures here in this little booklet to me are appalling. Because it said down here on the bottom of one page that the Yeshiva Charter is the first charter granted by the New York State Board of Regents for a college of medicine since 1838. It's the first new college of medicine to be established in New York City since 1898. And General Goldstein said, well, he said, if you'll just then elaborate on that, he said the national figures are equally appalling. Back in 1905, we had 26,000 medical students and doctors, rather, for a population of 85 million Americans. That was in 1905. 20, 45 years later, 1950, we have lost 1,000 doctors. You now have 25,000 doctors for a population of 150 millions of people. Here in New York, you have nine medical schools with a total capacity and enrollment of 2,900 students. And each year, we graduate 510. There are 20,000 applications for this limited enrollment of 2,900. And you have a shortage, a national shortage, now of 50,000 doctors. So if anybody had any doubt in his or her mind as to the need which is represented and typified by this gathering tonight, those figures should resolve them. Now, representing tonight, you have a distinguished array of people. And representing the governor of New York State is a member of the board of the trustees of the State University. He's quite an unusual man, quite unusual for a number of reasons. Lieutenant Governor Frank Moore is an immigrant. He told me that. He was born in Toronto. And he came across the border to Buffalo with his family. And in a little town outside of Buffalo, they settled. He went to Hobart University there. And then along came World War I. And to indicate his resolution and the measure of the man, he tried to enlist in the United States Army. And they turned him down. He didn't weigh enough. So then he went around. He went around to all the recruiting stations. And he tried to become, he offered himself for such specialized jobs as a balloon watcher, an airplane spotter, no dice. So then he went back across the border. And although he then, of course, was a United States citizen, he got himself into the Royal Canadian Air Force by showing him his birth certificate, which showed that he did come originally from Toronto. And then after serving under that second flag, he then served under the third flag because he transferred to the British Army. In all of his public activities, Governor Moore has been an outstanding example of the greatness that has come to us from other countries. It's with a tremendous sense of privilege and pleasure that I introduce to you now Lieutenant Governor of New York State, Frank C. Moore. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Sullivan, Mayor Pelletari, Dr. Belkin, Chairman of the Board, Levy, and friends of a splendid institution and a great citizen, Yeshiva and Nathaniel Goldstein. In the absence of the Governor, it becomes my privilege occasionally to act in his stead. And tonight my assignment is most pleasant. On behalf of all who serve you in state government, from our great Governor to the newest Clerk, I welcome you to this gathering. I'm sure that the people of this, the Empire State would want me to add their prideful greetings to you, who do honor to one of New York State's finest citizens. It is neither my function nor my purpose to itemize his many accomplishments over the years, but I cannot resist characterizing them. Whenever there is need for intelligent, courageous, and vigorous help, you can entrust the job to our Attorney General and confidently expect him to succeed. We have always found this to be true. And you will soon have proof in your campaign to raise funds for the medical school for Yeshiva. There's a great need today, a desperate need for more doctors. To provide them, we must have more and ever better training facilities. The New State University has initiated two new medical centers, one here in New York and one upstate in Syracuse. They're underway. But even when completed at a cost of many millions, they will not be enough. There's good reason why education, including medical education, should not be the job of government alone. And Mr. Sullivan has indicated to you something of the reluctance of the private institutions to attempt the task of financing new medical schools. But Yeshiva has undertaken to supply in important measure added opportunities for such medical education. and I compliment and salute you for your courage. You have set high goals to achieve your objectives and by the way, ours in the state requires money, much money. Fortunately, you and we share the services of a man who has rare talents for wisely raising as well as spending that most essential building material, money. His associates in state government are proud of his helpfulness to you as I know you are of his great services to us. We wish and anticipate for you and him great success in your efforts. We join with you tonight in paying tribute to him, wishing for Mrs. Goldstein and our Attorney General many more years of good health and happiness together and somewhat selfishly the wish that his splendid services may be available to all of the people of our state. A long time to come. Thank you. Thank you very, very much, Governor. Fortunately, there are many showmen on this committee. You have Cy Fabian, you have the Brands, you have Bob Whiteman, you have many others. And it seemed to them that instead of just discussing per se the building of a college that it might dramatize it magnificently if a college were to be built here on the stage so that a college would be translated actually into terms of actual building before your eyes. And serving as a narrator while this is being assembled here before you is a New Yorker who was born in the Bronx, who moved to Brooklyn with his family, whose dad was the superintendent of schools in Brooklyn, and who in every capacity, whether as author or a foreign correspondent or a television personality or in his own private capacity as a human being, has done a magnificent job in every area. Ladies and gentlemen, a narration by Quentin Reynolds. Tonight, I'd like to talk to you about a dream. The trouble with us adults is that we don't very often believe in dreams. Our kids are much smarter than we are. Youngsters know that sometimes dreams do come true if you have enough faith in them. The new college of medicine to be erected here in New York City is still nothing but a dream. But it's a dream that you and I can help come true. It's quite fitting that the first medical school to be built under Jewish auspices should be sponsored by Yeshiva University, the first American university of Jewish origin. It's altogether proper that this great contribution by American Jewry to our American institutions should be non-sectarian and in the interest of all people everywhere without regard to race, creed, or cult. It's of historic note to record that the first director of the new medical college will be an outstanding American doctor and medical scientist of Jewish origin, the first in our history to head a school of medicine. He is Dr. Harry M. Zimmerman. There is, as everyone knows, an alarming shortage of doctors in our nation today. Our new medical college will do much to alleviate the material part of this serious condition. It will make a lasting contribution to the moral and physical good health of America. To those of us who play a role in the dramatic birth of this infant, the blessing will be manifold. There can be no greater satisfaction than to know that the edifice we helped to build will serve as a lasting memorial for all time and for all men. To Attorney General Nathaniel Goldstein, National Chairman of the College of Medicine Campaign, who is being honored here tonight, give your wholehearted support. Since you can't visit our college, we're going to bring it to you in miniature. A model of the new College of Medicine is about to grow before our eyes on the stage. It will rise eight feet and will be twenty-five feet in length. You will see each section put together floor by floor, wing by wing, department by department. You will have the opportunity to make a material contribution allocated to any part of the institution closest to you and to perpetrate for all time your name or the names of your loved ones, while providing the most modern facilities for educating our future pastors, Flemings, Curies, and Listers. All things must start with a firm foundation. We have exactly that as the College of Medicine begins to take shape, as our dream begins to take on substance. Here our base represents the basement occupying twenty-five thousand square feet. It will house the great half million dollar power plant, so necessary to the operation and maintenance of the building and the medical equipment in it. The exterior grounds will be beautifully landscaped, lending simple charm and refinement to the school and the surrounding area of the medical center. The first floor, now taking shape, will open its arms to students, faculty, and visitors. It will be the location of the college's administrative offices and a new, modern four hundred thousand dollar medical library. No efficient medical school can plan its daily or overall activities without proper administration. The administration department will require three hundred and fifty thousand dollars. The medical library, the source of medical knowledge, will be indispensable both to instructors and students, and will perform an important function in the life of the medical center. The true caliber of a school is most often reflected in the quality of its library. Our college of medicine deserves the finest. We continue to move upward, prying into the insides of this great new school. The entire second floor will be the site of the Department of Anatomy, costing one million two hundred thousand dollars. Anatomy is the science dealing with the structure of organisms. One might say that we are engaging in an anatomy lecture right here and now with our structure, the new College of Medicine. Here young men and women will have the wonderful opportunity to study the most important branch of medical science under the most advantageous conditions. It will be a dream come true for those youngsters who might not otherwise be able to go to medical school. Moving upwards, we reach the third floor of this inspiring structure. Standing at the window, we look out over the North Bronx. We can see the laborers busy at work on the new Municipal Hospital Center, a project which will cost the city of New York about forty million dollars. That's Pelham Parkway close by and the East Chester Road and Seminole Avenue. The new College of Medicine will be easily accessible by subway, bus, or old and new highways, threading through the area from Long Island, Queens, Brooklyn, Manhattan, and Westchester. Our new college will be closely affiliated with the Municipal Hospital Center. In fact, we are staffing both the hospital center and the medical center. We have a wonderful working arrangement through the graciousness and cooperation of the city of New York, its mayor, its commissioner of hospitals, and other key figures and departments. The third floor will house the departments of biochemistry and legal medicine. Biochemistry deals with the chemistry of living organisms. And while this department will cost eight hundred and fifty thousand dollars, it's often been said that the chemical elements of the human body are worth less than one dollar. But greater knowledge of this chemistry has done much to prolong and better human life. Joining this department will be the Department of Legal Medicine, which will require a two hundred thousand dollar outlay. Legal medicine is not to be distinguished from illegal medicine, but rather represents the impact of the law on medical practice. It's altogether proper for me to remind you of the constructive effect of medical practice on the law and government. Climbing up another floor, the elevators are not yet installed, we come to the fourth floor, where the smell of medical products, clean and fresh, stays with us. Here are two main departments. One, the Department of Pharmacology, eating six hundred and fifty thousand dollars, and the Department of Medical Ethics, which calls for two hundred thousand dollars. Just remember that every time you have a prescription filled, you and your family are benefiting from the advances made in pharmacology. In studying medical ethics, our young doctors will learn the true meaning of the Hippocratic Oath, how to conduct themselves in public and private practice, in benefiting their fellow men, and in meeting their obligations to the community in general. The Department of Physiology takes up most of the space on the fifth floor of the College of Medicine as we proceed upstairs. The cost of this unit is one million dollars. Physiology is the science dealing with the functions of living organisms. Most of us know that this is another vital branch of medical knowledge. It's worth contemplating. Here is a constructive force taking shape in a world where destruction showers us, with open and inane fears. Up on the sixth floor, we find two major departments, biophysics and microbiology. Biophysics is a new field and has to do with the use of radioisotopes and radioactive materials created by an atomic pile for the treatment of disease. It's well worth its allocation of half a million dollars. science. This could perform great miracles. Equally important is microbiology, which requires a similar expenditure and deals with the study of microbes, virus and other bacteria. At this point, we're entitled to a seventh inning stretch, during which time I can remind you of the significance of what is being accomplished here. the school of medicine will be the 80th in America, but the first medical college constructed in New York City in more than half a century, and the first to be granted a charter by the State Board of Regents in 115 years. And now back to the seventh floor, where two great wings are spreading out. Here is a department of surgery. It will cost $400,000. Students will work between this great department and the municipal hospital center across the way. A fine relationship will exist between these two forces engaged in learning, healing, and curing. While the wonders of surgery are well known to us, we are not as fully familiar with preventive and environmental medicine, which will share adjacent space on the same floor, and will require a half a million dollar outlay. We're all familiar with the old saying that an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure, and every dollar contributed to this great department will pay dividends by the hundredfold. We ascend to the eighth floor. We are still climbing a modern edifice in miniature. We realize as we go along that this model in plywood is a picture of the shape of things to come. We stand very close to reality. We are presented with great and significant opportunities. We're privileged to take a part in an eminent undertaking. On this floor, we observe two more spacious wings spreading out to capture a prominent part of the new College of Medicine. Here is a Department of Pathology which will cost half a million dollars. This science treats morbid conditions searching for their causes and cures. Alongside is the Department of Medical Research to cost an equal sum of money. And who is there to say that that important new medical discoveries will not someday emanate from the Medical Research Department located here? Now we move up to the ninth floor. We are approaching the top. There's just one more floor to be constructed. Through a window, we catch a glimpse of greater territory on the outside. The new clean floors, the modern facilities move into focus. Here on the ninth floor is the Department of Pediatric Research, along with a beautiful play deck for recreation purposes. The plan for this section looks attractive and interesting. The total cost will be half a million dollars. Generous donors would certainly like to contribute to this wing of the College of Medicine. Our tour is approaching a climax. We're climbing slowly to the tenth floor. Above us is the final ceiling. The main section of this floor is a department called the Animal Institute. It rests on the top floor of the College of Medicine and will cost $350,000. It is set aside for study and research and is a vital adjunct of the institution. We're on our way out of the college now. Our tour is almost over. We stop only briefly on the ninth floor to see where a surgery pavilion is to be added at an outlay of $100,000. Next are three lecture halls, each costing $100,000. On the way towards the ground, we look at each hall. They're beautifully constructed of the most modern design. Here is a lecture hall on the eighth floor, another on the sixth floor, and the last one on the fourth. We're back now on the second floor. We mustn't forget to take a quick peek in the huge modern quarter of a million-dollar auditorium, which will accommodate 750 students and faculty members. The college of medicine is the initial stage of a medical center which will call for a total outlay of $25 million. This is our aim and is well worth our support. Well, now we're back on the ground. We look about us and observe with pride the lovely landscape terraces, the trees, the shrubbery. Close by stands a beautiful modern college of medicine, a symbol of the present, a landmark of the future. We can be well proud of this. We can be proud of the part we play in building this medical college. What's more, this building will serve as a permanent symbol of our faith in the future of mankind. This now is merely a dream. But it's the kind of dream that you and I, working together, can someday bring to life. Thank you. Thank you, Quentin Reynolds. Quentin, Mr. Reynolds there. Please come up here. Ladies and gentlemen, may I introduce a gentleman, Mr. Reynolds, in his own cell. Thank you. Thank you. It looks better than it did. I'm sure that no amount of appreciation can be expressed which would be adequate to tell Quentin how we admired his work and how much we enjoyed it. And as for that beautiful model, when you heard me earlier in the evening thank Max Fine for his imagination, energy, and work in getting it done, you now understand what I meant. Thank you, Max Fine. What's that? It's true. And incidentally, a small detail I forgot. He contributed it free. I suppose you're surprised to see me up here again. But the fact of the matter is that Ed Sullivan had to leave. Some of you may have read in the paper that his daughter just became engaged. And he had to leave to drive her to the airport to make California. California. So he asked your forgiveness. But he showed how sincerely he was behind this effort by tearing himself away from his family at this critical time and coming here. So I hope you will understand. In the meantime, to take over the gavel for the next part of the program, I'm going to call on a man who has done a tremendous amount of work for this dinner, who was largely instrumental in working with Mr. Fine on this beautiful replica behind us. He's a vice president of United Paramount Theaters, an old-time showman, and a man with a real Jewish heart, Mr. Robert Whiteman. I, too, will follow the script, so I'll wear glasses inasmuch as I'm pinch-hitting. At about 6 o'clock this evening, I received a message from Ed Sullivan. Si, you took my speech. But I'll read it. He says, Dear Bob, because Betty and Bob, that's his son-in-law to be, are leaving for midnight, or rather at midnight for the coast, could I possibly tear away from the dinner at about 9.30 and turn the rest of the toastmastering over to you? In other words, I would make the opening truck introductions, do the best I can, congratulate the attorney general and the rest of the folks there. I'll meet you at the hotel about 6.15, by which time we can thrash out all of the problems, your loving Goy. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a great pleasure for me to pinch hit for Ed. He called Ed about two days ago, and I discussed this project with him at his 22nd anniversary party. Any fellow that will take time out to discuss a project of this nature in my book and in your book deserves a great kudo and a great welcome and a great reception. Thank you. The Mr. and Mrs. General Goldstein, I think they omitted another member of your family, Lois, the 17-year-old of the Goldstein Refinues here. I, too, want to thank you, Max. You did a magnificent job. You and your gang. And also to Solly Pernick and the Stagehands Union and the lovely white uniforms that they wore tonight. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it is my pleasure and privilege to, at this time, introduce a man whom there were many more folks said yes than said no. And so here he is, ladies and gentlemen, his honor, the mayor, Vincent Impelletari. Thank you. The Whiteman, Governor Moore, Dr. Belkin, our guest of honor, Nat Goldstein, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the dais, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you. After all that's going on here tonight with this perfectly wonderful physical demonstration of what the medical college will look like when completed, I would say that it's rather tough for me to get up and add anything more than what you have already heard. except one thing that you do not know is that this exhibit, while it was planned by architects and assembled by others, was also the idea of your national chairman, Nat Goldstein. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I do think, at this time, that one thing should be made clear to this audience. 근�oes, and that is when the College of Medicine was first projected. The people responsible for its projection, with a vast background of the history of medical schools throughout the United States of America, including the very liberal city of New York, came to certain conclusions. And they set up four cardinal principles, which they put in writing. I'd like to read those four principles to you. Number one, the medical center will be a non-sectarian institution devoted to medical science as a contribution by American jury. Two, the medical center, with its separate and distinctive name, will have a board of overseers of outstanding civic and communal leaders representing all faiths. Three, the medical center will be national in scope, and both faculty and students. Three, the medical center will be selected solely on the basis of scholarship and character, regardless of race, color, creed, or sex. Four, the medical center will seek to serve humanity through a comprehensive scientific program and further the frontiers of medical research and training. Those are the four principles that attracted my attention to the medical school of Yeshiva University when it was first brought to my attention. And I have been very active in progressing the medical school of Yeshiva University ever since. Those of us who know anything at all about the history of medical schools throughout the country, including the city of New York, know that it's been one of the most pathetic pictures that devoted fathers and mothers have experienced for a great number of years, and for many causes. What Ed Sullivan said about nine medical schools was true, except that he didn't mean nine medical schools here in the city of New York. He meant nine medical schools in the entire state of New York. And another thing that's very important to bear in mind is that when he talked about the total enrollment, that did not give the correct picture either. Because the fact is that the very largest medical schools only take in annually in its first year, first year classes, a total of not more than 100. So that if you take all nine medical schools and lump them together, only 900 applicants throughout the entire state can be admitted to a medical school for a first-term student. So you can imagine the tremendous crisis that develops in the hearts of thousands upon thousands of devoted fathers and mothers who have nursed an ambition for a bright boy or a bright girl who desired a medical education, and all too many of them have never, never achieved it. Remember this, too. And this applies to New York City, as well as a great number of other large cities throughout the United States. When these hundred new medical students are admitted every year, the enrollment is not limited to students from the city of New York or from the state of New York. And the hundred new students I told you about are selected from all over the United States. So that sometimes, and very frequently, in a new class of 100 in a medical school, you will find that a quota of two is set for the city of New York, another two from the state of Connecticut, another two from California. So the round total of 100 would probably admit from the city of New York in that beginning class a total of about two or maybe three or maybe four. And then I'm getting up into really high figures when I say four. So that there's been a tremendous demand for a medical college here in the city of New York. You've heard the figures analyzed. You were told that a certificate by the Board of Regents hasn't been issued here in the city of New York for well over a century and a half. You were told that no new medical school has been issued here in the city of New York since 1898, and that's true. And the fact is that some large medical schools in the intervening years that once existed here in the city have actually closed down. And when you figure the population of the city of New York in 1898 and compare it with the population of the city of New York today, then you can well realize all the more the tremendous need for a medical college such as the one that is projected. Now, I don't want to be an alarmist at all. I'll try not to be. But the fact is that due to this tremendous shortage, our ambulances today have to go out on calls without interns. That's pathetic. It shouldn't be. If we had more medical schools such as this, that would not be. In addition to that, the armed forces have taken up the available supply, the large part of the available supply, both of interns and resident physicians, so that, all in all, there's a tremendous need for a hospital such as this. We want to try to get more of our youngsters, more of our deserving youngsters, into a field where there is such a critical shortage. Some time ago, when the trustees of Yosinba University called upon me, and I took it up with my colleagues on the Board of Estimate, some of whom were present this evening, the distinguished controller of the city of New York, Lazarus Joseph, the borough president of the Bronx, Jim Lyons, and the trustees of Yeshiva University discussed with me the possibility of an affiliation with the new hospital that we projected up in Bronx County to be known as the Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, with the medical school that they wished to establish in connection with Yeshiva University. It looked good to me. It made sense to me. Because no medical school can mean anything at all unless it has the right kind of hospital affiliation. Every large medical school in our city has an affiliation with one of our large municipal hospitals. That goes for Cornell, for Columbia, for New York University, and for all the others. Well, I thought it was a good idea. My colleagues on the Board of Estimate thought it was a good idea. So they authorized me to extend to the trustees of Yeshiva University this affiliation with the new Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, which will cost the citizens of the city of New York approximately $36 million. By the time of its completion, the figure that Quentin Reynolds gave of $40 million will probably be more like it. But in that new Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, the new medical college will have the very best hospital affiliation not only in the entire city of New York, but throughout the United States of America. And when I say that, I meant to say in the entire world, because today, New York City is admittedly the medical center of the entire world. that new Bronx Municipal Hospital Center is going along by leaps and bounds. It's being erected in two phases. The first phase is well on its way. As a matter of fact, on May 13th, we will lay the cornerstone of the first phase of that new Municipal Hospital. The second phase of that hospital is already out for bidding. The first phase will be ready for occupancy, we hope, in early 1953. When the city opens that first phase, early in 1953, Dr. Belkin and General Goldstein, we fully expect and hope that the Medical College of Yeshiva University will be ready to staff that first phase of the Municipal Hospital. Ladies and gentlemen, I've already taken up a lot of your time. But it's something that I think deserves your attention because it's something that's been needed for a long, long time. The last time that I spoke on behalf of this medical school, we had a little fundraising party over in Brooklyn, just a little family gathering. I spoke extemporaneously and some of the people liked what I had to say. And that night, one person in the audience liked it so much that he contributed that night a check in a sum of $100,000. That was very nice. I know that there's people in this audience tonight that will make contributions to this medical college. I know that they're going to do it. Some of them might do it tonight. Some of them might put it off until the more or a week from the more. But the only thing that's holding up the progressing of the full plans for this college is your voluntary contributions. Knowing the people of my city, I know that this college will be erected because we have the type of citizen in the city of New York that believes in his community. And this is essentially a community project. You know, if I were in your place and I intended to make a contribution, I wouldn't put it off until the more. I'd do it right tonight. And I'd do it tonight for a very sentimental reason. I wouldn't do it for Nat Goldstein. He's only the national chairman. I wouldn't do it for his wife. She's a beautiful woman, a very wonderful mother. But I'd do it tonight because of that very beautiful lady who stood up just a short time ago, the mother of the attorney general, 77 years of age. Thank you. Just imagine how happy she would be if tonight many of you people in this audience would make out your checks in honor of this wonderful lady. That's what I'd like to have you do. Nat, I'm not going to say a thing about you. All I can say to you is that this college has my wholehearted support. It will continue to receive my wholehearted support. And may I hope for you, your committee, and for the college, a very successful campaign. We have one more event in our program, and our next speaker I have known many years. In fact, he probably knew me when I didn't know him. I was too young to know him. But, in a lifetime spent in community service of every philanthropic nature, in addition to which an urge for public service took him into public office. With such a background, he is now the chairman of the board of trustees of Yeshiva University. And it was his vision and courage, together with his trustees, which launched this great project. I have the honor to introduce the Honorable Samuel Levy. Mr. Chairman Fabian, our friend, our benefactor, Mr. Mayor, Mr. Lieutenant Governor, Mr. Comptroller of the State of New York, and Mr. Comptroller of the City of New York, and my own colleague on the Board of Estimate and Apportionment, the President of the Borough of the Bronx, Jim Lyons, honored guest and guest of honor, ladies and gentlemen. It is my pleasant duty as chairman of the Board of Trustees of Yeshiva University to greet you all as friends and benefactors of our great cause. It is not necessary for me at this time to speak in further praise of the distinguished guest of honor, Attorney General Nathaniel L. Goldstein, for prior to this banquet, at a most impressive convocation, he was inducted as the recipient of an honorary degree into the honorary alumni of Yeshiva University. Mr. Attorney General, you have won many honors in the course of your distinguished public career. You have been thrice elected as the Attorney General of the Empire State, but you will agree that your new honor as Master, as Doctor of Law of Yeshiva University affords you the deepest personal gratification, and remember, you didn't have to run for this office. The significance of this occasion, it seems to me, is threefold in character. First, it affords an opportunity to pay tribute to one who supremely deserves it. Second, it advances the cause and contribution to the establishment of the Yeshiva University Medical School, but above all, it brings us nearer and cements our association with the first and foremost university under Jewish auspices in this land. It is impractical at this time for me to give an adequate evaluation of this institution. There are, however, a few thoughts that should be expressed. Like all great and all universities of America, Yeshiva University, too, came into being under religious sponsorship. It is to the everlasting glory of our institution that it hopes to remain ever faithful to the religious origins and purpose. There are many schools of learning in this land. There are even a great number of medical schools that serve the needs of the American people. This, however, is the first that represents the contribution of the Jews of America to all citizens of America. That implies a great responsibility. It must be the best. It must be the finest. It must scientifically be the soundest and medically the most advanced school of learning on this continent. Second, it must be a school that in the constituency of its student body and in the composition of its professorial staff must reflect the principles of American democracy and the ideals of Judaism throughout the ages. Merit shall be the sole condition for admission to this school. Medical eminence shall be the sole criteria for an appointment to the professional staff of this school. neither race nor color nor creed nor national origin nor financial position shall ever be the keys by which admission shall be gained. This, my friends, is just what I mean when I say the principles of American democracy and the ideals of Judaism. Finally, the medical school was not born in a vacuum. It was not conceived by chance. It is the result of painful planning and of dedicated service by an entire generation of American Jews. Our fathers laid the foundation for a great citadel of comprehensive learning. We, their children, reared the walls and raised the pillars of this temple of knowledge. Now all of us together are erecting the capital which is the crowning glory, the first medical school under Jewish auspices. Let us then be grateful to those who labored to make this possible. Let us rejoice in our share in it and let us proudly and patriotically proclaim that this institution is to be erected in honor of Judaism and the glory of America. I thank you. ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the close of our program and one of the most pleasant parts. I have known Nat Goldstein. Many of you in the room have known him for a long time. Worked together with him in community projects, watched his great progress in the state office he handles, has seen the amount of victories he has won in the Supreme Court and in other places. Only recently he won a very big one this week. All of these things he has accomplished. Yet he has kept that simplicity of character, that simplicity, that easy to get along with attitude, and I am proud to know him. Nat, I must say to you that this outpouring of your friends, as I said before, is for two purposes. It was for the purpose of supporting this worthy cause, but also every man and woman in this room was here also to pay you honor. And I now ask you to step up and take the microphone. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Fabian, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen and friends all, had I the mastery of a Demosthenes or the skill of a Cicero, believe me, I could not better thank you than to say I love you all from the bottom of my heart. You have been gracious, you have been generous, you have been fine, you have been nice. Tonight you have witnessed the birth of a great school which shall serve as a lasting memorial in the true American tradition, a nonsectarian college of medicine. And we are conceiving as our part a contribution by American jury to our blessed land, America. We're here tonight, dedicated and consecrated, a living example of what can be done if we want to. And I say to you now, the hour is late, but as the curtain falls upon this era, we, all of us here, shall have left a lasting imprint upon the fabric of America, one which neither time nor tide can erase as long as free men stalk this earth. This is something which comes once in a lifetime. This is one single capital investment. You make it once and reap dividends forever. However, we shall leave on the pages of history another great event. And we shall say, when our time is up, another mission accomplished. And I say to you all, thank you from the bottom of my heart. To you, Si, my best for this great dinner. To Dr. Belkin, Mr. Levy, and his fellow members of the board for having envisioned a great dream which now becomes a reality. Let us make this your college and my college. Let us forever remember that this is our heritage for tomorrow. Thank you ever so much. Ladies and gentlemen, that was a sincere talk right from the bottom of Nat's heart. Would you please rise for the benediction by Rabbi Joseph Lukstein? May I make an announcement, Rabbi, before the benediction? A gold earring was found. Please come to the side door to identify it. Pardon me, Rabbi. Rabbi Lukstein? Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard so much all evening about the great president of this school. A man who, a man who, greatly responsible for the inspiration and courage to go forward. I would like to ask Dr. Belkin to take a bow. Rabbi Lukstein. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord cause his face to shine upon you and be gracious unto you. The Lord lift up the light of his countenance unto you and give you our blessed land and all the world everlasting peace. Amen. The evening is adjourned. You're through for tonight. You're through for tonight. You're through for tonight.
