This morning, let's talk about motion pictures. An interesting phenomenon that seems to have come into being in, I'd say, the last 10 years or so, shows up in these annual lists they make of the best motion pictures for each year. And that phenomenon is that there are more and more foreign motion pictures taking their place on those lists, even in the list that Hollywood makes up. Hollywood evidently has to give the place to some motion pictures each year that were not made on the west coast of the United States. So we're going to talk about foreign motion pictures. It's turned into quite an industry in this country. And we're going to speak with Edward L. Kingsley, who is the vice president of Oxford Films. Mr. Kingsley, what do you think of American reception to these foreign motion pictures? Well, I think it's a very healthy sign, and I think it's a very encouraging one. And I think it's going to improve the general quality of films made in this country, as well as the quality of films which are brought into the country. Mr. Kingsley is the importer of Torment, that wonderful Swedish motion picture, which I'm sure many of our listeners saw. I get so used to talking about radio, I think of motion pictures being heard, too. That was the one with Mai Satterling about a, what would you call it, a psychopathic instructor in a school? That would cover it. And also, Mr. Kingsley is the importer of a current film in New York City, Fame is the Spur, the Michael Redgrave production. Could you tell us a little about that? Well, Fame is the Spur is a very unusual film made in Britain by the Bolting brothers, who've made such pictures as Pastor Hall and Thunder Rock. It's a very courageous film. It makes no compromise with honesty. It's a serious film. And because of this, the larger companies shied away from it and felt that it was a very questionable commercial possibility for the United States. And its theme is politics. This also put off some of the larger companies in their decision on handling it for this country. And on a trip that I made to England this summer, I saw the film and arranged to release it in America. And the reception has been very encouraging. And it's an indication of this trend towards development of tastes in film audiences, particularly in the city of New York. And this is due partly to the encouragement that the press has given better films. And they publicize them and audiences turn out to see them in a manner that the Hollywood companies are inclined to, have been inclined to doubt. Or at least view with alarm, huh? Well, actually the success of serious themes made abroad has caused Hollywood to try serious themes. And this is the sort of effect that I think foreign films have exercised that is a healthy one and one through which Hollywood owes a measure of debt to the European producers. Well, you know, you speak of the reception here in New York City. I think we can assume that New York City and Dubuque, Iowa would have a different standard of taste. And I just wondered about that in connection with the foreign films. Is there actually the same countrywide reception for foreign pictures that there is here in New York City? Well, of course not. But it's developing. I mean, New York is the vanguard. The tastes of New York are just a little ahead, at least in time, of the tastes of the rest of the country. But these films are seeping through. And I think people would be surprised to find what small towns in America today have some sort of showings of imported films, films in foreign language, films of special interest. And audiences are developing in the remotest sections of the country for these films. Of course, in a lesser proportion than New York. But this is still a definite trend. Well, Fame is the Spur, which is now at the Little Cinemat, that was... I haven't seen this. I saw Torment. But I was told that it's the story of Ramsay MacDonald. Is that true, or is that an evil rumor going around? Well, of course, the producers deny it. But it's actually a fictionalized biography. I mean... Of a great statesman, who might very well have been. A lot of the features of the Redgrave character in Fame is the Spur could be applied to MacDonald. And the period of the story is the same. However, I don't believe that Fame is the Spur is really a political story. It's a very human story with quite universal appeal. It has nothing to do with British politics. And that was one of the things that American companies shied away from the picture for. They felt it was a film about British politics. And in this, we find that they are rather mistaken, because the audiences who are seeing Fame is the Spur find it touches them very personally. And the reaction has been really amazing and gratifying from the point of view of the story getting across to the audience. Even though the background is Britain, the theme is universal. Well, I think we get a good idea of not only this particular motion picture, but something about the other side of the footlights, we may say, speaking about foreign motion pictures. Because I think New Yorkers have come to more increasingly to accept motion pictures from other countries and see them now almost on an equal par with Hollywood pictures. Many people I know have stopped seeing Hollywood pictures and just go see the good foreign films because they figure that they see the best foreign films if they come all the way over here. So, talking to you, Mr. Kingsley, we get the other side, the person who actually imports the motion pictures and brings them into this country. Thanks very much for coming down to Around New York this morning and telling us all about this.
