Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Mr. Chairman and members of Cooper Union, it is a pleasure to be back here again in this hall, painted since I've been here, and the stone's been cleaned up a bit, but otherwise it feels very much the same. I've been in the audience where you people are many times and have attended many series of lectures given here, and I've been on this side of the arrangement a number of times, but whether on the receiving end or the giving end, I find this a very friendly place to be. In thinking over things that might be said on this topic tonight, I've been reading, as many as you have been reading, a book by Vannevar Bush on modern arms and free men. Now the subtitle of that book of Bush, which is one of the bestsellers of today, I noticed it's been running sixth or seventh on the reading list as given in the papers. Subtitle of that book is a discussion of the role of science in preserving democracy. I mention this book because it seemed to me a convenient place to start. Because I can accept certain of his major contentions and use that as a springboard for my particular discussion. You remember his book stresses the significance, both as a great intellectual adventure and as a practical source of energy, the significance of science for mankind of the future. And both in the intellectual adventure and in the fact that science has given to modern man sources of energy greater than any wizard ever dreamed of, I take that for granted. It's true that in his book he talks much more about science in relation to weapons and to warfare, whereas that's not the aspect of science that interests some of us the most. But that atomic energy is man, western man's great contribution to the history of mankind. I think it's clear. It's not the only contribution. But we have made available to mankind sources of power. As I say, such that no one ever dreamed of before. And whether we perish or not in that process, this has been a contribution and a very important contribution to the history of mankind. Now, Bush also stresses as a second theme the importance of democratic processes. And he thinks, and I agree, that in the long run, democratic processes are more resourceful and ultimately more powerful than the regimented totalitarian forms of society. His confidence in democratic modes of thinking institutions, again, I accept and share without discussion this evening. I would like to put, perhaps, the meaning of that term for me, the meaning of democracy, a little differently. I would like to think of the essential element of democracy as a stress upon a person-centered society. A society that takes persons as their concern and goal. To say that in such a society, the state exists for men rather than men for the state. Or to say, as he says, that the democratic view involves a belief and confidence in the potentialities of all persons. Or to say, as we might say, that a democratic society has as its ideal a society that's in a constant process of reconstruction and makes it possible for all persons to participate in that reconstruction. Those ideas seem to me to be brought together in the distress that I have made upon a person-centered society. So on the acceptance of science as a great intellectual tool as well as a great practical source of energy and as confidence in democratic processes in the sense of a person-centered outlook, again, of those two points, I simply record my agreement without argument. There is a third point that Bush also makes that is important and that I want to agree with. And that is our responsibility today to try to avoid the hysteria and the anxiety and the fear that has settled light to shadow over so many persons. Bush argues that war, even if it were to come, is not the end of mankind. Now that might be small consolation to some of you, if we happen to be in the area in which such warfare takes place. But nevertheless, if we're really thinking in scale appropriate to human beings, we can't think only in terms of ourselves. We're not the whole of mankind. The West isn't the whole of mankind. And I think that our problem is to become responsible persons, to think in terms of the large human adventure, and not simply to become hysterical and anxiety-ridden. Perhaps before I pass on to the things I wish to stress more myself, I might say I think that it's significant that the author of this book is a scientist. If we're looking around in the world today, where are we going to get our responsible leaders? It's rather significant that the people who are speaking out in serious and large and responsible ways today are often the scientists. I think there's great significance in that. Not merely in the role, for instance, that Einstein has come to play in our culture, or in this book of Bush, or in the announcement this month by the twelve scientists, the twelve physicists, about the hydrogen bomb, that its use would be a betrayal of all standards of morality in the Christian civilization itself. It's interesting to see the role that scientists, I think, are beginning to play as responsible persons. And I think that is a role that they are perhaps fitted to play, or at least destined to play more in the future. All right, these things then I accept. The problem I want to talk about tonight is some features relevant to human ideals, personality ideals, human goals in this age, which for the moment at least, science and democratic processes are taken for granted. I'm stressing, in other words, not the atomic age in the sense of the science or the energy sources made available, taking those for granted, but I'm stressing the human problem, the mankind problem of our topic, mankind in the atomic age. I want to call attention to some aspects of the developing science of man, that I think have to be brought into the focus of our attention in considering this problem. Bush does not talk about the science of man at all. His title, as we've said, or his subtitle is a discussion of the role of science in preserving democracy. But the discussion is not in terms of the place that a science of man may play in the age which is unfolding. I think it's clear that if we are to act responsibly and adequately in the period beginning, that we have to have as firm and good a knowledge as we can of man and mankind. We need this to keep our symbols from going stale. I don't think that the mere repetition of any symbols, democracy or free man or freedom or dignity of the individual, I don't think that any of these slogans, unless we constantly reinterpret in concrete terms their content, will be of much help to us. Because all great symbols tend to become stale. They tend to become masks, in fact. Which make us feel good, but which do not really in any effective sense guide us. So it's not enough just to talk about the dignity of man or to talk about freedom or to talk about democracy. We have to constantly be getting back of those symbols to certain types of concrete realities that give those symbols their meaning and significance. And certainly the knowledge of man is one of the things that we need to give concreteness and meaning to these symbols. Then too, if our concern is that of a person-centered attitude, obviously all we can know about persons is to the good. If our task is to produce, speaking figuratively now, a psychological atomic bomb, if our task is to release human energies, human potentialities, if it's man that we're really concerned with, then any knowledge about man that can guide us in this process of liberating human resources is obviously of central importance. I have developed in the book that the chairman referred to, a book called The Open Self, I have done what I could to clarify this problem about the emerging science of man and its relevance for the problem tonight. So I'm going to develop certain of those ideas in this book, and I'm going to supplement them in terms of a recent trip which I was privileged to make to the Far East, where I spent some time in China and India and Burma and Syria and a number of other places. First, before I turn to that specifically, let me state why and in what sense I think that the science of man today is at the threshold of very important developments. I find this atmosphere all over American universities, the feeling that somehow or other in the understanding of man, we are approaching something of the same order of importance as our understanding of physical forces and energy. I think that this, the explanation of this attitude of confidence as if something's happening and going to happen in this domain, is due to the fact that a number of approaches to the study of man, which have taken place separately, are now coming together. You could, in large say that there have been, by scientists, four main emphases or four main approaches to the study of men. One group has always been impressed by the human organism, the human body, and its effect upon temperament and upon psychological processes. And that stress is perhaps in our time, been carried farther by a Dr. W. H. Sheldon, at Columbia University, who calls his approach constitutional psychology. And Sheldon has worked out more carefully than anyone else, the classification of types of human organisms, and has investigated the relation of these differences in physiques to the different types of human personality and temperament. This is one strand. And I recommend his book, The Varieties of Temperament, to any of you who wish to see how much enlightenment can be gained about human differences by approaching these in terms of the differences of human bodies. Now, another group has looked at man in recent decades in terms of the effect of the physical environment upon the human personnel. And perhaps the book to be recommended there is the work of Huntington, called The Mainsprings of Civilization, that summarized the life work on this problem of trying to look at man and human culture in terms of the geographical environment in which man lives and works. A third group, the most prominent group, have tried to approach man through a study of the social conditions under which human personality develops. In fact, that is, for many people, perhaps the only way of looking at man today. It's become almost a dogma of our time that the human personality is social and that the way to look at the human personality is in terms of the way society makes possible the human development and the interferes or frustrates it or helps it develop in various ways. These people are liable not to be much concerned with the relation of human physique or the relation of geographical factors. They see man essentially in cultural, social terms. And if I were to single out a single book there, I would mention the book of my old teacher, George H. Mead, Mind, Self, and Society, as an example of that approach to mankind, try to show how the human being develops from the embryo into people like ourselves through a very complicated process of social interaction. This is the cultural stress upon this study of man. And then finally in our own time, there are those who have been impressed with the importance of language, the importance of signs and symbols in human culture and human mentality, the semanticists in one form or another that have thought that the key to the study of man lies in the study of his linguistic mechanisms and his symbols. If I had to mention a book, I think I'd mention my own at that point, a book, Signs, Language, and Behavior, in which I've tried to explore the role of signs and symbols in the development of human behavior. I think now the important thing is that each of these has been carried very far and that we have come to a place where we recognize that we can't carry any of them any farther in any very significant sense without bringing in all the others. And that what we're getting is now a convergence of these approaches. Those who have been looking at man in terms of his physique, those who have been looking at man in terms of his physical environment, those who have been looking at man in terms of the effect of culture, those who have been looking at man in terms of his signs and his language, all, I think, now are in a position of development where the next stages mean that each of these has to now be seen in terms of the others. If I had more time, I would try to elaborate that point more fully. I don't know that it's necessary for my particular purposes tonight because I think that now, almost for the first time, by this convergence of these four main points of view in the study of man, that we are on the verge of getting genuine laws of human behavior. And that you can't get laws of human behavior in terms of any one of these taken alone. There is a book by Cluckhorn and Murray called Personality, a book of essays edited by these two men at Harvard, which takes exactly the position I've mentioned now of the convergence of these various points of view. And so what I've talked about is not really my view of what's happening, but I think that there's good evidence in the actual study of man that this is about where we are and that there is great promise and potentiality. One thing that has become clear in looking at man from this fourfold point of view, if you will, is the importance of individual differences. We are interested, of course, in the sense in which men are alike. And I think George H. Meade, in the book I've mentioned, has given the general picture of how human beings become what they are. That is, what man as man is. What men as men and women have in common. The work of Sheldon has made us increasingly aware of the fact that though we are all alike in certain respects, as for instance in our capacity to talk and understand language, that nevertheless we are remarkably and in a fundamental way different in certain other respects. And that there are different types of persons, different temperaments, different outlooks that are deeply grounded. And that this understanding of individual differences is important. It's surprising how deep-seated these differences can go. Some work has been done recently that shows that even in the sphere of perception of the size of objects, when we look at an object and have to estimate its size, that the different values that people have corresponding to their different individual and social differences, come out even in the estimation of size. That, for instance, if people are estimating the size of pennies and dimes and quarters and half dollars, that the more valuable the coin is, the more people tend to overestimate its size. And it was found that poor people, who need money badly, tend to overestimate the size of perceived objects more than people to whom money is not such a problem. And even the size which something looks under perception is connected to problems of value and to problems of individual differences. In other words, I think we have regained in our study of man today, the recognition of the unitary and whole character of man. And it's not just perceiving or valuing or thinking, but that all of these things form a close-knit interacting unity. In other words, we're thinking in field terms today, or pattern terms today, in which all of these aspects that I've mentioned are being brought to bear upon human power. Now, the last thing I want to mention about this promise of the science of man today is that I think it's made clear the understanding of the importance of ideas and ideals in human beings. You see, if you only stress the human organism, or the physical environment, or merely the effect of the culture upon the personality, you might seem to get a picture of man being merely pushed, as it were, pushed along by forces outside of himself. But the farther that we've gone in the study of language and symbols and signs, or what in the past would have probably been called ideas, the more we recognize that that element is as important in the understanding of the human personality as any of these other factors. And that there is a very real sense in which man is a maker of himself, in a sense that he is one of the forces or factors that's constantly influencing these other factors, and so inclining his development in a given direction. In fact, I would say that if you look at the age that's appearing from the energy side, and call it the atomic age, if you looked at it from the human side, you might say that we are perhaps entering into a period of deliberate man-making. And that we have possibilities now of making ourselves and societies in a more deliberate and self-conscious way than men have ever had before. Let me give one illustration of the way that ideas work. And we see how they work in terms of our modern studies of symbols and language. Take for instance Einstein's energy equations. Now it's true that the symbols that Einstein used, terms like energy, velocity, are terms which he learned from science, that is from the culture in which he lived. In that sense he wouldn't have been able to have done what he did, except in terms of the influence of a certain culture upon him. But one of the unique and marvelous things about language is that while we acquire our language from our society, that the grammar of a language requires that we relate signs in a certain way, certain patterns of relating words, a language does not nevertheless determine precisely how these signs are to be related. That is, there is always the possibility, and in fact there is always occurring, new symbols, new ideas in a language, which come from some individual, which have never appeared in the group before. So that the particular energy equation, which Einstein formulated, though it couldn't have been formulated without these other things, and without a culture, is nevertheless not something that Einstein simply takes over from a culture, because that particular idea, that particular meaning, that particular sign, had never appeared in human history before. And it's on the basis of that meaning, this, if you will, creative symbol, that the possibilities of energy, that the possibilities of energy and atomic fission are seen, and the whole business of the bomb and the rest finally comes out of this. And this in turn now will work back upon all the other factors, so that human physiques, human physical environments, human cultural environments, will in time be different than they were. And here's a very dramatic instance of what's happening all the time, of how new meanings, new ideas, enter into the course of human development as one of its factors. Well, so much for the general thesis of why I think as we go ahead in the epoch that's unfolding, that the science of man is of strategic importance in the understanding of man, in the clarification of our ideas, and is setting the ground for a clarification of our ideals. I want to illustrate this now more specifically, in terms of some data that I gathered on this trip recently to the Far East. I might say that within this general science of man, I am today concerned particularly with the problem of value, with the problem of life ideals, with the problem of art, with the problem of human goals. In other words, I think that we have to begin to carry our study of man scientifically over into the sphere of human values. And that's the particular part of the material that I am going to be talking about. But let me, before I do that, say certain things about my, certain general impressions about this trip to the Orient. Perhaps in the discussion you'll want me to elaborate those more than some of the other things I'm going to say. Because I think that there aren't many of us that have had the opportunity of first-hand contact with that part of the world in recent years. And if you want to pump me into my impressions in the discussion on that and forget some of these other things, I'm willing to do it. But at any rate, let me give one or two general impressions before I go ahead with my main theme. That it was a pretty exciting experience, of course, goes without saying. I had about four months in China. And these were in the hot spots of China. So that I had the experience at least in three places of watching the communist pressure come down and what's involved in getting out at the last moment under those circumstances. I had some slight contact with the communist side of the lines, but not in any very extensive way. I finally was, became bogged down in Chongqing and had to spend an extra four or five weeks that I hadn't intended to expend where I couldn't get out. That was interesting because in the West we're usually inclined to feel we can move around. There's always some way of doing something. And it was a very wonderful experience to just be caught and jammed for five months, for five weeks and not be able to do a thing. Not be able to get out at all. Now I can go down to a station and have a train two or three hours late that doesn't have any effect on me anymore. I mean, I've learned what it is just to sit for five weeks without being able to do a thing. That's a wonderful experience. And then the situation in Burma was a very exciting one. And the, the, some of the experiences in India right after the period of the riots. So the, the, the trip happened to come at a time where I coincided with pretty significant events. My general impression, this isn't news to you, but at least it's firsthand, is that very important things are going on in the whole Orient today. I was impressed very much by the earnestness of the young people, the students that I met in these different, uh, different cultures. A sense of goal, of direction, of problem, that they're living in a period of great significance and excitement, and that they must assume responsibility for their cultures. It was something very electric, reassuring. I didn't feel that the West was quite as essential to the future of human history as we're liable to feel otherwise. It was reassuring to have the sense that there are large parts of the world where something's happening and they're going their own way. It's also worth noting that the Orient now has our Western science and technology, has the germs of it. This is an inescapable element now in the Orient. There isn't any problem with that being lost or not used. That's entered now into all the Orient. And as I say, they have our secrets. They have the methods, which are the important things. And one can confidently count upon the development of these things, of science and technology in the Orient. Furthermore, I was very much aware of what we might call the beginning of a counter-response. That the Orient is just passing the stage of assimilating things from the West. It's beginning to now have a counter-reaction, to have a period of where it will never return to its old values, to be sure, but where it is now going to react in its own way upon our science and Western thought. These people know all our ideas, our philosophic ideas, our scientific ideas. They're acquainted with us. I thought I would be telling them certain things about the West, and I was always surprised that they knew the contents of the last issues of our scientific journals. It's where we're the provincial ones. We don't know what's going on in the world. But they do. And I think it will be a long time before we have even the beginning of the knowledge of the Orient that the Orient has of us. This counter-response I can indicate in a perhaps in a somewhat superficial way by this story. I was with talking to a Chinese musician, and he had asked me to come to a concert to hear certain piano music that was played by him, or played by one of his students. And he said to me, what do you think about it? And since I felt he was Frank and felt I could be Frank, I said it seems to me like third-rate Chopin. And he said, it is. He said, this is what I wrote about 15 years ago, and now I'd like to have you hear some of the music that I'm composing now. And so he went back to his home and he explained how he influenced, let's say, a certain Mongolian music on him. He played some of his records, these records. He said, now this seemed to me very strange ten years ago. It was outmoded. It was Western music you had to follow. But he said, this Mongolian music is beginning to seem very good to me again. And in his new compositions, something was happening that wasn't any longer Western, wasn't any longer ancient Chinese. And I had the feeling that the Orient is just at the beginning. That's one typical small example, which I could illustrate in a dozen different ways. Illustrate in science, for example, or in medicine. That the Orient is just at the beginning of this kind of period of creative upturn. And that very important things may be in store in the next decades. It's possible, for instance, that certain features of the sharp difference between Russia and the United States will be synthesized in the Orient. They're not going to go our way in the sense of becoming like America. And I don't think they're going to go the way of becoming replicas of Russia. Well, some of you may want to question that for discussion. I don't think Chinese communism is going to be Russian communism. And it's certainly not going to be Western capitalism. And so that the creative possibilities in the Orient seem to me to be very large. In a course I sometimes give at Chicago called Paths of Life, I use a book that some of you know, a book by Ballou, edited by a man named Ballou, called The Bible of the World. It brings together readings from all the religious literature of the world. One of my students last year, halfway through the course, was quite surprised to know, just dawned on him, that every religion or philosophy of life in that particular book comes from the Orient, if you include the Near East as part of the Orient. The Orient has paid a great deal of attention to this problem of how to live, of ways to live. And as I said, they have now Western science and technology, and this is going to grow and develop. There's no doubt about that. But it may be that this concern with human problems and problems of living, that the Orient may have some things very important to say to it in the future. Well, I might also say in passing, some of you may have noticed, Fosdick, Raymond Fosdick's article, Asia's Challenge to Us, Ideas Not Guns, in the New York Times in February 12th. And I recommend that article if some of you missed it or want to look at it again. I think the attitude that he takes to Asia and what our attitude to Asia should be is stated very clearly and very soundly by Fosdick in that particular article. All right, so much by that bit of digression about the features of the trip and the general impressions, and you can draw out anything you want about that later if you want to. But I want to say a little bit now about some of the data I found, some of the results I have, came across, in this study of life ideals in the Far East and in comparison to the United States. What I've been doing, I won't elaborate this in detail, I've been working with 13 ways to live. Now there are many more undoubtedly, but there are these 13 I'm using, are ones that have been represented by the main religions, and the main ethical systems of mankind, both in the West and the Orient. And I won't elaborate them in detail, they're all the kind of ones that you'd expect. Some people, some that would say, well, you should give up power and control over people and things, you ought to be, have great privacy, you should meditate, it's the inner life that's important. And other people saying, no, life is a matter just, is a matter to be enjoyed, sensuous enjoyment. And other people, other ways to live that stress physical adventure and activity and excitement. And other ways to live that say that people should be passive, should be receptive, that you should let things happen to you rather than try to shape the course of events. And then you have ways of life that say, what we should do is to preserve the best that mankind has attained, that we should stress the conserving attitude. And then you have ways to live that say, no, man must be constantly remaking his world, remaking himself, a process of constant creation. And then there are other attitudes that stress, that say we should be stoical, that we can't expect too much, we must learn to endure. Those are the typical examples. I have 13 of that sort of thing. They're represented by, as I say, by their main religions and the main ethical systems. Before I made this trip, I had studied what American young people think about these different ways to live. I'd studied some 4,000 of them from all parts of the country. And they knew pretty well what American young people thought about these matters. And in the book that I've referred to, The Open Self, that is organized around discussing the American material, essentially. Now when you take the same 13 alternatives to China and to India and to Japan, and I can mention only those three now. Incidentally, we're doing this work with larger groups. I have cooperation now of UNESCO, and we're going to have material from 10 or 12 other cultures before very long. But for the moment, thinking of China and India and Japan, and asking ourselves how strong the appeal of these different ways to live is in these different countries, I was quite surprised to find certain startling similarities. At first sight, you'd expect that Chinese young people, or Indian young people, or Japanese young people, might be very different from young people in the United States. There are differences. And if I had you for a series of lectures here, or in a class, and we could take charts and take these 13 ways to live, and see what the relative strength of each of them in each culture, we could spend a month very easily. In going over the details. And there are some very significant details. For example, in China, two ways to live that are ranked quite low in the United States, are ranked quite high. And you can see, I think, how this fits in with Chinese revolutionary activities. One of these says that mankind shouldn't stress himself, and his pleasures, and his property very much. That what he should do is to merge himself with a social group. Identify himself with a social group. And work resolutely in the achievement of group ideals. Now that's an attitude that obviously has certain similarities to socialism and communism. I mean, it would make a certain appeal to those political views. And this is high in China. About 15, 16 people out of every hundred in China give this as their first preference for these 13 ways to live. And another one that's about equally high in China says that the individual should think of himself as an instrument of great forces in man and nature that are working themselves out through him. To be an instrument of the great powers of man and the world. They are working themselves out that you can trust that you should give yourself to them. Now there's only about one American student out of a hundred. Gives that as their first choice of these 13 ways to live. In China that goes up quite high. Goes up again to 15 or 16 out of a hundred. Would take that as their first choice. And it's quite clear that these fit in with the sense of Chinese young people. Of a destiny of identifying themselves with society. And in a sense letting themselves be used in working out through the destiny of China. If we were talking of that's one difference. And that's just an interesting difference. If we were talking in detail. Japan would be interesting. Japan is of course a defeated nation. And so in Japan certain of the ways to live that it tried. And these are rather low. The ones I just mentioned as high in China are very low in Japan. That's just exactly what they tried to do and failed in it. And so in Japan among the young people today. You have much more stoical attitude. Much more sense of enduring. If the world's bad. You can't do a great deal about it. But you've got to learn to just take it. And a much greater stress in the Japanese. On sympathetic concern for other people. A sense of sympathy. Now you can say this is a bid for sympathy. Or you can say that it's a people in defeat. That are hoping that somehow or other are driven to stress upon sympathy. But at any rate that attitude is much higher. In the Japanese young people today. Than it is neither China or United States young people. So there are these differences. But the overall picture is remarkably the same. In the Orient and in the United States. Among college students. That's what I'm talking about in a sense of. There is no general, in my figures, no general East-West Division. In many respects. In many respects. China is more like the United States for example. Than just like India. In certain other respects. India and China are more like the United States. But there is no clearer picture of an East-West line. And that's important. If we're trying to understand mankind today. That the psychological motivations of young people. In these large cultures. Very much the same. Let me be a little bit more specific. We're liable to think. In the West. That we are the active energetic people. And that in the Orient. They probably would stress a great deal of meditation. Passivity. Receptivity. Withdrawal. Detachment. It's the contrast between an active power hungry West. And the receptive meditative detached Orient. Now that's the kind of popular conception we're liable to have. And it just isn't true. As far as young people go. It may at some time have been true. Though I have my doubts on that. But it's not true today. The ways of life which stress receptivity. Passivity. Detachment. Meditation. Withdrawal. Are no higher. Or at least very slightly higher. In India. Or in China. Than they are in the West. The general overall picture. If I can give it to you. Of these 13 ways to live. Is surprisingly alike. In China. India. In the United States. Time doesn't permit me to tell. Certain of the things we found. About the relation of these. Choice of these. To people's physique. And their. The relation to the economic classes. Of how people in different classes feel. That some of these things. That we found the United States. Also hold. For China and India. And they hold. Not only for the normal individual. But they hold for the insane. I worked a great deal on this trip. With the insane. In China and India. And what we've been finding. About the insane. In the United States. Is very similar. To what. To what. Is. We find about. New York. One of these 13 ways to live though. I want to call your attention to. That. Interest me especially. And I think fits in. With our. Meeting tonight. One of them. Number seven. On my. On my. List. And the one that. In the open self. And other books. I call them. My train. Attitude. But forget the name now. Number. Seven says. Includes things like this. This is what you'd be asked. You'd be asked. Whether you like this or not. And how much. And so on. This says. Life should contain. Enjoyment. And action. And contemplation. In about. Equal amounts. When. Either is carried to extremes. We lose something. Important for our life. So we must cultivate. Flexibility. Admit diversity. In ourselves. Accept the tension. Which this diversity. Produces. Find a place for detachment. In the midst of enjoyment. And activity. The goal of life. Is found in the dynamic. Integration. Of enjoyment. Action. And contemplation. And so in the dynamic. Interaction. Of the various ways to live. One should use. All of them. In building a life. Of no one alone. Or another sentence. That's. Part of that general picture. A person should have. A sense of humor. About himself. A sense of detachment. About his fate. Yet be able to live. Outwardly. A life rich. In enjoyment. And activity. Now this. Number seven. That stresses. You see. The notion. That man has many sides. To his nature. And that what we have to do. Is to develop. A flexible. And multiple self. That is unified. In and through. Its diversity. Not the self. That it takes only one aspect. Of human nature. And develops it. But the stress upon. Wholeness. Upon. Integration. Upon. The integration. Of multiplicity. Upon flexibility. Upon a life. That has. Room. For. Dependence. Or enjoyment. And action. And dominance. And detachment. That. Somehow or other. This. Is. The right. Kind of person. To be. In the United States. About. 40. Students. Out of. Every. Hundred. Give. That. As. Their. First. Choice. Of. The. Thirteen. To my interest. While. To my interest. While not so high. This is also. The favored. Way to live. The favored. Life ideal. Of the oriental. Students. It is. The highest. Also. In China. Though. By. No means. As high. In. The. In. In fact. Just a. Bare. Shade. Difference. Between. One. That's. A little. Higher. That's a period. For the moment. In which. It's. Attempting. To regain. It's ancient. Heritage. And. As proud. Of that heritage. And for the moment. That. That. Stress. Is. A little stronger. Than any other. But this. Way that I have. Just read. Only. One point. Different. It's interesting. That it is low. In Japan. Quite low. I'm. Interested. That. Because. Many persons. Said. To me. Well. Isn't it natural. That if you offer. People. Everything. All phases. Of their self. That everybody. Just take that. That doesn't show much. Because that's just a natural. Grab bag. That anybody would like. But. It's interesting to note. That they flow. I want now. In a few minutes. It remains. To say something. About the significance. I think. Of these results. For the. Thing we started with. Namely. This ideal. Of a person. Centered world. See. What I'm trying to get at. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is. Is it. Is. Because. Are.ans. for a flexible and multiple self unified in and through its diversity, both in large parts of the Orient and in the West, seems to me clearly to be related to the possibilities of the age of abundance from an economic and energy source. This ideal has never appeared in any overwhelming sense in the past, and I don't think the conditions have ever been ready for it before. I think we've had to deal with very small parts of ourselves. We couldn't handle our whole selves. And now under possibilities of an age of abundance in terms of material energy resources, perhaps the corresponding psychological ideal is going to be notions of a richer and more complicated life of psychological abundance. At any rate, my data, whatever it's worth, points in that direction. Perhaps this, at least this is the only indication I have among my data of the direction of the new personality ideal appearing in our modern age. And in the book of Sheldon that I mentioned, or in a book of Sheldon, which is one of his called Varieties of Delinquent Youth, Sheldon on psychological grounds says, I propose to record the guess that our next really potent religion, which is to say the next moral philosophy that we will get semi-unanimously serious about, will be one resting on the principle of sustained balance between the basic components of the personality. And if I had time to analyze this in more detail, I'd like to show the similarity to this way, number seven, which we've been talking about, and this doctrine of Sheldon. So that's the one thing that I think is important, is indicating a possible direction in which new personality ideals is forming in the modern world. I think this, that my figures, however, are important from another point of view, the ones I've given, namely, importance because of the diversity of life ideals in each culture. In every one of these cultures, all 13 ways to live are like by certain persons. In other words, the picture that the anthropologists used to give of us, give to us as if the culture somehow or other just makes all people alike, and that all Chinese are going to be different from all Americans and so on, just isn't so. In each one of the cultures that I've studied, all these 13 ways to live are liked by certain people. In other words, from a psychological point of view, there is great diversity in all the great cultures. And if we are really going to have a person-centered world, then it seems to me that this is going to require of us a many-sided society in order to use the resources of different persons. If these personality differences are deep-seated, and that if we are really concerned with man, we must come to understand these personality differences and build our societies in a way that permit the utilization of these different potentialities of persons. And I think we can see that from this crowd, not from the point of view of rhetoric, that the totalitarian society that tries to pour people into a single mold of personality is ultimately psychologically frustrating. and does not make the full use of the diversity of human potentiality. Well, my time's about up. I hope you see the drift of what I'm getting at. I haven't gone very far in one hour. I'm suggesting that the new science of man is going to help us to talk more concretely, concretely to give us new content to old ideals. That we're going to see how freedom is not just some strange sort of freedom of the will in some abstract sense, but how these individual differences of persons require different possibilities for their expression. And I think that terms like democracy, which are constantly in danger of becoming stale, we can begin to see in psychological terms, the phrase I used in other places, that we can see that an open society of open selves, a society capable of continued growth in which individuals who are different are realizing themselves along different lines of emphasis, that this is something for which scientific places, that it isn't a matter of rhetoric. And it's my hope that the puller and exploration of the possibilities now to lie before us in knowing man, that this is a side of our movement out to the later stages of this effort, that this will give us a guide and a clue and perhaps a psychological atomic bomb in the sense of giving us new insight into human frustration and new ways of releasing human energy. Well, I had lots more to say, but my time's up. I think I'll stop there and you drag out of me whatever you want me to say. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Morris. And those of you who would like to ask him a question directly, if you will come right down here and use this microphone or possibly a few of you would like to write some questions in to Mr. Morris. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, you need some of the audience? I'll tell you why not. I'll tell you why not. Uh. Hey, guys. Hey, guys, let me speak. Thanks. Pretty much. All right. And my favorite recommended Accord kard All right. All right, Dr. Morris, thank you very much for that very thought-provoking and stimulating talk. I was very interested to hear a little mention of geography in there. That always pickles an old social geographer. And also a little bit of mention of the Orient. I had a question. How was the Russian cafe in Chongqing? I had wonderful borscht there, sir, during the war. It was very good. I wondered how that Russian cafe was doing today in that old capital state. What is the place of woman in the atomic age, sir? You haven't mentioned woman at all. Well, I think any place that she wants. Partly the place she's had in the past, perhaps, but any place that she wants. Now, in my data, it may interest you to know that in the choice of these ways to live in the United States among our students, there is practically no difference between men and women. I don't say there aren't some differences between men and women. And that those differences aren't important, of course. For certain purposes, they are. But with respect to the choice of the ways to live, the number of people who prefer number one, number two, number three, and so on, there is essentially no difference between men and women. And I think we're beginning to find more and more that the differences between women and the differences between men are more significant than the general differences between men and women. In other words, all the major types of personality occur among women. They all occur among men. There is no general psychological or temperamental way in which you can simply distinguish men and women. And I found about the same thing in China. The only place where I found a difference fairly noticeable on some points is the difference between the young men and the young women in India. And that's a long story itself. But in other words, the reason I made no specific mention about women is because I don't think there's any special problem about women. Women are persons, and I assume that you all assume that. And I was talking about persons and their accidental local peculiarities, important as they are for some points. That didn't seem to me to be especially important to you. You think women are people too. All right, doctor. Fine. Can a multiple integrated personality be better developed in a planned society under definite philosophic ideals and values? Isn't social development far behind scientific advancement in our society? In other words, could this ideal that we found expressed in both the Orient and in the West, young people, could that be better developed in a planned society under definite philosophic ideals and values? That's a big question. In the first place, the ideal of an open society of open selves is itself a perfectly definite philosophic ideal and values. So that when we talk about definite philosophic ideals, I think we must remember that an interest or concern for difference is just as much of a philosophic ideal as a concern for having all people alike. That is, if you have as a principle, for instance, the right of all to be different, if we have an equal right to be different, then insofar as there is an agreement upon that, that of course itself is a common agreement and constitutes a philosophic ideal. So, that's one observation here. Now there is this very important question of planning. I've discussed that in the book that I mention, because I think that the great confusion in the American mind today is the belief that all planning means a totalitarian society. Whereas it seems to be perfectly clear that the problem in the modern world is not whether to plan or not to plan. It's a question of what you're planning for. And if we ever let ourselves get caught on this notion that any kind of foresight and reflection and planning is necessarily opposed to freedom and the development of individual differences, then I think we're lost. So, the question, when he says, therefore, would this be better developed in a planned society, you see, that again is ambiguous. It certainly would be better developed if we plan for it. But now then it would become a question of what one means at this point by a planned society. Let me give the simplest illustration I can think of. Every parent plans for their children. But there are two types of planning. There's the type of planning which would try to tell in advance, as it were, what each child is to do and to become. And there's a kind of planning that a parent tries to give to a child so that the child will have the resources and the conditions under which it can become an autonomous personality, make its own decisions, and organize its own life. And I think the distinction is as simple as that. There are types of planning, for example, in which you can plan for food in order to control the political votes of persons. And I take it that's what a totalitarian society ultimately does. What it ultimately does is to secure the allegiance of persons by the control of their food supply. And that's, of course, the most effective control you ultimately can get. But, you see, you could also, if we were a wise enough society, see that no one starved, not because you want to control them politically, but because you want to make them individuals who are not subject to the degradation of control that hunger can impose. And so the problem of planning with respect to, let's say, an adequate food supply, that is something we must separate from this general question of a planned society. In other words, you could, you can plan food in such a way that you make people slaves by getting control over them by access to their ration cards. Or you could plan a society in which you give everybody ration cards, deliberately so, that they wouldn't be subject to control on the grounds of hunger. In other words, there can be planning for freedom, planning for the enlargement of the self, planning for an open society, as well as planning for the closed society. So I don't, therefore, answer that question very sharply because there are certain ambiguities. And it mainly depends what planning means. And it also, also it's important to recognize that this ideal that we were talking about itself is a definite philosophic ideal. Well, thank you, Dr. Morris. Thank you. Dr. Morris, how will the science of man prevent the mutual suicide of the USSR and the United States of America by way of the atomic hydrogen bombs? Well, I don't know that it will. Because our understanding of man and the science of man, as I've been talking about, is a slow developing thing. I'm assuming that the atomic age is just beginning. And I assume that it's going to go on even if Russia and the United States destroy themselves in the process. Now, that may be too philosophic an outlook for some of you. But if you once identify yourself in sympathy and feeling with the whole human race, then I think that what we're talking about tonight, or what I'm interested in, is not simply the question of what happens to the United States and Russia. And therefore, I have very deliberately not said anything about Russia. Now, certainly, there's nothing that, there's no assurance that what we know, let's say, about anxiety today, can be made effective in the governments of the world in such a way that we will get out of the hysteria and anxiety we're in. Now, the relation between Russia and the United States today is exactly the kind of relation that you try to avoid when you're dealing with mentally diseased persons. That is, when two people are ridden by anxiety and you're a psychologist trying to deal with those people, your first task that you try to do is to reduce the anxiety. Now, what we're doing in Russia in the United States today is this. We're each acting in a way to increase the anxiety of the other individual. This is an absolute, straight, neurotic form of behavior. Now, actually, I have my tongue in my cheek in this one sense, is I honestly do not believe that there is any danger of large-scale war in the near future. And Bush doesn't believe that in the book that I mentioned. And even Toynbee doesn't believe that. And in fact, to say something that's a little heretical now, though Bush and Toynbee say it in their own way, I don't think really the present state is a very bad one in a certain sense. Namely, that the men show their best and their worst in periods of crisis. And there is a sense in which the situation now puts a challenge to us in the United States. We either have to carry through and really develop the potentialities of our ideals and what we have talked so glibly about as a democratic society, or we're going to go down in failure. In other words, we have to put up or shut up. And if you can once develop the attitude that our young people are talking about, one of the advantages of that attitude is, you see, you learn to live through tensions and multiplicity. In fact, there is a certain sense in which the attitude we've been talking tonight is identical with what Sheldon calls the humor principle. The ability to live in and through conflict. The attitude of the attitude of war is almost what this attitude with number seven is. And this is a very good attitude to have in the contemporary world. So that the answer then is twofold. First, there is nothing that we know about man, of course, that's going to guarantee that we can stop a mutual suicide by Russia and the United States. On the other hand, I don't think that the situation is one, even though it has all of these neurotic elements in it. I don't think that it's one that calls for the amount of anxiety that so many people have as if the world is just about going to collapse. I don't think that it is that situation. And even if Russia and the United States do end each other, that is not the end of mankind. Thank you. Thank you very much, sir. Several years ago, I dropped my army commission, so you know how I feel about it. I don't think we're going to go to war immediately either. If we could ever stop reading Life magazine, though, we might be better off. Yes. Is there anything more basic for human development than the right to work? In our capitalist democracy, we have no legal right to this. Otherwise, we could sue somebody into giving us a job. Without this basic right, honor the inalienable rights of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness, mere illusions. And in Russia, I mean, I understand in communist countries, this right is established and also supported by the most extensive social security system. Right to work basic, and isn't that nonsense to talk about all the others without that? Yes, I think so. Yes, I think so. I think we're coming around to that. I think that the living under conditions in which a person has access to the material conditions without which a personality ultimately goes to pieces, I think that's correct. I think that's involved. I would point out, however, that it perhaps is also good to have the right not to work. And, uh... Ladies and gentlemen, somebody just said, I like that. It sounded like Schaefer or something. I don't know. He said, I like that very much. A lot of us do. Here's another question, doctor. In view of the fact that the United States and Russia are the two most dominant countries in the world, and both have actually control of the entire world. Now, these two countries being engaged in a Cold War, and our country, I mean the country where we live, having been the first one to discover the most deadly thing, the atomic bomb, can anybody be relaxed and feel, please? Just a minute, you didn't hurry to speak. Yes, could you make it rather fast, please? We're running out of time. Well, I never thought that thinking can be done fast. Now... Can any person, particularly, so eminent a man like our speaker, who is professor of philosophy, psychologist, cementicist... Yes, I introduced him. Go ahead. Speak with a calm that it is nothing of great importance, the Cold War between Russia and the United States. were mentioned by our eminent speaker tonight. I'm concerned with one point. The right to live and not be destroyed by the atomic bomb. The eminent speaker. Well, you know, Minkin once said that you can give a moron a PhD, but that doesn't mean he still isn't a moron. Now, I, of course, didn't mean to say that I don't think the problem of the relation between the United States and Russia is a problem of enormous importance. But I did think that there are other things that are important, and that it's important that we take a long-range perspective, too, that we have the problem of clarifying our ideas and our ideals about what we want to make of ourselves and might make of mankind. I think that we're in a period where more and more people now have to do something that their words make them skeptical about or cautious about. I think they have to become responsible again. I think we have to regain integrity. I think that we have to assume responsibilities for man-making. And I'm merely talking about the some of the problems that are involved in that. Now, I don't feel that I have any particular thing to say about the Russian-American situation that dozens of you don't have to say. And I assume that some of your speakers will deal head on with that question. But I certainly don't mean to think that it to say that it's unimportant. On the other hand, the only qualification I take when he said that the Russian, the United States between them control the whole world, that I do not think. No nation yet controls the Orient. And in spite of what we're hearing and seeing about China, I would go so far as to say that no nation on Earth can control China. So that I don't think the division is quite as sharp as clear. The great bulk of the Orient at present is neither in the camp of the Russians nor in the camp of the United States. But I quite agree that the problem of the relation between Russia and the United States is obviously the crucial major problem we face in the immediate present. But we face other problems because life's going on for millions of years and it's going to go on for millions more. All right, thank you very much. Yes, sir. One of the greatest authorities America has ever had in the theory of political science and in the practical application, President Woodrow Wilson, who was a great professor and writer and also president and leader in war, said this in the public address. Is there any after the first world war? Is there anybody so naive as not to know that modern war is economic in its nature? Under those circumstances, being faced with the possibility of destruction by atomic warfare, which many wise men say is very possible. Wouldn't it be better that we sacrifice some of this profit system and live rather than perpetuate it and die? Well, obviously, again, you can ask more questions we can answer in a few moments. This is asking the whole the whole problem of the relation of economic system to war. I may say that as far as my choice of the of these studies, the ways to live go that while the economic factor is a factor, it by no means has turned out to be the crucial or only factor. That is, if you take my different ways to live and rank them by economic groups, which I've done in all these cultures, you don't get very startling results. In fact, the differences in terms of physique and temperament turn out to be more important than the economic affiliations, at least in my subjects that I dealt with. But and I don't feel that I'm competent to talk, having to say, on this this larger issue. I already said that I am inclined to believe there's a possibility that there will work out somewhere in the world. And England may be one place or there may be other possibilities in Europe or there may be possibilities in the Orient. See what what we have learned in the West is the importance of the individual initiative and the creative individual. What the Russians have learned is the power and importance of planning. What we need as the third stage in synthesis somewhere is something that will see the possibility of the uniting of planning and the encouragement of individual initiative. Or if you will, planning for the encouragement of individual initiative. I think it's perfectly clear that that you're the two alternatives of simply stressing the free and creative individual and no planning leads to social anarchy and chaos. And insofar as the West has stood for that, to that extent, I think that's a blind alley. On the other hand, I think that that learning that we can control people by planning, that if we simply think of this as a device to get the control over society, that that also leads into a blind alley. I think we saw that blind alley, blind alley psychologically in terms of what does human do. I think we saw that in Japan, I think we saw it in Germany. Now the question of what sort of possibility there will be that will avoid either the lazy fare type of thing on the one side, or on the other hand, the completely planned state on the other. Wherever that begins to appear, that's the next great stage in human history and I have some belief or hope that that might occur in the audience. Thank you. All right, sir. Thank you. John, every man. In your book, Dr. Morris, on the open self, I'm not going to speak on a mundane problem because I'm one of those fellows that believe the individual can't solve any world problems. But in your book, you divide and you call your chapter, Man's Knowledge of Man, page 28, confusion of ideas as traps. Did you run into a trap and a blind spot when you tried to identify people into various groups, endomorphs, ectomorphs, and mesomorphs? Now, is it a form of psychological metaphysics of this age? Or is it a form of phrenology or a system or something akin to Lombroso where he tried to identify criminals according to certain physical characteristics? Or is it a, are these characteristics due to other factors such as diet, nutrition, ectology, weather conditions, endocrine glands, and other problems? What, what have these physical factors got to do with one's mental makeup and his reaction to his environment? Yeah, the, the question is, in the, remember of the four approaches that I pointed out to man, one of them stresses the difference of individual organisms and bodies and physiques. And I use the, the Sheldon's classification of that in, in this book, The Open Self, to which he's referring. Now, the question is, isn't that just a lot of, uh, hokum? And, uh, really what, uh, isn't it just arbitrary in a kind of phrenology or something to classify human physiques in these different ways and try to find some relation, uh, of these persons, uh, to their temperament or to their life ideals or whatnot? And that's a long story. Uh, actually, I think I've made it perfectly clear that I don't believe any classification of people in the physiques alone gets you very far. Because I've said that the importance of the promise of psychology today is the recognition that we have these four different kinds of factors. The constitutional and the environment and the cultural and the semantical factors. And that all of these have to come into the picture. So, I, therefore, I'm not at all, uh, arguing as if you can do the whole story, a story in terms of physiques. But nevertheless, I think the physiques are important. And I found these physical differences, uh, that we found in the United States, holding in China and Japan and India, holding for insane persons and normal persons, holding for differences in the choice of life ideals, and for selections of paintings. Now, I can't prove that here. That's my next book. Uh, to give you that sort of, uh, that sort of data. But, uh, that the physical factor is one of the factors to be taken into account. That I'm utterly convinced of, and I think that is part, uh, capable of the most careful scientific elaboration, and hasn't anything to do with, with, uh, metaphysics or phrenology, uh, or anything else. Uh, a last point, perhaps. He mentioned that in that book, I refer to three different, uh, physiques under three different names, following Sheldon. The endomorph, and the mesomorph, and the ectomorph. Now, if you read that carefully, or if I made it more careful than perhaps is in the book, there aren't three types of physiques. There aren't types of persons in the strict sense at all. What you have is an endless continuum of differences between people. But you can mark out certain areas of this continuum exactly in the same way we mark out color areas in the spectrum. In the spectrum, there are no sharp lines. The colors all move from one to another. Yet we do use terms like blue, red, green, and so on. Now, human beings are similar. There aren't any one or two or three or ten or a hundred types of human beings. There's an endless, subtle gradation of people. But it is useful for certain purposes to take one area of that continuum and investigate it. For instance, it is interesting to take, let's say, the kind of people that are represented by Superman, or by Little Abner, or by our picture of the all-American tackle, let's say. And take those people, take a lot of them, get a hundred of them, and then take another group of people, the very thin, delicate, beanpole type person. Doesn't have much bone, doesn't have much muscle. And then see if you can find certain differences. Now, it doesn't say that these are just two types of people, because you can find people between these. But if you take these two extremes, you do find some very interesting differences. For instance, the first type, the all-American tackle, Little Abner and so on, practically never become schizophrenic when they go insane. They become manic. And the people who don't have much bone muscle, they become schizophrenic. They withdraw and pull away from the world and don't become manic. And that's true of China, and that's true of India, and that's true of the United States. Now, the fact, in other words, that there are intervening cases between any tall, thin person that you want to pick, and the big, husky, American football tax. Granting that there's all sorts of intervening. Nevertheless, these are parts of the great range of human behavior, human persons, and there are certain differences. And the study of those, I think, doesn't lead to any assumptions that people fall into three groups or four groups or ten groups running out. All right, thank you. And one more question, Dr. Morris. You spoke of individual and class differences in space perception. Where could we get more information on that? Yes, what I was referring to is the work, if you may know, of Jerome Bruner, B-R-U-N-E-R, at Harvard University in the Department of Social Relations. And I think that if you want to leave your name, I could send you the list of where you could find those, or if you wanted to write Jerome Bruner at Harvard University and ask him for his list of papers. We could do it either way. All right, thank you very much, and good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. Thank you.